A “77. As stated above, in the present case, the matter has arisen from the writ of quo warranto and not from the writ of certiorari. The biodata of Respondent 3 was placed before the Collegiums. Whether Respondent 3 was “suitable” to be appointed a High Court Judge or whether he satisfied the fitness test as enumerated B hereinabove is beyond justiciability as far as the present proceedings are concerned. We have decided this matter strictly on the basis of the constitutional scheme in the matter of appointments of High Court Judges as laid down in Supreme Court Advocates-on- Record Assn. and in Special Reference No. 1 of 1998, Re. Essentially, having worked as a member of the Tribunal for 11 C years, Respondent 3 satisfies the “eligibility qualification” in Article 217(2)(b) read with Explanation (aa).” 7. To further elucidate, we need to state that after the Collegium of the High Court makes a recommendation for elevation, inputs are D received from the intelligence agencies, which conduct a background check, and comments from the government are considered by the Collegium of the Supreme Court consisting of the Chief Justice of India and two senior most Judges. Opinion and comments of the Judges in this Court conversant with the affairs of the High Court concerned are called E for in writing and placed before the Collegium. Invariably a number of shoot down and dismissive letters and communications from all quarters are received. Only thereafter, and on consideration, the Collegium of the Supreme Court takes a final call, which is then communicated to the government. F 8. During the course of hearing before us, it was accepted that a number of persons, who have had political backgrounds, have been elevated as judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court, and this by itself, though a relevant consideration, has not been an absolute bar to appointment of otherwise a suitable person. Similarly, there have been G cases where the persons recommended for elevation have expressed reservations or even criticised policies or actions, but this has not been held to be a ground to treat them as unsuitable. It goes without saying that the conduct of the judge and her/his decisions must reflect and show independence, adherence to the democratic and constitutional H values. This is necessary as the judiciary holds the centre stage in ANNA MATHEWS AND OTHERS v. SUPREME COURT OF 471 INDIA AND OTHERS protecting and strengthening democracy and upholding human rights and A Rule of Law.6 9. We have made the said observations as these are aspects which are established and are taken into consideration by the Collegiums, both of the High Courts and the Supreme Court. It is in this context that we B reject the argument that the facts were not known and considered by the Collegium. The petitioners have themselves stated and enclosed copy of their representation dated 1st February 2023, albeit the Collegium of the High Court and the Supreme Court have not, on this basis, deemed it appropriate to withdraw the recommendation or recall their decision.