10. The corporate debtor, Appu Hotels Limited, is a limited company with corporate identification number U92490TN1983PLC009942 and registered office at PGP House, No.57, Sterling Road, Nungambakkam, Chennai - 600 034. The promoter group F of the corporate debtor consists of around one hundred non-resident investors living in the United States of America, who are said to have invested over twenty-two million US dollars in foreign exchange in the corporate debtor. The corporate debtor had availed project loans to construct ‘Le Meridian, Coimbatore’, from a consortium of bankers led by Indian Bank. It appears that the business did not materialise as per G the estimated projections. The promoters and directors brought in nearly Rs. 100 crore as unsecured loans over and above the cash flow to keep the corporate debtor’s asset as standard. It further appears that though the hotel was making operational profit, but the profit was insufficient to H 15 ‘Edelweiss & associates’, for short and collectively. M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 795 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] service the loan repayment to the optimum requirement and the corporate A debtor defaulted in payment of overdues. Initiation of CIRP 11. The default on the part of corporate debtor in payment of overdues led to the application under Section 7 of the Code for initiation B of CIRP by one of its financial creditors, TFCI (who holds about 5% of the total loan amount) before the NCLT, in Application No. IBA/1459/ 2019. It appears that a few propositions of One Time Settlement 16 were mooted on behalf of the corporate debtor but without any effective result, for the corporate debtor having not been able to make payment against the dues of the financial creditor. The NCLT observed that there being C the existence of a financial debt and there being a default on the part of the corporate debtor, the application moved by the financial creditor was bound to be admitted and as a consequence, triggering the corporate insolvency resolution process. Accordingly, the NCLT, by its dated 05.05.2020, admitted this application and appointed one Mr. Mukesh D Kumar Gupta as interim resolution professional17 with other necessary directions in the following terms: - “12. Heard the Counsel for both the parties and perused the documents placed on record. It Is a fact borne on record that the Corporate Debtor is unable to repay the dues to the Financial E Creditor and as such on the garb of OTS settlement the Corporate Debtor wanted to gain time to settle of the dues to the Financial Creditor. Further, a perusal of the record of proceedings dated 04.02.2020, also shows that the Corporate Debtor was putting in efforts to settle of the dues of the Financial Creditor and upon such representation being made, the Corporate Debtor was granted F time to settle the matter and the matter was finally posted to 02.03.2020 for reporting settlement or to proceed with the matter. Thus, when the matter was taken up for enquiry on 02.03.2020, it has been brought to the notice of this Tribunal by the Counsel for the Financial Creditor that the Corporate Debtor has not paid the dues of the Financial Creditor and also the Learned Counsel for G the Financial Creditor submitted that even in the affidavit filed by the Corporate Debtor, the outstanding debt has been admitted which Is owed to the Financial Creditor.