All these provisions of rules, s and covenants shall apply, pari passu, to the apartment and to the owners/lessees thereof, as they did and would have, to the site or building and the owners/ lessees thereof. (4) Each apartment shall be entitled to separate utility connections F such as water supply, sewerage and electricity, subject to building regulations. (5) Where sub-divisions of a building with more than one storey have been allotted, sold or leased by the Estate Officer, the Estate Officer may after giving notice to the owners/lessees of such G sub- divisions, declare such sub-divisions as apartments, to which the provisions of these rules shall apply. 4. Sub-Division of Residential Buildings: (1) Any residential building situated on a plot size of less than 1400 square yards may be sub-divided into separate dwelling units H 626 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A with not more than one dwelling unit on each floor of the building. Each such dwelling unit shall constitute a sub-division. (2) The basement, if any, allowed in a residential building shall not constitute a separate sub- division. The basement shall form a part of the sub- divisions on the ground floor. In case more than B one sub-division is allowed on the ground, each such sub-division may have a separate basement if building regulations so permit. Except in the case where the basement provides for facilities such as parking area at the end or other plant and equipment required for apartments in the building, the basement or portions therein may constitute a part of the sub-division on floors, other, C ground floor. (3) The garage, servant quarters, outhouse, mali hut, store, open spaces etc. not forming part of the main residential building shall not form a separate sub- division(s) and shall form part of one or more of the apartments of the main building. D (4) A residential building on a plot of 1400 square yard or more may be sub-divided into two dwelling units on each floor provided that building regulations so permit.” 50. However, the 2001 Rules came to be repealed on 1st October 2007. Immediately thereafter, the 2007 Rules came to be notified on 7th E November 2007. Rule 16 of the said Rules reads thus: “16. Fragmentation/Amalgamation. No fragmentation or amalgamation of any site or building shall be permitted. F Provided that amalgamation or two or more adjoining sites with the same ownership shall be permissible only in the case of commercial or industrial sites subject to the condition that the revised plans are approved by the competent authority, prior thereto. G Provided further that fragmentation of any site shall be allowed if such fragmentation is permitted under any scheme notified by the Administration.” 51. It could thus be seen that Rule 16 of the 2007 Rules also does not permit fragmentation/amalgamation of any site or building. Insofar H RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 627 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] as commercial or industrial sites are concerned, amalgamation is permitted A subject to the condition that the revised plans are approved by the competent authority, prior thereto.