192. At this stage, we may clarify that there is a difference between “no” compensation and “nil” compensation. A law E seeking to acquire private property for public purpose cannot say that “no compensation shall be paid”. However, there could be a law awarding “nil” compensation in cases where the State undertakes to discharge the liabilities charged on the property under acquisition and onus is on the Government to establish validity of such law. In the latter case, the Court in exercise of judicial review F will test such a law keeping in mind the above parameters. 209. Statutes are many which though deprive a person of his property, have the protection of Article 30(1-A), Articles 31-A, 31-B, 31-C and hence are immune from challenge under Article 19 or Article 14. On deletion of Article 19(1)(f) the available G grounds of challenge are Article 14 [Ed. : It would seem that for statutes not protected by Arts. 31-A, 31-B or 31-C, Art. 14 simpliciter is available as a ground of challenge. For statutes protected by Arts. 31-A, 31-B and 31-C, it would seem that a challenge under Art. 14 would be maintainable only when taken as a part of the basic structure of the Constitution, as explained H ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1105 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] in I.R. Coelho, (2007) 2 SCC 1.] , the basic structure and the rule A of law, apart from the ground of legislative competence. In I.R. Coelho case [(2007) 2 SCC 1] the basic structure was defined in terms of fundamental rights as reflected under Articles 14, 15, 19, 20, 21 and 32. In that case the Court held that statutes mentioned in Schedule IX are immune from challenge on the ground of B violation of fundamental rights, but if such laws violate the basic structure, they no longer enjoy the immunity offered by Schedule IX.” (Emphasis supplied) DOWN MEMORY LANE C PT. CHET RAM VASHIST (DEAD) BY LRS. V. MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF DELHI43 87. In the said case, the Municipal Corporation of Delhi passed a Resolution that, building activity in certain areas, be allowed, subject to the condition that the open spaces for parks and schools was to be D transferred to the Corporation. This led to a civil suit by the appellant, challenging the Resolution. This Court found that Section 313 of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957, did not empower the Corporation to claim any property in the manner done. It was further found that the Resolution was contrary to the language used in Section 313 and violated E a civil right, which vests in every owner, to hold his land and transfer it in accordance with law. The finding of the High Court that condition was only one involving transfer of the right of management, was not accepted. In fact, this Court also held, inter alia, as follows: “5. The power directing transfer of the land has been exercised F under Section 313 of the Act.