ii) Reliance was placed on the decision of a co-ordinate Bench G of the High Court in Writ Appeal (C) No.749 of 2013 wherein the contention of the Government that a Lecturer who was already granted advance increments at the time of her recruitment, would not be eligible for further increments on moving to the selection grade in light of the dated 29th March, 2001, was repelled. H 372 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A iii) That the Government dated 29th March, 2001 could not be made applicable to Respondent No.1 who had been placed in the selection grade notionally from 22nd December, 1999 with actual benefits accruing from 14th July, 2000. Aggrieved by the said , the present appeal has been filed B by the Appellant-University. Submissions: 4. We have heard learned Senior Counsel Sri P.V. Surendranath for the Appellant-University and Sri Raghenth Basant, learned counsel for Respondent No. 1 and perused the material on record. C 4.1. Sri P.V. Surendranath, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the Appellant-University at the outset submitted that the s of the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court of Kerala dated 13th October, 2015 and 10th August, 2016 respectively, were based on an incorrect appreciation D of the law and facts of the case and, therefore, deserve to be set- aside by this Court. 4.2. It was further contended that a close reading of Clauses 6.16 to 6.19 of the Government dated 21stDecember, 1999 would indicate that the maximum number of advance increments that E a teacher having a Ph.D. degree could avail is limited to four, under all circumstances. That is to say that a teacher who had a Ph.D. degree at the time of recruitment as a Lecturer and had therefore been granted four advance increments, would not be eligible for advance increments on the basis of the Ph.D. degree on being placed F in the selection grade. 4.3. Referring to the text of Clauses 6.16 to 6.19 of the said Government , it was contended that the said provisions do not contemplate a double benefit by virtue of a Ph.D. qualification. That the provisions do not seek to confer the benefit of advance increments based on a Ph.D. qualification, at the time of recruitment and also at the time G of being placed in the selection grade. That having availed the benefit of advance increments at the time of recruitment by virtue of holding a Ph.D. qualification, a Lecturer cannot once again claim increments based on his/her Ph.D. qualification at the time of being placed in the selection grade. H SREE SANKARACHARYA UNIVERSITY OF SANSKRIT & 373 ORS. v. DR. MANU & ANR. [NAGARATHNA, J.] 4.4. It was contended that the subsequent Government A dated 29th March, 2001 clarified that teachers who had already got the benefit of advance increments for having a Ph.D. qualification, would not be eligible for advance increments at the time of their placement in the selection grade. That the Government dated 29th March, 2001 was a clarificatory and not one that would vest or withdraw any B substantive rights.