Therefore, when for Article 10, “is” does not postulate continuous requirement of residence, the same word “is” when ASSESSING OFFICER CIRCLE (INTERNATIONAL TAXATION) 2(2)(2) 1161 NEW DELHI v. M/S NESTLE SA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] it appears in the MFN clause can only mean that Slovenia etc. need to be OECD members only when the benefi t of the MFN clause is invoked. 34. Learned senior counsel appearing for Nestle argued in addition, that the third Protocol, between India and the Swiss Confederation18, by Article 11(5) required that if India entered into agreement with another OECD country, providing for lower rate of taxation on dividends, interest and royalties at FTS, the same lower rate of taxation was to be given to Swiss tax entities.19 It relies on the fact that India and Lithuania-DTAA was signed on 26.07.2011; the date of its notifi cation was 25.07.2012. Lithuania became an OECD member on 05.07.2018. Likewise, the India-Colombia DTAA was signed on 13.05.2011 and notifi ed on 23.09.2014; Colombia entered OECD on 28.04.2020. These two DTAAs provided lower rates of taxation, as compared with the India-Switzerland DTAA. It was argued that the purpose of amending the relevant provisions of the DTAA, by the third Protocol was to automatically provide the same treatment to Switzerland; counsel relies on the expression that the lower rate given to the later OECD member by India “shall also apply between both Contracting States under this Agreement as from the date on which such Convention, Agreement or Protocol enters into force”. Counsel contrasts this with similar provisions in the third Protocol. The latter require the contracting states to enter into negotiations. Nestle underlines that the fi rst and second Protocol, were worded diff erently. Earlier, in respect of the same event, i.e. India’s entering into an agreement with another contracting state, granting lower rate of 18 Notifi ed by the Indian government on 13.08.2011 19 Article 5 of the third protocol which amended Articles 10, 11, 12 and 22 inter alia, read as follows: “in respect of Articles 10 (Dividends), 11 (Interest) and 12 (Royal- ties and fees for technical services), if under any Convention, Agreement or Protocol between India and a third State which is a member of the OECD signed after the signature of this Amending Protocol, India limits its taxa- tion at source on dividends, interest, royalties or fees for technical services to a rate lower than the rate provided for in this Agreement on the said items of income, the same rate as provided for in that Convention, Agree- ment or Protocol on the said items of income shall also apply between both Contracting States under this Agreement as from the date on which such Convention, Agreement or Protocol enters into force.” 116 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. tax, parties had to enter into negotiations (“shall enter into negotiations without undue delay”). It was emphasized that the object of changing the terminology in the third Protocol, was to assure to Swiss entities, that the treatment extended to entities of the other state, automatically aff orded a lower rate of taxation.