within the said period, the department shall be free to carry out A the proposed development; (c) Where the (Vice-Chairman) raises any objection to the proposed development on the ground that the development is not conformity with any Master Plan or Zonal Development Plan prepared or intended to be prepared by it, or on any other ground, B such department or the local authority, as the case be, shall— (i) either make necessary modifications in the proposal development to meet the objections raised by the [Vice-Chairman] or (ii) submit the proposals for development together with the C objections raised by the [Vice-Chairman] to the State Government for decision under Clause (d) (d) The State Government, on receipt of proposals for development together with the objections of the (Vice-Chairman) may either approve the proposals with or without modifications or direct the department or the local authority, as the case may be, to make D such modification as proposed by the Government and the decision of the State Government shall be final: the development of any land begun by any such department or subject to the provisions of Section 59 by any such local authority before the declaration referred to in Sub-section (1) may be E completed by that department or local authority with compliance with the requirement of Sub-sections (1) and (2). S. 15. Application for permission—(1) Every person or body (other than any department of Government or any local authority) desiring to obtain the permission referred to in Section 14 shall make an F application in writing to the [Vice-Chairman] in such form and containing such particulars in respect of the development to which the Application relates as may be prescribed by [bye-laws]. (2) Every application under Sub-section (1) shall be accompanied by such fee as may be prescribed by rules. G [(2-A) The Authority shall be entitled to levy development fees, mutation charges, stacking fees and water fees in such manner and at such rates as may be prescribed.] Provided that the amount of stacking fees levied in respect of an area which is not being developed or has not been developed, by H 910 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A the Authority, shall be transferred to the local authority within whose local limits such area is situated.] xxx xxx xxx S. 41. Control by State Government - (1) The [Authority, the Chairman or the Vice-Chairman] shall carry out such directions B as may be issued to it from time to time by the State Government for the efficient administration of this Act. (2) If in, or in connection with, the exercise of its powers and discharge of its functions by the [Authority, the Chairman or the Vice-Chairman) under this Act any dispute arises between the C authority, the Chairman or the Vice-Chairman) and the State Government the decision of the State Government on such dispute shall be final. (3) The State Government may, at any time, either on its own motion or on application made to it in this behalf, call for the records D of any case disposed of or passed by the [Authority or the Chairman) for the purpose of satisfying itself as to the legality or propriety of any passed or direction issued and may pass such or issue such direction in relation thereto as it may think fit: E Provided that the State Government shall not pass an prejudicial to any person without affording such person a reasonable opportunity of being heard.