312 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 2P OS.RCT.RS. 312 [2023] 2 S.C.R. A NATIONAL INSURANCE COMPANY LTD. v. THE CHIEF ELECTORAL OFFICER & ORS. (Civil Appeal No.4769 of 2022) B FEBRUARY 08, 2023 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL AND ABHAY S. OKA, JJ.] Insurance – MOU entered into between Appellant-Insurance company and Respondent No.1 to provide insurance cover to the persons deployed for election related work for Bihar Legislative C Assembly Elections in 2000 – Respondent No.2’s husband, a Constable died due to sun stroke while performing election duty – Respondent No.2 sought compensation in 2008 – Respondent No.1 acknowledged the eligibility for payment, Single Judge assigned the liability to pay the amount on the Respondent No.1 and the DM D – Appeal filed by Respondent No.1, Division Bench fastened the liability on the appellant – Held: Respondent No.2’s claim was beyond reasonable time period – It was negligence of Respondent No.1 in lodging the claim – If it was not admissible then there was no reason to forward the claim to the Appellant – Further, considering the Specific clause in the MoU governing the insurance E policy providing for payment of compensation in the event of death, even in the event of a death, it is only in the scenario where it is solely and directly from an accident caused by external violence – However, the death of Respondent No.2’s husband was by sun stroke – There was no semblance of any violence being the cause of death F – A proximate causal relationship between the accident and the body injury is a necessity – The cause arising from a sun stroke cannot be included within the parameters of the ‘Scope of Cover’ in the insurance policy defining when such insurance amount would become payable – Thus, Appellant is not liable – Impugned of the Division Bench set aside – However, the amount already stands G paid by Respondent No.1 to Respondent No.2 in pursuance of the of the Single Judge – It would not be appropriate to permit Respondent No.1 to recover any amount from Respondent No.2 and that aspect now stands closed. H 312 NATIONAL INSURANCE COMPANY LTD. v. THE CHIEF 313 ELECTORAL OFFICER & ORS. Insurance – Insurance contracts – Held: Words used in a A contract of insurance must be given paramount importance and it is not open for the Court to add, delete or substitute any words. Insurance – Law governing insurance contracts – Discussed. Insurance – Insurance claims – Distinction between B “accidental means” and “accidental result” – Discussed. Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 On consideration of the rival contentions, there are two aspects which needs to be flagged: firstly, the consequences of delay in claiming the amount from the Appellant C insurance company; secondly, whether at all the insurance policy covered the scenario of the death of the constable. On the first aspect, the admitted position is that Respondent No.2 never raised a claim even on the Chief Electoral Officer seeking an entitlement of the claim till the letter dated 21.11.2008 after seven and a half years.