17.9 On a close reading of the Notification dated 8th November, 2016, in juxtaposition with the records, the following aspects emerge: G i) One aspect of the matter which emerges with no ambiguity is that the proposal for demonetisation originated from the Central Government, by way of its letter addressed to the Bank, dated 7th November, 2016. This aspect forms the central plank of the controversy at hand. That the recommendation did not originate from the Bank under sub- H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 217 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] section (2) of Section 26 of the Act, but was “obtained” A from the Bank in the form of an opinion on the proposal for demonetisation submitted by the Central Government. Such an opinion, could not be considered to be a recommendation as required by the Central Government in to proceed under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. B ii) Even if it is to be assumed for the sake of argument that the said opinion, was in fact a “recommendation” under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act, in light of the interpretation given by me hereinabove to the phrase “any” series or “any” denomination, to mean a specified series/ specified denomination, the recommendation itself is void C inasmuch as it pertained to demonetisation of “all” series of Bank notes of denominational values of Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/-. As has already been observed, the term “any” as appearing in sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act could not be interpreted to mean “all” as such an D interpretation would vest unguided and expansive discretion with the Central Board of the Bank. iii) The Notification expressly states that it is issued under sub- section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. Therefore Section 3 of the Ordinance and Act could not, in the non-obstante clause, E state that sub-section (2) of Section 26 is not applicable to the Act. iv) Having observed that demonetisation could not have been carried out by issuing a Notification as contemplated under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Actand that the Parliament does indeed have the competence to carry out F demonetisation, on the strength of Entry 36 of List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, the Central Government could not have exercised the power by issuance of an executive notification. Legal Principles applicable to the case: G 18. There are certain legal principles which are applicable in this case: one is expressed in the maxim “to do a thing a particular way or not at all”; this principle has also been expressed in terms of the latin maxim “expressio unius est exclusio alterius”, which means that when a manner is specified for doing a certain thing, then all other modes for H 218 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A carrying out such act are expressly excluded; and the other principle is, exercise of discretion which is awell known principle in Administrative Law. The same would be discussed at this stage.