The case arose out of E these facts. On 28 December 1980, the anti-abortion NGO “Ärzte für das Leben” (Physicians for Life) organised a religious service and a march to the clinic of a doctor who carried out abortions in Stadl-Paura. A number of counter-demonstrators disrupted the march to the hillside by mingling with the marchers and shouting down their recitation. At the end of the ceremony, special riot-control units – which had until then F been standing by – formed a cordon between the opposing groups. One person caught in the act of throwing eggs was fined. The association lodged a disciplinary complaint against police for failing to protect the demonstration, which was refused. When the matter was taken to the Constitutional Court, it held that it had no jurisdiction over the case. G Therefore, the association applied to the European Commission on 13 September 1982, alleging violation of Articles 9 (conscience and religion), 10 (expression), 11 (association) and 13 (effective remedy) of the European Convention on Human Rights. The European Court on Human Rights held: H 64 [1988] ECHR 15 KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 663 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] “32. A demonstration may annoy or give offence to persons A opposed to the ideas or claims that it is seeking to promote. The participants must, however, be able to hold the demonstration without having to fear that they will be subjected to physical violence by their opponents; such a fear would be liable to deter associations or other groups supporting common ideas or B interests from openly expressing their opinions on highly controversial issues affecting the community. In a democracy the right to counter-demonstrate cannot extend to inhibiting the exercise of the right to demonstrate. Genuine, effective freedom of peaceful assembly cannot, C therefore, be reduced to a mere duty on the part of the State not to interfere: a purely negative conception would not be compatible with the object and purpose of Article 11 (art. 11). Like Article 8 (art. 8), Article 11 (art. 11) sometimes requires positive measures to be taken, even in the sphere of relations between individuals, if need be D (see, mutatis mutandis, the X and Y v. the Netherlands of 26 March 1985, Series A no. 91, p. 11, § 23)” 70. In X and Y vs. The Netherlands65, a privately-run home for children with mental disabilities was sued on the ground that a 16-year- old inmate was subjected to sexual assault. When the case was dismissed E by the domestic court on a technical plea, the father of the victim approached the European Court of Human Rights. ECHR outlined the extent of State obligation on the protection of the right to life even against private persons as follows: “23. The Court recalls that although the object of Article 8 (art. 8) F is essentially that of protecting the individual against arbitrary interference by the public authorities, it does not merely compel the State to abstain from such interference: in addition to this primarily negative undertaking, there may be positive obligations inherent in an effective respect for private or family life (see the G Airey of 9 October 1979, Series A no.