This jurisdiction is not exercised to protect the dignity of an individual judge but to protect the administration of justice from being maligned. In the general interest of the community it is imperative that the authority of courts should not be imperilled and there should be no unjustifi able interference in the administration of justice. It is a matter between the court and the contemner and third parties cannot intervene. It is exercised in a summary manner in aid of the administration of justice, the majesty of law and the dignity of the courts. No such act can be permitted which may have the tendency to shake the public confi dence in the fairness and impartiality of the administration of justice.. (Emphasis supplied) 48. To hold a person guilty of civil contempt, “wilful disobedience” is an indispensable requirement. Whether the conduct of contemnor is 1098 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. deliberate and wilful can be considered by assessing the material on record and attendant circumstances. PIVOTAL ISSUES 49. We would like to address ourselves broadly on four questions: (i) Whether the wilful breach of an assurance in the form of an undertaking given by a counsel/ advocate on behalf of his client to the court would amount to “civil contempt” as defi ned under Section 2(b) of the Act 1971? (ii) There exists a distinction between an undertaking given to a party to the lis and the undertaking given to a court. The undertaking given to a court attracts the provisions of the Act 1971 whereas an undertaking given to a party to the lis by way of an agreement of settlement or otherwise would not attract the provisions of the said Act. Whether in the present case an undertaking could be said to have been given to the court? (iii) Whether the contempt court has the power to declare any contemptuous transaction non est or void? In other words, although the transfer of the suit property pendente lite is not void ab initio yet when the court is looking into such transfers in contempt proceedings, whether the court can declare such transactions to be void in to maintain the majesty of law? (iv) Whether the benefi ciaries of a contemptuous transaction have a right to be heard in the contempt proceedings on the ground that they are necessary or proper parties as they are bona fi de purchasers of the suit property for value without notice? (v) Whether the apology tendered by the contemnors deserves to be accepted or is it a legal trick to wriggle out of responsibility? WHAT IS WILFUL DISOBEDIENCE? 50. In to decide whether the appellants are guilty of civil contempt, we would like to refer to Section 2(b) of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, which reads as under:— BALWANTBHAI SOMABHAI BHANDARI v. HIRALAL 1099 SOMABHAI CONTRACTOR (DECEASED) REP. BY LRS. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] “2. Defi nitions.—In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,— ××× ××× ××× (b) "civil contempt" means wilful disobedience to any , decree, direction, , writ or other process of a court or wilful breach of an undertaking given to a court;” 51.