48. We find that no interference would be warranted with the C concurrent findings of MERC and APTEL that deallocation of Lohara Coal Blocks would amount to ‘Change in Law’ event as defined under the PPA. 49. Insofar as methodology is concerned, APTEL has referred to the report of the Expert Committee appointed by MERC, which D recommended determination of the price of coal from Lohara Coal Blocks using “transfer pricing method” which is one of the commonly used methods. It has accepted the report of the Expert Committee which provided a reasonable methodology to arrive at the cost of mining from Lohara Coal Blocks. It will be relevant to refer to the following E paragraphs of the impugned and : “8.9 We also observe that MSEDCL ought not to cast aspersions on such use of methodology of transfer pricing to deduce/determine the coal cost. Expert Committee Report was furnished after carrying out a detailed exercise of analysing all relevant technical, commercial, and financial aspects through a consultative process. F The Expert Committee had also appointed external industry experts i.e. legal consultant, financial experts and independent auditors. Admittedly, the Expert Committee took cognizance of view of all the stakeholders (including MSEDCL) and it is not the case of MSEDCL that it was not heard before submission of the Report G to MERC. In fact, we are mindful of the fact that the cover letter submitted to MERC records MSEDCL representative being one of the members which submitted the Report. As such, we see no reason why the recommendations of the Expert Committee cannot be relied upon. H 666 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 8.10 It is also not a case where MSEDCL produced any document to contradict such determination of Lohara coal cost by Expert Committee. We therefore hold that MERC ought to have conducted a prudence check to arrive at a conclusion regarding the correctness of the figures so derived/determined towards coal costs by the Expert Committee. Prudence check, however, does B not mean taking linkage coal cost as the base to grant or determine change in law compensation to Adani. The MERC clearly fell in error on this issue. 8.11 The MERC’s erroneous approach erodes the restitutionary principle enshrined under Article 13 of the PPA. In fact, Adani C submitted that the Lohara coal cost cross-subsidizes fuel cost from Linkage portion, which has also been noted by the Expert Committee in its Report, but ignored by MERC. MSEDCL has not disputed this fact. 8.12 The Expert Committee Report further notes that based on D the said cost parameters, Adani had arrived at two different bid streams for each of the fuel source (i.e. captive coal and linkage coal). The overall bid numbers were based on a weighted average of the individual bid streams. Observing thus, in Chapter 7, the Expert Committee suggested MERC to consider the Lohara coal E cost to be considered as the base for restituting Adani. Expert Committee gave the following rationale for the recommended methodology: “7.1 ...