The petitioner states that she did not discover that she was pregnant until after twenty weeks of the pregnancy had elapsed because she had lactational amenorrhea. As a result of lactational amenorrhea, women who are breastfeeding do not menstruate. She therefore did not realize that 448 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. the absence of menstruation was indicative of pregnancy. The petitioner states that she visited the gynaecologist for the fi rst time after the delivery of her second child because she was feeling weak, nauseous, dizzy and experiencing abdominal discomfort. She underwent an ultrasound scan, upon which she realized that she was pregnant. The pregnancy was estimated to be around twenty-four weeks at that time. 3. The petitioner avers that she and her husband attempted to medically terminate the pregnancy at various hospitals but that they were unable to because of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act 19711 read with the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Rules 20032 (as amended in 2021). She therefore approached this Court by invoking its writ jurisdiction. She sought permission for the medical termination of her pregnancy on the following grounds: a. She suff ers from post-partum depression and her mental condition does not permit her to raise another child; and b. Her husband is the only earning member of their family and they already have two children to care for. Additionally, they have other family members who depend on them. 4. The matter was listed before a two-Judge Bench comprising Hima Kohli, J. and B V Nagarathna, J. on 5 October 2023. On the same day, the Bench directed the petitioner to appear before a Medical Board constituted by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi.3 The report submitted to this Court by the Medical Board is extracted below: “Details of the woman seeking termination of pregnancy: 1. … 2. Age: 27 years. 3. Registration/Case Number:UHID–107060237. 4. Additional review done at AIIMS: 1 “MTP Act” 2 “MTP Rules” 3 “AIIMS” X v. UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. 449 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] S.No. Investigations done Key fi nding 1 Ultrasound done Ultrasonography suggest: Single at AIIMS on live intra uterine fetus of 25 20.09.2023 weeks 5 days POG. Estimated Fetal Weight – 886 gm. Placenta upper segment. 5. Opinion by Medical Board for termination of pregnancy: (a) Allowed (X) (b) Denied ( ) Justifi cation for the decision: The case has been reviewed by the medical board. The weight of the baby by the scan done on 06/10/2023 is 886gm with gestational age of 25 weeks 5 days. As per the current status, the baby is viable and has a reasonable chance of survival. The chances of post partum psychosis of which the couple is worried of,are present even at this gestation following delivery. The mother is a previous 2 LSCS and the chances of complications due to hysterotomy are there at this gestation. In such a scenario, the termination of pregnancy may be reconsidered. The option of antenatal care and delivery at AIIMS, New Delhi has been discussed with the couple.