17. The question of drawing of samples at the time of seizure which, more often than not, takes place in the absence of the Magistrate does not in the above scheme of things arise. This is so especially when according to Section 52-A(4) of the Act, B samples drawn and certified by the Magistrate in compliance with sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 52-A above constitute primary evidence for the purpose of the trial. Suffice it to say that there is no provision in the Act that mandates taking of samples at the time of seizure. That is perhaps why none of the States claim to C be taking samples at the time of seizure. 18. Be that as it may, a conflict between the statutory provision governing taking of samples and the Standing issued by the Central Government is evident when the two are placed in juxtaposition. There is no gainsaid that such a conflict shall have D to be resolved in favour of the statute on first principles of interpretation but the continuance of the statutory notification in its present form is bound to create confusion in the minds of the authorities concerned instead of helping them in the discharge of their duties. The Central Government would, therefore, do well, to re- examine the matter and take suitable steps in the above E direction.” FACTS AND DISCUSSION: 10. We have heard the arguments of learned counsel for the appellant and the learned counsel appearing for the State. Incidentally we perused the entire records. F 11. The memorandum of informer’s information dated 20.05.2010 exhibited under P-3 indicates signature of two witnesses, P.W.2 and P.W.6, both of them turned hostile. Though they admitted their signature it was clearly deposed that they were not present at the scene of occurrence. In our considered view the Court below have wrongly G construed the evidence, in fact these two witnesses were party to most of the exhibits running upto 13. Search warrant under Exhibit P-4 acknowledge the fact that procedure contemplated under the NDPS Act has not been followed. As noted, one of the witnesses to the seizure memo has not been examined while the other turned hostile. Both the H 528 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A witnesses to the arrest memo have not been examined. On the issue of non-production of narcotic substance and panch witnesses turning hostile we wish to reiterate the decision of this Court in Jitendra v. State of M.P., (2004) 10 SCC 562: “5. The evidence to prove that charas and ganja were recovered B from the possession of the accused consisted of the evidence of the police officers and the panch witnesses. The panch witnesses turned hostile. Thus, we find that apart from the testimony of Rajendra Pathak (PW 7), Angad Singh (PW 8) and Sub-Inspector D.J. Rai (PW 6), there is no independent witness as to the recovery of the drugs from the possession of the accused. The charas and C ganja alleged to have been seized from the possession of the accused were not even produced before the trial court, so as to connect them with the samples sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory.