48. Thus, we have no hesitation to hold that a relationship of lessor - lessee between State Government and JKSL/RIICO continued to subsist F and has not been affected in any manner by virtue of Government dated 18.09.1979. 49. Another strong plank of argumentation advanced on behalf of Respondent No.1 is founded upon Rules 11A and 12 of the 1959 Rules which came to be inserted by way of amendment in the years 1982 & G 1983. We accordingly propose to minutely analyse both the Rules. 50. Rule 11A says that land “shall be allotted” to RIICO and Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation “for setting up and developing industrial areas” on the terms and conditions prescribed therein. The Rule provides that the land shall be allotted to RIICO on a H BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 285 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] leasehold basis and RIICO shall be free to sub-lease the land on agreed A terms and conditions. RIICO has been further authorised to levy and recover such lease rent and other charges as may be determined by it, in respect of lands sub-leased by it. The period of sub-leases shall not exceed 99 years. Clause (viii) of Rule 11A noticeably states that the land shall revert to the State Government, free from all encumbrances B and without payment of any compensation, in case RIICO or its sub- lessees use it for any purpose other than industrial, or commit breach of any other than condition of the lease or sub-leases. Rule 11A, contemplates allotment of land to RIICO on lease hold basis for a period of 99 years, with further authorization to execute sub-leases strictly for industrial purposes. The State Government has expressly reserved its C rights to secure the land back free from all encumbrances if RIICO or its sub-lessees fail to use the allotted land for industrial purposes or commit a breach of any other condition. The expression “shall be” signifies allotment of land to RIICO in the future. Rule 11A is not attracted in respect of the lands which had already been leased out prior to insertion D of this rule on 23.12.1983. 51. We have no reason to doubt that Rule 11A, per se, does not advance the cause of Respondent No. 1 for the reason that Respondent No. 1 has merely stepped into the shoes of JKSL and lease deeds were executed in the year 2007 directly by the State Government in favour of E Respondent No.1, without resorting to Rule 11A, namely, through RIICO. Had it been a case of execution of fresh lease deeds in favour of Respondent No. 1 by RIICO in 2007, it could be convincingly argued that such allotment was in furtherance of the authorization conferred on RIICO under Rule 11A. The facts do not bear out such an eventuality. F 52. That apart, the plain wording of Rule 11A clearly shows that the Corporation can have merely managerial power over the land that is allocated to it.