[Paras 22, 27] 466 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 – Facilitation of a scribe to the candidates – Where the consortium provides scribe, at least two days’ time should be provided so as to enable the candidate to interact with the scribe: Held: In other words, candidates appearing for the CLAT can either bring their own scribe or if it is not possible to do so, request the Consortium to provide a scribe who is then made available to the candidate – It was agreed that where the Consortium provides a scribe, at least two days’ time should be provided so as to enable the candidate to interact with the scribe – The scribe is required in the case of a visually challenged candidate to read out and write the responses to the MCQs – In to familiarise the scribe and the aspirant candidate, it is but proper that suffi cient time for interaction of two days should be provided – The guidelines also make a similar stipulation. [Para 26] LIST OF CITATIONS AND OTHER REFERENCES Vikash Kumar Vs Union Public Service Commission & Ors. (2021) 5 SCC 370 – relied on. OTHER CASE DETAILS INCLUDING IMPUGNED AND APPEARANCES CIVIL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Writ Petition (Civil) No. 1109 of 2022. (UNDER ARTICLE 32 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA) With Miscellaneous Application (Diary No. 8493 of 2023) Appearances: Nikhil Nayyar, Sr. Adv., N. Sai Vinod, Abhinav, Advs. for the Petitioner. Mrs. Aishwarya Bhati, A.S.G., Siddharth Aggarwal, Sr. Adv., Arun Sri Kumar, Ms. Pritha Srikumar, Anirudh G., Ms. Arshiya Ghose, Mrs. Lalita Kaushik, Aman Sharma, Yashraj Singh Bundela, Manvinder Singh Rathore, Manvendra Singh Rathore, Shashwat Parihar, Shaswat Parihar, Amrish Kumar, Raj Bahadur Yadav, Advs. for the Respondents. By Courts Motion ARNAB ROY v. CONSORTIUM OF NATIONAL LAW 467 UNIVERSITIES / OF THE SUPREME COURT DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI 1. The petitioner who is a lawyer and disability rights activist moved these proceedings under Article 32 of the Constitution of India for challenging certain conditions which were imposed for the conduct of the Common Law Admission Test 20231. CLAT was scheduled on 18 December 2022. The issue specifi cally addressed by the petitioner relates to the facilities for candidates who intend to avail of a scribe. 2 The petitioner avers that he was personally aware that at least 13 visually impaired candidates would be denied the assistance of a scribe because of the conditions belatedly imposed by the Consortium of National Law Universities2 less than four weeks before the date of the examination. 3. The petitioner has highlighted certain specifi c concerns, based on the decision of this Court in Vikash Kumar Vs Union Public Service Commission & Ors3. The fi rst among these concerns is that the Consortium has denied the right to a scribe to candidates who do not have a benchmark disability though they have a genuine diffi culty in writing. In this context, reliance has been placed on the following principle which was laid down in the decision in Vikash Kumar, while elaborating on the statutory entitlement of Persons with Disabilities4 under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016 : “To confi ne the facility of a scribe only to those who have benchmark disabilities would be to deprive a class of persons of their statutorily recognized entitlements.