Tariff Structure H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 113 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 4.1 …….. A 4.2. In case of long term procurement with specific fuel allocation (Case 2), the procurer shall invite bids on the basis of capacity charge and net quoted heat rate. The net heat rate shall be ex-bus taking into account internal power consumption of the power station. The energy charges shall be payable as per the following B formula: Energy Charges = Net quoted heat rate X Scheduled Generation X Monthly Weighted Average Price of Fuel/ Monthly Average Gross Calorific Value of Fuel If the price of the fuel has not been determined by the Government C of India, government approved mechanism or the Fuel Regulator, the same shall have to be approved by the appropriate Regulatory Commission. In case of coal/lignite fuel, the cost of secondary fuel oil shall be factored in the capacity charges.” D 54. It can thus be seen that insofar as Case-2 is concerned, the procurer is required to invite bids on the basis of capacity charge and net quoted heat rate. The net heat rate is required to be ex-bus taking into account internal power consumption of the power station. It further provides that if the price of the fuel is not determined by the Government E of India, government approved mechanism or the Fuel Regulator, the same shall have to be approved by the appropriate Regulatory Commission. 55. Para 4.4 provides that the capacity charge shall be paid based on actual availability, as per charges quoted in Rs./kwh and shall be F limited to the normative availability. It further provides that the normative availability for Case-1 and thermal stations under Case-2 shall be a maximum of 85%. 56. Para 4.7 is another important clause for the resolution of the present dispute, which reads thus: G “4.7. Any change in law impacting cost or revenue from the business of selling electricity to the procurer with respect to the law applicable on the date which is 7 days before the last date for H 114 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A RFP bid submission shall be adjusted separately. In case of any dispute regarding the impact of any change in law, the decision of the Appropriate Commission shall apply.” 57. It can thus be seen that any Change in Law impacting cost or revenue from the business of selling electricity to the procurer with respect B to the law applicable on the date which is 7 days before the last date for RFP bid submission shall be adjusted separately. It provides that in case of any dispute regarding the impact of any Change in Law, the decision of the Appropriate Commission shall apply. 58. It will also be relevant to refer to Para 4.12, which reads thus: C “4.12 No adjustment shall be provided for heat rate degradation of the generating stations. Even in case of bids based on net heat rate, the bidder shall factor in site conditions, loading conditions, frequency variations etc and no adjustment shall be allowed on the quoted net heat rate for the duration of the contract.” D 59.