To this letter, a set of drawings prepared after incorporating the suggestions of the Department was also enclosed; (iv) By a departmental note dated 03.12.1994, the Superintendent of Gardens seems to have addressed the Executive Engineer (DP)(ES) indicating that the plan submitted by the Architect was slightly modified H after visiting the site. The Executive Engineer was also requested to GODREJ AND BOYCE MANUFACTURING COMPANY LTD. THR. ITS 77 CONSTITUTED ATTORNEY v. THE MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF GREATER MUMBAI [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] inform further development in future so that the progress could be A monitored; (v) The said departmental note dated 03.12.1994 contains an endorsement at the bottom to the effect “please inform that developer can develop the RG by availing ATDR.” Obviously, the acronym RG stands for Recreation Ground and the acronym ATDR stands for B Additional Transferable Development Rights; (vi) By a letter dated 05.04.1995 addressed by the Chief Engineer (DP) to appellant No.1, they were instructed to carry out certain things, as per the plan submitted by their Architect. Two important things could be noticed from this letter. The first is that Point No.7 mentioned in the C said letter speaks about the joint measurement of the “Recreation Ground”. The second is that the letter was described as an intent letter valid for a period of one year, but eligible to be revalidated for further periods; (vii) By a letter dated 27.05.1995, the Deputy Chief Engineer D (Planning and Design) informed the Architects that the work undertaken by them was found completed as per the amended plan approved by the Department and as per the re-location approved by the Director (ES & P). This letter was issued after an inspection of the site on 23.05.1995. (viii) By a letter dated 28.09.1995, the Architect of appellant No.1 E informed the Assistant Engineer (DP) that the Architects had a temporary site office and go-down constructed on the plot reserved for Recreation Ground and that they were being used for constructing additional amenity and landscaping of Recreation Ground. By the said letter, the Architect undertook to remove these structures after completion of “the development of RG”. F (ix) By a departmental note dated 30.11.1995, the Deputy Chief Engineer sought the approval of Municipal Commissioner on certain issues. One of the issues on which the s of the Municipal Commissioner were sought, was the development of RG by planting trees, providing fountain etc. and the removal of the structures erected G by the Architects for the purpose of carrying out the development, within two years. The said note was approved by the Municipal Commissioner on 04.12.1995. (x) It is only after the above events that the handing over and taking over possession of the surrendered land took place on 09.12.1995. H 78 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A (xi) After the handing over and taking over possession of the land, the Superintendent of Gardens sent a communication date 14.12.1995 to the Architect of appellant No.1 that they have no objection to the landscaping being undertaken.