If the interpretation suggested by the learned counsel for the respondents be accepted, the saving clause would become G unnecessary. If what it saves is only the executed contracts i.e. the contracts whereunder the goods have been imported and received by the buyer before the merger, no further protection is necessary as ordinarily no question of enforcement of the contracts under the pre-existing law would arise. The phraseology used is H 274 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A not an innovation but is copied from other statutory clauses. Section 6 of the General clauses Act (10 of 1897) says that unless a different intention appears, the repeal of an Act shall not affect anything duly done or suffered thereunder. So too, the Public Health Act of 1858 (38 & 39 Vict. c. 55) which repealed the Public Health Act of 1848 contained a proviso to Section 343 to the B effect that the repeal “shall not affect anything duly done or suffered under the enactment hereby repealed”, This proviso came under judicial scrutiny in Queen v. Justices of the West Riding of Yorkshire [(1876) 1 QBD 220] . There notice was given by a local board of health of intention to make a rate under the Public C Health Act, 1848, and amending Acts. Before the notice had expired these Acts were repealed by the Public Health Act, 1875, which contained a saving of “anything duly done” under the repealed enactments, and gave power to make a similar rate upon giving a similar notice. The board, in ignorance of the repeal, made a rate purporting to be made under the repealed Acts. It was D contended that as the rate was made after the repealing Act, the notice given under the repealed Act was not valid. The learned Judges held that as the notice was given before the Act, the making of the rate was also saved by the words “anything duly done” under the repealed enactments. This case illustrates the point that E it is not necessary that an impugned thing in itself should have been done before the Act was repealed, but it would be enough if it was integrally connected with and was a legal consequence of a thing done before the said repeal. Under similar circumstances Lindley, L.J., in Heston and Isleworth Urban District Council v. Grout [(1897) 2 Ch 306] confirmed the validity of the rate F made pursuant to a notice issued prior to the repeal. Adverting to the saving clause, the learned Judge tersely states the principle thus at p. 313: “That to my mind preserves that notice and the effect of it”. On that principle the court of appeal held that the rate which was the effect of the notice was good.” G 28. The learned senior counsel, further on the principle of legitimate expectation, relied on the decision in (1992) 4 SCC 477 Navjyoti Coop.Group Housing Society and Ors. Vs. Union of India & Ors. wherein it is observed as hereunder: H ANUSHKA RENGUNTHWAR & ORS.