(2) the co-operative credit societies which provide fi nancial assistance to the society; (3) the State Government’ (b) in the case of co-operative society, being a primary society engaged in supplying milk, oilseeds, fruits or vegetables raised or grown by its members to – (i) a federal co-operative society, being a society engaged in the business of supplying of milk, oilseeds, fruits or vegetables, as the case may be; or (ii) the Government or a local authority; or (iii) a Government company as defi ned in section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), or a corporation established by or under a Central, State or Provincial Act (being a company or corporation engaged in supplying milk, oilseeds, fruits or vegetables, as the case may be, to the public), the whole of the amount of profi ts and gains of such business; (c) in the case of a co-operative society engaged in activities other than those specifi ed in clause (a) or clause(b) (either independently of, or in addition to, all or any of the activities so specifi ed), so much of its profi ts and gains attributable to such activities as does not exceed,- (i) where such co-operative society is a consumers’ co- operative society, one hundred thousand rupees. (ii) in any other case, fi fty thousand rupees. Explanation. – In this clause, “consumers’ co-operative society” means a society for the benefi t of the consumers; (d) in respect of any income by way of interest or dividends derived by the co-operative society from its investments with any other co-operative society, the whole of such income; (e) in respect of any income derived by the co-operative society from the letting of go downs or warehouses for storage, processing KSCARDB v. THE ASSESSING OFFICER, TRIVANDRUM 335 AND ORS. [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] or facilitating the marketing of commodities, the whole of such income; (f) in the case of a co-operative society, not being a housing society or an urban consumers’ society, or a society carrying on transport business or a society engaged in the performance of any manufacturing operations with the aid of power, where the gross total income does not exceed twenty thousand rupees, the amount of any income by way of interest on securities or any income from house property chargeable under section 22. Explanation.— For the purposes of this section, an “urban consumers’ co-operative society” means a society for the benefi t of the consumers within the limits of a municipal corporation, municipality, municipal committee, notifi ed area committee, town area, or cantonment. (3) In a case where the assessee is entitled also to the deduction under section 80HH or section 80HHA or section 80HHB or section 80HHC, or section 80HHDor section 80- 1 or section 80-IA or section 80J, or section 80JJ, the deduction under sub-section (1) of this section, in relation to the sums specifi ed in clause (a) or clause (b) or clause (c) of sub- section (2), shall be allowed with reference to the income, if any, as referred to in those clauses included in the gross total income as reduced by the deductions under section 80HH, section 80HHA, section 80HHB, section 80HHC, section 80HHD, section 80- 1, section 80-IA, section 80J and 80JJ.