However, this principle of party autonomy in the choice of procedure has been deviated from in those cases where one of the parties have committed default by not acting in 100 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. accordance with the procedure prescribed. Many such instances where this course of action is taken and the Court appoint the arbitrator when the persona designata has failed to act, are taken note of in paras 6 and 7 of Tripple Engg. Works [North Eastern Railway v. Tripple Engg. Works, (2014) 9 SCC 288 : (2014) 5 SCC (Civ) 30]. We are conscious of the fact that these were the cases where appointment of the independent arbitrator made by the Court in exercise of powers under Section 11 of account of “default procedure”. We are, in the present case, concerned with the constitution of substitute Arbitral Tribunal where earlier Arbitral Tribunal has failed to perform. However, the above principle of default procedure is extended by this Court in such cases as well as is clear from the in Singh Builders Syndicate [Union of India v. Singh Builders Syndicate, (2009) 4 SCC 523 : (2009) 2 SCC (Civ) 246]. 17. In the case of contracts between government corporations/ State-owned companies with private parties/contractors, the terms of the agreement are usually drawn by the government company or public sector undertakings. Government contracts have broadly two kinds of arbitration clauses, fi rst where a named offi cer is to act as sole arbitrator; and second, where a senior offi cer like a Managing Director, nominates a designated offi cer to act as the sole arbitrator. No doubt, such clauses which give the Government a dominant position to constitute the Arbitral Tribunal are held to be valid. At the same time, it also casts an onerous and responsible duty upon the persona designata to appoint such persons/offi cers as the arbitrators who are not only able to function independently and impartially, but are in a position to devote adequate time in conducting the arbitration. If the Government has nominated those offi cers as arbitrators who are not able to devote time to the arbitration proceedings or become incapable of acting as arbitrators because of frequent transfers, etc., then the principle of “default procedure” at least in the cases where Government has assumed the role of appointment of arbitrators to itself, has to be applied in the case of substitute arbitrators as well and the Court will step in to appoint the arbitrator by keeping aside the procedure which is agreed to between the parties. However, it will depend upon the facts of a particular case as to whether such a course LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 1005 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] of action should be taken or not. What we emphasise is that Court is not powerless in this regard.” (Emphasis supplied) 94. In the context of independence and impartiality of the arbitrator more particularly keeping in mind the amended Section 12 of the Act 1996, we must refer to and rely upon the observations made by this Court in paras 20 to 25 of the decision in the case of Voestalpine Schienen (supra): “20.