), which directly aff ect the marine life. However, those products are not banned by the Government but it had chosen to ban only the non-woven carry bags and therefore, the impugned is vitiated on the ground of discrimination. Counsel for the appellants urged that there is no alternative to non-woven carry bags and they are not made of 114 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 100% polypropylene. The consumption of water for manufacture of jute, paper and cotton, far exceeds the impact of polypropylene. Chemicals which are more toxic and harmful to environment and human existence are used in the manufacture of industrial products, such as mercury and cyanide, but they are not either banned or prohibited by citing fl imsy and unfounded reasons. Respondents’ contentions 25. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State of Tamil Nadu, relied on the provisions of the EPA, specifi cally – Section 23 (central government’s power to delegate) and Section 5 (power to give directions). It was submitted that the impugned government was well within the legislative competence of the State Government which issued the same under Section 5 of the EPA (pursuant to this power being delegated by the Central Government). This delegation of power, it was argued, empowered the state government to impose stringent regulations on any industry, operation, process including a complete or partial ban. Reliance was placed on AP Pollution Control Board v. Prof. M. Nayudu (Retd.) & Ors.15 26. It was submitted that there was no repugnancy between the impugned government and the 2016 Rules as they operate in distinct and independent fi elds. The Rules specify regulatory measures, compliance of which is essential for the grant of registration for plastic manufacturers in terms of these Rules, whereas the impugned notifi cation only seeks to ban certain plastics that are harmful to the environment. The High Court had rightly accepted this position.16 Reliance was placed on Goodwill Plastic Industries v. Union Territory of Chandigarh17, the civil appeal against which, has also been disposed by this court. 27. Counsel laboured on the right to clean and hygienic environment as one falling under Article 21 of the Constitution and that this trumped the commercial interests of the appellants. The doctrine of public trust was pressed into service to buttress counsel’s arguments, and it was urged that the standard of judicial review to be applied by courts where environment 15 (2001) 2 SCC 62, para 43. 16 See paragraph 52 of the impugned HC . 17 2013 SCC Online NGT 71, para 17. TAMIL NADU AND PUDUCHERRY PAPER CUP MANUFACTURES 1145 ASSOCIATION v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] protection and interests of the general public are a stake, is a narrow one. Counsel pointed out numerous cases in this regard.18 28. The appellants’ contention on violation of natural justice was strongly opposed; counsel highlighted that representation of both the appellants were taken into consideration by the respondent state government, and deliberations had also borne numerous clarifi cations.