He cited Benjamin’s Sale of Goods Act (10th edn., para 16.032) to underline the compensatory principle, following which the manufacturer compensates E the buyer for the breach that occurred by way of the defect in the part covered by way of a warranty. Citing para 1.069, learned senior counsel asserted that a transaction involving contractual compensation would not amount to the sale of a thing as the property passes merely as an incident of F performance of a contract of indemnity. (iii) Therefore, learned senior counsel submitted that enforcement of a contractual right for getting a free replacement in exchange for a defective part was neither any purchase by the buyer nor a sale to him. According to learned senior counsel, this proposition was crystallized in G Gannon Dunkerley (I), Devi Dass Gopal Krishnan, Gannon Dunkerley (II), and Kone Elevators Pvt. Ltd. vs. State of Tamil Nadu, (2014) 7 SCC 1. Relying upon Builders’ Association of India vs. Union of India, (1989) 2 SCC 645, it was stressed that the H 1302 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A constitutional position post-46th Amendment of the Indian Constitution whereby the States’ legislative competence to tax the sale of goods was circumscribed by Entry 54, List II, Schedule VII of the Constitution. That taxation under this entry, being limited to “sale and purchase of goods” cannot be extended to activities that are not a sale. B (iv) Reliance was also placed upon Commissioner of Customs vs. Dilip Kumar & Co., (2018) 9 SCC 1 and CIT vs. Motor & General Stores Pvt. Ltd., AIR 1968 SC 200 to emphasize that taxing statutes ought to be specific and must be interpreted strictly, as taxation on citizens should not be C subject to the whims and fancies of the government. Learned senior counsel adopted the arguments with respect to Mohd. Ekram Khan. That the case did not apply to facts of the present case where the warranty obligation was being discharged free of cost and the defective goods D were being returned to the manufacturer. Alternatively, it was contended that the said case was not correctly decided as the essential elements of a sale were not considered in the said . III. Submissions of Sri V. Sridharan, learned senior counsel E for the petitioner in SLP (C) Nos. 12806-12808/ 2016: (i) Learned senior counsel Sri Sridharan submitted that the petitioner in the aforementioned cases being a dealer of M/ s Maruti Suzuki India Ltd., merely fulfilled the manufacturer’s warranty obligation. It was urged that the dealership agreement was a framework agreement. Taking F note of the chain of transactions, the customer is compensated for the consideration of purchase of an automobile from the petitioner. Therefore, there is no contract of sale either between the petitioner and the customer for the replacement of defective parts or between G the petitioner and manufacturer as sale of parts replaced for the defective parts. (ii) Challenging the applicability of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 to the present case, learned counsel maintained that there is no inter-state movement of replacement parts as H they are fitted at the dealer’s location.