H 24 (1995) 3 SCC 454 HEINZ INDIA LIMITED v. THE STATE OF KERALA 449 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 40. The decisions relied on have substantially been on the basis of A classification under the CETA. Central Excise classifications are elaborate; the General notes, and Chapter notes, together with the exclusions, [and further explanations] are developed interpretive tools. Plus, this court has striven, to the extent possible, to interpret such entries, in line with HSN classification. In the present case, the distinguishing B feature of both the KGST Act and TGST Act, is that neither have general or chapter notes. This sets the statutes apart from decisions based on CETA, to a large extent. The court has to, as a principle, interpret the concerned statutes, in the light of their plain words, and having regard to their internal guides or aids. C 41. In CIENS Laboratories (supra), the court had indicated a three-step test to determine, if a product were a medicament or not. Other tests have been indicated in different s. All these may be summarized as follows: (i) When a product contains pharmaceutical ingredients with D therapeutic/ prophylactic or curative properties, the proportion of the ingredients is not decisive. The curative attributes of the ingredients render it a medicament and not a cosmetic. (CIENS Laboratories) (ii) A product can be sold without a prescription from a medical E practitioner. Yet it does not lead to the conclusion that the sale of over-the-counter products are cosmetics. Several products are sold over-the-counter and are yet, medicaments. (CIENS Laboratories) (iii) Before adjudicating whether a product is a medicament or not, courts have to consider what the people who use the product F understand it to be. If a product’s primary function is “care” and not “cure”, it is not a medicament. Cosmetic products are used in enhancing or improving a person’s appearance or beauty, whereas medicinal products are used to treat or cure some medical condition. A product that is used mainly in curing or treating ailments G or diseases and contains curative ingredients even in small quantities, is to be branded as a medicament. (CIENS Laboratories) H 450 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A (iv) Products cannot be classified as cosmetics solely on the basis oftheir outward packing. (Meghdoot Gramodyog Sewa Sansthan, UP. v. Commissioner of Central Excise, Lucknow25) (v) Mixing medical ingredients with other products, or preservatives, does not alter its character as a medicament (Amrutanjan Ltd. v. B Collector Central Excise26) (vi) That a license under the Drugs Act is necessary is not a determinative or decisive factor always. 42. The formulation of the tests, in all the above decisions was specific to the products involved and the rival or competing revenue C entries (and in some cases, exemption notifications). 43. In CIENS Laboratories (supra), the product was a cream prescribed by dermatologiststotreat dry skin conditions and was also available in pharmaceutical shops in the market and not primarily intended for the protection of the skin. Its pharmaceutical ingredients showed D that it was used for prophylactic and therapeutic purposes.