On the other hand, the conduct of accused and particularly accused no. 3.1 to 3.4 not even cancelling sale deeds would be suffi cient to arrive at a conclusion that contrition or remorse expressed by them is not bona fi de and has been made to stave off the contempt proceedings by making a show of apology having been tendered and trying to take umbrage by contending that accused no. 1082 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 3.1 and 3.2 are housewives cannot be allowed to take umbrage or use the protective umbrella, and extending them of such benevolence would result in pure stream of administration of justice being polluted by such persons by feigning ignorance and as such we are of the considered view that they should be dealt with iron hands. ××× ××× ××× 55. Applying the aforestated principle to the facts on hand as noticed by us earlier in hereinabove, that accused No. 3.1 to 3.4 are attempting to improve their case step by step and stage by stage and tendering apology without any real contrition and same not being from the heart but off ered as a lip sympathy to stave off the consequences that would fl ow from their contemptuous act, the affi davit of apology has been fi led. Had there been real remorse, they would have on notice of contempt being served, forthwith cancelled the power of attorney executed in favour of accused no. 4. However, they have not chosen to do so. On the other hand, they have allowed him to continue to perform duties as their agent and derived benefi ts out of it, which discloses there is no real contrition expressed by them which would satisfy the Courts' conscious.. (Emphasis supplied) 21. The High Court thereafter, proceeded to consider whether the contempt proceedings were time barred. The High Court looked into Section 20 of the Act 1971 and took the view that the cause of action was recurring in nature and the wrong had continued. The proceedings initiated were not barred under Section 20 of the Act 1971. 22. In the last, the High Court recorded what had happened on the date when the contemnors remained present in the court to answer the charge framed against them. The High Court observed in para 61 as under: “As such, this Court by dated 18.12.2018 directed the contemnors to be present personally and to answer as to why charge should not be framed against them. In reply to the same, an affi davit has been fi led by the contemnors on 24.12.2018 admitting thereunder the disobedience and breach of the undertaking given to the Court. In the words of fourth respondent, the admission reads to the following eff ect: BALWANTBHAI SOMABHAI BHANDARI v. HIRALAL 1083 SOMABHAI CONTRACTOR (DECEASED) REP. BY LRS. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] "2. I sincerely regret that the execution of the sale deeds was in breach of the statement made by learned counsel on my behalf. I hereby sincerely tender unconditional apology with clear understanding that there is breach of the statement.