It is submitted that as per Section 3(3) of the Act, 1988, the period of temporary release/parole shall not be counted towards the total period of sentence of a prisoner. It is submitted that thereafter when the emergency parole/temporary parole has been further extended pursuant D to the subsequent directions issued by this Court, the High-Powered Committee has specifically provided as per note in the minutes of the meeting that the period of release on interim parole shall not be counted towards the total period of sentence of the convict – prisoner which as such in consonance with the statutory provisions. It is submitted that E therefore, the decision of the High-Powered Committee in its meeting held on 09.05.2021 on the period of release on interim parole shall not be counted towards the total period of the sentence of the prisoner/convict is neither illegal and nor contrary to the statutory provisions. 3.3 It is further submitted that the issue whether the period of F parole is to be counted towards the total period of the sentence of the convict – prisoner is now not res-integra in view of the recent decision of this Court in the case of Rohan Dhungat Etc. Vs. The State of Goa & Ors. Etc. (Special Leave Petition (Crl) Nos. 12574-77/ 2022): (2023 SCC OnLine SC 16). It is submitted that after considering the law on the point and taking into consideration the earlier G decisions, this Court has specifically observed and held that period during which a convict is released on parole shall not be counted while considering the actual imprisonment. It is submitted that in the case of Avtar Singh Vs. State of Haryana (2002) 3 SCC 18, this Court considered the constitutional validity of Section 3(3) of the Act, 1988 H and while holding the constitutional validity, it is observed by this Court ANIL KUMAR v. STATE OF HARYANA & ORS. 671 [M. R. SHAH, J.] that by a valid legislative act the period of temporary release on parole A can be denied while counting the actual sentence undergone by the convict – prisoner. It is submitted that subsequently in the case of State of Haryana & Ors. Vs. Mohinder Singh (2000) 3 SCC 394, this Court has specifically observed and held that the period of parole should not be counted towards the total period of sentence as when a prisoner is on B parole his period of release does not count towards the total period of sentence. 3.4 Making the above submissions, it is prayed to dismiss the present writ petition. 4. The short question which is posed for the consideration of this C Court is whether a convict/prisoner who has been released on temporary parole/emergency parole, pursuant to the decision of the High-Powered Committee constituted as per the s passed by this Court in SWM (C) No. 1/2020, such parole period shall be counted towards the total period of sentence of the convict – prisoner? 4.1 At the outset, it is required to be noted that so far as the State D of Haryana is concerned as such the temporary release on parole is governed by the statutory provisions of the Haryana Good Conduct Prisoners (Temporary Release) Act, 1988.