The State purports to divest his rights in property and vest the B rights with the State. The impugned provision does not appear to be a case of such acquisition as is contemplated in a law which is made with reference to Entry 42 in List III. [Para 137 & 148][1139-D-E; 1143-D] 3. The very goal of town planning requires nothing less. C Once the goal of executing the gift and the results it produces in law, are appreciated in the above manner, the apprehensions and the contentions of the appellant/petitioner lose their sheen. One is unable to accept, in the context of the Act of the Rules/ Regulations, that, in such a large project, when the layout is more D than 10,000 square metres, executing a gift deed, which would ensure compliance, would fall foul of the requirement of either Article 14 or Article 300A. The developer/owner, remained only a trustee even without a gift. The provision for setting apart 10 per cent, is invulnerable. The area will even without a gift remain out of bounds for the project proponent/owner. The OSR, being E an inviolable requirement, the additional requirement, meant and understood as a measure to ensure compliance and prevent misuse and or disuse, must not be understood as deprivation. The gift will not convert the Local Body into an absolute owner. Instead, in place of the original owner, continuing as a trustee, the Local F Authority becomes the trustee. The purpose and the nature of the obligation will remain and haunt both the Local Body as also the original owner. The Rule/Regulation at any rate also, is a law which sanctions deprivation even assuming there is deprivation. However, in substance, the Rule/Regulation cannot be understood as deprivation under Article 300A. [Para 154][1148- G F-H; 1149-A-B] 4. Rule 19(b)(vi) to 19(2)(b)(vi) contemplate that the space so required is to be transferred to the authority or local body designated by the authority free of cost through a deed. It is further provided that the local body may provide the residents H ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1023 V. GOPINATH & ORS. association or flat owners association for maintaining such A reserved space as park. Significantly, in the case of a site having an extent between 3,000 to 10,000 square metres, the Rule declares that public access to the area as earmarked will not be insisted upon. When it comes to the extent of the site with which this Court is concerned, viz, where the extent of site exceeds B 10,000 square metres, the requirement in the Rule, viz., is common to 10 per cent of area excluding road had to be transferred by a gift is insisted upon. It is provided that it is obligatory to transfer the reserved 10 percent of the site area. No charges can be accepted in the case of new development or re-developments. In the case of Rule 19(b)(II)(vi) in the case of C site having extent between 3,000 square metres to 10,000 square metres, the CMDA or the local body may permit the residents association or flat owners association for maintaining the reserved space as parks.