This Court rejected the argument that as three options were given to the accused to get himself searched from the offi cer which was in violation of Section 50, the search conducted, even of the polythene bag, ought to be vitiated. It was held as under:- “4. The learned counsel submits that the option given to the appellant to take a third choice other than what is prescribed as the two choices under sub-section (1) of Section 50 of the Act is something which 364 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. goes contrary to the mandate of the law and in a way aff ects the protection provided by the said section to the accused. To support his contention, he has relied upon the of State of Rajasthan v. Parmanand [State of Rajasthan v. Parmanand, (2014) 5 SCC 345], more specifi cally, SCC para 19. The in turn, relied upon a Constitution Bench of this Court in State of Punjab v. Baldev Singh [State of Punjab v. Baldev Singh, (1999) 6 SCC 172] to conclude that if a search is made by an empowered offi cer on prior information without informing the person of his right that he has to be taken before a Gazetted Offi cer or a Magistrate for search and in case he so opts, failure to take his search accordingly would render the recovery of the illicit article suspicious and vitiate the conviction and sentence of the accused where the conviction has been recorded only on the basis of possession of illicit articles recovered from his person. The third option stated to be given to the accused to get himself searched from the Offi cer concerned not being part of the statute, the same could not have been off ered to the appellant and thus, the recovery from him is vitiated. 5. In the conspectus of the facts of the case, we fi nd that the recovery was in a polythene bag which was being carried on a kanwad. The recovery was not in person. The learned counsel seeks to expand the scope of the observations made by seeking to contend that if the personal search is vitiated by violation of Section 50 of the NDPS Act, the recovery made otherwise also would stand vitiated and thus, cannot be relied upon. We cannot give such an extended view as is sought to be contended by the learned counsel for the appellant.” (Emphasis supplied) FINAL ANALYSIS 114. The only idea with which we have referred to the various decisions of this Court starting with Balbir Singh (supra) till Dayalu Kashyap (supra) is to highlight that Section 50 of the NDPS Act has been tried to be interpreted and understood in many ways. As noted earlier, in some of the decisions of this Court, the concept of “inextricably linked to person” was applied. In other words, if the bag, etc. is in immediate possession of the accused and the search is undertaken of such bag, etc., even then, according RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 365 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J.