Unfortunately, no such attempt was made. As stated, the evidence led in this case conclusively goes to show that nylon twine manufactured by the assessee has been treated COMMR. OF CEN. EXC. AHMEDABAD v. M/S URMIN 617 PRODUCTS P. LTD. AND OTHERS [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] as a kind of nylon yarn by the people conversant with the trade. It is commonly considered as nylon yarn. Hence, it is to be classifi ed under Item 18 of the Act. The Revenue has failed to establish the contrary. We would do well to remember the guidelines laid down by this Court in Dunlop India Ltd. v. Union of India [(1976) 2 SCC 241 : AIR 1977 SC 597] in such a situation, wherein it was stated: (SCC p. 254, AIR p. 607, para 35) ‘When an article has, by all standards, a reasonable claim to be classifi ed under an enumerated item in the Tariff Schedule, it will be against the very principle of classifi cation to deny it the parentage and consign it to an orphanage of the residuary clause.’ ” 69. Given the circumstances in the present case, the Department has not provided any suffi cient evidence before this Court determine the nature, characteristics, contents, and composition of the product in to adjudicate the present dispute purely on the issue of classifi cation and hence no attempt can be made to determine the appropriate entry of classifi cation for the product manufactured by the assessee at the relevant period of time of the dispute. The Revenue has also not raised any specifi c grounds in relation to any wilful misstatement with an intention to evade duty on part of the assessee, as opposed to the case of Urmin wherein one of the main grounds urged was the intention to avoid payment of duty. It is pertinent to mention that there is a specifi c observation made by the Commissioner in his OIO dated 30.03.2007 that no wilful suppression is attributable to the assessee, and placing reliance on this very observation, the tribunal had also set-aside the penalty imposed upon the assesssee. It may be noted that this court in the case of CCE vs. Damnet Chemicals Private Ltd. (2007) 7 SCC 490 had held: “26. In the circumstances, we fi nd it diffi cult to hold that there has been conscious or deliberate withholding of information by the assessee. There has been no wilful misstatement much less any deliberate and wilful suppression of facts. It is settled law that in to invoke the proviso to Section 11-A(1) a mere misstatement could not be enough. The requirement in law is that such misstatement or suppression of facts must be wilful. We do not propose to burden this with various authoritative pronouncements except to refer the of 618 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. this Court in Anand Nishikawa Co. Ltd. v. CCE [(2005) 7 SCC 749 : (2005) 188 ELT 149] wherein this Court held : (SCC p. 759, para 27) “27.