Principle of Res Ipsa Locutor does not apply to the facts and circumstances of the said case. Submissions advanced on behalf of the Appellant apropos Medical Negligence by the Respondents: 10. Shri Nikhil Nayyar, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant submits that the deceased died due to cardiac arrest, albeit, admittedly, the deceased had no cardiac problems. He would further submit that at the time of admission the deceased was informed that after the surgery 5 (2009) 3 SCC 1 102 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. he would be shifted to the ICU. However, he was shifted from the recovery room directly to a private room and not to the ICU. 11. In respect of lack of care, he submits that, Dr. Brahm Prakash & Dr. S. Tyagi, visited the room at around 4.30 p.m. and the deceased mentioned about pain in the neck region. The said complaint by the deceased was dismissed as post operative symptom. The said visit was the only visit by R-2 and other specialists post the surgery in the private room till the deceased lost consciousness. Since the pain was not reducing, the Duty Doctor spoke to Dr. Tyagi around 7.15 p.m. on telephone on the basis which Nimulid was prescribed by Dr. Tyagi. Thereafter, Dr. Tyagi had a telephonic conversation with the deceased wherein he was informed that Nimulid did give some temporary relief, basis which he concluded that the symptoms of pain felt by the patient were clearly normal post operative reaction. 12. It is submitted that the patient had an episode of Ventricular Tachycardia (‘VT’) and R-2 in his admission has stated that VT is not his area of expertise and in such cases, patient should have been referred to the appropriate doctor. However, this was not done and no consultant/specialist with the relevant expertise was available to attend to the medical needs of the deceased. 13. Apropos the fi ndings of the impugned , the appellant herein refutes the same and submits that they are contrary to the facts on record which establishes negligence of the respondents in the post operative care of the deceased. 14. Learned senior counsel further states that the Commission has not appreciated that the present case refl ects clear example of negligence due to absence of care. In support of this, he states that there was: i) complete absence of senior doctor, surgeon/specialist to respond to patient’s distress call from the time the patient was shifted to the room/ward till the time he became unconscious and; ii) absence of investigation of pain to diagnose the cause. Submissions on behalf of Respondent No.1/Hospital 15. Dr. Lalit Bhasin, learned counsel appearing for respondent no. 1 would submit that respondent no. 1 is one of the best hospitals equipped with latest medical equipments and the patient was looked after by Dr. MRS. KALYANI RAJAN v. INDRAPRASTHA APOLLO 103 HOSPITAL & ORS. [PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, J.] Ravi Bhatia of international repute, who was formerly Professor and Head of the Neuro-Surgery and he was assisted by Dr. Brahm Prakash, senior Neurosurgeon.