546 SUPREME CO[U2R02T3 ]R 6E PSO.CR.RT.S 546 [2023] 6 S.C.R. A SENTHIBALAJI V. v. A.P. GEETHA AND ORS. (Civil Appeal Nos. 3895-3896 of 2023) B MAY 19, 2023 [ABHAY S. OKA AND RAJESH BINDAL, JJ.] Representation of the People Act, 1951 – ss.83, 123 – Failure to plead material facts in the election petition concerning alleged C corrupt practice – Held: s.123 defines corrupt practices – s.83(1)(a) mandates that an election petition must contain a concise statement of material facts – When the allegation is of corrupt practice, the basic facts constituting corrupt practice must be pleaded in to comply with s.83(1)(a) – In the present case, such concise facts were not at all pleaded – Basic facts cannot be pleaded only by D stating that the same find place in the documents relied upon – Failure to plead material facts concerning alleged corrupt practice is fatal to the election petition – As material facts regarding allegations of corrupt practice were not pleaded, the election petition does not disclose any cause of action as far as the ground of corrupt practice is concerned – Further, the ground of improper acceptance E of the nomination paper is also not supported by material facts – In any case, the said ground is no longer relevant as the term of the appellant has already expired – No purpose will be served by keeping the Election Petition pending – Impugned set aside – Applications filed by the appellant for rejection of the petition F and/or for deletion of irrelevant paragraphs allowed – Election petition filed by first respondent is dismissed – Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – O.VI, r.16. Representation of the People Act, 1951 – Material Facts – Requirement of stating, non-compliance with – Effect of – Held: G The material facts are the primary facts which must be proved on trial by a party to establish the existence of a cause of action – Non-compliance with the requirement of stating material facts must result in the rejection of the petition at the threshold. H 546 SENTHIBALAJI V. v. A.P. GEETHA AND ORS. 547 Disposing of the appeals, the Court A HELD: 1.1 Section 123 of the RP Act of 1951 defines various corrupt practices for the purpose of the said enactment. The corrupt practice has to be qua the election subject matter of challenge in the Election Petition. In paragraph 5, the first respondent has relied upon the representation made by her to B the Returning Officer by pointing out that the appellant and 6th respondent have committed misconduct by suppressing the findings of the Election Commission recorded in the date 27th May 2016. Presumably, paragraph 5 of the petition is in support of the ground of improper acceptance of the nomination C papers of the appellant. However, the first respondent has not pleaded that under a particular statutory provision, the appellant and 6th respondent were under an obligation to disclose the dated 27th May 2016 passed by the Election Commission while filing nomination papers.