It is then open to the defendant in the second suit to establish that the declaratory decree relied upon by the plaintiff granted in the earlier suit is not based on good law G or that the Court granting such decree did not have the jurisdiction to grant such decree. In the aforesaid case, the second suit was filed for possession of the suit properties on the basis of a declaratory decree obtained earlier in the first suit which was not found to be a lawful decree as per H 246 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A the law prevailing at the time when the second suit was considered. The aforesaid decision does not apply to the present case as herein, review petitions have been filed seeking review of the s passed by this Court on the basis of B the decision in Pune Municipal Corporation which has been subsequently overruled by this Court in Indore Development Authorityon a pure question of law and the review petitions are hit by the Explanation to XLVII Rule 1 CPC. This is not a case where a subsequent fresh petition has been filed before the High Court seeking reliefs based on the C of this Court in Pune Municipal Corporation. It is necessary to emphasise that these review petitions have been filed before this Court to review the s/s passed by this Court on the basis of the in Pune Municipal Corporation which has been overruled by a D subsequent in Indore Development Authority. In my view, these review petitions are not maintainable in view of the bar contained in the Explanation to XLVII Rule 1 CPC. (d) Learned senior counsel for the petitioners has relied upon E the expression “sufficient reason” found in XLVII Rule 1 CPC being a ground for review in these cases. In this regard, he placed reliance on Board of Control for Cricket in India vs. Netaji Cricket Club, wherein it was observed that an application for review would also be maintainable if there exists sufficient reason thereof. What F would constitute sufficient reason would depend on the facts and circumstances of the case. In the said case, reliance was placed on a of the Privy Council in Moran Mar Basselios Catholicos vs. Most Rev. Mar Poulose Athanasius (supra), dealing with the limitations in the G application of review and it was observed that the expression “any other sufficient reason” must mean “a reason sufficient on grounds, at least analogous to those specified in the rule.” In Netaji Cricket Club (supra), this Court recognised that there was a mistake on the part of this Court which H GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI THR. THE SECRETARY, LAND AND BUILDING 247 DEPT. v. M/S. K.L. RATHI STEELS LTD. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] would include a mistake in the understanding of the nature A of an undertaking given to this Court and therefore, the review application was entertained by accepting the mistake in the nature and purport of the undertaking given before this Court.