99. It was further submitted that even the Frontier Complaints Committee came to the conclusion that the charges were not held to be proved. 100. In such circumstances referred to above, according to the learned counsel, the Central Complaints Committee could not have been constituted to probe further into the allegations. In this regard, reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in the case of Vijay Shankar Pandey v. Union of India reported in (2014) 10 SCC 589. 101. In the aforesaid context, we may only say that the aforesaid point was raised even before the High Court and the same came to be negatived holding as under: “22.The report dated 13.12.2011 was submitted pursuant to conducting of an on-the-spot enquiry. On-the-spot enquiry, by the very nature of it, is summary in nature. Such enquiry cannot be equated with a disciplinary enquiry. It will be relevant to note that before the report of the on-the- spot enquiry was submitted, the competent authority had constituted FLCC, which had also commenced its proceedings. In that context, even if in such an on-the-spot enquiry, no allegation was found to have been UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 571 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] established, same would not have any material bearing in the facts of the instant case. It is not in dispute that the petitioner was posted at the frontier and, accordingly, in terms of the Standing No. 1/06, FLCC was constituted to enquire into the allegation of sexual harassment. As noticed earlier, though the FLCC had submitted report on 17.01.2012, the same was cancelled by Memorandum dated 10.12.2012 on the ground that the Chairperson of the FLCC was not an offi cer who was senior to the petitioner against whom the complaint was made. 23.We are unable to subscribe to the submission of the learned counsel for the petitioner that report of FLCC could not have been cancelled and the report was required to be acted upon as the Chairperson of the FLCC being from a diff erent stream, the question of comparison of seniority did not arise. It is not the contention of the petitioner that the Chairperson was, indeed, higher in rank than the petitioner. Therefore, the signifi cance of appropriate constitution of the Complaints Committee, in terms of the norms laid down, cannot be lost sight of. True, the authorities themselves had constituted the Complaints Committee, but the fact by itself cannot detract the competent authority from cancelling the proceeding or the report of an improperly constituted committee. It was in this background the CCC had come into the picture.Though earlier the FLCC had conducted enquiry, we fi nd that the CCC can also enquire into any matter of sexual abuse in the organization which necessarily includes the frontier also and, therefore, it cannot be said that the CCC could not have exercised authority in the instant case. The decision in K. D. Pandey (supra), wherein it was held that when specifi c fi ndings have been given in respect of charges by the inquiry offi cer, the matter could not have been remitted to the inquiring authority for further inquiry as it would have resulted in a second inquiry and not a further inquiry on the same set of charges and the materials on record, will not be applicable in the facts and circumstances of the case.