8.8 A Constitution Bench of this Court in CIT vs. Royal Western India Turf Club Ltd., AIR 1954 SC 85 rendered a signifi cant on this subject. Royal Western India Turf Club realised money from both members and non-members, in lieu of the same services rendered in the course of the same business. The Supreme Court held, as extracted below, that an exemption founded on the doctrine of mutuality could not be granted: “23. As already stated, in the instant case there is no mutual dealing between the members ‘inter se’ and no putting up of a common fund for discharging the common obligations to each other undertaken by the contributors for their mutual benefi t. On the contrary, we have here an incorporated company authorised to carry on an ordinary business of a race course company and that of licensed victuallers and refreshment purveyors and in fact carrying on such a business. There is no dispute that the dealings of the company with non-members take place in the ordinary course of business carried on with a view to earning profi ts as in any other commercial concern.” This Court further reasoned that the principles of Styles case had no application to the case before it. This Court noted that ‘there is no mutual dealing between the members inter se in the nature of mutual insurance, no contribution to a common fund put up for payment of liabilities undertaken by each contributor to the other contributors and no refund of surplus to the contributors. 8.9 At this stage, it would be apposite to consider some English and American cases on the aspect of mutuality. 8.9.1 In Walter Fletcher on his own behalf and on behalf of Trustees and Committee of Doctor’s Cave Bathing Club vs. the Commissioner of Income Tax (“Walter Fletcher”) reported in (1971) UKPC 30, the Privy 1010 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. Council considered the question whether, the Doctor’s Cave Bathing Club at Montego Bay, Jamaica (appellant therein) was assessable to income tax on the profi t element contained in receipts from certain hotels, whose guests had the right to use the said Club. It was observed therein that the expression “the mutuality principle” has been devised to express the basis for exemption of groups of persons making contribution towards the common purpose or any surplus over expenditure. That it is a convenient expression, but the situations it covers are not in all respects alike. In some cases, the essence of the matter is that the group of persons in question is not in any sense trading, so the starting point for an assessment for income tax in respect of trading profi ts does not exist. In other cases, there may be in some sense a trading activity, but the objective or the outcome, is not profi ts, it is merely to cover expenditure and to return any surplus, directly or indirectly, sooner or later, to the members of the group. These two criteria often, perhaps generally, overlap since one of the criteria of a trade is the intention to make profi ts and a surplus comes to be called a profi t if it derives from a trade.