It was observed that issuance of an administrative or a “Note” pertaining to a special type of weapon to bring it within the ambit of the Army Act, which was hitherto not included therein, could not be said to have been included in the manner in which it was supposed to be included. That the F Army Act empowers the Central Government to make rules and regulations for carrying into effect the provisions of the Act; however, no power is conferred upon the Central Government of issuing “Notes” or “issuing s” which could have the G effect of the Rules made under the Act. That rules and Regulations or administrative instructions can neither be supplemented nor substituted by “Notes”. That administrative instructions issued or the “Notes” attached to the Rules which are not referable to any statutory authority cannot be permitted to bring about H 220 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A a result, which is supposed to be achieved through enactment of Rules. What emerges from the above discussion is that when a statute contemplates a specific procedure to be adhered to in to arrive at a desired end, such procedure cannot be substituted by an alternative procedure which is not B contemplated under the statute. Further, if an action is to be carried out by way of issuance of a particular statutory instrument on the basis of certain requirements, such action cannot be validly carried out by way of issuance of an instrument when the same is not contemplated under the C Act. This is particularly so when the instrument enacted stands on a different footing than the one meant to be enacted. Applying the said principle to the facts of the present case, it is observed that what ought to have been done D through a Parliamentary enactment or plenary legislation, could not have been carried out by simply issuing a notification under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act by the Central Government. As noted hereinabove, the said provision does not apply to cases where the proposal for demonetisation originates from the Central Government and E the same is not envisaged under the Act. Hence, issuance a notification to give effect to the Central Government’s proposal for demonetisation, was clearly based on an incorrect understanding of sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. The Central Government did not follow the F procedure contemplated under law to give effect to its proposal for demonetisation. This is not a matter of form but one of substance as in law, the powers of the Central Board of the Bank and the Central Government are totally distinct in the matter of demonetisation of bank notes. 19. The other legal principle is concerning exercise of discretion G in Administrative Law. Lords Halsbury in Sharp vs. Wakefield 1891 AC 173 described the concept of discretion in the following words: “When it is said that something is to be done within the discretion of the authorities that something is to be done according to the rules of reason and justice, not according to private opinion H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 221 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.]