B. PARDIWALA, J.] “11. Regarding compliance of provisions of section 5O of the Act, which is also a mandatory provisions under the Act, none of the witnesses of this consent memo EX.PG have supported the version of the prosecution. PW-9 Surinder Kumar and PW-10 Karam Singh independent witnesses joined in the raiding party have categorically stated that no such notice was given in their presence to the accused nor accused gave in writing the endorsement EX. PG/1 in their presence. There is only bare statement of PW-14 ASI Lal Singh that this notice was given to the accused but when there were admittedly independent witnesses present on the spot as per case of the prosecution, who have been declared hostile in court, it was for the prosecution to prove that these witnesses have suppressed truth from the court, but nothing has been proved against them as to why they should have deposed falsely against the prosecution or in favour of the accused and therefore, it is held that the prosecution has failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt the compliance of Section 50 of the Act, which is mandatory provision and on this score the accused Ranjan Chadha is entitled to acquittal. Moreover the recovery of charas from the bag of the accused is alleged to have taken place in presence of PW-9 Surinder Kumar and PW-10 Karam Singh in addition to PW-12 HC Mohan Lal, PW-13 Sant Ram and PW-14 ASI Lal Singh. However both the independent witnesses PW-9 Surinder Kumar and PW-10 Karam Singh have been declared hostile when they deposed that no bag was found in possession of the accused in their presence nor search of the accused was conducted in their presence and nothing has been proved against them, in their cross examination as to why they should have deposed falsely. From the statements of these witnesses, who have been declared hostile, I am of the opinion that reasonable doubt has been created in the case of the prosecution by the accused regarding alleged recovery of charas from the conscious and exclusive possession of the accused and accordingly by giving the benefi t of doubt to the accused, it is held that the prosecution has failed to prove that on 23.8.1998 at 6.30 pm 1.250 grams of charas was recovered from the conscious and exclusive possession of the accused point No. I is accordingly answered.” 302 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 20. The High Court, while reversing the and of acquittal passed by the Trial Court and more particularly on the issue of applicability of Section 50 of the NDPS Act, held as under:- “As far as Section 50 of the Act is concerned the same is not at all applicable to the facts of the present case. The recovery of the contraband substance was not made as a result of the personal search of the accused but on account of the search from his bag. In such eventuality the police is not required to comply with Section 50 of the Act.