In other words, given 149 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. the objective of Section 57 and other allied provisions of the JJ Act, which is benefi cial for children, the State as parens patriae needs to explore every possibility and not rule out any policy or legislative choice to ensure that the maximum welfare and benefi ts reach the largest number of children in need of safe and secure homes with a promise for their fullest development. This aspect is extremely important given that a large number of children remain neglected, or orphaned. 134. It goes without saying that the welfare and the benefi t of the children is paramount in every case, and the State has the duty to act as parens patriae. That our country has countless children who are orphaned or neglected, and in need of loving homes, is not lost on us – and is certainly a concern that the State is most acutely aware of. In these circumstances, it would be in the general interest of all children that such impact is removed at the earliest instance, after undertaking in-depth study and analysis of the various permutations and combinations that would arise in opening adoption more widely, without hampering the child’s rights. In its exercise of reframing the regulations or laws, it is reiterated that the State cannot, on any account, make regulations that are facially or indirectly discriminatory on the ground of sexual orientation. It would be entirely wrong, if the observations herein, are construed as saying that the State should hamper or interfere in queer persons who have in the past, or are seeking to adopt as individuals. These observations are to be construed to enable the state to consider all options, and implications, with the object of promoting the best welfare of children, especially whether joint adoption can be facilitated to such willing couples, even while ensuring that the legal web of statutory protections and entitlements guaranteed to children, are operationalised for these children as well. 135. These observations are not meant to impede all possibilities and make all necessary policy and legislative changes, enabling children’s welfare. In other words, the possibility of queer couples adopting children, should be given equal concern and consideration having regard to the larger interest of the largest number of children and their development. IX. Moulding relief 136. The breadth and amplitude of this court’s jurisdiction is incontestable. The constitution framers created this as a fundamental SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1499 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] right in most emphatic terms. This jurisdiction enables the court to create and fashion remedies suited for the occasion, oftentimes unconstrained by previous decisions. Yet the breadth of this power is restrained by the awareness that it is in essence judicial. The court may feel the wisdom of a measure or norm that is lacking; nevertheless, its role is not to venture into functions which the constitution has authorised other departments and organs to discharge.