But in cases where deprivation of property would lead to deprivation of life or liberty or livelihood, Article 21 springs into action and any such deprivation without just payment of compensation amounts to infringement of the right guaranteed thereunder. The doctrine of ‘unconstitutional conditions’ applies in all its force. 111. In the circumstances, we hold that the assignees of the government lands are entitled to payment of compensation equivalent to the full market value of the land and other benefi ts on par with full owners of the land even in cases where the assigned lands are taken possession of by the State in accordance with the terms of grant or patta, though such resumption is for a public purpose. We further hold that even in cases where the State does not invoke the covenant of the grant or patta to resume the land for such public purpose and resorts to acquisition of the land under the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, the assignees shall be entitled to compensation as owners of the land and for all other consequential benefi ts under the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894. No condition incorporated in patta/deed of assignment shall operate as a clog putting any restriction on the right of the assignee to claim full compensation as owner of the land. 112. In such view of ours, the view taken by this Court in Bondapalli Sanyasi (2 supra) that whenever the land is taken possession of by the State invoking the terms of the grant, the right of an assignee to any compensation may have to be determined in accordance with the conditions in patta itself is unsustainable. With due respect, we are unable to agree with the view taken in this regard. We are also unable to agree with the view taken that the assignee shall be entitled to compensation in terms of the Land Acquisition Act not as owner but as an interested person for the interest he held in the property.” (Emphasis Applied) 72. A perusal of the above extracts reveals that the real issue in those cases pertained to ‘no compensation’ clauses in the assignment and not YADAIAH AND ANR. v. STATE OF TELANGANA AND 657 OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] the non-payment of compensation for violating conditions regarding non- alienability as involved in the case in hand. That apart, the High Court’s observation in respect of a constitutional right to compensation were disapproved by this Court while dismissing the Civil Appeals/Special Leave Petitions, including against the decision in Mekala Pandu31 as is discernible from the following 32 : – “1. Having regard to the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case. noted in the impugned (s), we are satisfi ed that these are not fi t cases for exercise of our jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India. 2. Civil Appeals and Special Leave Petition are, accordingly, dismissed. 3. No costs. 4. Certain observations made in the impugned (s) about the status of claimants as ‘constitutional claimants’ are kept open to be considered in appropriate case, if necessary.” (Emphasis Applied) 73.