F 9.3. It has also been submitted that the testimonies of PW-1 to PW-5 clearly establish the fact that the appellant was present at the place of occurrence and hence, her alibi has not been proved. The appellant was required to furnish some explanation under Section 313 CrPC but she did not do so, leaving no room for doubt that she was responsible for G the death of the child. 9.4. Coming to the question of reasonable doubt, learned counsel has contended that this benefit cannot be stretched and the prosecution 6 ‘Evidence Act’ for short. H 970 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A cannot prove its case without there being an iota of doubt. To substantiate this argument, the learned counsel has relied upon several decisions including those in State of Haryana v. Bhagirath : (1999) 5 SCC 96; Gangadhar Behera v. State of Orissa: (2002) 8 SCC 381 and Krishna Mochi (supra) wherein it was held that it is impossible to prove all the elements in a criminal trial with scientific precision and that reasonable B doubt must not be a ‘trivial’ or ‘merely possible’ doubt. 9.5. The learned counsel for the respondent-State has also countered the argument that PW-1 to PW-3 were biased witnesses by submitting that in the instant case, there was no reason to falsely implicate the appellant or protect the real culprit. In this regard, reliance has been C placed on Gangabhavani v. Rayapati Venkat Reddy:(2013) 15 SCC 298 and State of Rajasthan v. Kalki : (1981) 2 SCC 752 to submit that a witness can only be called “interested” when they derive some benefit out of the litigation. Natural witnesses are not interested witnesses, and if a related witness was present at the scene of occurrence, his D deposition cannot be discarded. 9.6. It has also been submitted on behalf of the respondent-State that last seen theory would not apply to PW-1 as she was never found present alone with the deceased child. It has further been contended that PW-1 would not have benefitted in any way from the death of the E child. 9.7. Thus, learned counsel for the respondent-State would submit that when duly established chain of circumstances leads to no other plausible hypothesis than the guilt of the appellant, no case for interference in the concurrent findings of the Trial Court and the High Court is made out. F 10. We have given anxious consideration to the rival submissions and have examined the record with reference to the law applicable. 11. As noticed, the Trial Court and the High Court have concurrently recorded the findings in this case that the prosecution has been able to G successfully establish the chain of circumstances leading to the only conclusion that the appellant is guilty of the offence of murder of her daughter. The concurrent findings leading to the appellant’s conviction have been challenged in this appeal as if inviting re-appreciation of entire evidence. Though the parameters of examining the matters in an appeal by special leave under Article 136 of the Constitution of India have been H VAHITHA v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU 971 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.]