H ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1143 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Regulation does not acquire or appropriate the property for the A State, which appropriation does and regulation is imposed severally and individually, while expropriation applies to an individual or a group of owners of properties.” 146. What is of interest to this Court in these cases is the observation that eminent domain is to be contrasted with police power, B where restrictions are put in public interest, in connection with zoning regulations, urban planning, inter alia, by which the owner of a private property is compelled to contribute a portion of it for public purpose. No doubt, it is also held that Regulation does not acquire or appropriate the property. C 147. We must appreciate the issues before us in the light of the said exposition. 148. The impugned provision does not represent in our view, a case of compulsory acquisition of land. A case of compulsory acquisition would be without there being any volition or consent of a person. The D State purports to divest his rights in property and vest the rights with the State. The impugned provision does not appear to us to be a case of such acquisition as is contemplated ina law which is made with reference toEntry 42 in List III. In this context, we must also deal with the case based on Section 20 of the Act. Section 20 deals with contents of detailed E development plan.Section 20 (d) reads as follows and it provides, inter alia, the contents: “Section 20(d). The acquisition by purchase, exchange or otherwise of any land or other immovable property within the area included in the detailed development plan whether required immediately or not.” F 149. From a perusal of the said provisions, what it contemplated, can be summed-up as follows. A detailed development plan can propose or provide to purchase or exchange any land or immovable property.The land may be required immediately or it may be not so immediately required. What is important is apart from purchase and exchange, the G property maybe ‘acquired otherwise’.We are not concerned with a challenge to Section 20.As Section 20 stands acquisition by way of a giftcannot be said to be incongruous merely by reference to the two other expressly articulated modes of transfer of title,viz., purchase and exchange. Undoubtedly, a gift is a transfer of property without there H 1144 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A being any valuable consideration. It is an act of volition of the owner.In other words, if a plan does provide that right in land or other immovable property may be acquired in terms of a gift which may be executed, it may not involve straining the plain language, and also involve pouringmeaning into the width of the expression ‘otherwise’ just as much as it avoids placing a narrow connotation on a word of wide import. B 150. The decision in Pandit ChetramVashishta (supra) was a decision,which turned on the absence of any power under which the open space or park was to stand vested in a corporation or to stand transferred to it.