27. No doubt, the gravity and the seriousness of the offence is yet D another factor that has to be taken into consideration. 28. If the observations, as recorded by the learned Judge, are to be accepted then no application for bail at a pre-trial stage could be entertained unless the accused files an application for quashing the proceedings under Section 482 Cr.P.C., or Articles 226 or 32 of the E Constitution of India. 29. To say the least, such findings are totally perverse. 30. Though Shri Sibal has made submission with regard to applicability of the observations made in paragraph 88 of the in Zakia Ahsan Jafri (supra), judicial propriety would not permit us to F delve into those issues. 31. Similarly, though Shri Sibal has strenuously argued that the case is not made out for offence under Section 194 IPC, we refrain from observing anything on that issue, as we have already held hereinabove that a detailed elaboration of evidence has to be avoided at G this stage. Any observations in that regard would adversely affect the interest of either of the parties. 32. We find that the considerations which were available when the was passed by this Court on 02nd September 2022 are still available even at this stage. H TEESTA ATUL SETALVAD v. STATE OF GUJARAT 1153 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 33. It will be apposite to reproduce certain observations from the A said :- “We need not go into the rival contentions advanced by the learned counsel for the parties touching upon the merits of the matter. For the present purposes, in our considered view, following aspects of the matter, which emerge from the record, are of some significance. B a. The appellant – a lady has been in custody since 25.06.2022. b. The offences alleged against her relate to the year 2002 and going by the assertions in the FIR pertain to C documents which were sought to be presented and/or relied upon till the year 2012. c. Investigating machinery has had the advantage of custodial interrogation for a period of seven days whereafter judicial custody was ed by the concerned Court D xxx xxx xxx The essential ingredients of the investigation including the custodial interrogation having been completed, the relief of interim bail till the matter was considered by the High Court was certainly made out.” E 34. The consideration which weighed with the Court while passing the aforesaid that the appellant is a lady has not changed. The fact that the offence alleged against her relates to the year 2002 and that the FIR pertains to documents which are sought to be presented or relied upon till the year 2012 has also not changed. The fact that the F appellant was available for custodial interrogation for a period of seven days and thereafter she was in continuous judicial custody has also not changed. 35. Another factor that needs to be taken into consideration is that after she was released on interim bail by this Court, she has admittedly G not been called for investigation even on a single occasion.