21.9 Claim of independent title and adverse possession at the same time amount to contradictory pleas. The case of Annasaheb Bapusaheb Patil v. Balwant30 (two-Judge Bench) elaborated this principle as : “15. Where possession can be referred to a lawful title, it will not be considered to be adverse. The reason being that a person whose possession can be referred to a lawful title will not be permitted to show that his possession was hostile to another’s title. One who holds possession on behalf of another, does not by mere denial of that other’s title make his possession adverse so as to give himself the benefi t of the statute of limitation. Therefore, a person who enters into possession having a lawful title, cannot divest another of that title by pretending that he had no title at all.” This principle was upheld in the case of Mohan Lal v. Mirza Abdul Gaff ar31 (two-Judge Bench)- “4. As regards the fi rst plea, it is inconsistent with the second plea. Having come into possession under the agreement, he must disclaim his right thereunder and plead and prove assertion of his independent hostile adverse possession to the knowledge of the transferor or his successor in title or interest and that the latter had acquiesced to his illegal possession during the entire period of 12 years, i.e., up to completing the period of his title by prescription nec vi, nec clam, necprecario. Since the appellant’s claim is founded on Section 53-A, it goes without saying that he admits by implication that he came into possession of the land lawfully under the agreement and continued to remain in possession till date of the suit. Thereby the plea of adverse possession is not available to the appellant.” 29 (2018) 11 SCC 449 30 (1995) 2 SCC 543 31 (1996) 1 SCC 639 282 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. The Court in Uttam Chand (supra) has reiterated this principle of adverse possession. 21.10 Burden of proof rests on the person claiming adverse possession. This Court, in P.T. Munichikkanna Reddy v. Revamma32 (two- Judge Bench), it held that initially the burden lied on the landowner to prove his title and title. Thereafter it shifts on the other party to prove title by adverse possession. It was observed: – “34. The law in this behalf has undergone a change. In terms of Articles 142 and 144 of the Limitation Act, 1908, the burden of proof was on the plaintiff to show within 12 years from the date of institution of the suit that he had title and possession of the land, whereas in terms of Articles 64 and 65 of the Limitation Act, 1963, the legal position has underwent complete change insofar as the onus is concerned : once a party proves its title, the onus of proof would be on the other party to prove claims of title by adverse possession….” The Court reiterated this principle in the case of Janata Dal Party v. Indian National Congress33 (two-Judge Bench): “…the entire burden of proving that the possession is adverse to that of the plaintiff s, is on the defendant…” 21.11 The State cannot claim the land of its citizens by way of adverse possession as it is a welfare State.