This Court has emphasized that it cannot substitute E its own view of the presumed understanding of commercial terms by the parties, if the terms are explicitly expressed. It has been held that the explicit terms of a contract are always the final word with regard to the intention of the parties. 122. As already discussed hereinabove, Article 11.8 of the PPA F entitles either party to raise a supplementary bill on the other party on account of ‘Change in Law’ as provided in Article 13 and such bills are required to be paid by the either party. Article 11.8.3 of the PPA specifically provides that in the event of delay in payment of a supplementary bill by either party beyond one month from the date of billing, a late payment surcharge shall be payable at the same terms G applicable to the monthly bill in Article 11.3.4. Article 11.3.4 of the PPA specifically provides a late payment surcharge to be paid by the procurer to the seller at the rate of 2% in excess of the applicable SBAR per annum on the amount of outstanding payment calculated on day to day basis (and compounded with monthly rest), for each day of the delay. H 228 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 123. Recently, this Court, in the case of Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited and Another v. Adani Power (Mundra) Limited and Another9, had an occasion to consider the similar issue. The Court observed thus: “20. It is clear that the restitutionary principles encapsulated in B Article 13.2 would take effect for computing the impact of change in law. We see no reason to interfere with the impugned [Adani Power (Mundra) Ltd. v. CERC, 2021 SCC OnLine APTEL 67] , wherein it has been held by the Appellate Tribunal that Respondent 1 Adani Power had started claiming change in law event compensation in respect of installation of FGD unit C along with carrying cost, right from the year 2012 and that it has approached several fora to get this claim settled. Respondent 1 Adani Power finally succeeded in getting compensation towards FGD unit only on 28-3-2018, but the carrying cost claim was denied. The relief relating to carrying cost was granted to Respondent 1 D Adani Power by the Appellate Tribunal vide dated 13-4- 2018 [Adani Power Ltd. v. CERC, 2018 SCC OnLine APTEL 5] which was duly tested by this Court and upheld on 25-2-2019 [Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Ltd. v. Adani Power Ltd., (2019) 5 SCC 325 : (2019) 2 SCC (Civ) 657] . Once carrying cost has been granted in favour of Respondent 1 Adani Power, it cannot E be urged by the appellants that interest on carrying cost should be calculated on simple interest basis instead of compound interest basis. Grant of compound interest on carrying cost and that too from the date of the occurrence of the change in law event is based on sound logic. The idea behind granting interest on carrying F cost is not far to see, it is aimed at restituting a party that is adversely affected by a change in law event and restore it to its original economic position as if such a change in law event had not taken place.