Reliance is placed on Atlas Cycle Industries Ltd. and others v. State of Haryana22. It is further contended that acquisition under Chapter IV of the Act is not required in the facts. The area is not reserved in the master plan nor was any Notice published under Section 26 or 27. Acceptance of appellant’s contention would involve the need to compulsorily acquire all C the reserved lands including areas such as setback areas, open spaces and other reserved area.Such interpretation would also render the provisions of Chapter VI, in particular Section 55, otiose. Chapter IV apply to areas reserved and notified in the master plan itself or to an area in excess of 10 per cent for proposed developed area of 3000 and D above square meters or where area reserved is sought to be utilised for purpose not being communal or recreational, or areas, for which, there are other exceptions in the impugned Rules/Regulations. Section 20(1)(d) stipulates that a detailed development plan may propose or provide for acquisition by purchase, exchange or otherwise, of any land. The words ‘or otherwise’ include a transfer of 10 per cent of the land by way of a E gift. It is further contended that there is no constitutional obligation to pay compensation. The Act contemplates divestment of property without compensation as is evident from Sections 31 and 55 read with Sections 17 and 20. It is a settled position of law that Article 300A does not involve or compel payment of compensation. Support is drawn from F of this Court in K.T. Plantation Private Limited and another. v. State of Karnataka23: “183. Payment of compensation amount is a constitutional requirement under Article 30(1-A) and under the second proviso to Article 31-A(1), unlike Article 300-A. After the Forty-fourth Amendment Act, 1978, the constitutional obligation to pay G compensation to a person who is deprived of his property primarily depends upon the terms of the statute and the legislative policy. Article 300-A, however, does not prohibit the payment of just 22 (1979) 2 SCC 196 23 (2011) 9 SCC 1 H 1052 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A compensation when a person is deprived of his property, but the question is whether a person is entitled to get compensation, as a matter of right, in the absence of any stipulation in the statute, depriving him of his property. xxx xxx xxx B 192. At this stage, we may clarify that there is a difference between “no” compensation and “nil” compensation. A law seeking to acquire private property for public purpose cannot say that “no compensation shall be paid”. However, there could be a law awarding “nil” compensation in cases where the State undertakes to discharge the liabilities charged on the property under C acquisition and onus is on the Government to establish validity of such law. In the latter case, the Court in exercise of judicial review will test such a law keeping in mind the above parameters. xxx xxx xxx 205. Plea of unreasonableness, arbitrariness, proportionality, etc.