A interpreted.Before interpreting the varying ingredients of crime and rigours of punishment, and appraising the s impugned, we deem it appropriate to reiterate the observations of this Court in Lohit Kaushal vs. State of Haryana, (2009) 17 SCC 106, wherein this Court observed as under: B “15. ... It is true that kidnapping as understood under Section 364-A IPC is a truly reprehensible crime and when a helpless child is kidnapped for ransom and that too by close relatives, the incident becomes all the more unacceptable. The very gravity of the crime and the abhorrence which it creates in the mind of the court are, however, factors which also tend to militate against the C fair trial of an accused in such cases. A court must, therefore, guard against the possibility of being influenced in its s by sentiment rather than by objectivity and judicial considerations while evaluating the evidence.” 13. This Court, notably in Anil vs. Administration of Daman & D Diu, (2006) 13 SCC 36 (“Anil”), Vishwanath Gupta vs. State of Uttaranchal (2007) 11 SCC 633 (“Vishwanath Gupta”) and Vikram Singhvs.Union of India, (2015) 9 SCC 502 (“Vikram Singh”) has clarified the essential ingredients to a conviction for the commission of an offence under Section 364A of the IPC in the following manner: E a) In Anil, the pertinent observations were made as regards those cases where the accused is convicted for the offence in respect of which no charge is framed. In the said case, the question was whether appellant therein could have been convicted under Section 364A of the IPC when the charge framed was under Section 364 read with Section 34 of the IPC. The relevant passages which can be culled out from the F said of the Supreme Court are as under: “54. The propositions of law which can be culled out from the aforementioned s are: (i) The appellant should not suffer any prejudice by reason G of misjoinder of charges. (ii) A conviction for lesser offence is permissible. (iii) It should not result in failure of justice. (iv) If there is a substantial compliance, misjoinder of charges H RAVI DHINGRA v. THE STATE OF HARYANA 175 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] may not be fatal and such misjoinder must be arising out of mere A misjoinder to frame charges. 55. The ingredients for commission of offence under Section 364 and 364-A are different. Whereas the intention to kidnap in that he may be murdered or may be so disposed of as to be put in danger as murder satisfies the requirements of Section 364 B of the Penal Code, for obtaining a conviction for commission of an offence under Section 364-A thereof it is necessary to prove that not only such kidnapping or abetment has taken place but thereafter the accused threatened to cause death or hurt to such person or by his conduct gives rise to a reasonable apprehension C that such person may be put to death or hurt or causes hurt or death to such person in to compel the Government or any foreign State or international inter-governmental organisation or any other person to do or abstain from doing any act or to pay a ransom.