[2023] 3 S.C.R. 431 431 B. S. HARI COMMANDANT A v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. (Criminal Appeal No(s). 1890 of 2014) APRIL 13, 2023 B [KRISHNA MURARI AND AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, JJ.] B Security Force Act, 1968 – Appellant-Commandant in B Security Force was sentenced to 10 years’ rigorous C imprisonment; imposed fine of Rs. 1,00,000/- and dismissed from service for allegedly permitting smuggling of contraband goods from India to Pakistan from B fencing gate under his control – Held: Though in the armed forces, including the paramilitary forces, utmost discipline, unity of command are the sine qua non, the doctrine of proportionality still holds the field – In the present case, D there is no direct evidence against the appellant – Except the statement of the Subedar (who was the actual in-charge of the area where the activity allegedly occurred) roping in the appellant, there is no material against him – Statement of a single person alone, ought not to have resulted in his conviction without other material(s) E incriminating him or pointing to his guilt – Thus, in the absence of direct and cogent evidence against the appellant, even if the General Security Force Court (GSFC) was convinced of his guilt, the punishment handed out was too harsh and disproportionate – Appellant was a first-time delinquent and not a habitual offender – Moreover, the appellant has served the country for over 31½ years F without blame or blemish and received various awards including medal from Hon’ble the President of India – His track record is otherwise unquestionable – Impugned of High Court set aside – Conviction and sentence awarded by the GSFC set aside – Appellant entitled to full retiral benefits from the date of G superannuation till date – Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 – Doctrine of Proportionality – Armed Forces. Constitution of India – Article 226: Criminal writ petitions – Power of High Courts to sift through evidence – Discussed. H 431 432 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Limit on exercise of power – Held: Art.226 is a succour to remedy injustice and any limit on exercise of such power is only self-imposed. s/s – Paragraph-wise numbering in – Held: It is desirable that all Courts and Tribunals, as a matter of practice, B number paragraphs in all s and s in seriatim – Hon’ble Chief Justices of High Courts to consider adoption of a uniform format for s and s, including paragraphing and accordingly direct the Courts and Tribunals subordinate to their High Courts – Directions by Supreme Court. C Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 In the armed forces of the Union, including the paramilitary forces, utmost discipline, unity of command et al are the sine qua non. That said, the doctrine of proportionality still holds the field. In the absence of direct and cogent evidence against the appellant, even if the GSFC was convinced of the D appellant’s guilt, the punishment handed out was too harsh, paying heed that the appellant would, even then, be a first-time delinquent, and not a habitual offender.