She further submitted that since there was no specific post identified for promotional appointment in Group ‘A’ when Mr. Nair participated in the process and also that the shortfall in marks could be B condoned only in respect of SC/ST candidates, coupled with the fact that Mr. Nair elected to stay away from the recent promotional process, the directions made in the impugned and that paragraph 14 of OM dated 29th December, 2005, since modified by OM dated 8th December, 2013, should be applied with retrospective effect, do not call for being sustained. Accordingly, she too joined Mr. Gupta in urging that C the appeal of the GoI be disposed of granting liberty to Mr. Nair to participate in the fresh process, whenever conducted. 25.In the midst of her argument, Ms. Divan was on the verge of expressing certain reservations about the law expounded by this Court in Siddaraju (supra). However, the decision having become final and D the DoPT also having acted in terms thereof, we did not consider it appropriate to permit her advance any further argument in that regard. ARGUMENTS ON BEHALF OF MR. NAIR: 26.Representing Mr. Nair, learned counsel Mr. K. Mohan invited E our attention to the various circulars/office memoranda issued from time to time and the relevant decisions of this Court as well as the High Court in matters relating to reservation of certain vacancies on promotional posts for persons with disabilities. Relying thereon, he contended that Mr. Nair has been given a raw deal. 27. OM dated 18th February, 1997 and corrigendum dated 16th F January, 1998 were placed by Mr. Mohan. According to him, a conjoint reading thereof would leave none in doubt that the existing policy of reservation for SCs/STs, including for the “physically handicapped” in promotion in all groups is applicable to all grades and services where the extent of direct recruitment does not exceed 75 (seventy-five) per G cent; and that the “existing policy of reservation” would obviously include the provision for grace marks for SCs/STs. 28.Referring to the counter affidavit of Mr. Nair filed in connection with these appeals, Mr. Mohan invited our attention to a communication dated 18th October, 2006 issued by the Banking Division, Department of H 796 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, GoI addressed to, inter alia, the Chief General Manager, RBI on the subject of “Concession and relaxation to persons with disabilities at par with SCs/STs irrespective of their vertical categories”. It was shown that on a reference received from the Commissioner of Disabilities on the subject, it had been decided to extend concession in examination fee and relaxation in minimum B percentage of marks to persons with disabilities at par with SCs/STs with the nationalized banks. An of this Court dated 19th March, 2002 in A.I. Confederation of the Blind vs. Union of India & Anr.9 was also referred endorsing the stand of the GoI to bring parity amongst all the persons with disabilities irrespective of their vertical categories.