In other words, as their placement was extended for B two years by dated 21st May, 2010 w.e.f. 1st June, 2010 to 31st May, 2012 at the best, such persons could have been allowed to continue upto 31st May, 2012. In the absence of any further extension been granted, at least there was no right vested in favour of either of the person engaged to seek further continuance under the scheme thereafter. C 52. So far as the impugned direction to the State Government for their reinstatement and regularization is concerned, in our considered view, it is completely misplaced and not sustainable in law. 53. The of this Court relied upon in Secretary, State of D Karnataka and Others Vs.Umadevi (3) and Others (supra) is in reference to such of the employees who were illegally/irregularly appointed in the establishment of the Government and their service conditions are governed under the statutory Rules framed but they have not gone through the process of selection as provided under their respective rules and were allowed to continue on ad-hoc basis for almost more E than a decade. This Court deprecated such practice but as one time measure permitted the Government to regularize such employees who are working against the sanctioned post and permitted by the government without intervention of the Court as referred to under Para 53 of the . The same is reproduced hereunder:- F “53. One aspect needs to be clarified. There may be cases where irregular appointments (not illegal appointments) as explained in S.V. Narayanappa [(1967) 1 SCR 128] , R.N. Nanjundappa [(1972) 1 SCC 409] and B.N. Nagarajan [(1979) 4 SCC 507] and referred to in para 15 above, of duly qualified persons in duly G sanctioned vacant posts might have been made and the employees have continued to work for ten years or more but without the intervention of s of the courts or of tribunals. The question of regularisation of the services of such employees may have to be considered on merits in the light of the principles settled by this Court in the cases above-referred to and in the light of this . H THE GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU v. TAMIL NADU 409 MAKKAL NALA PANIYALARGAL [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] In that context, the Union of India, the State Governments and A their instrumentalities should take steps to regularise as a one- time measure, the services of such irregularly appointed, who have worked for ten years or more in duly sanctioned posts but not under cover of s of the courts or of tribunals and should further ensure that regular recruitments are undertaken to fill those B vacant sanctioned posts that require to be filled up, in cases where temporary employees or daily wagers are being now employed. The process must be set in motion within six months from this date. We also clarify that regularisation, if any already made, but not sub judice, need not be reopened based on this , but there should be no further bypassing of the constitutional C requirement and regularising or making permanent, those not duly appointed as per the constitutional scheme.” 54.