Considerable support is sought to be drawn from the I.R Coelho (dead) by LRs v. State of T.N.11 for the proposition that the immunity,laws enjoyed on their insertion in the Ninth Schedule and the laws, which may be placedin the Ninth Schedule, F stands considerably diluted. It is pointed out further with reference to in Khoday Distilleries Ltd. v. State of Karnataka &others12 (paragraph-25) that Fundamental Rights are not absolute and they are ‘qualified Fundamental Rights’. Placing reliance on the in Parag Ice& Oil Mills &anotherv. Union of India13,it is pointed out that unlike the law which may be protected under Article 31C, an G passed under the law may not be entitled to the same immunity. He 9 (2007) 2 SCC 640 10 (1981) 2 SCC 362 11 (2007) 2 SCC 1 12 (1995) 1 SCC 574 H 13 (1978) 3 SCC 459 COAL INDIA LIMITED v. COMPETITION COMMISSION 843 OF INDIA [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] would caution the Court against adjudicating matters which may at best A arise in the abstract. Questions must be answered when they arise on facts. 20. He would contend that the Court may place an interpretation as would advance the object of the law, which in this case, is to bring about a transformation in the economy for the greater good of the B common man (See in this regard Ajaib Singh v. Sirhind Coop. Marketing-cum-Processing Service Society Ltd. and another14). 21. Shri Ranjit Kumar, learned Senior Counsel for the second respondent, would point out that concept of common good so heavily relied upon by the appellant, found in Article 39(b), must be interpreted C as meaning the interest of the common man or the citizens. 80 per cent of the coal is supplied by CIL to power companies. Second respondent is a power company. The second respondent it is pointed out in fact supplies power generated using coal to distribution companies (represented, in fact, before us incidentally by the Maharashtra State D Agency), who, in turn, would finally supply power to the end consumer. The continual supply of coal and prompt performance of the contracts and the reasonableness of the rates and quality of coal, in other words, according to the second respondent, are related to the very common good, which is emphasized by the appellants. He would further point out that the Nationalisation Act was an expropriatory legislation. E 22. Next, he would point out that the predecessor enactment, viz., the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (hereinafter referred to as MRTP Act),which stood repealed by the Act, may be borne in mind. In the said Act, Section 3 clearly declared that, unless it was otherwise notified, the MRTP Act would not apply to Government F Agencies, as indicated therein. There is no such provision in the Act. He drew our attention to Section 21A of the MRTP Act. Drawing inspiration from the preamble to the Act, he emphasizes that the center stage of attention in the Act is occupied by the consumer.