Three of these Acts, namely, the Companies Act, 1956, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, relate to securities generally, whereas the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 relates to recovery of debts due to banks and fi nancial institutions. Signifi cantly, under Section 41 of this Act, three Acts are, by the Schedule to this Act, amended. We are concerned with the third of such Acts, namely, the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) 96 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Act, 1985, in Section 15(1) of which two provisos have been added. It is the correct interpretation of the second of these provisos on which the fate of these appeals ultimately hangs.” (Emphasis supplied) REDEMPTION OF MORTGAGE UNDER SECTION 60 OF THE TRANSFER OF PROPERTY ACT, 1882 42. Section 60 of the Act 1882 provides the general statutory right of the mortgagor to redeem the mortgage and reads as below: - “60. Right of mortgagor to redeem.–At any time after the principal money has become due, the mortgagor has a right, on payment or tender, at a proper time and place, of the mortgage-money, to require the mortgagee (a) to deliver to the mortgagor the mortgage-deed and all documents relating to the mortgaged property which are in the possession or power of the mortgage, (b) where the mortgage is in possession of the mortgaged property, to deliver possession thereof to the mortgagor, and (c) at the cost of the mortgagor either to re- transfer the mortgaged property to him or to such third person as he may direct, or to execute and (where the mortgage has been eff ected by a registered instrument) to have registered an acknowledgment in writing that any right in derogation of his interest transferred to the mortgage has been extinguished: Provided that the right conferred by this section has not been extinguished by act of the parties or by decree of a Court. The right conferred by this section is called a right to redeem and a suit to enforce it is called a suit for redemption. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to render invalid any provision to the eff ect that, if the time fi xed for payment of the principal money has been allowed to pass or no such time has been fi xed, the mortgage shall be entitled to reasonable notice before payment or tender of such money. Redemption of portion of mortgaged property.—Nothing in this section shall entitle a person interested in a share only of the mortgaged property to redeem his own share only, on payment of a proportionate CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 97 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] part of the amount remaining due on the mortgage, except only where a mortgagee, or, if there are more mortgages than one, all such mortgages, has or have acquired, in whole or in part, the share of a mortgagor.” 43.