Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 – s. 9 (2) – Stage of raising juvenility plea – A petition u/s. 9 (2) of E the 2015 Act contemplates statutory remedy, plea for which can be raised at any stage – On juvenility plea, if a writ petition is dismissed in limine, such would not foreclose the option of an accused (or a convict) to make plea for juvenility under sub-section (2) of s.9 of the 2015 Act. F Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 – ss. 9(2), 103 – ‘Inquiry’ – As far as the procedure for making an inquiry by the Court, s. 9(2) does not prescribe scrupulously following trial procedure, as stipulated in the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973 and the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 – The Court G can formulate its own procedure for conducting inquiry. Allowing the application, the Court HELD:1. The State has taken a plea that at the time of inquiry, sufficient time was not available to them to verify this fact. There are several documents where Niranaram has been H NARAYAN CHETANRAM CHAUDHARY v. THE STATE OF 1057 MAHARASHTRA shown to be the son of ‘C’. After the Inquiry Report was made in A 2019, substantial time has lapsed since this Court heard the matter. No material was produced by the State to demonstrate that there was any other Niranaram in Jalabsar or another ‘C’. It is a fact that the claimant for juvenility has to establish his case. But it has also to be appreciated that a death row convict in prison B for over 28 years would be under severe limitations in retracing his school records and other forms of age-proof. In such circumstances, in absence of any contrary evidence this Court accept the finding in the Inquiry Report given by the Principal District and Sessions Judge, Pune that Niranaram has to be said to be another name of “Narayan”. This Court’s opinion on this C point would not vary even if this Court reject the certificate of the Sarpanch. That certificate plays a supportive role in determination of the name of the applicant. Moreover, in all these documents, Jalabsar has been shown as the village of which ‘C’ and his family were residents, and this was the place from where D he was arrested. In this Court’s opinion, the applicant’s original name was Niranaram and the applicant has discharged his part of onus to establish that it is he who has been tried and convicted as Narayan. This Court accepted the finding of the Inquiring Judge on this point. [Para 19][1088-G-H; 1089-A-C] E 2. As regards maintainability of the present application under Section 9(2) of the 2015 Act. In the applicant’s case, juvenility plea has been raised for the first time before this Court, albeit after dismissal of his review petition against his conviction and sentence having been upheld by this Court. It is a fact that the juvenility plea was raised in Writ Petition (Criminal) No.