and within the cognizance of this court MUNNA LAL v. THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 231 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J. ] of sessions. A And I hereby direct that you be tried by this court of sessions on the said charge. TRIAL 5. The prosecution examined 5 (five) witnesses to support its case B and more than a dozen of documentary evidence. None was examined on behalf of the defence. 6. PW-1 was Dr. Ramesh, who conducted post-mortem. The following ante-mortem injuries were found on the cadaver of Narayan: (1) Lacerated wound 2 cm x 1 cm over forehead 3 cm above C left eye brow wall maggots present. (2) Lacerated wound 4 cm x 1 cm over chin 1 cm below lower lip. Maggots were present. (3) Lacerated wound 3 cm x 1 cm left side face 2 cm left D lateral to left side of mouth. (4) Incised wound 17 cm x 8 cm over front of abdomen cavity deep 5 cm above umbilicus. Visceral organs prolapsing. (5) Gunshot wound of entry 2 cm x 1 cm over front of abdomen 3 cm right lateral to umbilicus tattooing present. Direction E backward downward. (6) Gunshot wound of exit 6 cm x 5 cm over left side of hip 5 cm below iliac crest. (7) Gunshot wound of entry 2 cm x 1 cm over front of right thigh 15 cm below ilicae spine (ant) with direction backward F lateral. (8) Gunshot wound of exit 3 cm x 2 cm over lateral side of right thigh 12 cm below iliae crest.” 7. According to PW-1, “death of Narayan occurred due to G shock and haemorrhage and much bleedings”; injury nos. 5 and 6 and likewise injury nos.7 and 8 noted above were respectively the entry and exit wounds corresponding with each other, which could be caused by gun and tamancha shots, whereas injury nos. 1, 2, and 3 were possible by lathi and injury no.4 could be caused by “kanta”. H 232 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 8. Ram Vilas, son of the deceased, while deposing as PW-2 stated that a quarrel had taken place 10 (ten) years before between Narayan and Jaswant (father of Sheo Lal) and Sheo Lal and that Jaswant died in that quarrel. One ‘Aajudhi’, on the side of Sheo Lal, was murdered. Narayan was, however, acquitted. PW-2 identified, inter alia, Munna Lal and Sheo Lal who were present in the Court. According to PW-2, on B the date of the fateful incident, he along with his father Narayan after ploughing their field had reached the field of Budhu Khan when the 4 (four) accused persons suddenly came out from the field belonging to Sheo Lal. The said accused viz., Munna Lal, Sheo Lal, Babu Ram and Kalika, were armed with ‘bandook’ (gun), ‘kanta’ (sharp edged weapon), C ‘tamancha’ (locally made gun), and ‘lathi’ (stick) respectively. They were hurling abuses, and exhorting to kill Narayan. Narayan received gunshot injuries from Munna Lal and Babu Ram, whereas Sheo Lal and Kalika inflicted blows on him by kanta and lathi, respectively.