*Ed. Note : Pagination in the Table of Contents is as per the original . H 578 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 4. The High Court was persuaded to grant relief in the public interest litigation on the basis of its findings in paragraph 6, which is extracted below: “6. A perusal of these rules reveals that no where it has been provided that cinemagoers can be prohibited from carrying their B own food articles and water bottles to multiplexes or private vendors are allowed to sell food inside such multiplexes/cinema hall premises at highly exorbitant prices. Therefore, in absence of any such provision, cinema goers cannot be forced or compelled by the multiplexes/cinema hall owners to purchase food and water from theatre premises nor they can be prohibited from carrying C food items into malls and multiplexes from outside. Even the viewers, who come along with their infants/babies, also need milk to feed them because they cannot be kept empty stomach for about three long hours. The restrictions on bringing outside food to theatres and compelling/forcing to purchase junk food, sold at D the food stalls inside theatre premises, that too at exorbitant rates, particularly affect young generation, senior citizens, diabetic patients and those who cannot eat for medical reasons. Such kind of acts on the part of Multiplex/Cinema Hall owners are against the right to choice of food, including the right not to eat junk food and right to good health, which comes under the purview of Article E 21 of the Constitution of India guaranteeing protection of life and personal liberty of every citizen.” 5. The High Court noted that the State Government had notified the Jammu and Kashmir Cinemas (Regulation) Rules 1975.1 The High Court held that: F a. The 1975 Rules do not prohibit cinema goers from carrying their own food articles and water bottles to multiplexes or cinema halls; b. As a consequence of the prohibition which is imposed by G cinema hall owners, viewers are compelled to purchase food of such nature as is offered for sale within the precincts of the theatre; 1 “1975 Rules” H K C CINEMA (CORRECT NAME K C THEATRE) v. STATE OF JAMMU 579 AND KASHMIR [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] c. Infants who are required to be fed at periodic intervals A cannot as a consequence, be given food by accompanying parents or guardians; d. Viewers are compelled to purchase “junk” food at the food stalls within the theatre and are required to pay exorbitant charges for the food which is purchased. This particularly B affects the younger generation, senior citizens, patients with diabetes, and those who are unable to eat the food sold within the theatre premises for medical reasons; and e. The prohibition on carrying outside food and beverages into the movie theatre violates the right to choice of food, C including the right not to eat “junk” food and the right to good health, under Article 21 of the Constitution. 6.