The Speaker ruled that the sitting on 29 January 2004 could not be deemed to be the first session of F the year merely because it was the first session of the calendar year, and that at best, it could be treated as the second part of the fourteenth session of the Thirteenth Lok Sabha. This Court held that in view of the bar under Article 122, the issue of whether the sitting on 29 January 2004 was a new session or a second part of the same session was a G “matter relating purely to the procedure of Parliament”: “37. […] The Speaker’s decision adjourning the House sine die on 23-12-2003 and direction to resume its sittings in part two essentially relates to proceedings in Parliament and is procedural 35 (2010) 4 SCC 1 H 924 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A in nature. The business transacted and the validity of proceedings after the resumption of its sittings pursuant to the directions of the Speaker cannot be inquired into by the courts.” The observations in Ramdas Athawale (supra) that it was purely a matter of procedure cannot be interpreted to mean that procedural B infringements are not subject to judicial review. This Court observed that the procedure that was alleged to have been violated would only render the proceedings irregular and that it would not vitiate the proceedings themselves. The observations in Ramdas Athawale (supra) must be read in light of our analysis above that procedural infringements would vitiate the proceedings based on their purpose and the impact of C their infringement on the democratic functioning of Parliament. b. The power to appoint the Whip and the Leader of the legislature party I. ‘Political party’ and ‘legislature party’ are distinguishable concepts. D 102. Paragraph 1(b) of the Tenth Schedule defines “legislature party” as follows: “legislature party, in relation to a member of a House belonging to any political party in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 or paragraph 4, means the group consisting of all the members E of that House for the time being belonging to that political party in accordance with the same provisions” Paragraph 1(c) defines “original political party” as the political party to which the member belongs for the purposes of Paragraph 2(1). Paragraph 2 stipulates that a member belonging to ‘any political party’ F shall be disqualified from being a member of the House if they have voluntarily given up membership of such political party, or if they vote contrary to the direction issued by the political party to which they belong or by any person or authority authorised by it. A member who has voted contrary to the direction of the political party would not incur G disqualification if such a vote is condoned by the political party or if the prior permission of the political party is secured: “2. Disqualification on ground of defection.—(1) Subject to the provisions of 3 [paragraphs 4 and 5], a member of a House belonging to any political party shall be disqualified for being a member of the House— H SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 925 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] (a) if he has voluntarily given up his membership of such political A party; or (b) if he votes or abstains from voting in such House contrary to any direction issued by the political party to which he belongs or by any person or authority authorised by it in this behalf, without obtaining, in either case, the prior permission of such political B party, person or authority and such voting or abstention has not been condoned by such political party, person or authority within fifteen days from the date of such voting or abstention.