17. We may gainfully refer to the following observations of this Court in the case of Sharad Birdhichand Sarda (supra): “151. It is well settled that the prosecution must stand or fall on its own legs and it cannot derive any strength from the weakness of the 1 (1984) 4 SCC 116 KAMAL v. STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 55 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] defence. This is trite law and no decision has taken a contrary view. What some cases have held is only this: where various links in a chain are in themselves complete, then a false plea or a false defence may be called into aid only to lend assurance to the court. In other words, before using the additional link it must be proved that all the links in the chain are complete and do not suff er from any infi rmity. It is not the law that where there is any infi rmity or lacuna in the prosecution case, the same could be cured or supplied by a false defence or a plea which is not accepted by a court. ……. 153. A close analysis of this decision would show that the following conditions must be fulfi lled before a case against an accused can be said to be fully established: (1) the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established. It may be noted here that this Court indicated that the circumstances concerned “must or should” and not “may be” established. There is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between “may be proved” and “must be or should be proved” as was held by this Court in Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade v. State of Maharashtra [(1973) 2 SCC 793 : 1973 SCC (Cri) 1033 : 1973 Crl LJ 1783] where the observations were made: [SCC para 19, p. 807: SCC (Cri) p. 1047] “Certainly, it is a primary principle that the accused must be and not merely may be guilty before a court can convict and the mental distance between ‘may be’ and ‘must be’ is long and divides vague conjectures from sure conclusions.” (2) the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty, (3) the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency, (4) they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved, and 56 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. (5) there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused. 154. These fi ve golden principles, if we may say so, constitute the panchsheel of the proof of a case based on circumstantial evidence.” 18. It can thus be seen that this Court has held that the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established.