A abrogation of Part B States. In terms of Section 29 of the 1956 Constitution amendment, Parliament provided for “consequential and minor amendments and repeals in the Constitution’’ as directed in the Schedule. One of the amendments made in terms of the Schedule was to omit the phrase “Part A or Part B of the First Schedule ‘’, and “Rajpramukh”, as occurring in the Constitution. It is necessary to note that the expressions B “Part A”, “Part B” and “Rajpramukh” were not necessarily substituted by another expression by Parliament. 136. Article 239 as it was amended by the 1956 Constitution Amendment states that subject to any law enacted by Parliament every Union Territory shall be administered by the President acting through an C Administrator appointed by them with such designation as they may specify. It is relevant to note that the term ‘administrator’, at the time of the amendment was not added to any provision of the Constitution other than Article 239. Even within Article 239, the provision did not use the term ‘administrator’ as a designation. Instead, Article 239 provides that: D “239. Administration of Union Territories (1) Save as otherwise provided by Parliament by law, every Union territory shall be administered by the President acting, to such extent as he thinks fit, through an administrator to be appointed by him with such designation as he may specify. E (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in Part VI, the President may appoint the Governor of a State as the administrator of an adjoining Union territory, and where a Governor is so appointed, he shall exercise his functions as such administrator independently of his Council of Ministers.” F 137. Furthermore, it is important to note that Articles 239A and 239AA were inserted much later after the 1956 Constitution Amendment. In 1962, Article 239A was inserted through the Constitution(Fourteenth Amendment) Act 1962, which gives discretion to Parliament to create by law, local legislatures or a Council of Ministers or both for certain G Union Territories. In 1991, Article 239AA was inserted through the 1991 Constitution Amendment to accord NCTD a sui generis status from the other Union Territories, including the Union Territories to which Article 239A applies. Parliament could not have envisaged when the 1956 Constitution Amendment was adopted that Union Territories would have been accorded diverse governance models. Therefore, the argument of H GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 571 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] the Union on legislative intent by drawing upon the omissions in the A Seventh Amendment is not persuasive. (c) Existence of power and exercise of power 138. It is not in contention that presently, a Public Service Commission for NCTD does not exist. However, the existence of power and the exercise of the power are two different conceptions, and should B not be conflated. It is settled law that whether a power exists cannot be derived from whether and how often it has been exercised. 139. In State of Bihar v. Maharajadhiraja Sir Kameshwar Singh,44 the Constitution Bench of this Court rejected the argument that the power to enact a law under Entry 42 of the Concurrent List was a C power coupled with a duty.