As provided under Section 142 of IPC, whoever, being aware of facts which render any assembly an unlawful assembly, intentionally joins that assembly, or continues in it, is said to be a member of an unlawful assembly. 15. Undisputedly, from the evidence of Chironji (PW-6) and Ramhet (PW-12), it is clear that the present appellants were members of the unlawful assembly. No doubt that there is no specifi c role attributed to the present appellants of assaulting the deceased Madan. However, since the appellants were members of the unlawful assembly, in view of the law laid down by this Court in the case of Masalti (supra), it is not necessary that such a person, for being convicted, must have actually assaulted the deceased. 16. Having held that, the question which we are left to answer is, as to, whether, the conviction under Section 302 of IPC would be tenable or not. 17. The defence taken by the appellants and the other accused persons was that in fact the accused persons had fi rst lodged the complaint with regard to the attack made by the complainant party. It is their defence that after lodging the complaint, when they were coming back from the Police Station, the complainant party had come on a tractor and assaulted the accused persons. It is their contention that the accused persons tried to save themselves. As a result whereof, there was a free fi ght resulting in injuries to the members of both the parties and unfortunately deceased Madan succumbing to the injuries. PARSHURAM v. STATE OF M.P. 195 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 18. It is to be noted that the defence side has also examined two witnesses. Ram Krishan Pandey (DW-1) is the police Constable who had registered the FIR lodged by one of the accused persons. Dr. Nisar Ahmed (DW-2), the Medical Offi cer, Shivpuri, who has deposed about the injuries sustained by accused Ram Sewak @ Sewak, Ram Lakhan and Ramrup @ Roopa. The injuries suff ered by accused Ram Sewak @ Sewak are thus: (i) Incised wound 7 cm X 1 cm on the deep bone on the front of the forehead; (ii) Torn wound 3 cm X 1 cm was skin deep at the back and right side of the head. (iii) Incised wound 4 cm X 2 cm was on the left shoulder posterior to the muscle depth; (iv) Incised wound 1 X 1 cm/2 X 1 cm/ 2 cm on the outer and upper part of the left forearm; (v) Incised wound 1 X 1 cm/ 2 X 1 cm was located on the left thumb; (vi) Diff use swelling in the upper left forearm; (vii) Swelling of the right middle malleus and pain on pressure; (viii) Diff use swelling in the right thigh; The injuries suff ered by accused Ram Lakhan are thus: (i) Diff use swelling on the tendon in the back of the left leg. The injuries suff ered by accused Ramrup @ Roopa are thus: (i) Cracked wound 6 X 1 cm blind skin deep in right parietal area of head; (ii) The swelling and deformity in the lower part of the right forearm; (iii) Swelling and pain on pressure in upper part of left scapula; (iv) Diff use swelling above the right knee.