The significance of this aspect is that it adds to the enormity of the powers and responsibilities of the B Election Commission. Awaiting the outcome of the poll to question the election before the tribunal may result in many illegal, unfair and mala fide decisions by the Election Commission passing muster for the day. Once the election results are out, the matter is largely reduced to a fait accompli.In fact, many a time an omission or a delayin taking a decision can itself be fatal to the holding of a free and fair poll. The relief C vouchsafed in an election petition may not by itself provide a just solution to the conduct of election in an illegal, mala fide or unfair manner.These observations have a direct connection with the question with which we are concerned with, namely, the need to take the appointment of the members of the Election commission out of the exclusive hands of the D executive, namely, the party which not unnaturally has an interest in perpetuating itself in power. W. PURSUIT OF POWER; A MEANS TO AN END OR AN END IN ITSELF? 164. The basic and underlying principle central to democracy is E power to the people through the ballot. Abrahim Lincoln declared democracy to be Government of the people, by the people and for the people. A political party or a group or a coalition assumes reigns of governance. The purpose of achieving power is to run the Government. No doubt, the Government must be run in accordance with the dictate of F the Constitution and the laws. Political parties not unnaturally come out with manifestos containing a charter of promises they intend to keep. Without attaining power, men organised as political parties cannot achieve their goals. Power becomes, therefore, a means to an end. The goal can only be to govern so that the lofty aims enshrined in the directive principles are achieved while observing the fundamental rights as also the mandate G of all the laws. What is contemplated is a lawful Government. So far so good. What, however, is disturbing and forms as we understand the substratum of the complaints of the petitioner is the pollution of the stream or the sullying of the electoral process which precedes the gaining of power. Can ends justify the means? There can be no doubt that the H 138 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A strength of a democracy and its credibility, and therefore, its enduring nature must depend upon the means employed to gain power being as fair as the conduct of the Government after the assumption of power by it.The assumption of power itself through the electoral process in the democracy cannot and should not be perceived as an end. The end at any rate cannot justify the means. The means to gain power in a B democracy must remain wholly pure and abide by the Constitution and the laws. An unrelenting abuse of the electoral process over a period of time is the surest way to the grave of the democracy.