(iv) Other Cases – In certain categories (viz. Permanent disability, utmost severe injuries, loss of property and loss of C livestock), the actual number assumed by the court has been found to be on the higher side resulting in the extra provision of compensation in those categories.” 17. The total amount claimed under this category was Rs. 675.96 crore at the time of filing the curative petitions. This Court vide dated 11.10.2022 requested for the latest figures available as on the said D date. These details have been set out in tabular form below: E F G 18. The last column of the chart shows the additional amount required to be paid. While there is an increase in the amount required for compensation for death and temporary disability, there is also a decrease in the amounts required for cases of permanent disability and utmost H UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. M/S. UNION CARBIDE 891 CORPORATION & ORS. severe cases, as also for loss of property and loss of life. This may have A been the result of some changes in the categorisation of cases on account of the available material. The real increase is on account of minor injuries where it is stated that the additional amount required is of Rs. 955.45 crores. Undoubtedly, a decision was taken by the Government of India on 08.09.1992 to increase the amount of compensation to victims in B view of representations filed by various social action groups. “Claim – II: Claim of Rs.1,743.15 cr. on account of actual expenditure incurred by the State towards relief and rehabilitation measures.” 19. The aforesaid claim was further updated to Rs. 4,949.67 crores. C “Claim – III: Claim of Rs.315.70 crore on account of environment degradation.” 20. The updated amount under this category is Rs. 486.78 crores. 21. The Union of India has also claimed that since the revised D amount is being claimed a number of years after the settlement; several aspects, such as the devaluation of the rupee, interest rate, purchasing power parity, and the inflation index ought to be taken into account. These considerations were pleaded in alternative and are summarized in the following table: E * Calculations based on Yearly LIBOR F $ Calculations by applying Consumer Price Index (CPI) for industrial workers & Calculations based on 7% Compound Interest UCC’s Submissions G 22. The curative petitions were strongly opposed by Mr. Harish Salve, learned senior counsel appearing for UCC. 23. The preliminary objection was on the very maintainability of a curative petitions after two decades of the settlement. It was submitted that this was in breach of the principles enshrined in Rupa AshokHurra H 892 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A v. Ashok Hurra & Anr.6,wherein this Court had specified verylimited contours for its curative jurisdiction: “51. Nevertheless, we think that a petitioner is entitled to relief ex debito justitiae if he establishes (1) violation of principles of natural justice in that he was not a party to the lis but the B judgement adversely affected his interests or, if he was a party to the lis, he was not served with notice of the proceedings and the matter proceeded as if he had notice and (2) where in the proceedings a learned Judge failed to disclose his connection with the subject-matter or the parties giving scope for an apprehension of bias and the adversely C affects the petitioner.” 24.