PANKAJ BANSAL v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 739 [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] 35. On the above analysis, to give true meaning and purpose to the constitutional and the statutory mandate of Section 19(1) of the Act of 2002 of informing the arrested person of the grounds of arrest, we hold that it would be necessary, henceforth, that a copy of such written grounds of arrest is furnished to the arrested person as a matter of course and without exception. The decisions of the Delhi High Court in Moin Akhtar Qureshi (supra) and the Bombay High Court in Chhagan Chandrakant Bhujbal (supra), which hold to the contrary, do not lay down the correct law. In the case on hand, the admitted position is that the ED’s Investigating Offi cer merely read out or permitted reading of the grounds of arrest of the appellants and left it at that, which is also disputed by the appellants. As this form of communication is not found to be adequate to fulfi l compliance with the mandate of Article 22(1) of the Constitution and Section 19(1) of the Act of 2002, we have no hesitation in holding that their arrest was not in keeping with the provisions of Section 19(1) of the Act of 2002. Further, as already noted supra, the clandestine conduct of the ED in proceeding against the appellants, by recording the second ECIR immediately after they secured interim protection in relation to the fi rst ECIR, does not commend acceptance as it reeks of arbitrary exercise of power. In eff ect, the arrest of the appellants and, in consequence, their remand to the custody of the ED and, thereafter, to judicial custody, cannot be sustained. 36. The appeals are accordingly allowed, setting aside the impugned s passed by the Division Bench of the Punjab & Haryana High Court as well as the impugned arrest s and arrest memos along with the s of remand passed by the learned Vacation Judge/Additional Sessions Judge, Panchkula, and all s consequential thereto. The appellants shall be released forthwith unless their incarceration is validly required in connection with any other case. In the circumstances, we make no s as to costs. Headnotes prepared by: Appeals allowed. Ankit Gyan