Once that is the position, in the light of discussion above, and applying the law laid down by this Court in State of Bihar v. Dhirendra Kumar (supra); Laxmi Chand v. Gram Panchayat (supra); and Commissioner, Bangalore Development Authority and another v. Brijesh Reddy and another (supra), I am of the considered view that in respect of land covered by the acquisition notifi cation, the suit as framed was not maintainable. 60. Otherwise also, there was another patent defect in the plaint as the State was not impleaded as defendant in the suit. The State was a necessary party because all the steps taken for acquisition of land under sub-section (1) of Section 52 of the 1959 Act were taken by it. And, by virtue of sub-section (4) of Section 52 of the 1959 Act, the land vested in the State. Therefore, when a collateral attack to the validity of the acquisition was launched by the plaintiff , by alleging that necessary steps for a lawful acquisition were not taken, it was the State which could have eff ectively disclosed whether all the necessary steps required for a valid acquisition of the land were taken or not. In this view of the matter, in my opinion, the suit was also bad for non-joinder of necessary party. 61. In my view, the suit in question is a classic example of clever drafting where to avoid crucial issues, such as the bar of limitation and response from the State, fi rstly, no declaration in respect of the acquisition notifi cation was sought and, secondly, the State, which issued the acquisition notifi cation and in whom the title of the land vested by a deeming fi ction, 576 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. was not impleaded as a party. Such clever drafting to avoid critical issues have been deprecated time and again by this Court as it amounts to an unfair practice. 62. In T. Arivandandam v. T.V. Satpal and another27 cautioning the Courts to be mindful of the craft of creating an illusion of a cause of action for instituting the suit, it was observed: “5…………..The learned Munsif must remember that if on a meaningful -not formal- reading of plaint it is manifestly vexatious, and meritless, in the sense of not disclosing a right to sue, he should exercise his power under 7, Rule 11 CPC taking care to see that the ground mentioned therein is fulfi lled. And, if clever drafting has created an illusion of a cause of action, nip it in the bud at the fi rst hearing ……….” (Emphasis supplied) 63. The necessity to implead the State in a suit where an issue is raised qua vesting of surplus land in the State, under the ceiling laws, for failure to take possession before enforcement of the Repeal Act of 1999, has been highlighted by this Court in Shri Saurav Jain & Another Vs. M/s A.B.P. Design & Another (Civil Appeal No.4448 of 2021, arising out of SLP (C) No.29868 of 2018, decided on 05.08.2021)28 by observing: “36…….The High Court held that no material was forthcoming on whether actual and physical possession was taken by the Competent Authority from the land owner and it held that in the absence thereof, the fi rst respondent, as the purchaser from Zahid Hussain, would continue to have a valid title.