(5) Nothing in clause (2) shall affect— E (a) the provisions of any existing law other than a law to which the provisions of clause (6) apply, or (b) the provisions of any law which the State may hereafter make— (i) for the purpose of imposing or levying any tax or penalty, or F (ii) for the promotion of public health or the prevention of danger to life or property, or (iii) in pursuance of any agreement entered into between the Government of the Dominion of India or the Government of India G and the Government of any other country, or otherwise, with respect to property declared by law to be evacuee property. (6) Any law of the State enacted not more than eighteen months before the commencement of this Constitution may within three months from such commencement be submitted to the President H for his certification; and thereupon, if the President by public 1096 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A notification so certifies, it shall not be called in question in any court on the ground that it contravenes the provisions of clause (2) of this article or has contravened the provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 209 of the Government of India Act, 1935.” 79. This Article 31 came to be amended by Constitution (Fourth B Amendment) Act and after the amendment, the amended provision read as follows: The Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act amended clause (2) and inserted a new clause (2-A). The amended clause (2) and the new clause (2-A) are in these terms: C “31. (2) No property shall be compulsorily acquired or requisitioned save for a public purpose and save by authority of a law which provides for compensation for the property so acquired or requisitioned and either fixes the amount of the compensation or specifies the principles on which, and the manner in which, the compensation is to be determined and given; and no such law D shall be called in question in any court on the ground that the compensation provided by that law is not adequate. (2-A). Where a law does not provide for the transfer of the ownership or right to possession of any property to the State or to a corporation owned or controlled by the State, it shall not be E deemed to provide for the compulsory acquisition or requisitioning of property, notwithstanding that it deprives any person of his property.” 80. At this juncture again, we must notice the aspect of Police power, in contrast with the Doctrine of Eminent Domain. F 81. In the of this court in Deputy Commissioner and Collector v. Durga Nath Sarma37, this Court has noticed the amendment of Article 31 as noticed hereinbefore and has expounded the law in the following paragraph: G “10. Our attention has been drawn to certain opinions expressed in our earlier decisions that Article 31(2) occupies the field of eminent domain and Article 31(5)(b)(ii) contains a saving clause with regard to the police powers of the State.