Directing all the States/UTs that the gist of important provisions will be displayed at all working places in all the States/UTs. j. Directing Respondent No.1 to frame rules and/or directions as provided in Section 29 of the Act, to clarify role of Districts in collecting annual compliance reports from ICCs and LCCs, role of District Offi cers in collecting fi nes for non-compliance of the Act and appropriate authority for collection of fi nes; 2. Issue any other writ//direction as this Hon’ble Court may deem fi t and proper in the circumstances of the case.” 2. Over the course of many hearings, this court, with the able assistance and cooperation of learned counsels involved in the matter – on both sides – undertook an exercise to delineate lacunae in the implementation of the Act, INITIATIVES FOR INCLUSION FOUNDATION & ANR. v.681 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] on ground. Further, in compliance with s of this court, numerous states2 fi led affi davits highlighting steps taken by their respective governments in furtherance of implementing the Act and Rules in letter and spirit. 3. On 20.02.2023, learned counsels addressed this court on certain questions regarding the setting up of Nodal Cells in the concerned Central Union Ministry and also with respect to setting up of Local Committee and appointment of Nodal Offi cers in all districts of the country. This pertains to these specifi c issues and the suggestions made in this regard. 4. Recently, this court in another bench composition, in Aureliano Fernandes v. State of Goa & Ors.3 had occasion to pass directions regarding the implementation of the POSH Act. These directions are comprehensive with regards to seeking compliance of the Act by the appropriate government [as defi ned under Section 2(b)] and its many departments, authorities, institutions, etc. ; the High Courts and the courts it supervises; specifi c non- state authorities/organisations such as – statutory bodies of professionals (at the apex and state level), universities and other educational institutions, hospitals/nursing homes, etc. It specifi cally directed NALSA and SLSAs, and the National Judicial Academy and State Judicial Academies, to develop modules for workshops and awareness programmes, in their capacities. Given that the directions passed overlap with the scope of the present writ petition that is before this court, they merit emphatic reiteration: “77. To fulfi l the promise that the PoSH Act holds out to working women all over the country, it is deemed appropriate to issue the following directions: (i) The Union of India, all State Governments and Union Territories are directed to undertake a timebound exercise to verify as to whether all the concerned Ministries, Departments, Government organizations, authorities, Public Sector Undertakings, institutions, bodies, etc. have 2 Including Nagaland, Madhya Pradesh, Meghalaya, Goa, Puducherry, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Karnataka, Manipur, Haryana, Telangana, Gujarat, Assam, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh UT, Andaman and Nicobar, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Sikkim, Punjab, Odisha, Maharashtra, Jharkhand, NCT Delhi, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Tripura. 3 dated 12.05.2023 in Civil Appeal No.