(2) All meetings of the committee of creditors shall be conducted by the resolution professional. C (3) The resolution professional shall give notice of each meeting of the committee of creditors to- (a) members of 32[committee of creditors, including the authorised representatives referred to in sub-sections (6) and (6A) of section 21 and sub-section (5)]; D (b) members of the suspended Board of Directors or the partners of the corporate persons, as the case may be; (c) operational creditors or their representatives if the amount of their aggregate dues is not less than ten per cent of the debt. E (4) The directors, partners and one representative of operational creditors, as referred to in sub-section (3), may attend the meetings of committee of creditors, but shall not have any right to vote in such meetings: Provided that the absence of any such director, partner or F representative of operational creditors, as the case may be, shall not invalidate proceedings of such meeting. (5) 33[Subject to sub-sections (6), (6A) and (6B) of section 21, any creditor]who is a member of the committee of creditors may appoint an insolvency professional other than the resolution G professional to represent such creditor in a meeting of the committee of creditors: 32 Subs. by Act 26 of 2018, sec. 18(i), for “Committee of creditors” (w.r.e.f. 6-6-2018). H 33 Subs. by Act 26 of 2018, sec. 18 (ii), for “Any creditor” (w.r.e.f. 6-6-2018). M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 863 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] Provided that the fees payable to such insolvency professional A representing any individual creditor will be borne by such creditor. (6) Each creditor shall vote in accordance with the voting share assigned to him based on the financial debts owed to such creditor. (7) The resolution professional shall determine the voting share to B be assigned to each creditor in the manner specified by the Board. (8) The meetings of the committee of creditors shall be conducted in such manner as may be specified. Section 25. Duties of resolution professional.- (1) It shall be the duty of the resolution professional to preserve and protect the C assets of the corporate debtor, including the continued business operations of the corporate debtor. (2) For the purposes of sub-section (1), the resolution professional shall undertake the following actions, namely:— (a) take immediate custody and control of all the assets of the D corporate debtor, including the business records of the corporate debtor; (b) represent and act on behalf of the corporate debtor with third parties, exercise rights for the benefit of the corporate debtor in judicial, quasi-judicial or arbitration proceedings; E (c) raise interim finances subject to the approval of the committee of creditors under section 28; (d) appoint accountants, legal or other professionals in the manner as specified by Board; F (e) maintain an updated list of claims; (f) convene and attend all meetings of the committee of creditors; (g) prepare the information memorandum in accordance with section 29; G 34[(h) invite prospective resolution applicants, who fulfil such criteria as may be laid down by him with the approval of committee of creditors, having regard to the complexity and scale of operations of the business of the corporate debtor and such other conditions 34 Subs.