A copy of such notice shall, at the same time, be sent to the Mamlatdar. An application for possession under section 29 shall be made to the Mamlatdar on or before the 31st day of March 1957. KESHAV BHAURAO YEOLE (D) BY LRS. v. MURALIDHAR 947 (D) & ORS. [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] (2) Where a landlord is a minor, or a widow, or a person subject to mental or physical disability then such notice may be given and an application for possession under section 29 may be made,–– (i) by the minor within one year from the date on which he attains majority; (ii) by the succesor-in-title of a widow within one year from the date on which her interest in the land ceases to exist; (iii) within one year from the date on which mental or physical disability ceases to exist; and Provided that where a person of such category is a member of a joint family, the provisions of this sub-section shall not apply if at least one member of the joint family is outside the categories mentioned in the sub-section unless before the 31st day of March 1958 the share of such person in the joint family has been separated by metes and bounds and the Mamlatdar on inquiry, is satisfi ed that the share of such person in the land is separated having regard to the area, assessment, classifi cation and value of the land, in the same proportion as the share of that person in the entire joint family property, and not in a large proportion. Section 31A - Conditions of termination of tenancy The right of a landlord to terminate a tenancy for cultivating the land personally under section 31 shall be subject to the following conditions :–– (a) If the landlord at the date on which the notice is given and on the date on which it expires has no other land of his own or has not been cultivating personally any other land, he shall be entitled to take possession of the land leased to the extent of a ceiling area. (b) If the land cultivated by him personally is less than a ceiling area, the landlord shall be entitled to take possession of so much area of the land leased as will be suffi cient to make up the area in his possession to the extent of a ceiling area. (c) The income by the cultivation of the land of which he is entitled to take possession is the principal source of income for his maintenance. 948 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. (d) The land leased stands in the record of rights or in any public record or similar revenue record on the 1st day of January 1952 and thereafter during the period between the said date and the appointed day in the name of the landlord himself, or of any of his ancestors 2[but not of any person from whom title is derived, whether by assignment or Court sale or otherwise], or if the landlord is a member of a joint family, in the name of a member of such family.