It is, however, necessary that there should be application of mind, in the eye of law, in good faith, and not arbitrarily. 41. A formal departmental inquiry is invariably preceded by an informal preliminary inquiry which itself can be in two phases. There can be a summary investigation to fi nd out if the allegations made against the Government servant have any substance. Such investigation or inquiry is followed by a detailed preliminary or fact-fi nding inquiry 106 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. whereafter fi nal decision is taken whether to initiate disciplinary proceeding. The fi rst preliminary inquiry may be in the shape of secret inquiry and the other, of an open inquiry. In the alternative, when complaints containing serious allegations against a government servant are received, the authority may peruse the records to satisfy itself if a more detailed preliminary inquiry be made.” 40. The Gujarat High Court in Santi Kumar Ganguly v. The State of Tripura and Ors. (1982 GLR 1 21) while dealing with the suspension of petitioner under the Central Civil Services (Classifi cation-(SIC) Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965 held that: “7. The dictionary meaning of the word 'contemplate' leads to conclude that whenever it is in the mind of the appointing authority that a formal disciplinary proceeding shall be or there exists a contingency for such a proceeding, one can say that a formal disciplinary proceeding is contemplated. To contemplate in the context is to have in view to expect, or take into account as a contingency. A disciplinary proceeding is contemplated when on an objective consideration of the materials, the appointing authority considers the case as one which might lead to a formal disciplinary proceeding.The formation of such an opinion may be, on the basis of inspection of the records, though further investigation in some cases may be considered necessary to collect more materials for formal disciplinary proceeding, The Disciplinary Authority at that early stage can have in view of a contingency for disciplinary proceeding and suspend the Government servant, in exercise of its power under Rule 10(l)(a) of the said Rules.” 41. In Champaklal Chimanlal Shah vs The Union of India 1964 AIR SC 1854=1964 SCR (6) 190 this Court while considering the action taken against the petitioner who claimed to be a quasi permanent employee under the Central Civil Services (Temporary Services) Rules, 1949 made the following remarks: “16. …The circumstances in this case are in our opinion very similar to the facts in Shayamlal case the diff erence being that in that case he was compulsorily retired and in this case the appellant's services have been terminated. In Shayamlal case also at one stage, the government made imputation against his conduct but later withdrew them and did not STATE OF HARYANA AND OTHERS v. DINESH SINGH 1067 AND ANOTHER [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] follow up the matter by holding a departmental enquiry. This is exactly what happened in the present case and it was more than six months after that the appellant who had in the meantime been transferred to Bombay was discharged in the terms of Rule 5 because his work and conduct were found unsatisfactory.