At this stage, it is required to be noted that by Amendment Act, 2015, Sections 34 and 36 of the D Arbitration Act also came to be amended and the interference of the Court in challenge to the award has been restricted and/or narrowed down. [Para 6.1][343-A-E] 1.2 This Court is required to consider whether the decision in the cases of Parmar Constructions Company and Pardeep Vinod E Construction Company can be said to be per incuriam as the decision of this Court in the case of BCCI has not been considered by this Court in the said decisions. However, on a fair reading of the decisions in the case of BCCI and the observations made in paragraphs 37 to 39 and on a fair reading of decisions in the cases F of Parmar Constructions Company and Pardeep Vinod Construction Company, this Court in the case of BCCI has held that the Arbitration Amendment Act, 2015 is prospective in nature insofar as the proceedings under sections 34 & 36 are concerned. It is required to be noted that in the case of BCCI, application under section 11(6) was not the subject matter and there was no issue G before the Court that even in a case where the notice invoking the arbitration is issued prior to the Amendment Act, 2015, but the application under section 11(6) is filed post Amendment Act, 2015, what will be the position and whether the old Act will be applicable or the amended Act. On the other hand, the decisions H M/S. SHREE VISHNU CONSTRUCTIONS v. THE ENGINEER IN 329 CHIEF MILITARY ENGINEERING SERVICE in the case of Parmar Constructions Company is directly on the A point, namely, the application under section 11(6) of the Act. In the case of Parmar Constructions Company , it is specifically observed and held that in a case where notice invoking arbitration is issued prior to Amendment Act, 2015 and the application under section 11(6) is filed post amendment, as per section 21 of the B principal Act, the date of issuance of the notice invoking arbitration shall be considered as commencement of the arbitration proceedings and therefore as per section 26 of the Amendment Act, 2015, the Amended Act, 2015 shall not be applicable and the parties shall be governed by the pre-amendment Act, 2015.The submission on behalf of the appellant cannot be C accepted for the simple reason that this Court in the case of BCCI was considering the court proceedings under sections 34 and 36. To that, this Court interpreted section 26 in paragraphs 37 to 39, and held that the Amendment Act is prospective in nature, and will apply to those arbitral proceedings that are commenced D as understood by section 21 of the principal Act, on or after the Amendment Act, 2015 and to court proceedings which have commenced on or after the Amendment Act, 2015 came into force. Therefore, any observations made by this Court in paragraphs 37 to 39 in the case of BCCI shall be understood and construed with respect to court proceedings which have commenced on or E after the Amendment Act coming into force, namely, the proceedings under sections 34 & 36.