Yet further, the High Court expressed its serious concern as to how the examiners/evaluators were selected by the appellant- G University while underscoring that the future of even a single student cannot be compromised. Having said so, the High Court reverted to the facts of the case and found it just and proper to direct the appellant- University to award the average of the marks awarded by the said three examiners to the writ petitioner and thus, to treat that he has been awarded H 478 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 20 marks in the said Paper-II of Physiology, and to allow him to appear in further examinations accordingly. 7. After the aforesaid discussion, the High Court proceeded to award costs in the sum of Rs. 1 lakh to the writ petitioner payable by the appellant-University at the first instance with liberty to recover the amount from the examiner. The High Court also expressed hope and trust that B the appellant-University would take appropriate steps so that such examiners/evaluators were not deployed to evaluate the answer sheets. Moreover, the High Court even provided that if any student, who had appeared in the examination of the appellant-University in the preceding three years, were to apply for re-assessment or re-evaluation, the request C be not declined only on the ground that there was no provision of re- evaluation in the Statute of the appellant-University. A copy of was also directed to be forwarded to the Secretaries of the Departments concerned with the requirement that they would ensure that examiners/ evaluators were deployed ‘in a reasonably efficient manner’ with strict instructions so that no student might suffer on account of negligence/ D carelessness on the part of the examiners/evaluators. We may usefully reproduce the concluding paragraphs of the impugned as follows:- “29. Coming back to facts of this case, we have no option but to direct University to award average marks of three Examiners, awarded to petitioner under of this Court and treat that he E has been awarded 20 marks in Physiology, Paper-II and accordingly correct his marks sheet and result and allow him to appear in further examinations accordingly. 30. We also find it appropriate to award a cost of Rs.1,00,000/- (i.e. rupees one lac) to petitioner, which at the first instance shall F be payable by Agra University but it shall have liberty to recover the amount from concerned Examiner, after holding such enquiry as provided in law. 31. We hope and trust that Agra University, now shall take appropriate steps so that such irresponsible, scrupulous, unmindful G and negligent Examiners/Evaluators are not deployed in future to evaluate answer sheets, whether it is a professional examination or general subjects or otherwise. 32. We also provide that, if any student who had appeared in examination of Agra University in the preceding three years, apply H DR. B R AMEDKAR UNIVERSITY, AGRA v. DEVARSH NATH 479 GUPTA & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] for reassessment or re-evaluation, taking present case as A illustration, Agra University shall make reassessment/re-evaluation of answer sheet(s) of such student(s) and such case(s) shall not be declined for re-evaluation/reassessment only on the ground that there is no provision for re-evaluation in the Statute of University.