the administration of Engerix-B, he again contacted the respondents. Since the response of the respondents was not satisfactory and according to the appellant since the same amounted to defi ciency due to negligence which had also caused suff ering to the appellant, he fi led the above noted complaint before the NCDRC claiming compensation of Rs,90,20,557/- (Rupees Ninety Lakhs Twenty Thousand Five Hundred and Fifty Seven Only). 4. The respondents appeared before the NCDRC and fi led their version disputing the claim as put forth by the appellant. The very allegation of the purchase of the said drug or its administration was denied for want of knowledge and also since no proof in that regard had been produced along with the complaint. However, insofar as the very nature of the drug and about its quality and purity details, they were referred to. It was explained with regard to ‘myositis’, since it can occur for various reasons and in diff erent circumstances. Hence it was contended that the appellant had failed to establish that he suff ered with ‘myositis’ on account of any adverse reaction due to the administration of Engerix-B. 5. Before the NCDRC, though no documents were placed on record on behalf of the appellant with regard to the purchase of the vaccine or with regard to the nature of the treatment undergone by the appellant relatable to the shoulder pain experienced by the appellant immediately after being vaccinated so as to connect the two incidences and establish that the appellant had suff ered ‘myositis’ due to the administration of vaccine, the appellant in addition to his own affi davit had also fi led the affi davit of Dr. Satyajit Pathak who is said to have administered the vaccine as also the affi davit of Dr. V.L. Chandak who is the uncle of the appellant. The appellant is said to have consulted Dr. Satyajit Pathak and Dr. V.L. Chandak after suff ering the discomfort due to the vaccination. The said affi davits were fi led in lieu of evidence. The respondents, apart from producing the certifi cate for release of the vaccine and the details thereof had fi led the affi davit of Shri Ajay Nadkarni, the Company Secretary as also that of Ms. Catherine Ghislain, the Vice-President, Associate General Counsel of the respondent referring to details with regard to the procedure followed for manufacture and as also the certifi cation of the drug. 6. In the above background, the NCDRC has considered the rival contentions in detail and on the aspect of the drug in question causing PRAKASH BANG v. GLAXO SMITHKLINE 571 PHARMACEUTICALS LTD. & ANR. [A. S. BOPANNA, J.] ‘myositis’ had taken into consideration that the same is an adverse reaction to the minimal level and not indicating the same as an adverse reaction in the literature accompanying the vaccination or on the ‘vial’ does not amount to defi ciency. To arrive at such conclusion the relevant observations in the of the NCDRC are as hereunder:- “On the basis of their worldwide safety database, the opposite parties could search out such nine cases involving four female and four male patients of the age range of 23-51 years.