It was as such submitted that without notice to various occupiers the notice itself was bad in law. B (v) The owner (appellant) was using the water supply only for residential/domestic purposes as such there was no violation of any provision by them. (vi) The appellant had also filed supplementary affidavits before the writ court stating all further facts relevant to the case C and also annexed the trade licences issued to various occupants, wherein it was clearly mentioned that the water charges were being charged under Section 238(2) of the Act. This in effect permitted use of wholesome water for purposes other than domestic. 3.5. The learned Single Judge did not agree with submissions of D the appellant and accordingly held the notice to be valid. It however granted liberty to the appellant to seek necessary permission for use of water in their premises for non-domestic purposes from the Municipal Commissioner under Section 239 of the Act. Such application could be filed within seven days from the date of the which was to be E dealt with in accordance with law by a reasoned within four weeks of submission of such application. Further, it kept the impugned notice in abeyance till an is passed by the Commissioner. It also granted liberty to the appellant to recover fees, which it may have to pay in seeking the permission, from the occupiers. The operative portion of the of the learned Single Judge is reproduced hereunder: F “…In view of the aforesaid discussion I hold that the impugned notice upon the writ petitioner No.1 is lawful and valid. In similar circumstances, another learned Single Judge of this Court in the case of Ashwin Properties Ltd. & Anr. Vs. Calcutta Municipal Corporation & Ors. Reported in 2005 (4) CHN G 134 upheld similar notice upon the owners of the premises. However, in view of the fact that the writ petitioners are entitled to seek necessary permission for user of water in their premises for non domestic purposes from the Municipal Commissioner, I grant liberty to the writ petitioner to make an H TRUST ESTATE KHIMJI KESHAWJI & ANR. v. THE KOLKATA 831 MUNICIPAL CORPORATION & ORS. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] application in terms of Section 239 of the Act of 1980 before A the Municipal Commissioner for seeking permission for user of water in the premises for non domestic purpose. In the event, such application is made within seven days from date, the Municipal Commissioner shall deal with the same in accordance with law and pass a reasoned thereon. The B Municipal Commissioner shall pass such an within four weeks from the date of making such application for permission. In the event, an application is made within the period as stated hereinbefore, the impugned notice dated 22nd August, 2008 under Section 238 read with Section 271 of the Act of 1980 shall remain in abeyance till an is passed C thereon by the Municipal Commissioner, as aforesaid. I make it clear that any application for necessary permission for use of water for non domestic purposes and payment of any fees therefore by the petitioners as the owner of the premises would not stand in their way of availing of D any remedy available in law to recover the same from the occupiers of the premises and the Corporation authorities shall render all necessary assistance in that regard in accordance with law.