LISIE MEDICAL INSTITUTIONS v. THE STATE OF KERALA 357 AND ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 7. The two judge bench in SH Medical Centre Hospital (supra) A conflated the use of the word ‘include’ with ‘means’. The Explanation to Section 3(1)(a) uses the expression ‘includes’. The plain intendment is that relief of the poor and free medical relief are not exhaustive of the content of charitable purpose. 8. At this stage, it would be material to note the submission of B the respondents, urged by Mr V Giri, senior counsel, to the effect that apart from the interpretational issue which is addressed in the decision of the two-Judge Bench in SH Medical Centre Hospital (supra), the Court has dwelt on other aspects of Section 3(1). Mr. Giri adverted to the expression “buildings used principally for … charitable … purposes” in C Section 3(1)(b) and urges that the interpretation of that phrase in the decision in SH Medical Centre Hospital is correct. 9. Undoubtedly, Section 3(1)(b) provides that nothing in the Act shall apply to buildings which are used ‘principally’ for specific purposes, including among them, ‘charitable purposes’. The expression “principally” D conveys the meaning of that which is the dominant purpose. The interpretation placed by the two-Judge Bench on the expression “principally used for charitable purposes” does not call for interference in view of the statutory language used in Section 3(1). Principal use refers to the dominant substantive use as distinguished from an ancillary use. E 10. The Explanation goes to indicate that ‘charitable purposes’ includes and is, therefore, not confined to the relief of the poor and free medical relief. Consequently, the decision in SH Medical Centre Hospital (supra) to the extent of the interpretation which is placed on the Explanation to Section 3(1)(b) of the Kerala Building Tax Act 1975 F does not correctly reflect the position in law which is clarified above. The decision in SH Medical Centre Hospital is, therefore, overruled to the above extent. 11. In the present case, the Division Bench of the Kerala High Court, while disposing of the Writ Appeal, has relied only on the decision G of the two Judge Bench of this Court in SH Medical Centre Hospital (supra). The impugned of the Division Bench is extracted below: “The issue raised in this writ appeal concerning the claim of the appellant for exemption from Building Tax levied under the Kerala Building Tax Act, 1975 is fully covered against it by the H 358 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A of the Apex Court in S.H.Medical Centre Hospital v. State of Kerala [2014 (1) KHC 222]. This being the factual position, we do not see any merit in this appeal. Appeal fails and it is dismissed accordingly.” 12. Since the position in regard to the interpretation of the provisions B of the Explanation to Section 3(1) of the Kerala Building Tax Act 1975 has been clarified above, we are of the considered view that the impugned of the High Court dated 18 July 2016 should be set aside and the Writ Appeal be restored to the file of the High Court for a decision after keeping open the factual analysis based on the interpretation of C Section 3(1).