In other words, whether, on the basis of a subsequent decision, on a pure question of law, the earlier decisions arrived at, on the basis of law as it was, could now be recalled at the instance of one of the parties to the earlier decisions. 21. The specimen /s sought to be reviewed in the F instant cases, namely, Civil Appeals and SLPs, read as under: “1. Leave granted. 2. The issue, in principle, is covered against the appellants by s in Civil Appeal No. 8477of 2016 arising out of Special Leave Petition (C) No. 8467 of 2015 and Civil G Appeal No. 5811 of 2015 arising out of Special Leave Petition (C) No. 21545 of 2015. The appeals filed by the requisitioning authority, namely the Delhi Development Authority, have already been dismissed by this Court. H 236 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 3. These appeals are, accordingly, dismissed. 4. In the peculiar facts and circumstances of these cases, the appellants are given a period of one year to exercise its liberty granted under Section 24(2) of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, B Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 for initiation of the acquisition proceedings afresh. 5. We make it clear that in case no fresh acquisition proceedings are initiated within the said period of one year from today by issuing a Notification under Section C 11 of the Act, the appellants, if in possession, shall return the physical possession of the land to the original land owner. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. No costs.” (Emphasis by me) D 22. The dated 01/07/2016 in SLP (C) CC No. 11422 of 2016 and 11005 of 2016 is as under: “Delay Condoned Dismissed.” 23. Black’s Law Dictionary defines a “decision” as “a E determination arrived at after consideration of facts, and in legal context, law”; an “opinion” is defined as “the statement by a Judge or Court of the decision reached in regard to a cause tried or argued before them, expounding the law as applied to the case, and detailing the reasons upon which the is based”. It explains the difference between a “decision” and “opinion” as follows: F “‘Decision’ is not necessarily synonymous with ‘opinion’. A decision of the court is its ; the opinion is the reasons given for that , or the expression of the views of the Judge.” G 24. This Court while considering the difference between the two expressions, namely, “decision” and “opinion” or view of law stated that, “it is necessary to bear in mind that the principles in regard to the highest Court departing from its binding precedent are different from the grounds on which a ftnal between the parties can be reconsidered.” H GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI THR. THE SECRETARY, LAND AND BUILDING 237 DEPT. v. M/S. K.L. RATHI STEELS LTD. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 25. When a review application is filed by an aggrieved party, the A same can be dismissed ex parte without issuing notice to the other side on the ground that there is no sufficient ground to call upon the opposite party to show cause as to why review should not be granted.