It was further observed categorically that an error D apparent on the face of the record for acquiring jurisdiction to review must be such an error which may strike one on a mere looking at the record and would not require any long- drawn process of reasoning. b) In fact, in Thungabhadra Industries Ltd. vs. E Government of A.P. AIR 1964 SC 1372: (1964) 5 SCR 174, it has been observed that there is a distinction which is real between a mere erroneous decision and a decision which could be characterised as vitiated by “error apparent”. A review is by no means an appeal in disguise whereby an erroneous decision is corrected but lies only F for a patent error without any elaborate argument that one could point to the error and therefore, a clear case of error apparent on the face of the record would be made out. c) Reliance could also be placed on Union of India vs. Mohd. Nayyar Khalil (2000) 9 SCC 252, wherein it was G observed that if an following a Three-Judge Bench decision is passed and at that time the Three-Judge Bench decision had not been upset, even in the future or later if the Constitution Bench takes a contrary view, it would be a subsequent which cannot be a ground for review in view of the Explanation to XLVII Rule 1 CPC. H GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI THR. THE SECRETARY, LAND AND BUILDING 249 DEPT. v. M/S. K.L. RATHI STEELS LTD. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] d) Similarly, in Shanti Devi vs. State of Haryana (RP Dy. A No. 1249 of 1999) in Civil Appeal No. 14608 of 1996 as reported in (1999) 5 SCC 703, this Court held that the contention that the sought to be reviewed was overruled in another case, subsequently, is no reason for reviewing the said decision in view of the Explanation to B XLVII Rule 1 CPC. The said review petition was dismissed both on the ground of unexplained inordinate delay as well as on merits. e) In Usha Bharti vs. State of Uttar Pradesh (2014) 7 SCC 663,it was held that the Supreme Court, in exercise of its C power of review may in an appropriate case reopen the case and rehear the entire matter but while doing so the Court must remain conscious of the provisions contained in XLVII Rule 1 CPC as well as the Rules framed by the Supreme Court. Thus, the expression “for any other sufficient reason” has been intentionally used in D XLVII Rule 1 CPC by the Legislature to cater to possible exceptional cases in which injustice may have been meted out. 46. The following relevant s could also be discussed at this stage: E (a) Reliance could be placed on State of Gujarat & Anr. vs. Justice R.A. Mehta (Retd.) (2013) 3 SCC 1, wherein following several earlier decisions of this Court, it was observed that a decision does not lose its authority “merely because it was badly argued, inadequately considered F or fallaciously reasoned.” (b) In fact, in Madan Mohan Pathak & Anr.