The above service charges is exclusive of any material requirements like tools, tackles D etc. and also the spares / items / equipments to maintain the terminal in operable condition. Any interruptions in supply of gas to any consumers on account of such material requirement shall be at the risk and cost of the BUYER. The above Service charges shall be increased by 3 (Three) percent per annum on yearly rest E basis with effect from 1st April following the scheduled date of commencement of gas supply mentioned under article 2.01 hereinabove. In addition to the above, the BUYER shall also pay to the SELLER transportation charges, as applicable from time to time along the HBJ pipeline system for the quantity of GAS utilized / shrinkage as per formula provided under Article 5.02 or for the F difference in quantity of gas measured at the Point of Onward Delivery at Metering Station No. – I (after adjusting the quantity of Gas Bye Passed as mentioned under Article 4.03 hereinabove) and Point of Return Delivery at Metering Station No. – II, whichever is higher. The BUYER shall pay above charges to the G SELLER in addition to invoice for supply of gas to be raised as per Article 11 hereinafter along with all applicable taxes / levies thereon. Provided that in case above charges are not paid by the BUYER within 3 (Three) working days of presentation of the invoice, the SELLER will present the invoice for the same to the Bank against Letter of Credit and draw the amount. The BUYER H 332 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A will make arrangements with the Bank in a manner that in such an eventuality the full L/C amount gets automatically reinstated. …. …. …. …. …. ARTICLE 10-PRICE OF GAS B 10.01 Present price of 1000 (One Thousand) Standard Cubic meters of GAS w.e.f. 1.10.1997 is applicable as per Government Pricing No. L-12015/3/94-GP dated 18.9.1997 (Annexure- IV) after which the SELLER shall have right to fix the price of GAS which may be as per directive, instruction, , etc. of the C Government of India which is likely to be market related in accordance with current policy of liberalisation of the Government of India and the BUYER shall pay to the SELLER such price of GAS. In addition to the above, the BUYER shall also pay to the SELLER transportation charges, as applicable from time to time along the HBJ pipeline system, for the quantity of GAS utilised/ D shrinkage. Provided further, the price of GAS so fixed is exclusive of Royalty, Taxes, Duties, Service/Transportation charges and all other statutory levies as applicable at present or to be levied in future. By the Central or State Government of Municipality or any other local body or bodies payable on purchase of Gas from E ONGCL/Other Producer(s) by the SELLER or on sale from SELLER to the BUYER or on return of the balance quantity of GAS after processing by the BUYER to the SELLER and these shall be borne by the BUYER over and above the aforesaid price.” (Emphasis supplied) F 8.