157. The learned Chief Justice has dealt with in some detail on that section of our , on adoption [Part VIII]. The underlying premise of his comments seek to highlight that the existing legal framework aff ords protection in the event of an unforeseen eventuality like abandonment, or sudden death of one partner. It is incontestable that Section 63 of the JJ Act, provides legal status to the child, in relation to their adoptive parent(s). However, that per se, is not adequate to address all concerns relating to the child. There would be diffi culties faced by children, in claiming entitlements such as maintenance, in the absence of a general law. The example given by the learned Chief Justice illustrates this: benefi t under the Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act (which is available only to Hindus, but accommodates both genders, unlike other laws). A suggestion of Section 125 of the Criminal Procedure Code would give rise to the same set of diffi culties as the earlier discussion on SMA. In other words, to obviate the gendered language, an interpretive exercise of the kind ruled out for the interpretation of SMA, would be necessary. It is for these reasons, that we highlighted the need for the State to consider all aspects [para 133-135]. This court would reiterate that there is no basis for interpreting the term ‘couple’ under Section 57(2) of the JJ Act as including both married and unmarried couples, given the use of the word ‘spouse’ in the very same provision. It is pertinent to highlight that Section 2(61) of the JJ Act prescribes that expressions not defi ned, would have the same meaning as in other enactments. 158. As far as the learned Chief Justice’s comment with respect to this court not reading down ‘marital’ or striking down Regulation 5(3), the earlier discussion in Part VIII clarifi ed that there was a conscious legislative policy while highlighting the interpretation of the term ‘spouse’. At the same time the court recognised the disparate, and even discriminatory impact, on children of individuals, who formed de facto 151 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. families (with their unmarried partner). In our opinion, striking down the term ‘marital’ under Regulation 5(3) – would likely have unintended consequences, which cannot be comprehended by the court as it involves policy considerations. This is the reason for desisting from invalidating the provision but having left it to the State to take measures to remedy these impacts. 159. Lastly, a small note of caution is expressed in relation to a few conclusions of our learned brother Kaul, J. There can hardly be any dispute of the positive outcomes or the need for a broadly applicable non-discriminatory law (as elaborated by Kaul, J). However, the wisdom or unwisdom of such a law, the elements that go into its making are matters that are not before this Court to comment on. Nor can we anticipate what would be its content. We are of the opinion that it is not possible to hold that a positive obligation to enact such a law exists.