It is clear therefore, that at least in the case of an operational creditor, “default” must be non-payment of amounts that have become due and payable in law. The “dispute” or pendency C of a suit or arbitration proceedings would necessarily bring in the Limitation Act, for if a suit or arbitration proceeding is time-barred, it would be liable to be dismissed. This again is an important pointer to the fact that when the expression “due” and “due and payable” occur in Sections 3(11) and 3 D (12) of the Code, they refer to a “default” which is non- payment of a debt that is due in law i.e. that such debt is not barred by the law of limitation. It is well settled that where the same word occurs in a similar context, the draftsman of the statute intends that the word bears the same meaning E throughout the statute (see Bhogilal Chunilal Pandya v. State of Bombay 1959 Supp (1) SCR 310, AIR 1959 SC 356, 1959 Cri LJ 389, Supp SCR at pp. 313- 14). It is thus clear that the expression “default” bears the same meaning in Sections 7 and 8 of the Code, making it clear that the corporate insolvency resolution process against a corporate debtor can only be F initiated either by a financial or operational creditor in relation to debts which have not become time-barred. 48. It is thus clear that since the Limitation Act is applicable to applications filed under Sections 7 and 9 of the Code from the inception of the Code, Article 137 of the Limitation Act G gets attracted. “The right to sue”, therefore, accrues when a default occurs. If the default has occurred over three years prior to the date of filing of the application, the application would be barred under Article 137 of the Limitation Act, save and except in those cases where, in the facts of the case, H 206 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Section 5 of the Limitation Act may be applied to condone the delay in filing such application.” (emphasis supplied) 21. The decision in B.K. Educational Services Private Limited (supra) would thus reveal that Articles 137 and 5 of the Limitation Act, B 1963 are applicable to applications filed under Sections 7 and 9 of IBC. It be so, the position is that the period of limitation is three years from the right to apply accrues but the delay is condonable on sufficient grounds. It is to be noted that the third column in Article 137 of the Limitation Act posits that time runs when the ‘right to apply accrues’. In the decision in C Babulal Vardharji Gurjar v. Veer Gurjar Aluminium Industries Private Limited and Anr.5 this Court considered the question as to when ‘right to apply would accrue?’ Paragraph 32 of the said decision, in so far as it is relevant for the purpose of this case reads thus:- “32. When Section 238-A of the Code is read with the above noted consistent decisions of this Court in Innoventive D Industries [Innoventive Industries Ltd. v. ICICI Bank, (2018) 1 SCC 407], B.K.