2. The facts leading to the present appeals in a nutshell are as under: - 2.1 That the appellant herein – employee was serving with D respondent Nos. 1 and 2. A disciplinary enquiry was initiated against him under provisions of the Rajasthan Non-Governmental Educational Institutions Act, 1989 (hereinafter referred to as the Act, 1989). That thereafter on conclusion of the departmental enquiry services of the appellant came to be terminated which was the subject matter of challenge before the learned Tribunal. The Tribunal set aside the of termination E by observing and holding that the prior approval of the Director of Education as mandatory under Section 18 of the Act, 1989 was not obtained. The learned Single Judge confirmed the passed by the learned Tribunal. By the impugned and and despite the fact that the decision of this Court in the case of Raj Kumar Vs. Director F of Education and Ors., (2016) 6 SCC 541 dealt with the pari materia provisions of the Delhi School Education Act (hereinafter referred to as the DSE Act), taking the view that before termination of an employee, prior approval of the Director of Education is mandatory and required, the Division Bench of the High Court has not followed the decision of this Court in the case of Raj Kumar (supra) by erroneously observing G that in the case of Raj Kumar (supra), this Court had not considered the earlier decision in the case of T.M.A. Pai Foundation Vs. State of Karnataka; (2002) 8 SCC 481. That thereafter, after following the decision of the Larger Bench of the High Court in the case of Central Academy Society Vs. Rajasthan Non-Govt. Educational H GAJANAND SHARMA v. ADARSH SIKSHA PARISAD SAMITI 953 & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] Institutional Tribunal; (2010) 3 WLC 21 reading down Section 18 A of the Act, 1989, observed that in case of a termination after the disciplinary enquiry/proceedings prior approval of the Director of Education is not required, the Division Bench of the High Court has allowed the writ appeal and has set aside the s passed by the learned Tribunal as well as the learned Single Judge and has upheld the of B termination. That the impugned and passed by the High Court is the subject matter of one of the present appeals. At this stage, it is required to be noted that letters patent appeal (D.B. Special Writ Appeal) No. 826/2011 was the subject matter of dated 06.01.2011 passed by the learned Single Judge denying the case of the appellant for equal pay for equal work. However, since the termination came to C be upheld, thereafter, without further entering into the merits of the appeal, the Division Bench of the High Court has dismissed the said appeal, which is also the subject matter of one of the present appeals. 3. Now so far as the impugned and passed by the Division Bench of the High Court upholding the of termination and D quashing and setting aside the s passed by the learned Tribunal and the learned Single Judge is concerned, it is vehemently submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant – employee that as such the High Court has materially erred in not following the binding decision of this Court in the case of Raj Kumar (supra).