Disabling the Speaker from deciding G disqualification petitions upon the issuance of a notice of intention to move a resolution for their removal does not conflict with the ruling in Kihoto Hollohan (supra) because the disablement of the Speaker does not amount to interference at the interlocutory stage; and H 11 (2007) 4 SCC 270 SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 885 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] e. In Nabam Rebia (supra), the Constitution Bench addressed A the issue pertaining to the role of the Speaker when disqualification proceedings are initiated against MLAs. The issue has ceased to be a “substantial question of law” and cannot be referred to a larger bench under Article 145(3) of the Constitution. B 37. Mr. Tushar Mehta, the learned Solicitor General, appeared for the Governor of the State of Maharashtra and urged that Nabam Rebia (supra) did not warrant a reference to a larger Bench for the following reasons: a. It is not the case of the petitioners that Nabam Rebia C (supra) is per incuriam. It considers all the relevant aspects, precedent, and constitutional provisions; b. Nabam Rebia (supra) considers the possibility of the misuse of the temporary disablement of the Speaker; c. The assertion that Nabam Rebia (supra) protects a member D of a House from disqualification is incorrect because members can always be subjected to disqualification proceedings by a Speaker whose majority in the House is not under a cloud of suspicion; d. Although the Speaker performs different functions as a E “Tribunal” under the Tenth Schedule and as an “officer of the State Legislature” under the rules of the House, their authority to perform both functions is derived from the same source which is the confidence of the majority of the House; and F e. Nabam Rebia (supra) does not conflict with Kihoto Hollohan (supra) because the latter permits quia timet actions where there are “grave, imminent and irreparable consequences.” 38. By its dated 17 February 2023, this Court directed that G the issue of whether a reference of the decision in Nabam Rebia (supra) to a larger Bench was warranted, would be determined together with the merits of the case. The reads thus: “8. The issue of whether a reference to a Bench of seven Judges should be made cannot be considered in the abstract; isolated or H 886 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A divorced from the facts of the case. Whether, the above principle which has been formulated in Nabam Rebia (supra) has an impact upon the factual position in the present case, needs deliberation. 9. In the above backdrop, the issue whether a reference of the decision in Nabam Rebia (supra) to a larger Bench is warranted, B would be determined together with the merits of the case.” 39. Learned counsel appearing for the parties were then heard on the merits of the case. ii. Submissions on the merits of the case 40. Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of C the petitioners made the following submissions: a.