ITS 71 CONSTITUTED ATTORNEY v. THE MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF GREATER MUMBAI [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] Transferable Development Rights (TDR) against the area A of land surrendered free of cost and free from all encumbrances, and also further additional Floor Space Index or Transferable Development Rights against the development or construction of the amenity on the surrendered land at his cost, as the Final Development B Control Regulations prepared in this behalf provide, or (c) by making in application to the State Government for acquiring such land under the provisions of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, C and the land (together with the amenity, if any, so developed or constructed) so acquired by agreement or by grant of Floor Space Index or additional Floor Space Index or Transferable Development Rights under this section or under the provisions of the Right to Fair Compensation and D Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, as the case may be, shall vest absolutely free from all encumbrances in the Planning Authority, Development Authority, or as the case may be, any Appropriate Authority.” E 21.As we have noted earlier, clauses (a), (b) and (c) were inserted by way of substitution in sub-section (1) of Section 126 under Maharashtra Act 10 of 1994 with effect from 25.03.1991. 22. As per Section 126(1), whenever the Planning Authority or Development Authority finds after the publication of a draft Regional Plan or a Development Plan that any land is required or reserved for F any of the public purposes mentioned in the plan, such authority may acquire the land for the said public purpose. This acquisition can be made by three different methods, indicated in clauses (a), (b) and (c). The methods of acquisition prescribed in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of sub- section (1) of Section 126, in simple terms are as follows:- G (i) The acquisition may be through an agreement entered into with the owner, by paying an amount agreed to; (ii) Alternatively, the acquisition may be by the grant of FSI or TDR in lieu of any payment, along with Additional FSI or Additional H 72 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A TDR against the development or construction of the amenity on the surrendered land at the cost of the owner; or (iii) The acquisition may also be by requesting the State Government to initiate the process of land acquisition under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation B and Resettlement Act, 2013. 23. We are concerned in this case with the second method of acquisition of land indicated in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 126. Under this clause, the owner and the planning authority are granted the leverage to agree that the compensation for the acquisition of the C land will be for a consideration, not paid in the form of cash but granted in kind, in the form of two things, namely, (i) FSI or TDR for the area of land surrendered; and (ii) additional FSI or additional TDR against the development or construction of the amenity on the surrendered land.