or any other person with the connivance in any manner, A with intent to deceive, to gain undue advantage from, or to injure the interest of the company or its shareholders or its creditors or any other person, whether or not there is any wrongful gain or wrongful loss: (ii) “wrongful gain” means the gain by unlawful means B of property to which the person gaining is not legally entitled, (iii) “wrongful loss” means the loss by unlawful means of property to which the person losing is legally entitled” C vii) It is submitted that Sections 435 to 438 of the Companies Act provide a procedure in trial by a Special Court incorporating safeguards of the CrPC. A chart reflecting the comparative scheme of protections afforded to parties before the NCLT as opposed to a prosecution before the Special Court established under the Act viii) It is submitted that even if Section 140(5) is not applicable in D a given case due to the retirement or resignation of an auditor prior to an being passed, that will not enable such an auditor to escape the vigour of law under the Companies Act, 2013, Even if an auditor resigns, he will nevertheless have to face (a) prosecution for fraud under Section 447 of the Act; (b) action E before the National Financial Regulatory Authority; (c) by the NCLT debarring auditors from acting as such in respect of any company as well can be passed under Section 243 (1A) read with Section 241 and 242(4A); and (d) disqualification under Section 141(3)(h) if the auditor is found guilty of fraud. The consequence of each of these proceedings is grave for the auditor, F including debarment, and the auditor does not escape punishment. ix) It is submitted that the operative part of Section 140(5) empowers NCLT to direct a company to “change” its auditor. NCLT can exercise this power if it is satisfied that ah auditor is guilty of acting in a fraudulent manner or in abetting or colluding G in a fraud and has neither resigned nor been removed by the company. It is submitted that therefore the that NCLT can pass under the operative part of Section 140(5) is against the company and not the auditor. It is an to the company to change its auditor and no other . It is submitted that the word H 992 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A “change” has been held to mean “replace with or exchange for another” and “the substitution of one thing for another”. x) It is submitted that as per the non-obstante clause provided in Section 140(5), it is clear that the NCLT can direct the company and no one else to remove the auditor. The non-obstante clause B needs to be read with the term “change” as provided therein. It is submitted that Section 140(5) of the Act cannot apply in circumstances where the auditor sought to be removed has ceased to hold that position as no of change can be passed once the auditor has resigned.