The question that then emerges is what “services” are within the domain of NCTD. H GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 579 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] N. “Services” and NCTD A 157. Now that we have held that NCTD has legislative and executive power with respect to “services” under Entry 41, a natural question that arises is as to the extent of control of NCTD over “services”. The question becomes pertinent because the three entries (public , police, land), which are excluded from the scope of NCTD’s legislative B power, also have some relation with “services”. This Court must create a distinction between “services” to be controlled by NCTD and the Union in relation to NCTD. The distinction must be drawn keeping in mind the ambit of legislative and executive power conferred upon NCTD by the Constitution, and the principles of constitutional governance for NCTD C laid down in the 2018 Constitution Bench . 158. This Court has laid down that the scope of an Entry in the Seventh Schedule needs to be read widely. In IK Saksena v. State of Madhya Pradesh51, a four judge Bench of this Court held that the entries in Schedule VII have to be read in their widest possible amplitude. D The Bench held that the area of legislative competence defined by Entry 41 is far more comprehensive than that covered by Article 309: “32. It is well settled that the entries in these legislative lists in Schedule VII are to be construed in their widest possible amplitude, and each general word used in such entries must be held to E comprehend ancillary or subsidiary matters. Thus considered, it is clear that the scope of Entry 41 is wider than the matter of regulating the recruitment and conditions of service of public servants under Article 309. The area of legislative competence defined by Entry 41 is far more comprehensive than that covered by the proviso to Article 309.” F (emphasis added) 159. But, in our context, we may not be able to read Entry 41 in relation to NCTD in the widest possible sense because all entries in List II (including Entry 41) need to be harmonized with the limitation laid down in Article 239AA(3)(a) on NCTD’s legislative and executive power G by excluding matters related to ‘public ’, ‘police’, and ‘land’. 160. The legislative and executive power of NCTD over Entry 41 shall not extend over to services related to “public ”, “police”, and 51 (1976) 4 SCC 750 H 580 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A “land”. However, legislative and executive power over services such as Indian Administrative Services, or Joint Cadre services, which are relevant for the implementation of policies and vision of NCTD in terms of day-to-day administration of the region shall lie with NCTD. Officers thereunder may be serving in NCTD, even if they were not recruited by NCTD. In such a scenario, it would be relevant to refer, as an example, B to some of the Rules, which clearly demarcate the control of All India or Joint-Cadre services between the Union and the States.