Therefore, it is contended by the learned counsel that the impugned ban is in violation of Article 19(1)(g) of The Constitution of India. Furthermore, counsel highlighted that the State government had entered into agreements with such small enterprises, that were manufacturing non-woven bags, as a part of various skill-development and entrepreneurship programmes promoted by the government. 21. It was also submitted that non-woven polypropylene is used in various medical, industrial, and other applications including diapers, sanitary napkins etc., in terms of the 2016 Rules and they exhibit very high percentage values compared to non-woven carry bags. While the disposal of other poly-propylene products is permitted with treatment methods, if and when stipulated, it was urged that the same logic can be extended to TAMIL NADU AND PUDUCHERRY PAPER CUP MANUFACTURES 1143 ASSOCIATION v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] non-woven polypropylene bags as well. Further, To demonstrate its safety, counsel pointed out that polypropylene is often used as a non-absorbable, synthetic suture material in medical implants, in specifi c surgeries, etc. which proves that it will not cause any health hazard to human being. It was further argued that scientifi c studies proved that even the discarded bags can be used as an ingredient for laying asphalt roads; this technology was not being utilized by the government. Instead of adopting and implementing ecological alternatives for re-use and re-cycling of the plastic, the Government had hastily imposed the ban without any scientifi c study preceding such ban. 22. Regardless, that apart, counsel contended that non-woven carry bags cannot be categorised as one time or single use and throw away items. These will not be thrown away after one use and there is also no data to show that the non-woven carry bags are causing any impact on the environment. Given that they are not distributed for free, it is more compelling to conclude that people would not throw after single use, and will reuse. Further, waste segregation is an important task which the Municipal authorities or local body have to carry out. Instead of ensuring that the instrumentalities of the government are effi ciently discharging such duties, the government had chosen to adopt a short cut method to ban the non-woven carry bags. If waste segregation is properly done by adopting scientifi c and novel methods, the ban may not be necessary. 23. Further, before imposing the ban, the stakeholders were not consulted and no notice was issued to the manufacturers as a whole. Even though some of the associations approached the Government and gave their objections, it was argued that in itself could not dispense with the requirement to hear all the stakeholders who are likely to be aff ected before the ban. 24. Counsel argued also on the absence of data to establish that non- woven bags in fact contribute so heavily to litter. On the other hand, if the state intended to give eff ect to the concept of micro plastics, they should also impose ban on other products (toothpaste, cosmetic items such as face wash, scrubs etc.