ED as a whole. It is contended that the Amendments, which enable the A Government to provide for extension and that too for a period of one year at a time and which could extend to three extensions in total, would enable the Government to apply a ‘carrot and stick’ policy. It is contended that if the Director of CBI as well as the Director of Enforcement acts as per the desire of the Government, they could be provided extensions B of their tenure. Per contra, if such a Director does not act as per the desire of the Government, he would be denied extensions. It is, thus, submitted that the very purpose of insulating these premium Agencies from extraneous pressures by the Government is sought to be wiped by the impugned Amendments. C 66. For considering the issue with regard to validity of the Amendments, it will be apposite to refer to some of the s of this Court delineating the scope of the judicial review in examining the legislative functions of the Legislature. 67. A bench of three learned Judges of this Court in the case of Asif Hameed and others v. State of Jammu and Kashmir and D others21observed thus: “17. Before adverting to the controversy directly involved in these appeals we may have a fresh look on the inter se functioning of the three organs of democracy under our Constitution. Although the doctrine of separation of powers has not been recognised E under the Constitution in its absolute rigidity but the Constitution makers have meticulously defined the functions of various organs of the State. legislature, executive and judiciary have to function within their own spheres demarcated under the Constitution. No organ can usurp the functions assigned to another. The Constitution F trusts to the of these organs to function and exercise their discretion by strictly following the procedure prescribed therein. The functioning of democracy depends upon the strength and independence of each of its organs. legislature and executive, the two facets of people’s will, they have all the powers including that of finance. Judiciary has no power over sword or the purse G nonetheless it has power to ensure that the aforesaid two main organs of State function within the constitutional limits. It is the sentinel of democracy. Judicial review is a powerful weapon to restrain unconstitutional exercise of power by the legislature and 21 1989 Supp (2) SCC 364 H 562 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A executive. The expanding horizon of judicial review has taken in its fold the concept of social and economic justice. While exercise of powers by the legislature and executive is subject to judicial restraint, the only check on our own exercise of power is the self- imposed discipline of judicial restraint. B 18. Frankfurter, J. of the U.S. Supreme Court dissenting in the controversial expatriation case of Trop v. Dulles [356 US 86] observed as under: “All power is, in Madison’s phrase, “of an encroaching nature”. Judicial power is not immune against this human weakness.