This insurance cover will virtually serve to render the settlement an open ended one so far as the contingent class of future victims both existing and after-born are concerned. The possible claimants fall into G two categories: those who were in existence at the time of exposure; and those who were yet unborn and whose congenital defects are traceable to MIC toxicity inherited or derived congenitally.” H 4 (supra) UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. M/S. UNION CARBIDE 889 CORPORATION & ORS. 12. There is no dispute that the compensation was deposited within A time. 13. Subsequently, certain endeavours were made on behalf of victims from time to time to open up the settlement. However, these were opposed by the Union of India and were not successful. The most recent such attempt was Bhopal Gas Peedith Mahila Udyog B Sangathan & Anr. V. Union of India & Ors.5 14. We are confronted here with an application filed under this Court’s curative jurisdiction by the Union of India 19 years post the settlement (i.e. in 2010) seeking to reopen the same. It is noteworthy that the Union chose not to file the review petitions which culminated in C this Court’s dated 02.05.1989. Naturally, the present petitions have been strongly opposed by UCC, whereas groups stated to be representing the victims have endeavoured to ride piggyback on the curative petitions. 15. The curative petitions are broadly predicated on account of “wrong assumption of facts and data” which undergirded the quantum D of the settlement. Thus, the plea is that this ‘incompleteness of facts’, particularly with respect to the number of victims, has vitiated the settlement itself. On this basis, the settlement amount needs to be re- examined by this Court. Nevertheless, we may note that the Union of India was quite conscious of the fact that if the settlement were to be E reopened, it would result in a revival of the suit, something which the Union has not even claimed. What the Union of India claims in essence is to top up the settlement i.e. maintain the factum of the settlement but to increase the amount as canvassed by Mr. R. Venkataramani, the learned Attorney General. 16. The Union of India’s claims, as set out in the petitions, are F based on three categories: “Claim – I: Claim on account of incorrect and wrong assumption of facts and data in the impugned s and s on following grounds: G (i) Error in computation of Death Cases – Court recorded the estimated number of death cases was 3,000 whereas actual figure of death is 5,295 cases. 5 (2007) 9 SCC 707. H 890 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A (ii) Error in computation of Temporary Injury Cases – Court recorded the estimated number of temporary disability cases was 20,000 whereas actual figure of temporary disability is 35,455 cases. (iii) Error in computation of Minor Injury Cases – Court B recorded that the estimated number of Minor Injury cases was 50,000 whereas actual figure of Minor Injury is 5,27,894 cases.