The age limitations were later raised to 18 and 21 years old, under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. The practise of marrying off children young, which prevailed before these enactments, was thus, interdicted by legislation. 4 1985 (3) SCR 844 5 2001 Suppl. (3) SCR 419 144 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 21. Similarly, even while exercising personal choice in marriage, these choices are regulated by law – prohibition of marriage of persons related by blood (consanguineous marriages)6. Other restrictions such as the requirement to be of “sound mind” to give valid consent or not to be “unfi t for marriage and the procreation of children”.7 If a spouse is “incurably of unsound mind” or on the ground of unsoundness, the other spouse can secure divorce8. Bigamy among Hindus was abolished by enactment of the HMA, in 1955. Reform has been the underlying theme, impelling the state to intervene. The legislative trajectory, and indeed some of the debates that preceded enactment of measures like monogamy and divorce, showed a division of opinion. The fi rst President, Rajendra Prasad, expressed strong sentiments against adopting such “foreign” concepts which were opposed to Hindu society. There were other voices, most prominently, women in public life, who supported the need to empower women. 22. It can thus, be seen that two kinds of legislations have regulated marriage: the fi rst, like SMA, HMA, the Hindu Disabilities Removal Act, and the Hindu Widows Remarriage Act, removed barriers, and enabled exercise of meaningful choice, specifi cally to women. The second kind of legislation are those which enacted restrictive regulations, essentially to further an ly society and/or protect women: prohibit bigamy; defi ne minimum age for marriage; child marriage restraint; marriage of individuals within prohibited degrees of relationships, etc. Whereas some restrictions, in a sense 6 Defi ned as “prohibited degrees” under Section 3 (g) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 - which is not confi ned to a bar against marriages related by blood, but also through non-biological ties, such as widow of brother, son’s widow; mother in law, etc; Section 3 (1) (a) of the Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act, 1936; Section 19, Indian Divorce Act, 1869; Section 88, Indian Christian Marriages Act, 1872. Among Muslims, the concept of consanguinity is known as qurabat, i.e. blood relationships such as marrying one’s relatives like mother, grandmother, sister, aunt, niece, etc. Other grounds (affi nity or mushaarat) are also prohibited relationships, i.e. marriage with mother in law, daughter in law, step grandmother; step granddaughter, fosterage when a child under the age of two years has been fed by a woman other than his mother, or when the woman becomes his foster mother, a man cannot marry his foster mother or her daughter, i.e. foster sister. 7 Section 5 (i) (ii) (iii), HMA [Hindu Marriage Act, 1955] 8 Section 13 HMA; Section 32 (b) and (bb) Parsi Marriage Act, 1936; Section 10 (1) (iii) Indian Divorce Act, 1869; under Section 2 (v) of the Dissolution of Muslim Marriages Act, 1939 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR.