Secretary, Revenue for consideration of the matter. The meeting ended with a vote of thanks to the chair. G Sd/- (Hukam Singh Rajpurohit) Secretary to Government & Member Secretary” H x----------------------------x-------------------------------x BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 277 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] xviii) There has also been an admission on oath before the A Rajasthan High Court in another similar matter.12 The affidavit submitted before the High Court lays out the following in terms of the State’s position: a) RIICO has been authorized to act in accordance with the 1979 Rules in respect to industrial plots. The Rules themselves have B acquired statutory force by virtue of reference to these Rules in statutory legislations/enactments. Given this, no other authority would be able to interfere in the sphere of activities that are regulated under the 1979 Rules; b) RIICO’s own authority derives from Rules 11A and 12 of the 1959 Rules, by virtue of which the State Government C had vested the responsibility to develop industrial areas upon the Corporation; (c) RIICO, as a public sector undertaking, would not have been able to function in the manner in which it does if express authorization had not been provided. xix) The change of use of the land was permitted under the D Master Plan. As the 1979 Rules were applicable by virtue of the 18.09.1979 transferring industrial lands to RIICO, the Corporation’s only obligation was to ensure that the sub-division and alteration of the utilization of the land was in consonance with said Rules read with the Master E Plan. Moreover, the State of Rajasthan itself issued a circular on 19.03.2003 allowing conversion of industrial land for other purposes in to promote economic growth, in light of the recession that had taken hold at the time; xx) The initial agreement for transfer of the lands from JKSL F to Respondent No. 1 was signed by the Collector, not because the State Government still had control, but rather because those were the requirements under SICA and the AAIFR scheme. Rule 9(iv) of the 1959 Rules had required a lessee which was declared a “sick company” under SICA, at that time JKSL, to seek permission from the State G Government for transfer of its lease rights to a third entity. The permission was manifested through the District Collector, Kota, under the aegis of the AAIFR scheme. 12 Annex. R-47: D.B. WP (Civil) No. 19102 of 2018, “Ravindra Sharma v. State of Rajasthan & Ors.” – Add. Affidavit on behalf of Respondents, by Mr. Rajendra Singh, H Dy. Comm., JDA, Jodhpur. 278 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A This was not a fresh lease, but only an extension of the already existing period of the subsisting lease. Hence, this was not an acknowledgement of any kind by Respondent No. 1 that the State of Rajasthan retained control over the land and was merely a procedural requirement that was being fulfilled under the 1959 Rules, due to JKSL’s status B as a sick company.