It is submitted that however thereafter on 21.10.2019 through internal communication, GM(HR) I/c LAQ Section, ONGC, Ahmedabad was informed that the permanent acquisition C of the land in question is put on hold and the proposal detailing number of acquisition to be made at Ahmedabad Asset, including its financial implications have been sent for appraisal to the Executive Committee/ ONGC Board. It is submitted that therefore the respondent-ONGC has full intention to proceed with the permanent acquisition, but due to the reasons so stated in the letter dated 21.10.2019, the process for permanent D acquisition was put on hold. It is therefore submitted that the respondent- ONGC needs more time to make the acquisition process in conformity with 2013 Act, to acquire the land permanently. 5.2 Now so far as the grievance on behalf of the appellants that they are being paid meagre annual rent is concerned, it is submitted that E as such In-house Executive Committee of the ONGC revises the rate after every three years. It is submitted that the rate of rent is revised recently as well with effect from 1.2.2021 from Rs. 24/- per square meter to Rs. 30/- per square meter for the lands acquired directly by ONGC on temporary basis. It is submitted that periodical upward rent is accepted voluntarily by the appellants. It is submitted that the appellants F again claiming the annual rent/revision of annual rent considering the market value/market price of the land in question. 6. We have heard learned counsel for the respective parties at length. At the outset, it is required to be noted that the land in question G owned by the appellants has been under temporary acquisition by the respondent-ONGC since the year 1996 for the purposes of its oil exploration. The land in question has been purchased by the first appellant under a registered sale deed dated 15.3.2005. Therefore, as such, at the time when appellant No.1 purchased the land in question, the land in question was under temporary acquisition by the ONGC. Be that as it H MANUBHAI SENDHABHAI BHARWAD v. OIL AND 1027 NATURAL GAS CORPORATION LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] may, on and from 15.3.2005, appellant No. 1 is the owner of the land in A question and therefore can question the temporary acquisition if the temporary acquisition has been continued for a long period. It is to be noted that the land in question now falls in the city of Ahmedabad and the prices of the land have increased manyfold. The appellants are being paid the annual rent @ Rs. 30/- per square meter per annum as revised. B As observed hereinabove, the land in question is under temporary acquisition by the ONGC since the year 1996 for its oil exploration. The same is under temporary acquisition under Section 35 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (for short, ‘1894 Act’). Section 35 of the 1894 Act reads as under: C “35. Temporary occupation of waste or arable land, procedure when difference as to compensation exists – (1) Subject to the provisions of Part VII of this Act, whenever it appears to the appropriate Government that the temporary occupation and use of any waste or arable land are needed for any public purpose, or for a company, the appropriate Government may direct the D Collector to procure the occupation and use of the same for such terms as it shall think fit, not exceeding three years from commencement of such occupation.