599/2017 which was dismissed by this Court on 24.08.2018. This Court also vacated the interim protection granted to respondent No. 8 vide dated 15.09.2017. The learned CJM, Baghpat issued non-bailable warrant against B respondent No. 8 vide dated 08.09.2018. That thereafter and after non-bailable warrant was issued against respondent No. 8 herein, mother of Ashwani Kumar – accused moved an application dated 23.01.2019 to the Secretary (Home), State of Uttar Pradesh for transferring the investigation to CBCID, inter-alia, on the ground that respondent No. 8 C has been arraigned as accused on the basis of statements of two witnesses who in fact were in the Jail and therefore, their statements cannot be believed. That by dated 13.02.2019, Secretary (Home) State of U.P., Lucknow, ed further investigation by CBCID. The passed by the Secretary (Home) transferring investigation to CBCID was impugned before the High Court by way of present petition. By the D impugned and the High Court has dismissed the writ petition by observing that further investigation was ed after intimation to the learned Magistrate and therefore, there is no infirmity in the passed by the Secretary (Home) directing further investigation. The impugned and passed by the High Court is the subject E matter of present appeal. 3. Ms. Vibha Datta Makhija, learned Senior Advocate has appeared on behalf of the appellant and Shri S. Nagamuthu and Shri Rameshwar Singh Malik, learned Senior Advocates have appeared on behalf of respondent Nos. 8 and 11. Shri Anand Sanjay M. Nuli, learned F counsel has appeared on behalf of the intervenor. 4. Ms. Makhija, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the appellant has vehemently submitted that the passed by the Secretary (Home) transferring the investigation to CBCID is absolutely illegal and contrary to the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure G (Cr.PC). 4.1 It is submitted that in the present case after thorough investigation by the investigating agency of the State, respondent Nos. 8 and 11 were chargesheeted. It is submitted that once chargesheeted thereafter, at the instance of mother of one of the accused, the Secretary (Home) could not have transferred the investigation. H BOHATIE DEVI (DEAD) THROUGH LR v. THE STATE OF 649 UTTAR PRADESH & ORS [M. R. SHAH, J.] 4.2 It is vehemently submitted that such an of transfer of A investigation by the Secretary (Home) and that too at the instance of mother of one of the accused, is un-known to law and is not permissible at all. 4.3 It is further submitted by Ms. Makhija, learned Senior Advocate that in fact, the grounds on which the investigation was sought to be B transferred can be said to be the defences on behalf of the accused which are required to be considered at the time of trial. It is submitted that as such by passing the of transfer of investigation to CBCID and the subsequent investigation by CBCID virtually acquits the accused who are chargesheeted in the supplementary chargesheet and would C tantamount to nullify the chargesheet against respondent Nos.