H 1068 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Secondly- Without her consent. Thirdly- With her consent, when her consent has been obtained by putting her or any person in whom she is interested in fear of death or of hurt. Fourthly- With her consent, when the man knows that he is not B her husband and that her consent is given because she believes that he is another man to whom she is or believes herself to be lawfully married. Fifthly- With her consent when, at the time of giving such consent, by reason of unsoundness of mind or intoxication or the C administration by him personally or through another of any stupefying or unwholesome substance, she is unable to understand the nature and consequences of that to which she gives consent. Sixthly- With or without her consent, when she is under eighteen years of age. D Seventhly- when she is unable to communicate consent. Explanation 1- For the purposes of this section, “vagina” shall also include labia majora. Explanation 2.- Consent means an unequivocal voluntary agreement when the woman by words, gestures or any form of E verbal or non-verbal communication, communicates willingness to participate in the specific sexual act: Provided that a woman who does not physically resist to the act of penetration shall not by the reason only of that fact, be regarded as consenting to the sexual activity. F Exception1. A medical procedure or intervention shall not constitute rape. Exception 2.- Sexual intercourse or sexual acts by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under fifteen years of age, is not rape.” G 10. It would be germane to note that the basic principles of criminal jurisprudence warrant that the prosecution has to prove the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt by leading cogent evidence, however, considering the ethos and culture of the Indian Society, and considering the rising graph of the commission of the social crime – ‘Rape’, the H NAIM AHAMED v. STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 1069 [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] courts have been permitted to raise a legal presumption as contained in A Section 114A of the Indian Evidence Act. As per Section 114A, a presumption could be raised as to the absence of consent in certain cases pertaining to Rape. As per the said provision, if sexual intercourse by the accused is proved and the question arises as to whether it was without the consent of the woman alleged to have been raped, and if she B states in her evidence before the court that she did not consent, the court shall presume that she did not consent. 11. It cannot be gainsaid that a consent given by a person would not be a consent as intended by any Section of the Indian Penal Code, if such consent was given by the person under the fear of injury, or under C a misconception of fact as contemplated in Section 90 IPC. Further, Section 375 also describes certain acts which if committed by the accused under the circumstances mentioned therein, as the commission of ‘Rape’, even though committed with the consent of the prosecutrix.