As such the aforesaid provisions made in the Adhiniyam have to be taken into consideration before G interpreting the word ‘implementation.’ After a scheme is published under S. 50(7) of the Adhiniyam, the Director has an authority to revise the final scheme within a period of two years and then under S. 56 of the Adhiniyam the Authority has been given power to initiate negotiations for acquisition a within H 112 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A a period of 3 years, failing which the land acquisition proceedings may be initiated and S. 57 postulates the commencement of the development work after the land is acquired and is vested in the authority. As such the word ‘implementation’ can never be construed to mean that the scheme should be fulfilled or carried out within a period of three years. Reading S. 54 of the Adhiniyam B along with Ss. 56 and 57 of the Adhiniyam the irresistable conclusion is that the intention of the legislature was that if a scheme is lying idle after its final publication for a period of 3 years, then it will lapse. But if steps have been taken by the authorities towards the implementation of the scheme then, the C word ‘implementation’ shall not be construed to mean that the period of three years is the period prescribed for the completion of the scheme. 19. In the instant case the scheme is for the preparation of a ring road and developing different facilities and civic conveniences D around the ring road. A scheme for a much larger construction and development may be prepared which may even take ten years to complete. If we interpret the word ‘implementation’ in its narrow sense, a big scheme can never be taken in hand by any development authority because it may not be possible to complete that scheme within 3 years. Therefore, that only reasonable interpretation in E view of the different provisions of the Adhiniyam, can be that if the development authority takes steps towards the implementation of the scheme and does not sit just idle for a period of three years, then the scheme shall not lapse, but if after the publication of the scheme nothing is done on the part of the authority, towards the F implementation of the scheme then that scheme shall lapse. 20. A Division Bench of this Court in the case of Laxmichand v. The Indore Development Authority, Indore (M.P. No. 390 of 1980 decided on 14-12-81) in which a similar argument was advanced that after the expiry of three years G if the scheme is not implemented it lapsed, has held that S. 54 does not appear to apply when substanital steps have been taken within three years to implement the scheme. The Court had also taken into consideration Ss. 56, 57 and 58 of the Adhiniyam and has taken a view that the words ‘fails to implement’ would mean failure to take any substantial steps for the implementation of the H INDORE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY v. BURHANI GRIH NIRMAN 113 SAHAKARI SANSTHA MARYADIT SNEH NAGAR [M. R. SHAH, J.]