The Court can only strike down some or entire directions issued by the Reserve Bank in C case the Court is satisfied that the directions were wholly unreasonable or violative of any provisions of the Constitution or any statute. It would be hazardous and risky for the courts to tread an unknown path and should leave such task to the expert bodies. This Court has repeatedly said that matters of D economic policy ought to be left to the government.” [emphasis supplied] 200. The Court has held that it is not permissible for a Court to advise in matters relating to financial and economic policies for which bodies like Reserve Bank are fully competent. It has been held that it E would be risky and hazardous for the courts to tread an unknown path and should leave such task to the expert bodies. 201. Recently a three-Judge Bench of this Court, speaking through one of us (V. Ramasubramanian, J. ), in the case of Internet and Mobile Association of India (supra) observed thus: F “141. But as pointed out elsewhere, RBI is the sole repository of power for the management of the currency, under Section 3 of the RBI Act. RBI is also vested with the sole right to issue bank notes under Section 22(1) and to issue currency notes supplied to it by the Government of India and has an important G role to play in evolving the monetary policy of the country, by participation in the Monetary Policy Committee which is empowered to determine the policy rate required to achieve the inflation target, in terms of the consumer price index. Therefore, anything that may pose a threat to or have an impact on the financial system of the country, can be H 106 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A regulated or prohibited by RBI, despite the said activity not forming part of the credit system or payment system. The expression “management of the currency” appearing in Section 3(1) need not necessarily be confined to the management of what is recognised in law to be currency but would also include what is capable of faking or playing the role of a currency.” B [emphasis supplied] 202. It can thus be seen that this Court has held that the RBI is the sole repository of power for the management of currency. It is also vested with the sole right to issue bank notes and to issue currency notes supplied to it by the Government of India. It has been held that the RBI C has an important role to play in evolving the monetary policy of the country. Application of the aforesaid principles to the present case 203. It is thus clear that this Court has consistently recognised the role assigned to the RBI in management and issuance of currency notes, D so also in evolving monetary policy of the country. We have referred to the aforesaid s with regard to the primary status of RBI in dealing with the management and regulation of currency and in evolving the monetary policy of the country.