This is clearly impermissible. As regards the claim for compensation alleging change in law brought about by the Office Memorandum issued by the Joint Secretary is concerned, in the B first place, it is pointed out that the proper thing for the first respondent to do would have been to take up the matter with the Department and claim a refund and he would submit it is strange instead of doing that the burden is sought to be passed on to the procurers and which, in turn, would necessarily be passed on to the ultimate consumers. C (24) Further, it is pointed out that the Tribunal has actually proceeded to take into consideration the earlier notifications which prevailed at the time of the cut off date with reference to which alone change in law is projected. Thereafter, it has come to the conclusion that for the goods imported from abroad for the purpose of the captive mines, D there was an exemption. Such an inquiry itself could not have been done. In other words, it is not a case where the first respondent had indisputable material on hand which established unambiguously that there was a change in law. This is for the reason that there is no material to establish that prior to the cut off date, the goods which are the subject matter of dispute, were exempt under the notification. On the other hand, E our attention is drawn to the decision of the Advance ruling authority which has gone into the issue and found that goods in question were not exempt. In fact, it is the contention of the appellants that the office memorandum issued by the Joint Secretary, Ministry of Power, merely follows the advance ruling. F (25) Another argument which is raised in this regard is that the Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Power is not the final Governmental authority within the meaning of clause 13.1.1. What we are concerned with is notification issued under Section 25 of the Customs Act. It is not as if any authority which is competent within the meaning of Article G 13.1.1 has issued a notification or even an interpretation within the meaning of the said article which has resulted in a change in law within the meaning of Article 13.1.1. (26) We have also heard Shri Dhruv Mehta, as we have already stated. We have heard the other senior counsel who have essentially adopted the arguments which have been addressed by Mr. H HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 35 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] P.Chidambaram, learned senior counsel, and they are one in contending A that the Tribunal has strayed outside the contours of its jurisdiction and this has resulted in an which is clearly illegal and erroneous. SUBMISSIONS OF THE FIRST RESPONDENT (27) Per contra, Mr. Sajjan Poovayya, learned senior counsel B for the first respondent, took us through the other side of the picture and projected a totally different scenario. He would point out, in the first place, that the Court may not view the PPA in question as an ordinary contract.