686 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 19. It was submitted that there was no objection from any quarter, much less any stakeholder, with respect to the valuation of the Corporate Debtor and also the appellant’s Resolution Plan and most importantly, no material was placed on record before the NCLT or NCLAT to justify interference in the CoC’s commercial wisdom. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS: 20. Learned counsel for the respondents supported the contentions of the appellant, advanced by Mr. Divan. ASSISTANCE BY THE SOLICITOR GENERAL AND THE ADDITIONAL SOLICITOR GENERAL FOR THE UNION OF INDIA: 21. In the present case, although the RP and CoC were arrayed as respondents but having regard to the issues raised, this Court by dated 05.05.202212 had requested the learned Solicitor General, Mr. Tushar Mehta to assist. In terms thereof, he has fi led written submissions. Mr. Balbir Singh, learned Additional Solicitor General has also assisted this Court. 22. In sum, the written note deals with the legal aspects and the fi nal stand is that the Adjudicating Authority-NCLT would have no jurisdiction or power to sit in appeal over the commercial wisdom of the CoC and interference would be warranted only when the NCLT or the Appellate Authority (viz. NCLAT) finds the decision of the CoC to be wholly capricious, arbitrary, irrational and dehors the provisions in the Code or the Regulations. 23. For such proposition, he relied upon the decision in Vallal RCK v Siva Industries and Holdings Limited, 2022 SCC OnLine SC 717, the relevant being at Paragraph 24, with regard to the binding and fi nal nature of the Resolution plan after due approval by the CoC. 12 The is as below: ‘Having regard to the issues involved, we have requested Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General to assist the Court in this matter. The relevant papers may be supplied to the offi ce of the learned Solicitor General within two days. The matter may be listed on the next date while showing name of Mr. Arvind Kumar Sharma, learned counsel assisting the learned Solicitor General. List the matter on 18.05.2022. Short notes on the submissions may be fi led in advance.’ RAMKRISHNA FORGINGS LTD v. RAVINDRA LOONKAR, 687 R. P. OF ACIL LTD.[AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] 24. Mr. Singh also referred to Arun Kumar Jagatramka v Jindal Steel and Power Limited, (2021) 7 SCC 474, the relevant being Paragraph 95, holding that the need for judicial intervention or innovation from NCLT and NCLAT should be kept at its bare minimum and should not disturb the foundational principle of the Code. He also referred to Committee of Creditors of Essar Steel India Ltd. (supra), where at Paragraph 69, it has been observed that a harmonious reading of Sections 31(1) & 60(5) of the Code would lead to the result that the residual jurisdiction of the NCLT under Section 60(5)(c) of the Code cannot, in any manner, whittle down Section 31(1) of the Code, by the investment of some discretionary or equity jurisdiction in the Adjudicating Authority-NCLT outside Section 30(2) of the Code, when it comes to a Resolution Plan pending adjudication.