Para 5.2 of NCDP provides that “In to meet the domestic H 116 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A requirement of coal, CIL may have to import coal as may be required from time to time, if feasible. CIL may adjust its overall price accordingly. Thus, it will be the responsibility of CIL/ Coal companies to meet full requirement of coal under FSAs even by resorting to imports, if necessary”. Post NCDP MoC granted linkages between 2008-2010 with the assumption that it B would meet coal requirement at around 85% PLF. On this basis LoAs were issued by coal companies, after getting commitment guarantees in the form of Bank Guarantee from the developers thereby undertaking an explicit obligation to supply coal to the extent of the specified quantity to the power developer. Having C obtained the LOA the developers would have proceeded on the assumption of getting the requisite quantity of domestic coal with the disincentive trigger of 90% of LoA quantity prevailing under the then Fuel Supply Agreement (FSA) with a provision for CIL resorting to import of coal to bridge the gap, if any. It is assumed that the power producers would have factored this assurance D regarding coal supply while submitting their bids in response to Case 1 and Case 2 competitive bidding for long term power purchase agreements. Thus, while the fuel price risk would have been taken into account and factored in the escalable component of energy charges, it is assumed that no fuel availability risk would E have been taken into consideration on account of the LOAs given by CIL. 2. It now transpires that on account of the limited availability of coal Ministry of Col has indicated that CIL may not be in a position to supply more than 60 to 65% of ACQ to those power producers F who had been earlier issued LOAs of normative quantities corresponding to 85% PLF. Simultaneously, it has been proposed that the disincentive trigger for coal supply would be brought down from 90% to 60 to 65% by CIL in the new fuel supply agreements to be signed with these power producers. This obviously would create a situation where the power producers would have to arrange G fuel from open market including imports either through CIL or directly. In view of this scenario, PPAs which are already concluded between the developers and discoms as a result of competitive bidding in the last few years based on domestic coal linkage (LOA) may have to use imported coal to bridge the H shortage of domestic coal in to fulfil that contractual MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 117 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] obligations. The Association of Power Producers represented on A this issue of shortage of domestic coal and its consequential effect on the concluded PPAs through competitive bidding route. 3. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) has also considered the situation arising out of the inadequate availability of coal leading to this non-fulfilment of the LOA commitments on B the part of CIL.