Section 42 of the 1971 Act reads as under: “42. Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, no Civil Court shall have jurisdiction in respect of any matter which the Administrator, Competent Authority or Tribunal is empowered by or under this Act, to determine, and no injunction shall be granted by any Court or other authority in respect of any action taken or to be taken in pursuance of any power conferred by or under this Act.” 13. Be that as it may, the SRA which was in any case a necessary party to the Civil Suit, was not made a defendant. The reasons are not diffi cult to locate. In the absence of SRA, there was no one to question the maintainability of the suit, as it ultimately ended in a compromise decree. It so happens that during the pendency of the suit an MoU was signed between the plaintiff and appellant-society, which had as its members, most of the contesting defendants, and the so called contesting parties agreed to resolve their diff erences as per the MOU. 14. The Memorandum of Understanding (hereinafter referred to as ‘MoU’) dated 23.06.2009, is an interesting piece of document signed between the developer and the society registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 which is also proposed to be registered as a charitable trust under the Bombay Public Trust Act, 1950 (it was till then not registered as a Trust). The society claimed that it had 770 hutments dwellers as its members. The MoU is between the developer and the society, to which most of the defendants in the Civil Suit were members of the society i.e., Sayunkta Sangharsh Samiti (hereinafter referred to as ‘SSS’). A purely private arrangement was thus arrived at between the developer and the minority members of the hutment dwellers whereby the society undertook to enforce self-development rehabilitation with the cooperation of the developer. Some of the important terms of the MoU are as under: “A. ………… B. Samiti i.e. M/s. Sayukta Sangharsh Samiti is a charitable organization incorporated with the sold object for the guidance and welfare of the Slum Dwellers occupying the said property. Trustees of the said Samiti are also the occupants of the 734 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. said entire property. The said Samiti is a non profi t making organization. However it will work for the benefi t of the said occupants including corpus and other benefi ts. C. Out of about 2000 Hutments about 770 Hutments dwellers of the said entire property approached Samiti to undertake the Self Development. List of the said 770 Hutment Dwellers is annexed herewith as Annexure ‘A’ and they are hereinafter referred to as the “Said Occupants”. Hence considering the interest of the said occupants Samiti had decided to enforce Self Development Rehabilitation Scheme and hence suggested the said intention to the Developer. D. Developers have alternately suggested to the Samiti to carry out the Self Construction of the rehab building/s for the said occupants which the Samiti has agreed.