C Making above submissions, it is prayed to dismiss the present appeals. 5. We have heard learned counsel appearing for respective parties at length. 5.1 At the outset it is required to be noted that the original award D dated 11.06.1993 passed under Section 11 of the Act, 1894 was a consent award with respect to the land owned by the present respondent – original land owner as well as other lands acquired for re-settlement of Narmada Project oustees. It is also to be noted that thereafter and pursuant to the consent award, the amount of compensation (90% + 10%) was in fact E offered to the land owner and he was called upon to accept the compensation offered, but the respondent – original land owner refused to accept the compensation offered and insisted to withdraw the acquisition. It was the case on behalf of the appellants before the High Court that the possession of the land in question was taken by drawing spot panchnama at the time of passing of the consent award. However, F the High Court has disbelieved the same by observing that even as per the affidavit of the Assistant Commissioner, the land owner continued to be in possession of the land in question and continued to cultivate the same. However, the affidavit which is reproduced in the impugned and is required to be considered in its true perspective G and in its entirety. In the affidavit dated 22.03.2013 filed by one Shri Bhagora Kamlasingh Jokhanbhai on behalf of the Assistant Commissioner, it was stated as under: “6. I state that however the Petitioner refused to handover the land and to take compensation along with other similarly H situated farmers whose land were also acquired as per the STATE OF GUJARAT AND ORS. v. JAYANTIBHAI 707 ISHWARBHAI PATEL [M. R. SHAH, J.] Award dated 11.06.1993. The Petitioner along with other A persons made an application dated 27.07.1993 for cancellation of the Award. 7. I state that by the dated 07.03.1995, pursuant to the reluctance of the Petitioner to hand over the possession and to take the compensation on so called grounds of family B disputes, the of payment of compensation was cancelled, but at the same time, the of acquisition was not cancelled. It appears that the Petitioner has successfully avoided to handover the possession of the land acquired under the provisions of Act though the land is vested in the Respondent C No.3" 14. With regard to the averments made in para No.3.2 of the petition, I deny the same inasmuch as Petitioner refused to take the compensation and therefore, last notice was given to the Petitioner on 05.04.2010 and the Petitioner refused to D accept the compensation, the same is now, deposited with the Government Treasury as stated hereinabove. The Petitioner is, therefore, require to handover the possession of land to the Respondent No.3 so that the same can be allotted for rehabilitation of the affected persons of Narmada Project.” E 5.2 Thus, from the aforesaid it can be seen that it was the specific case on behalf of the appellants and the Assistant Commissioner that the land owner refused to hand over the land and refused to accept the compensation alongwith other similarly situated farmers whose lands were also acquired as per the consent award dated 11.06.1993.