Rather, it adds to it by specifying categories wherein it shall be deemed that there is permanent total disablement. 29. In Mohd. Nasir (supra), which has been relied by the High Court, the workman was a cleaner. He had suffered fracture in the leg. H 858 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A It was held that such injury would not amount to permanent loss of the use of the entire leg. Hence, the disablement was found partial and not total. 30. In Mubasir Ahmed (supra), another decision relied by the High Court, the matter did not relate to injuries specified in Schedule I and, as such, it was observed that the case was covered by Section B 4(1)(c)(ii) of the Act. However, in that case, the Court at no stage examined whether the disablement in question had incapacitated the workman from performing all work which he was capable of performing at the time of the accident resulting in such disablement. In other words, the Court had no occasion to examine the true import of the term “total C disablement” as defined by Section 2(1)(l) of the Act. Therefore, in our view, the decision in Mubasir Ahmed (supra) was wrongly applied by the High Court. 31. In the instant case, on the basis of medical certificate provided by the Board, the Commissioner found the appellant unfit for labour D inasmuch as there was complete loss of grip in appellant’s left hand. Prior to the accident, the appellant worked as a loading/unloading labourer. Even if she could use her right hand, the crux is whether she could be considered suitable for performing her task as a loading/unloading labourer. Such a task is ordinarily performed by using both hands. There is no material on record from which it could be inferred that the appellant E was skilled to perform any kind of job by use of one hand. It is also not a case where the appellant had the skill to perform her job by using machines which the appellant could operate by using one hand. In such circumstances, when the Board had certified that the appellant was rendered unfit for labour, there was no perversity in the decision of the F Commissioner in awarding compensation by treating the disability as total on account of her functional disability. Consequently, no question of law, much less a substantial one, arose for consideration by the High Court so as to allow the appeal in exercise of power under Section 30 of the Act. In our considered view, the High Court erred in partly setting aside the of the Commissioner and assessing the disability as 40% instead G of 100%, as assessed by the Commissioner. 32. For the reasons above, the appeal is allowed. The and of the High Court is set aside. The of the Commissioner is restored. There is no as to costs. H Ankit Gyan Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Aarsh Choudhary, LCRA)