24. Once we have come to the conclusion that the provisions of Clause 11 do not constitute an arbitration agreement, the corollary is that the High Court ought not to have relegated the parties to the Chief Engineer on the strength of Clause 11. It would have been appropriate if the High Court had fi nally determined the challenge addressed by the appellant in the writ proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution. Though the Single Judge has adverted to Clause 4, evidently there is no fi nal determination in that regard. 25. The of the Division Bench has exclusively relied on the provisions of Clause 11 while coming to the conclusion that the dispute between the parties fell within the ambit of the clause. The fundamental aspect of the matter, however, is that the provision for settlement of disputes which is contained in Clause 11 does not constitute the Chief Engineer as an arbitral tribunal since he cannot be regarded as an impartial offi cer nor do the provisions of Clause 11 incorporate the trappings of an arbitral tribunal. 26. For the above reasons, we allow the appeal and set aside both, the of the Single Judge dated 27 February 2018 and the of the Division Bench dated 18 June 2018. The Writ Petition, being Writ Petition No 111298/2014 (GM-RES), shall stand restored to the fi le of the Single Judge of the High Court of Karnataka at Dharwad Bench for decision afresh. 27. We clarify that we have not expressed any view on the merits of the case which is sought to be set up by the appellant in the Writ Petition or on the defence which has been urged on behalf of the respondents. 474 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 28. The Court has been apprised of the fact that in the meantime, the appellant, which has been taken over by the Aditya Birla Group, has continued to pay the revised water rates and has cleared the arrears while reserving its rights to avail of the remedies. The appellant shall continue to pay the rates as fi xed by the Board from time to time subject to such fi nal s as may be passed by the High Court in the Writ Petition which is restored to the fi le of the High Court. 29. The Appeal is accordingly disposed of. 30. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal disposed of. Nidhi Jain.