It was further argued that the allegations against the appellant, his brother and mother were same. However, G against acquittal of his brother and mother, no appeal has been preferred by the State and death of the wife of the appellant was not unnatural as she was suffering from fits. In her cross-examination, the maternal grandmother admitted that the deceased had fits. H 1 (2017) 1 SCC 101 CHARAN SINGH @ CHARANJIT SINGH v. THE STATE OF 515 UTTARAKHAND [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] 7. On the other hand, learned counsel for the State submitted that A it is a case in which a young woman was killed by her in-laws in lust for dowry. The marriage was merely two years old and the death was unnatural. The deceased was cremated without even informing her parents. The maternal grandmother and the two uncles who were present at the time of cremation had seen injury marks on the body of the deceased B and also the broken tooth. They could not lodge the complaint as they were threatened. The death occurred in the matrimonial home, hence onus lies heavily on the appellant to dislodge the presumption. There is sufficient material on record in the form of statements of witnesses produced by the prosecution that there was repeated demand for dowry by the appellant. There is no error in the of the High Court. C Sufficient indulgence has already been shown by the High Court by reducing the sentence of the appellant from ten years to minimum seven years as provided under Section 304B of the IPC. 8. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the relevant record. D 9. The marriage of the appellant with the deceased was solemnised in the year 1993. She died on 22.6.1995. FIR was registered on the complaint of the father of the deceased on 24.6.1995 against Charan Singh, the appellant herein, brother-in-law, Gurmeet Singh and mother- in-law Santo Kaur. However, in appeal filed by the convicts before the E High Court, brother-in-law, Gurmeet Singh and mother-in-law, Santo Kaur were acquitted whereas the conviction of the appellant was upheld. The sentence awarded to the appellant under Section 304B IPC was reduced from ten years rigorous imprisonment to seven years rigorous imprisonment. The sentence of two years rigorous imprisonment each F awarded under Section 498A and Section 201 IPC was affirmed. 10. The conviction of the appellant is under Sections 304B and 498A IPC raising presumption regarding dowry death within seven years of marriage. To appreciate the arguments raised by the learned counsel for the parties, a perusal of Section 304B and 498A IPC and Section G 113B of the Indian Evidence Act would be required. The same are extracted hereinbelow:- “304B. Dowry death .— (1) Where the death of a woman is caused by any burns or bodily injury or occurs otherwise than under normal circumstances within seven years of her marriage H 516 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A and it is shown that soon before her death she was subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her husband for, or in connection with, any demand for dowry, such death shall be called “dowry death”, and such husband or relative shall be deemed to have caused her death.