8. Bearing in mind the aforesaid materials on record we have carefully perused them and the chargesheet to ascertain whether they disclose the ingredients to attract the off ences under Sections 323, 384 and 406, IPC qua the appellant. 9. As noted earlier, except the statement that ‘they beat up me’ by the complainant no material whatsoever is available on record in regard to the commission of the said off ence. The incident allegedly occurred on 12.06.2016. In the recorded statement of the second respondent- complainant or in the counter affi davit fi led by the fi rst respondent there is not even a whisper that after the incident she went to a doctor or underwent any kind of treatment. Needless to say, that there is no statement – at least that injury report was prepared. In this context, it is also to be seen in respect of the incident, the FIR got registered only on 04.09.2016, that too much after the fi ling of petition No. 13/2016 by the appellant herein. Above all, as noted earlier, basic ingredients to constitute an off ence under Section 323, IPC is lacking in the chargesheet. 10. As relates the alleged commission of off ence under Section 384, IPC there can be no doubt that to attract the said off ence the following twin ingredients are to be satisfi ed: ABHISHEK SAXENA v. THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 1131 & ANR. (i) Intentionally putting a person in fear of injury to himself or another; (ii) Dishonestly inducing the person so put to deliver to any person any property or valuable security. In the absence of such ingredients/accusations in the chargesheet to constitute the said off ence it cannot be said a prima facie case of commission of off ence under Section 384 is made out therein. 11. Now, we will consider the accusation of commission of off ence under Section 406, IPC. The essential ingredients to constitute an off ence under Section 406, IPC are as follows: (i) Entrusting any person with property or with any dominion over property; (ii) the person entrusted (a) dishonestly misappropriating or converting to his own use that property; or (b) dishonestly using or disposing of that property or willfully suff ering any other person so to do in violation – (i) of any direction of law prescribing the mode in which such trust is to be discharge, or; (ii) of any legal contract made touching the discharge of such trust In the absence of basic ingredient of entrustment of property and dishonest usage or disposal of any such property to satisfy the off ence punishable under Section 406, IPC in the present case, the charge of commission of the off ence thereunder also cannot be attracted. 12. In the circumstances obtained as above, we are of the considered view that no useful purpose is likely to be served by allowing criminal prosecution against the appellant to continue based on the aforesaid chargesheet as ingredients of all the aforementioned off ences are wanting in this case.