[2023] 6 S.C.R. 851 851 BALU SUDAM KHALDE & ANR. A v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA (Criminal Appeal No. 1910 of 2010) MARCH 29, 2023 B [SUDHANSHU DHULIA AND J.B. PARDIWALA, JJ.] Penal Code, 1860: ss. 302 r/w 34 – Prosecution case that verbal altercation between the parties resulting in a fight wherein first informant C assaulted on the head and the deceased suffered severe assault and succumbed to his injuries – Appellants convicted u/s 302 r/w 34, and sentenced to life imprisonment, however, acquittal of A-2 and A-4 – High Court upheld the – Interference with – Held: Not called for – Oral evidence of all the three eyewitnesses is D consistent and no good reason for the court to disbelieve the ocular version as narrated by the three eyewitnesses – Courts below recorded a concurrent finding that they are reliable witnesses – Suggestions put by the defence counsel in the cross-examination of the eyewitnesses establishes the presence of first informant at the scene of offence and the factum of assault could also be said to E have been admitted – PW 3 could be termed as a res gestae witness – ss. 6 and 7 of the 1872 Act, in so far as, the admissibility of a statement of the PW-3 is concerned, would be attracted – Having regard to the nature of the injuries, they were caused by dangerous weapons which, were applied on the vital part of the body, it is a F case of s. 302 – Case would not fall within the exception 4 to s. 300 – Assuming that the incident had occurred in the heat of the moment and fight was also sudden, the fact that the appellants inflicted as many as nine blows with a dangerous weapon on the deceased who was unarmed and was helpless should not be overlooked – Evidence Act, 1872 – s.6 and 7. G Exception 4 to Section 300 – Applicability of – Held: To bring a case within Exception 4 all the ingredients mentioned in it must be found. H 851 852 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Evidence: Oral Evidence – Evidentiary value of – Held: Appreciation of ocular evidence is a hard task – There is no fixed or straight- jacket formula for appreciation of the ocular evidence – In assessing the value of the evidence of the eyewitnesses, two principal B considerations are whether, in the circumstances of the case, it is possible to believe their presence at the scene of occurrence or in such situations as would make it possible for them to witness the facts deposed to by them and secondly, whether there is anything inherently improbable or unreliable in their evidence. C Cross-examination – Concession or admission of fact by defence counsel – Nature – of – Held: Any concession or admission of a fact by a defence counsel would definitely be binding on his client, except the concession on the point of law – Thus, the suggestion made by the defence counsel to a witness in the cross- examination if found to be incriminating in nature in any manner D would definitely bind the accused – Accused cannot get away on the plea that his counsel had no implied authority to make suggestions in the nature of admissions against his client.