3. The dispute in the present batch of cases pertains to the third category noted above. Rule 2(c) provides for the method of appointment of the third category. Rule 2(c)(iii) stipulates that 25% of the posts in the category shall be fi lled by direct recruitment from the Bar “on the basis of aggregate marks/grade obtained in a competitive examination and viva-voce conducted by the High Court”. 1 (2018) 1 SCC 239 2 “1961 Rules” SIVANANDAN C T AND OTHERS v. HIGH COURT OF KERALA AND 681 OTHERS [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 4. By a notifi cation dated 13 December 2012, the High Court of Kerala prescribed the scheme for the Kerala Higher Judicial Service Examination. The scheme as notifi ed by the High Court contained the following stipulations pertaining to the examination: (i) The examination will comprise of a written examination consisting of two papers carrying 150 marks each and a viva- voce carrying 50 marks with a total of 350 marks so assigned; (ii) While separate minimum marks were not prescribed for each paper, general category candidates who secure at least 50% in the aggregate and SC/ST candidates who secure at least 40% in the aggregate for both the papers together would be qualifi ed for viva-voce test; (iii) The viva-voce test would be conducted “in a thorough and scientifi c manner” for a period ranging between 25 to 30 minutes for each candidate; (iv) There shall be no cut off marks for the viva-voce; and (v) The merit list would be prepared on the basis of the aggregate marks obtained both in the written examination and the viva- voce. 5. On 30 September 2015, a notifi cation was issued by the High Court of Kerala by which applications were invited from qualifi ed candidates for appointment as District and Sessions Judges in the Kerala State Higher Judicial Services by direct recruitment from the Bar. Paragraph 5 of the notifi cation provides for the mode of selection. Paragraph 5 stipulates that the selection would be on the basis of a competitive examination consisting of a written examination and a viva-voce. The total marks assigned for the written examination were 300 comprising of two papers, each carrying maximum of 150 marks. General candidates and candidates belonging to the OBC category who secure 50% and the SC/ST candidates who secure 40% aggregate minimum marks for both the written papers together were to be declared as qualifi ed for the viva-voce. The maximum marks prescribed for the viva-voce were fi fty. Paragraph 5 stipulates that “the merit list of successful candidates will be prepared on the basis of the total marks obtained in the written examination and viva-voce.” 682 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 6. Following the notifi cation which was issued by the High Court on 30 September 2015, the written test was conducted on 12 and 13 March 2016. On 17 December 2016, the notifi cation regarding candidates who had qualifi ed in the written test came to be published.