D (4) the appointing authority may permit a person to withdraw his resignation in the public interest on the following conditions, namely:- (i) That the resignation was tendered by the Government E servant for some compelling reasons which did not involve any reflection on his integrity, efficiency or conduct and the request for withdrawal of the resignation has been made as a result of a material change in the circumstances which originally compelled him to tender the resignation; F (ii) that during the period intervening between the date on which the resignation became effective and the date from which the request for withdrawal was made, the conduct of the person concerned was in no way improper; (iii) that the period of absence from duty between the date G on which the resignation became effective and the date on which the person is allowed to resume duty as a result of permission to withdraw the resignation is not more than ninety days; H 684 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A (iv) that the post, which was vacated by the Government servant on the acceptance of his resignation or any other comparable post, is available.” (5) Request for withdrawal of a resignation shall not be accepted by the Appointing Authority where a Government B servant resigns his service or post with a view to taking up an appointment in or under a private commercial company or in or under a corporation or company wholly or substantially owned or controlled by the Government or in or under a body controlled or financed by the Government. C (6) When an is passed by the Appointing Authority allowing a person to withdraw his resignation and to resume duty, the shall be deemed to include the condonation of interruption in service but the period of interruption shall not count as qualifying service. (7) A resignation submitted for the purpose of Rule 37 shall D not entail forfeiture of past service under the Government.” 11.In the case of Manisha Sharma (supra), the Division Bench opined that there was no material change in the circumstances which originally compelled the respondent to tender her resignation therein and the respondent voluntarily resigned because she intended to contest the E election. It was also held that once the resignation had been accepted and acted upon, thereafter, the incumbent could not contend that she was under any compulsion for tendering her resignation. Once resignation had been acted upon, there was no question of permitting a person to withdraw such resignation. This was the view taken by this Court in the F case of State of Haryana and others -vs- Ram Kumar Mann [(1997) 3 SCC 321]. 12.So far as the factual context of this case is concerned, as we have narrated above, the first of the High Court was a direction upon the employer to take a decision. At that point of time, the ratio laid G down in the case of Nirmal Verma (supra) prevailed and the High Court had directed the authorities to take decision in terms of the said ratio while considering the plea of the respondent before us.