23 Letter sent from Plot No.338 (n 6). 24 Letter sent from Plot No.338 (n 6). 644 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. C.4 THE 1977 ACT: EXTENT OF APPLICATION AND CONSEQUENCES 60. The next issue that arises for consideration hovers around the applicability of the 1977 Act and its consequences in the event of violations of the assignment conditions. In this respect, it would be apposite to fi rst note the defi nition of ‘assigned land’ which is to the following eff ect:- “2. Defi nitions -In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,- (1) “assigned lands” means lands or house sites assigned by the Government to the landless or homeless poor persons under the rules for the time being in force, subject to condition of non- alienation and includes lands allotted or transferred to landless or homeless poor persons under the relevant law for the time being in force relating to land ceilings; and the word “assigned” shall be construed accordingly” (Emphasis Applied) We have already concluded that the Subject Land was governed by the law which existed on the date of issuance of Temporary Pattas, i.e. 21.10.1961. It has also been held that the applicable law at the relevant time included the 1958 Circular as well as GOM 1122. Since both these regulatory measures incorporated the condition of non-alienability, there can be no escape but to further hold that the Subject Land comes under the defi nition of ‘assigned land’ as provided under Section 2(1) of the 1977 Act. Resultantly, the provisions of the 1977 Act are fully attracted to regulating the said land. 61. The other issue that comes up for determination is whether the entirety of Subject Land would fall within the contravention of Section 3 of the 1977 Act which, inter alia, provides that:- “Section 3 – Prohibition of transfer of assigned land – (1) Where, before or after the commencement of this Act any land has been assigned by the Government to a landless poor person for purposes of cultivation or as a house-site then, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law for the time being in force or in the deed of transfer or other document relating to such YADAIAH AND ANR. v. STATE OF TELANGANA AND 645 OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] land, it shall not be transferred and shall be deemed never to have been transferred; and accordingly no right or title in such assigned land shall vest in any person acquiring the land by such transfer. (2) No landless poor person shall transfer any assigned land, and no person shall acquire any assigned land, either by purchase, gift, Lease (except in the case of Lease to the Andhra Pradesh Green Energy Corporation Ltd., for use as deemed fi t and including for usage of non-agriculture purpose), mortgage, exchange or otherwise. (2A) No assignee shall transfer any assigned house site, and no person shall acquire any assigned house site, either by purchase, gift, Lease (except in the case of Lease to the Andhra Pradesh Green Energy Corporation Ltd., for use as deemed fit and including for usage of non-agriculture purpose), mortgage, exchange or otherwise, till completion of the period of 20 years from the date of assignment.