(vii) the name of the manufacturer of each of the packing machine, its identifi cation number, date of its purchase and the maximum packing speed at which they can be operated for packing of pouches of notifi ed goods, with lime tube and without lime tube, of various retail sale prices; (viii) description of goods to be manufactured including whether unmanufactured tobacco or chewing tobacco or both, their brand names, whether pouches shall contain lime tube or not; (ix) denomination of retail sale prices of the pouches to be manufactured during the fi nancial year; (x) the plan and details of the part or section of the factory premises intended to be used by him for the manufacture of notifi ed goods of diff erent denomination of retail sale prices and the number of machines intended to be used by him in each such part or section, to the jurisdictional Deputy Commissioner of Central Excise or the Assistant Commissioner of Central Excise, as the case may be, with a copy to the jurisdictional Superintendent of Central Excise : Provided that a new manufacturer shall fi le such declaration at least seven days prior to the commencement of commercial production of notifi ed goods in his factory. (2) On receipt of the declaration referred to in sub-rule (1), the Deputy Commissioner of Central Excise or the Assistant Commissioner of Central Excise, as the case may be, shall, after making such inquiry as may be necessary including physical verification, approve the declaration and determine and pass concerning the annual capacity of production of the factory within three working days in accordance with the provisions of these rules. Provided that the Deputy Commissioner of Central Excise or the Assistant Commissioner of Central Excise, as the case may be, may direct for modifi cations in the plan or details of the part or section of the factory premises intended to be used by the manufacturer for manufacture of notifi ed goods of diff erent retail sale prices, as he thinks proper, for eff ective segregation of the parts or sections of the premises and the machines to be used in such parts or sections before granting the approval : COMMR. OF CEN. EXC. AHMEDABAD v. M/S URMIN 633 PRODUCTS P. LTD. AND OTHERS [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] Provided further that if the manufacturer does not receive the approval in respect of his declaration within the said period of three working days, the approval shall be deemed to have been granted subject to the modifi cations, if any, which the Deputy Commissioner of Central Excise or the Assistant Commissioner of Central Excise, as the case may be, may communicate later on but not later than thirty days of fi ling of the declaration.” 100. A perusal of the above rule would indicate that the manufacturer of notifi ed goods should immediately on coming into force of the Rules (08.03.2010) fi le a declaration in Form No.1 declaring the details of notifi ed goods as prescribed or specifi ed under sub-rule (i) to (x) and on receipt of such declaration the jurisdictional Deputy Commissioner or the Assistant Commissioner of Central Excise, namely, the Competent Authority, would approve the declaration and determine and pass s concerning the annual capacity within three working days after making such inquiry as may be necessary including physical verifi cation.