The condition necessary to bring the section A into operation is that the discovery of a fact in consequence of information received from a person accused of any offence in the custody of a police officer must be deposed to, and there upon so much of the information as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered may be proved. The section seems to be based on the B view that if a fact is actually discovered in consequence of information given, some guarantee is afforded thereby that the information was true, and accordingly can be safely allowed to be given in evidence; but clearly the extent of the information admissible must depend on the exact nature of the fact discovered to which such information is required to relate. Normally the section C is brought into operation when a person in police custody produces from some place of concealment some object, such as a dead body, a weapon or ornaments, said to be connected with the crime of which the informant is accused. Mr. Megaw for the Crown, has argued that in such a case the “fact discovered” is the physical D object produced, and that any information which relates distinctly to that object can be proved. On this view information given by a person that the body produced is that of a person murdered by him, that the weapon produced is the one used by him in the commission of a murder, or that the ornaments produced were E stolen in a dacoity, would all be admissible. If this be the effect of s. 27, little substance would remain in the ban imposed by the two preceding sections on confessions made to the police, or by persons in police custody. That ban was presumably inspired by the fear of the legislaturethat a person under police influence might be induced to confess by the exercise of undue pressure. But if all F that is required to lift the ban be the inclusion in the confession of information relating to an object subsequently produced, it seems reasonable to suppose that the persuasive powers of the police will prove equal to the occasion, and that in practice the ban will lose its effect. On normal principles of construction their G Lordships think that the proviso to s. 26, added by s. 27, should not be held to nullify the substance of the section. In their Lordships’ view it is fallacious to treat the “fact discovered” within the section as equivalent to the object produced; the fact discovered embraces the place from which the object is H 348 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A produced and the knowledge of the accused as to this, and the information given must relate distinctly to this fact.Information as to past user, or the past history, of the object produced is not related to its discovery in the setting in which it is discovered. Information supplied by a person in custody that “I will produce a knife concealed in the roof of my house” B does not lead to the discovery of a knife; knives were discovered many years ago.