The bidders/ purchasers were further warned to satisfy themselves in regard to the aspects of nature, extent, location, quantity, and quality after physical inspection of the assets and were also informed that they would be deemed to offer with full knowledge as to defects, if any, in the description, F quality or quantity of the assets sold. All such stipulations were essentially pertaining to the physical properties/attributes of the assets in question but, the significant omission in those terms and conditions had been to make it obligatory on the bidder/purchaser to make himself aware about encumbrances, liens and claims attached to the assets in question. This G omission strikes at the very root of the case of the appellant. 17.4. The Division Bench of the High Court has rightly said that if the intending purchaser was required to satisfy himself in all respects including encumbrances, he might not be heard in any objection about want of knowledge of encumbrances but, if he was not so warned, such H 1108 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A an obligation on him to make himself aware about encumbrances cannot be foisted by any deeming fiction. 18. The decision of this Court in Haryana Financial Corporation (supra) has also been cited to submit that OL does not hold any guarantee or warranty in respect of property sold. In the said case, the appellant B Financial Corporation had issued an advertisement for sale of various units and the respondent had been one of the bidders who offered a sum of Rs. 50 lakh, and deposited Rs. 2.5 lakh by way of earnest money. There was some dispute related to presence of rasta at the land. Not being satisfied with response of appellant, respondent did not submit further money. Appellant invited fresh tenders and forfeited the money C deposited by respondent. In the writ petition preferred by respondent, the Division Bench of High Court quashed forfeiture and ed for refund along with 12% interest and Rs. 5,000 costs. In appeal before this Court, one of the submissions on behalf of the appellant Financial Corporation had been with reference to the aforesaid decision in United D Bank of India (supra). While distinguishing the said decision, this Court observed that Official Liquidator would proceed on the basis of the records of the company in liquidation and, therefore, it was for the intending purchaser to satisfy himself in all respects as to the title, encumbrances etc. of the immovable property that he intended to purchase; and that purchaser cannot after having purchased the property on such terms, E claim diminution in the price on the ground of defect in the title or description of the property. The Court further observed that the appellant Financial Corporation was exercising the rights of an owner in selling the property and was not selling the property as an Official Liquidator; and the principles applicable to an Official Liquidator selling property F under the s of Court would not be applicable to an individual selling immovable property belonging to himself.