E 15.2. Apart from the foregoing, fact of the matter also remains that the appellant was arrested on 21.06.2007 i.e., the very day of the incident, albeit nine hours after the incident, at the bus stand. However, when the theory propounded by PW-6 Jamal Mohammed that the appellant had travelled to Kolakkudi with him on 20.06.2007 and then F travelled back to Perambalur on 21.06.2007 is discarded, all other facts taken together lead to the logical conclusion that the plea of alibi is required to be rejected. 16. Another major factor highlighted and elaborated by the learned counsel for the appellant relates to certain discrepancies appearing in the versions of PW-1 Basheera, as stated in the complaint made to the G police compared with her assertions before the Court. No doubt, there had been some such discrepancies in the matter which, at the first blush, give rise to certain doubts as to whether the testimony of PW-1 could be believed or not. However, a close look at the record makes it clear that the discrepancies, said to be of contradictions in the versions given by H 982 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A PW-1 Basheera, could only be considered to be normal and natural or being the result of her want of proper comprehension. 16.1. PW-1 Basheera is none other than mother-in-law of the appellant and the grand-mother of the victim child. The first discrepancy in the matter is that, as per the version in the complaint, she left her B house in the morning to buy idli without taking money, but in her deposition, she stated that appellant gave her Rs. 100 and asked her to get idli. Another major discrepancy surfaces when it is noticed that in the complaint, she asserted that the appellant ran away from the scene of occurrence but in her deposition, she stated that the appellant was taken to the police station. Thirdly, what she saw and did upon reaching the C house after visiting the market is also stated differently in the complaint and in the deposition. The question is as to whether her testimony and the prosecution case be rejected altogether because of these discrepancies. 16.2. In our view, the Trial Court has rightly analysed the matter D and has rightly observed that when PW-1, sixty-five years of age, was deposing before the Court from her memory after one year from the incident, such discrepancies would not result in rejection of her testimony altogether. The relevant features emanating from her assertions in the complaint as also in the statement are that she had gone out to purchase E eatables in the morning while leaving the victim child with the appellant; and after coming back, found the child dead, with the appellant being with the child. As to whether she had gone to the market after being given money by the appellant or without taking money, in our view, cannot override entire of her testimony as also the testimonies of other witnesses.