OP has alleged that on the same cause of action a case is pending before Civil Court at Karkardooma Courts, Delhi and the Complainant has not denied this fact. Moreover, complaint is also barred by limitation. The Complainant is an NRI. She had invested her amount here in real estate. The Complainant also filed two more complaints here D alongwith this complaint therefore as rightly objected by the OP that all such activities of the Complainant were made with a view to earn profit by investing her money in real estate. Thus, Complainant tried to avail of the services of the OP for commercial purpose. Whereas, the provisions of Consumer Protection Act, E 1986 were made for the benefit of a Consumer. Thus, Complainant does not fall within the category of consumer as defined under section 2(d) of the Act. Therefore, taking the case of the Complainant from any angle, we do not find any merit in her case hence, we are constrained to dismiss the complaints. Copy of this be placed on all the files.” F The State Commission awarding compound interest 6. The State Commission, however, did not agree with the reasoning of the District Forum and held that the complaints made by the respondent were maintainable in law. As noticed, those questions G relating to maintainability are not involved in these appeals and hence, we need not dilate on the same. 6.1. The relevant aspect of the matter is that after having overruled preliminary objections of the present appellants, the State Commission observed that 60% of the total sale consideration was paid by the H 1108 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A complainant-respondent; that possession of the flats booked by her was not handed over even after expiry of the agreed period; that the complainant, having opted for the construction-linked plan, was to make payment of the balance amount on delivery of possession; and the allegation of her being in default was to be rejected because, on inspection of the site, construction was not found as per schedule. Having said so, B the State Commission proceeded to consider the question as to how the complainant was to be compensated for the monetary loss, and mental and physical harassment suffered at the hands of opposite parties because of non-delivery of the allotted flats. The relevant observations of the State Commission read as under: - C “19. In these circumstances all the preliminary objections of the OPs/respondents, since not maintainable are sequentially rejected. Coming to the merit of the case, it is a fact that booking of three flats was done. This is also indisputed that 60% of the total sale consideration was paid to OPs. Possession of the flats so booked D were not handed over although the agreed period was over. The complainant having opted for the construction linked plan had to pay the balance amount on the delivery of the possession of the flats. But on inspection of the site the construction in the project was not found as per schedule.