During the course of investigation, the police conducted a search of Vedic village on 24th G August, 2009 and found that there were pipe guns, live bombs in gunny bags and explosive substances found and recovered from the housing material-cum-electrical store room situated within the compound of the Vedic village of the respondent. 6. On the surveyor being appointed, as per the Final Survey Report dated 16.06.2011, the Surveyor assessed the loss to the buildings and H 422 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A contents to the extent of Rs. 197.842 lakhs in Policy No. 420 and the loss to the crockery and cutlery to the extent of Rs. 4.274 lakhs in Policy No. 270, in aggregate assessed the loss to the tune of Rs. 202.216 lakhs under both the policies. 7. The appellant-Insurance company repudiated the claim of the B respondent vide letter 06.07.2012 inter alia stating that loss in respect of which the subject claim was made, was an outcome of the malicious act and therefore fell within the exclusions under Clause V(d) of the Subject policies; and that there had been a breach of warranty on the part of the assured in respect of the class of constructions covered under the subject policies. C 8. The respondent therefore filed the Consumer Complaint being No. 227 of 2012 challenging the said repudiation of claim under Section 21 of the said Act before the National Commission, which by the impugned dated 07.01.2019 partly allowed the same as stated hereinabove. D 9. The learned counsel Mr. Vishnu Mehra, appearing for the appellant-Insurance Company vehemently submitted that the respondent had harboured the hard-core criminal Gaffar Molla and his associates who had killed one person and injured many others at the football match venue, using illegal fire-arms and explosives stored at his own compound of Vedic village and had invited public grudge which had caused damage E to his insured property. Hence, according to him, the loss suffered by the respondent was an outcome of the malicious act on the part of the management of Vedic village, which fell within the exclusions provided under Clause V(d) of the Insurance Policy. He further submitted that the words “or any omission or any kind or any person” occurring in F Clause V(d) of the Policy would cover the damage to the property caused on account of omission of the management of the respondent-complainant to abide by the law, and the respondent had engaged Gaffar Molla and his associates for carrying out illegal activities and terrorising the people having their lands adjacent to the resort, to extend the area of his resort. He also submitted that the Survey Report of the Surveyor opining that G the loss had occurred due to the insured peril and the claim was admissible was highly erroneous and could not be treated as final. 10. However, the learned counsel Mr. Sukumar Pattjoshi, appearing for the respondent supporting the findings recorded by the National Commission submitted that the repudiation of his claim by the H NATIONAL INSURANCE COMPANY LTD. v. VEDIC RESORTS 423 AND HOTELS PVT.