39. Section 26, therefore, bifurcates proceedings, as has been B stated above, with a great degree of clarity, into two sets of proceedings — arbitral proceedings themselves, and court proceedings in relation thereto. The reason why the first part of Section 26 is couched in negative form is only to state that the Amendment Act will apply even to arbitral proceedings commenced C before the amendment if parties otherwise agree. If the first part of Section 26 were couched in positive language (like the second part), it would have been necessary to add a proviso stating that the Amendment Act would apply even to arbitral proceedings commenced before the amendment if the parties agree. In either case, the intention of the legislature remains the same, the negative D form conveying exactly what could have been stated positively, with the necessary proviso. Obviously, “arbitral proceedings” having been subsumed in the first part cannot re-appear in the second part, and the expression “in relation to arbitral proceedings” would, therefore, apply only to court proceedings which relate to the E arbitral proceedings. The scheme of Section 26 is thus clear : that the Amendment Act is prospective in nature, and will apply to those arbitral proceedings that are commenced, as understood by Section 21 of the principal Act, on or after the Amendment Act, and to court proceedings which have commenced on or after the Amendment Act came into force.” F 3.5 It is further submitted that it is specifically held that the phrase ‘in relation to arbitral proceedings’ appearing in the second part of Section 26 refers to commencement of court proceedings and are not controlled by Section 21 of the principal Act. It is submitted that in such circumstances, the relevant date so far as the applicability of Section G 11(6A) is concerned, is not the date of invocation of arbitration but the date of commencement of judicial proceedings before a court under Section 11. It is submitted that therefore viewed in this light, the finding of the High Court that Section 11(6A) shall not be applicable in the present case is clearly erroneous. H 336 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 3.6 It is submitted that in the case of Union of India Vs. Parmar Construction Company, (2019) 15 SCC 682 (Two Judge Bench) (paras 25-27), without noticing the in BCCI (supra), a coordinate Bench has held, relying on Section 21, that, the relevant date for applicability of Section 26 of the Amendment Act, 2015 is the date when request for appointment of arbitrator was made. It is further B submitted that this has been followed in the in the case of Union of India Vs. Pradeep Vinod Construction Company, (2020) 2 SCC 464 (Three Judge Bench), which also did not refer to the case of BCCI (supra) but has only followed the in Parmar Construction Company (supra). C 3.7 It is submitted that the in BCCI (supra) was rendered in the context of Section 36 of the Act and not in the context of Section 11.