C The learned ASG further submitted that no SLP had been filed by the Respondents challenging the observation of the Division Bench as regards the discretion exercised by the Selection Committee in awarding marks in the viva-voce. Thus, the observation that the marks awarded by the Selection Committee in the viva-voce test cannot be reviewed by D a Court in the facts and circumstances of the present case, has attained finality. 9.4. The learned ASG placed reliance on Jasvinder Singh vs. State of J&K, (2003) 2 SCC 132 wherein it was held that in the absence of any specific allegations of any mala fides or bias against the Board E constituted for selection or anyone in the Board, it cannot be held that a conscious effort was made for bringing some candidates within the selection zone. It was further held that picking up a negligible few instances cannot provide the basis for either striking down the method of selection or the selections ultimately made. In the said case, it was also observed that there is no guarantee that a person who fared well in the written F test, will or should be presumed to have fared well in the viva-voce test also. 9.5. The learned ASG cited Rule 10 of the 1992 Rules which provides for Recruitment and Selection to contend that there is no prescribed procedure for the appointment of drug inspectors. Rule 10(i) G states that the Board shall finalize the selections after holding such tests or examinations as may be prescribed under rules or if there are no such rules, as the Board may consider necessary. Thus, it is a matter of record that no rules have been prescribed for the selection of drug inspectors and in the absence of prescribed rules, the Selection Committee and the H TAJVIR SINGH SODHI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF JAMMU 745 AND KASHMIR & ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Board carried out the selection process in a fair and transparent manner. A That merely because the record of the case was not traceable when it was called for by the Single Judge in February 2015, i.e., 6 years after the selection/appointments were made, cannot be a ground to set aside the entire selection process. Reliance was placed on Trivedi Himanshu Ghanshyambhai, B wherein it was held that merely because the records could not be produced since they were lost and not available, the appointment could not be cancelled. 9.6. As regards the selection of Pankaj Malhotra, Rumessa Mohammad and Ashish Gupta, learned ASG submitted that the finding C of the Single Judge in paragraph 16 of his that the Selection Committee had given weightage to some candidates for degrees which they did not possess, was erroneous. It was submitted that Mr. Pankaj Malhotra produced his M. Pharma degree before the Selection Committee and the same was D considered on the date of his interview. Further, the High Court overlooked the fact that even if the marks awarded by the Selection Committee on account of M. Pharma degree were excluded in his case, the candidate would still be selected even though his rank would go down from Serial No.