It was argued that Section 35 operates as a bar in two respects, namely, the admission of an instrument into evidence as well as acting upon that instrument. It was argued that Section 36, in contrast to Section 35, removed the bar in one respect alone – the admissibility of the instrument into evidence. This Court rejected this argument and held that the provisions of the Stamp Act clearly provide that an instrument could be admitted into evidence as well as acted upon once the appropriate duty has been paid and the instrument is endorsed: “6. … The argument ignores the true import of Section 36. By that section an instrument once admitted in evidence shall not be called in question at any stage of the same suit or proceeding on the ground that it has not been duly stamped. Section 36 does not prohibit a challenge against an instrument that it shall not be acted upon because it is not duly stamped, but on that account there is no bar against an instrument not duly stamped being acted upon after payment of the stamp duty and penalty according to the procedure prescribed by the Act. The doubt, if any, is removed by the terms of Section 42(2) which enact, in terms unmistakable, that every instrument endorsed by the Collector under Section 42(1) shall be admissible in evidence and may be acted upon as if it has been duly stamped.” (emphasis in original) 60. In so holding, this Court made a signifi cant observation about the purpose of the Stamp Act and the manner in which it is to be interpreted by courts: 51 (1969) 1 SCC 597 IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1125 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] “7. The Stamp Act is a fi scal measure enacted to secure revenue for the State on certain classes of instruments: It is not enacted to arm a litigant with a weapon of technicality to meet the case of his opponent. The stringent provisions of the Act are conceived in the interest of the revenue once that object is secured according to law, the party staking his claim on the instrument will not be defeated on the ground of the initial defect in the instrument. Viewed in that light the scheme is clear.” (emphasis supplied) The Stamp Act is a legislation which is enacted in the interest of the revenue. The statute must be interpreted with due regard to its purpose. E*. The Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 61. Arbitration is a method of alternative dispute resolution where parties agree to refer their disputes to a neutral third party known as an arbitrator. The aim of arbitration is to provide speedy, effi cient, and binding resolution of disputes that have arisen between the parties in regard to their substantive obligations. The thrust of arbitration law is succinctly encapsulated in Redfern and Hunter: “It is to be expeditious where the law is slow, cheap where the law is costly, simple where the law is technical, a peacemaker instead of a stirrer-up of strife.”52 62.