Therefore, it would not be in the larger interests of society if the Court, by H MD. ASFAK ALAM v. THE STATE OF JHARKHAND & ANR. 1191 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] judicial interpretation, limits the exercise of that power : the A danger of such an exercise would be that in fractions, little by little, the discretion, advisedly kept wide, would shrink to a very narrow and unrecognisably tiny portion, thus frustrating the objective behind the provision, which has stood the test of time, these 46 years.” B 11. The decisions cited by counsel are useful and valuable guides with respect to the powers of the police, the discretion and the duties of the court in several kinds of cases, including those relating to the matrimonial offences such as 498A of IPC, and other cases. In Arnesh Kumar (supra), it was held that: C “9. From a plain reading of the aforesaid provision, it is evident that a person accused of an offence punishable with imprisonment for a term which may be less than seven years or which may extend to seven years with or without fine, cannot be arrested by the police officer only on his satisfaction D that such person had committed the offence punishable as aforesaid. A police officer before arrest, in such cases has to be further satisfied that such arrest is necessary to prevent such person from committing any further offence; or for proper investigation of the case; or to prevent the accused from causing the evidence of the offence to disappear; or E tampering with such evidence in any manner; or to prevent such person from making any inducement, threat or promise to a witness so as to dissuade him from disclosing such facts to the court or the police officer; or unless such accused person is arrested, his presence in the court whenever required F cannot be ensured. These are the conclusions, which one may reach based on facts. The law mandates the police officer to state the facts and record the reasons in writing which led him to come to a conclusion covered by any of the provisions aforesaid, while making such arrest. The law further requires the police officers to record the reasons in writing for not G making the arrest. In pith and core, the police officer before arrest must put a question to himself, why arrest? Is it really required? What purpose it will serve? What object it will achieve? It is only after these questions are addressed and one or the other conditions as enumerated above is satisfied, H 1192 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A the power of arrest needs to be exercised. In fine, before arrest first the police officers should have reason to believe on the basis of information and material that the accused has committed the offence. Apart from this, the police officer has to be satisfied further that the arrest is necessary for one or the more purposes envisaged by sub-clauses (a) to (e) of clause B (1) of Section 41 CrPC.” The court also issued valuable directions to be followed by the police authorities and the courts, in all cases where the question of grant of bail arises.