The product has already been held to be Drug by the H 310 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Hon’ble Andhra Pradesh High Court in reference to APGST as well as Commercial taxes. The Advance Ruling authority of Commercial Taxes, Government of Tamilnadu for the purpose of TNVAT Act 2006 held that product to be a homeopathic medicine. We find that even before the subject cases, on many occasions in the past, Appellant were issued show cause notices for B classification of goods as cosmetic and the Appellate Authority after going into all the aspects of common parlance as well as contents of the product and its usage held that the product is Homeopathic medicine. The adjudicating authority has relied upon the of Hon’ble Supreme Court in case of CCE, Nagpur C Vs. M/s Shree Baidyanath Ayurved Bhavan Ltd. 2009 (237) E.L.T. 225 (S.C.) to state that the product in question does not satisfy the common parlance test. We find that the ratio of said is not applicable as in the said case, the product Lal Dant Manjan was known as toilet preparation in common parlance and not as Ayurvedic medicine. Whereas in the present case the facts are D entirely different as the Appellant has sold the goods as Homeopathic medicine and it is known as Homeopathic medicine in the common parlance. Even as apparent from facts the label of the product clearly shows the product as Homeopathic medicine, its content and usage. It also says that it should be left overnight. E We are of the view that when the product is being sold as Homeopathic medicine and known as homeopathic medicine in the market the goods pass test of common parlance test as Homeopathic medicine. In the light of our observations made in preceding paras, we hold that the reliance placed upon the of Shree Baidyanth case supra is misplaced as the facts are entirely F different. Further the adjudicating authority reliance upon the of the Tribunal in case of Naturence Research Labs (P) LTD. Vs. CCE, DELHI-II. 2003 (154) E.L.T. 672 (Tri. -Del.) is not correct as in said case the product Forest Flower was sold as nourishment to the scalp and hair roots as per the matter mentioned G on the packing and it also helped control hair loss and prevents scalp infection, encourages luxurious growth of hairwhereas in the present case the Drug/ licensing Authorities and even the Honble High Court, the Vat authorities and the medical practitioners all have certified the product to be falling under the category of schedule K as Drug and even the product is sold as medicine as H COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 311 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] known as medicine in common parlance, The of Alpine A Industries 2003 (152) E.L.T. 16 (S.C.) as relied upon by the revenue is also not applicable as in the said case the drug licence obtained by the assessee under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, itself mentioned that it is a licence for ointment and cream for external application as a non-pharmacopoeia item whereas in the present B case the product is registered as Homeoptahic Medicine by the Additional Director, Indian Medicine and Homeopathy Department, Government of Andhra Pradesh.