The voice of the people echoed in the Constituent Assembly though it was not formed by an election based on adult suff rage. On 16 May 1946, the Cabinet Mission Plan stated that though the “most satisfactory method” of constituting the Constituent Assembly would be through adult suff rage, it would lead to a “wholly unacceptable delay”. Thus, the Plan stipulated that the most “practicable course” is to “utilize the recently elected Provincial Legislative Assemblies as the electing bodies.” The Cabinet Mission proposed the following plan for the constitution of the Assembly: a. To allot to each Province a total number of seats proportional to its population, roughly in the ratio of one to a million, as the nearest substitute for representation by adult suff rage; b. To divide its provincial allocation of seats between the main communities in each Province in proportion to their population; and 158 Indira Nehru Gandhi v. Raj Narain, 1975 Supp SCC 1; State (NCT of Delhi) v. Union of India, (2018) 8 SCC 501 IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 65 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] c. To provide that the representatives allotted to each community in a Province shall be elected by the members of that community in its Legislative Assembly. Muslims, Sikhs, and ‘General’ (all persons who were not Muslims or Sikhs) were recognised as the three main communities. However, since the interests of smaller minorities would not be adequately represented through this method, it was proposed that the Advisory Committee on the rights of citizens, minorities, and tribal and excluded groups should “contain full representation of the interests aff ected, and their function will be to report to the Union Constituent Assembly upon the list of Fundamental Rights, the clauses for the protection of minorities, and a scheme for the administration of the tribal and excluded areas, and to advise whether these rights should be incorporated in the Provincial, Group or Union Constitution.” 94. Even after the Constituent Assembly was elected, the general public were engaged in the process of the drafting of the Constitution. In February 1948, the Draft Constitution of India 1948 prepared by the Drafting Committee was published and widely disseminated. Copies of the Draft Constitution were sold for one rupee, inviting comments from a wide range of civic bodies including the public.159 Thus, the people of India – as a whole – exercised their sovereign political power to adopt, enact, and give to themselves the Constitution through the Constituent Assembly. Consequent on the adoption of the Constitution, the people exercise the power of sovereignty through their elected representatives.160 95. The question which is being considered by this Court when it adjudicates whether Jammu and Kashmir retained sovereignty is two-fold: fi rst, did the State of Jammu and Kashmir retain sovereignty as distinct from its people? If not, is the exercise of sovereign power by the people of Jammu and Kashmir diff erent from the exercise of sovereign power by the citizens of India who reside in diff erent states?