The third charge was relating to the appellant having attended Court hearings without sanctioned leave. However, the disciplinary proceedings initiated against the appellant on 17th F July, 2019 were abandoned by the respondents on the of compulsory retirement being passed against him in less than three months reckoned therefrom, on 27th September, 2019. [Para 37][56-E-H; 57-A-B] 1.5 There is no doubt that rule of law is the very foundation G of a well-governed society and the presence of bias or malafides in the system of governance would strike at the very foundation of the values of a regulated social . Any exercise of power that exceeds the parameters prescribed by law or is motivated on account of extraneous or irrelevant factors or is driven by H CAPTAIN PRAMOD KUMAR BAJAJ v. UNION OF INDIA 33 AND ANOTHER malicious intent or is on the face of it, so patently arbitrary that it A cannot withstand judicial scrutiny, must be struck down. In the instant case, though the appellant levelled allegations of institutional bias and prejudice against the respondents, particularly against the then Chairman, CBDT who was a Member of the Review Committee, the said officer was not joined by the B appellant as a party before the tribunal or the High Court, for him to have had an opportunity to clarify his stand by filing a counter affidavit. Hence, these allegations cannot be looked into by this Court. [Para 38][57-C-D, E, F] 1.6 Though FR 56(j) contemplates that the respondents C have an absolute right to retire a government servant in public interest and such an could have been passed against the appellant any time after he had attained the age of fifty years, the respondents did not take any such decision till the very fag end of his career. The impugned of compulsory retirement was passed on 27.09.2019 whereas the appellant was to superannuate D in ordinary course in January, 2020. There appears an apparent contradiction in the approach of the respondents who had till as late as in July, 2019 continued to grade the appellant as ‘Outstanding’ and had assessed his integrity as ‘Beyond doubt’. But in less than three months reckoned therefrom, the E respondents had turned turtle to arrive at the conclusion that he deserved to be compulsorily retired. If the appellant was worthy of being continued in service for little short of a decade after he had attained the age of 50 years and of being granted an overall grade of 9 on the scale of 1 - 10 on 31st July, 2019 it has not been shown as to what had transpired thereafter that made the F respondents resort to FR 56(j) and invoke the public interest doctrine to compulsorily retire him with just three months of service left for his retirement, in routine. In such a case, the of compulsory retirement in the given facts and circumstances of the case cannot be sustained. The said is G punitive in nature and was passed to short-circuit the disciplinary proceedings pending against the appellant and ensure his immediate removal.