D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 561 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] officer must find the assessee to be the owner of the article. However, A that is not to say that without finding ownership or when it is obvious that someone else is the owner, a person found in possession, which is illegal, can be found to be the owner under Section 69A.The question would arise pointedly, as to, when a common carrier refuses to deliver the consignment and continues to possess it contrary to contract and law B and converts it into his use and presumably sells the same, as to whether he could be found to be the owner of the goods. Would he be any different from a person who commits theft and sells it claiming to be the owner. Can a thief become the owner? It would be straining the law beyond justification if the Court were to recognise a thief as the owner of the property within the meaning of Section 69A. Recognising a thief as the C owner of the property would also mean that the owner of the property would cease to be recognised as the owner, which would indeed be the most startling result. While possession of a person may in appropriate cases, when there is no explanation forthcoming about the source and quality of his possession, justify an assessing officer finding him to be D the owner, when the facts are known that the carrier is not the owner and somebody else is the owner, then to describe him as the owner may produce results which are most illegal apart from being unjust. I. THE CIRCULAR DATED 07.07.1964 48. In this regard, the following are the contents of the Circular E issued by the Board, dated 7th July 1964, namely, Circular No. 20 of 1964. It reads as follows: “86. This provision is complementary to the provisions in Section 69 which enables the assessment of the value of investments which have not been recorded in the books of account of the assessee F and the source of which has not been explained by him satisfactorily. 87. It has to be carefully noted that the conditions precedent to the application of the provisions of Section 69A are that (i) the money, bullion, jewellery or other valuable articles in question are G not recorded in the books of account, if any, maintained by the assessee concerned for any source of income; and (ii) that the assessee either offers no explanation as to the nature and source of acquisition thereof or the explanation offered by him is, in the opinion of the Income-tax Officer (now Assessing Officer), not satisfactory. In coming to the conclusions that the explanation H 562 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A offered by the assessee in support of his case is not satisfactory, all the facts, circumstances and the evidence in the case have to be considered very carefully, and for this purpose, the assessee should be given due opportunity to adduce evidence in support of his explanations.