much after expiry of Section 19. 67. It was argued that in any case section 84A of the Gujarat VAT Act is manifestly arbitrary and violates Article 14 and 19(1) (g) of the Constitution of India. When assessment for a particular year attains fi nality the same creates a vested right in favour of the dealer. The dealer arranges his aff airs considering the fact that his liability has crystalized for periods where 178 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. assessments have attained fi nality. Alteration of such position without any defi nite time limit only on the ground that judgement in favour of the revenue has been pronounced by a Court in another case is manifestly arbitrary and illegal. Moreover, the impugned provision has been retrospectively introduced w.e.f. 1.4.2006. Therefore High Court has rightly struck it down as being manifestly arbitrary and illegal. 68. It is argued that if an unlimited time period is available to the revenue for assessment/reassessment/revision in any case based on decisions in the case of other dealers will lead to unimaginable chaos and therefore it is rightly struck down as being manifestly arbitrary and illegal. The Respondent is supported on all fours by the judgement of Hon. 9 judge bench of this Court in the case of Mafatlal Industries (supra).In that case, this court was faced with a situation converse to the present case in as much as assesses used to claim a refund after number of years on the basis of judgements rendered in the case of other assesses. This court observed that allowing refund claims beyond the stipulated period of limitation based on decisions rendered in other cases would do violence to several well-accepted principles of law. It was further observed that one of the important principles of law, based upon public policy, is the sanctity attaching to the fi nality of any proceeding, be it a suit or any other proceeding.” Denouncing the legality of the practice of claiming a refund after a number of years based on subsequent decisions it was observed that an or decree of a court does not become ineff ective or unenforceable simply because at a later point of time, a diff erent view of law is taken and that if this theory is applied universally. It will lead to unimaginable chaos. 69. Section 64 of the Gujarat VAT Act requires the dealer to preserve books of accounts only for a period of 6 years from the end of the relevant accounting year. The proviso thereto requires further preservation of books of accounts only to the extent a matter is pending in appeal or revision. However, the impugned provision exposes the dealer to assessment/ reassessment/revision for an indefi nite period which is excessive and disproportionate. In fact, retrospective operation of the provision w.e.f. 1.4.2006 allows the reopening of assessments of years in respect of which a dealer was not required to preserve books of accounts and therefore retrospective operation is all the more onerous and manifestly arbitrary.