In the present case, the petitioner’s arguments with respect to “reading down” provisions of the SMA are insubstantial. The original rationale for SMA was to facilitate inter-faith marriages. That reason is as valid today as it was at the time of birthing that law. It cannot be condemned on the ground of irrelevance, due to passage of time. It would be useful to recall principle (9)79 of the opinion in Re Special Court’s Bill (supra). The classifi cation was primarily not between heterosexual and non-heterosexual couples, but heterosexual couples of diff ering faiths. All its provisions are geared to and provide for a framework to govern the solemnisation, or registration, of the marital relationship, which replicates the status that diff erent personal laws bestow. Since there was no one law, which could apply for couples professing diff ering religions, the SMA created the governing norms- such as procedure, minimum age, prohibited degree of relationship and forbidden relationships for the male and female spouses respectively (through diff erent schedules); the grounds of divorce, etc. The relevance of SMA has gained more ground, because of increasing awareness and increasing exercise of choice by intending spouses belonging to diff erent faiths. It cannot be said, by any stretch of the imagination that the exclusion of non-heterosexual couples from the fold of SMA has resulted in its ceasing to have any rationale, and 78 2008 (6) SCR 566 79 “(9) If the legislative policy is clear and defi nite and as an eff ective method of carrying out that policy a discretion is vested by the statute upon a body of administrators or offi cers to make selective application of the law to certain classes or groups of persons, the statute itself cannot be condemned as a piece of discriminatory legislation.” 147 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. thus becoming discriminatory in operation. Without a fi nding of that kind, it would not be open to the court to invoke the doctrine of “reading down”. 86. We, therefore, agree with the reasoning elaborated by the Chief Justice, Dr. Chandrachud, J that the challenge to the SMA fails. B.Interpretation of provisions of SMA 87. The provisions of SMA are incapable of being “reading down”, or interpreted by “reading up” in the manner suggested by the petitioners. We have supplemented the Chief Justice’s conclusions, with further reasoning briefl y below. 88. The petitioners’ eff orts have been aimed at persuading this court to interpret the provisions of SMA in a manner, that accommodates non- heterosexual couples and facilitates this marriage. Their arguments were centred around reading its specifi c provisions – [Section 2 (b) read with Part I (for a male) and Part II (for a female) (degrees of prohibited relationships), Section 4 (c), Section 12, 15, 22, 23, 27(1); 27(1A) (special ground of divorce for wife), 31(1)(iiia) and (2) (special provision for jurisdiction in case of proceeding for the wife), 36 and 37 (alimony for the wife), 44 (bigamy)] – which present a dominant underlying heteronormative content.