[2023] 5 S.C.R. 141 141 OMPRAKASH SAHNI A v. JAI SHANKAR CHAUDHARY & ANR. ETC. (Criminal Appeal Nos. 1331-1332 of 2023) MAY 02, 2023 B [M. R. SHAH AND J. B. PARDIWALA, JJ.] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s. 389 – The three respondents were convicted for the murder of the appellant’s brother by the Trial Court and sentenced to life imprisonment – The C of conviction and sentence passed by Trial Court was challenged in appeal by the respondents before the High Court – Respondents prayed before the High Court that they be released on bail pending the final disposal of their appeals by suspending the substantive of sentence of life imprisonment – High Court suspended D sentence and ed their release on bail – On appeal, held: The endeavour on the part of the Court should be to see as to whether the case presented by the prosecution and accepted by the Trial Court can be said to be a case in which, ultimately the convict stands for fair chances of acquittal – While undertaking the exercise to E ascertain whether the convict has fair chances of acquittal, what is to be looked into is something palpable – Something which is very apparent or gross on the face of the record, on the basis of which, the Court can arrive at a prima facie satisfaction that the conviction may not be sustainable – The Appellate Court should not reappreciate the evidence at the stage of s.389 and try to pick up few lacunas or F loopholes here or there in the case of the prosecution, it is not correct approach – In the instant case, High Court has gone into the issues like political rivalry, delay in lodging the FIR, some over-writings in the First Information Report etc. – All these aspects, will have to be looked into at the time of the final hearing of the appeals filed G by the convicts – High Court committed a serious error in suspending the substantive of sentence of the convicts and their release on bail pending the final disposal of their criminal appeals – of High Court set aside – Convicts ed to surrender. H 141 142 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD:1. In Vijay Kumar, it was held that in considering the prayer for bail in a case involving a serious offence like murder punishable under Section 302 of the IPC, the court should consider the relevant factors like the nature of accusation made B against the accused, the manner in which the crime is alleged to have been committed, the gravity of the offence, and the desirability of releasing the accused on bail after they have been convicted for committing the serious offence of murder. [Para 31][162-G] C 2. The endeavour on the part of the Court, therefore, should be to see as to whether the case presented by the prosecution and accepted by the Trial Court can be said to be a case in which, ultimately the convict stands for fair chances of acquittal.