This Court observed: G “11. ….. We are also not in a position to agree with the High Court that the relevant date is the date of sale of the undertaking by the Financial Corporation to the first respondent. The insertion of clause 21-A was circulated by the communication dated 27- 11-2001 and it was subsequently followed by the formal notification in terms of Section 49 of the Supply Act read with Section 79(j) of H K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 717 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] that Act. The first respondent having applied for a fresh A connection only on 1-1-2002, the application would be governed by the Terms and Conditions including the term inserted on 27-11-2001, as subsequently formally notified. In the writ petition filed on 27-2-2002 in that behalf, the Court could not have come to the conclusion that the application made B by the first respondent was not governed by the amended Terms and Conditions of Supply including clause 21-A thereof…..On our interpretation of clause 21-A of the Terms and Conditions of Supply as inserted with particular reference to sub-clauses (b) and (c) thereof, we are of the view that the said sub-clauses clearly applied to the first respondent when it made an application C on 1-1-2002 seeking a fresh connection for the premises.” (emphasis supplied) Considering the facts of the nineteen cases, we decide the appeals in the following manner: D I.Kerala 145. The KSEB in exercise of powers conferred under Section 49 and Section 79(j) of the 1948 Act framed regulations relating to Conditions of Supply of Electrical Energy. The regulations were published in the Gazette on 15 December 1989 and came into force with effect E from 1 January 1990. Clause 15 deals with the agreement for a service connection. The relevant clause, with which we are concerned, is extracted below: “15. Agreement for Service Connection 15(c): When there is transfer of ownership or right of occupancy F of the premises the registered consumer shall intimate the transfer of right of occupancy of the premises within 7 days to the Assistant Engineer/Assistant Executive Engineer concerned. On such intimation having been received the service shall be disconnected. If the transferee desires to enjoy service connection, he shall pay G off the dues to the Board and apply for transfer of ownership of service connection within 15 days and execute fresh agreement and furnish additional security. New consumer number shall be allotted in such cases cancelling the previous number. H 718 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 15(d): All dues to the Board from a consumer shall be the first charge on the assets of the consumer. All dues including penalty shall be realized as public revenue due on land. 15(e): Reconnection or new connection shall not be given into any premises where there are arrears on any account due to the B Board pending payment, unless the arrears including penalty, if, any, are cleared in advance (if the new owner/occupier/ allottee remits the amount due from the previous consumer, the Board shall provide re-connection or new connection depending on whether the service remains disconnected/dismantled, as the case may be.