However, Notifi cation No.2 of 2006 which was issued in supersession of Notifi cation No.13 of 2002 ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’ was deleted or, in other words, such Entry was omitted. 104. In the light of the two products having been notifi ed under Section 3A as ‘notifi ed goods’ which is contemplated under Rule 2(c), it cannot be gainsaid by the assessee that while adjudicating the declaration fi led, the issue of classifi cation would not fall within the domain of the adjudicating authority under Rule 6(2). In the event, that there has been improper classifi cation of the notifi ed goods the adjudicating authority would be empowered to rectify the misclassifi cation, all the more, in a situation where it has been misclassifi ed with an intention to evade a higher rate of duty. It is in the teeth of the same, that the expression “inquire, determine and pass ” will acquire great signifi cance under Rule 2(c). The declaration which is required to be fi led under Rule 6(1) by a manufacturer is of “notifi ed goods”. The said notifi ed goods means as defi ned under Rule 2(c) which reads as under: COMMR. OF CEN. EXC. AHMEDABAD v. M/S URMIN 637 PRODUCTS P. LTD. AND OTHERS [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] “(c) “notifi ed goods” means unmanufactured tobacco, bearing a brand name, and chewing tobacco notifi ed under sub-section (1) of section 3A of the Act by the notifi cation of the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue), No. 10/2010-Central Excise (N.T. ), dated the 27th February, 2010;” 105. From time to time, the notifi ed goods came to be included or excluded, which power vested with the rule-making authority and there cannot be any quarrel on this proposition. The product zarda/jarda scented tobacco, as noticed herein (supra) came to be notifi ed under Section 3A (1) of CE Act, 1994, with eff ect from 13.04.2010 and correspondingly the CTPM Rules also came to be amended to cover zarda/jarda scented tobacco. As such the assessee contended that the adjudicating authority would not be within his powers to determine the classifi cation. 106. A holistic reading of Rule 6 would indicate that the details prescribed thereunder alone would be the subject matter of determination concerning the annual capacity of production of the factory. The second proviso to Rule 6 would clearly indicate that the Prescribed Authority is empowered to modify the declaration on the facts obtained from such declaration. While undertaking such exercise of determination and passing s concerning the annual capacity of production of the factory as contemplated under sub-rule (2) of Rule 6, the Prescribed Authority would have to take into consideration the issue relating to the classifi cation of the product. We say so for reasons more than one, fi rstly, the details required to be furnished as prescribed under clause (i) to (x) of sub-rule (1) of Rule 6 would indicate that apart from details mentioned therein, the declarant will have to specify the description of goods to be manufactured without specifying the classifi cation entry to the Central Excise Tarif Act.