20. In the facts at hand, it is clear that such a permission was never taken, granted or ed. Consequently, FR-II is without basis. In FR-I it has been stated that in the absence of any documents in respect B of the financial transactions, the instant case may be treated as a false case. This, then would necessarily imply that after due investigation conducted by a duly authorized person, the conclusion is that the ingredients of the section mentioned in the FIR have not been met and no case is made out. C 21. In Paramjit Batra v. State of Uttarakhand10 (two-Judge bench) it was observed that the High Court must use its powers under Section 482 only sparingly and to facilitate the ends of justice. It was also observed that the court must see must see whether a dispute which is essentially of a civil nature is given a cloak of criminal offence. In D such a situation, the High Court should not hesitate to quash the criminal proceedings to prevent abuse of process of the court. 22. In State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal11(two-Judge bench) seven instances were laid out wherein the exercise of either the power of Article 226 of the Constitution of India or the Inherent Powers under E Section 482, Cr.PC would be justifiably exercised. They are- “(1) Where the allegations made in the first information report or the complaint, even if they are taken at their face value and accepted in their entirety do not prima facie constitute any offence or make out a case against the accused. F (2) Where the allegations in the first information report and other materials, if any, accompanying the FIR do not disclose a cognizable offence, justifying an investigation by police officers under Section 156(1) of the Code except under an of a Magistrate within the purview of Section 155(2) of the Code. G (3) Where the uncontroverted allegations made in the FIR or complaint and the evidence collected in support of the same 10 (2013) 13 SCC 673 11 1992 Supp (1) 335 H 1152 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A do not disclose the commission of any offence and make out a case against the accused. (4) Where, the allegations in the FIR do not constitute a cognizable offence but constitute only a non- cognizable offence, no investigation is permitted by a police officer B without an of a Magistrate as contemplated under Section 155(2) of the Code. (5) Where the allegations made in the FIR or complaint are so absurd and inherently improbable on the basis of which no prudent person can ever reach a just conclusion that there is sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused. C (6) Where there is an express legal bar engrafted in any of the provisions of the Code or the concerned Act (under which a criminal proceeding is instituted) to the institution and continuance of the proceedings and/or where there is a specific provision in the Code or the concerned Act, D providing efficacious redress for the grievance of the aggrieved party.