The emphasis of law is to avoid a B fishing and roving inquiry. It is therefore necessary for the Court to scrutinise the pleadings relating to corrupt practice in a strict manner.” (emphasis added) C 17. This Court held that Section 83 makes it obligatory for the election petitioner to give requisite facts, details, and particulars of each corrupt practice with exactitude. In this case, requisite facts are completely missing. The allegations are very vague and general in nature and, therefore, there is no cause of action to proceed on the ground of corrupt practice. Therefore, in our view, the averments made in D paragraphs 6 and 7 do not constitute a cause of action available to proceed on the ground of corrupt practices contemplated by Section 123. Paragraph 8 contains the details of the result of the election. Paragraphs 2 to 4 and 8 are formal in nature and not at all relevant. 18.In paragraph 9, again there are vague and general allegations E that the appellant and 6th respondent committed electoral misconduct and corrupt practice. Even this paragraph is bereft of material facts. Paragraph 9 (a) has been added which contains only one sentence that acceptance of nomination of the appellant and 6th respondent is illegal. Not a single material fact is pleaded in support of the plea that the acceptance of the nomination paper is improper. F 19.While rejecting the applications made by the appellants, the learned Single Judge of the High Court had issued directions in paragraphs 19 and 20 which read thus:- “19. In this case, as already held that the election petition discloses G material facts and particulars and copy of the CD, photographs etc sent to the respondent/returning officer has not been given to the applicants herein/respondents 5 & 6. The 1st respondent/ election petitioner has not stated anything new in the election petition, these documents have already been sent to the 5th respondent/returning officer during election. The Returned H SENTHIBALAJI V. v. A.P. GEETHA AND ORS. 561 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] candidate/5th respondent has not denied and the same can be A decided at the time of trial. Therefore, it is necessity on the part of the first respondent/election petitioner to produce the copies of emails, photographs, CD and video footages etc., before this Court and serve the same to the applicants herein/contesting respondents 5 and 6. B 20. With the above observation, all the three applications are dismissed. This Court directs the first respondent/ election petitioner to file all the relevant documents before this Court within 15 days from the date of this viz., emails, photographs and video footages etc., if any filed before the C 5th respondent/returning officer during the Election and also to serve those materials to applicants herein/contesting respondents 5 and 6.” (emphasis added) 20. We must note here that the emails, photographs, and video D footage have not been relied upon in the list of documents filed along with the Election Petition. At the highest, these documents will constitute particulars and not material facts.