It is also to be noted that both sides submit and pray that appropriate s be passed to ensure a fair trial by a court of competent jurisdiction. In such circumstances, the parties were heard in extenso. 2. We have heard Mr. Varinder Kumar Sharma, learned counsel for the appellant, Mr. Sourbh Roy, learned Additional Advocate General and Mr. Sumeer Sodhi, learned counsel for the respondent State. 3. We have already noted that the appellant herein has been charged for commission of various off ences under the IPC including indictment under Section 409, IPC punishable with imprisonment for life or imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to 10 years and fi ne and under the stated provisions of the two enactments mentioned hereinbefore. Essentially, taking into account the fact that the appellant had already undergone incarceration for more than 8 years as per dated 02.08.2023, this Court called for an affi davit from the respondent-State as to the steps taken to apprehend the other absconding accused and also indicating the stage of trial proceedings as on date. 440 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 4. In compliance with the directions in the dated 02.08.2023, the respondent-State fi led an additional affi davit. It is stated therein that with respect to the illegal Collective Investment Scheme (CIS), being run by M/s HBN Dairies and Allied Limited, the appellant and other Directors indulged in collection of huge sums of money from around 97,707 investors under false assurances and then failed to return the amount upon maturity. Two First Information Reports, including the present one being FIR No.22 of 2015 were registered. As relates the appellant herein, it is stated therein that after registration of the FIR he was absconding and was arrested by the Bureau of Immigration on 02.02.2015 from the Indira Gandhi International Airport, New Delhi. It is further stated therein that chargesheet was fi led in the case on 15.10.2015 and currently the matter is at the stage of prosecution evidence where 10 witnesses had been examined and 76 more witnesses are yet to be examined. Thus, it is evident that though the chargesheet was laid on 15.10.2015 by now only 10 out of the 86 prosecution witnesses alone were examined and the appellant had already undergone incarceration for more than 8 years. There can be no doubt with respect to the object of penology that is to protect the society against the criminals and in other words, for imposition of appropriate, adequate, just and proportionate sentence commensurate with the nature and gravity of the crime and the manner of its commission, in case of conviction. Having said this, we cannot be oblivious of the rights of the accused as well. In the circumstances expatiated above, the question is how long the appellant-accused should carry the tag of “accused”? But, certainly, taking into account the legal and factual circumstances the appellant has to stand the trial. 5. Puzzling legal issues arise for consideration in the instant case in view of the attending circumstances as also the various provisions under the IPC, Cr.PC and also in view of various relevant decisions of this Court.