30. Further, the Court has to be mindful of circumstances which compelled the defendants to enter into the agreement of sale of Kanam B and Kuzhikoor rights dated 7thFebruary, 2006. The time limit stipulated in the agreement is of significance in the instant case when this aspect is viewed in light of the fact that the defendants were debt-ridden and sought to sell their Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights over suit property with the sole intention of clearing off such debts which were incurred to C support the cardiac treatment of defendant no. 1. It was therefore necessary that the plaintiff paid a significant portion of the consideration, if not the entire sale consideration, within the period of six months as stipulated in the agreement. But the plaintiff refused to do so even on being repeatedly requested by the defendants. D 31. At this juncture, it may also be apposite to refer to the decision of this Court in Saradamani Kandappan vs. S. Rajalakshmi, (2011) 12 SCC 18 wherein this Court had an occasion to consider the aspect of payment of a nominal advance by the plaintiff and effect of the amount of advance paid on the decision of the Court to grant the discretionary relief of specific performance. This Court has authoritatively laid down E that it would amount to injustice to hold that a vendor who took a very meagre sum as earnest money, and agreed that the rest of the consideration would be paid within a stipulated period of time, did not intend that time was of essence to the contract. The relevant portion of the said is usefully extracted as under: F “37. The reality arising from this economic change cannot continue to be ignored in deciding cases relating to specific performance. The steep increase in prices is a circumstance which makes it inequitable to grant the relief of specific performance where the purchaser does not take steps to complete the sale within the G agreed period, and the vendor has not been responsible for any delay or non-performance. A purchaser can no longer take shelter under the principle that time is not of essence in performance of contracts relating to immovable property, to cover his delays, laches, breaches and “non-readiness”. The precedents from an era, when high inflation was unknown, holding that time is not of H 278 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A the essence of the contract in regard to immovable properties, may no longer apply, not because the principle laid down therein is unsound or erroneous, but the circumstances that existed when the said principle was evolved, no longer exist. In these days of galloping increases in prices of immovable properties, to hold that a vendor who took an earnest money of say about 10% of the B sale price and agreed for three months or four months as the period for performance, did not intend that time should be the essence, will be a cruel joke on him, and will result in injustice.