In fact, the genuineness of the transaction has to be proved as the burden to prove the genuineness of transaction as per section 70 of the KVAT Act, 2003 would be upon the purchasing dealer. At the cost of repetition, it is observed and held that mere production of the invoices and/or payment by cheque C is not sufficient and cannot be said to be proving the burden as per section 70 of the Act, 2003. 10. Even considering the intent of section 70 of the Act, 2003, it can be seen that the ITC can be claimed only on the genuine transactions of the sale and purchase and even as per section 70(2) if a dealer D knowingly issues or produces a false tax invoice, credit or debit note, declaration, certificate or other document with a view to support or make any claim that a transaction of sale or purchase effected by him or any other dealer, is not liable to be taxed, or liable to take at a lower rate, or that a deduction of input tax is available, such a dealer is liable to pay the E penalty. Therefore, as observed hereinabove, for claiming ITC, genuineness of the transaction and actual physical movement of the goods are the sine qua non and the aforesaid can be proved only by furnishing the name and address of the selling dealer, details of the vehicle which has delivered the goods, payment of freight charges, acknowledgement of taking delivery of goods, tax invoices and payment F particulars etc. The purchasing dealers have to prove the actual physical movement of the goods, alleged to have been purchased from the respective dealers. If the purchasing dealer/s fails/fail to establish and prove the said important aspect of physical movement of the goods alleged to have been purchased by it/them from the concerned dealers and on G which the ITC have been claimed, the Assessing Officer is absolutely justified in rejecting such ITC claim. 11. In the present case, the respective purchasing dealer/s has/ have produced either the invoices or payment by cheques to claim ITC. The Assessing Officer has doubted the genuineness of the transactions H 658 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A by giving cogent reasons on the basis of the evidence and material on record. In some of the cases, the registration of the selling dealers have been cancelled or even the sale by the concerned dealers has been disputed and/or denied by the concerned dealer. In none of the cases, the concerned purchasing dealers have produced any further supporting material, such as, furnishing the name and address of the selling dealer, B details of the vehicle which has delivered the goods, payment of freight charges, acknowledgement of taking delivery of goods, tax invoices and payment particulars etc. and therefore it can be said that the concerned purchasing dealers failed to discharge the burden cast upon them under Section 70 of the KVAT Act, 2003. At the cost of repetition, it is observed C and held that unless and until the purchasing dealer discharges the burden cast under Section 70 of the KVAT Act, 2003 and proves the genuineness of the transaction/purchase and sale by producing the aforesaid materials, such purchasing dealer shall not be entitled to Input Tax Credit.