Such training facilities shall be set up by all the High Courts under intimation to this Court within a period of two weeks from the date of this ; and (ix) The Union of India shall ensure that on or before 15 November 2023, all tribunals are provided with requisite infrastructure for hybrid hearings. All Tribunals shall ensure the commencement of hybrid hearings no later than 15 November 2023. The directions governing the High Courts shall also apply to the Tribunals functioning under all the Ministries of the Union Government including CESTAT, ITAT, NCLAT, NCLT, AFT, NCDRC, NGT, SAT, CAT, DRATs and DRTs. 112 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 15. Notice shall also be issued to the Registrar In-charge of the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity5. Mr K M Nataraj, Additional Solicitor General shall immediately contact the Chairperson of the APTEL and take necessary steps on behalf of the Union of India to ensure that video conferencing/hybrid facilities are made available at APTEL within a period of one month from the date of this . 16. Above all, it must be noted that technology plays an essential role in securing access to courtrooms and as a result, access to justice for citizens across the country. Lawyers and litigants using electronic gadgets to access fi les and legal materials cannot be asked to turn the clock back and only refer to paper books. In the march of technology, the Courts cannot remain tech averse. Placing fetters on hybrid hearings, like mandating an age criteria, requiring prior application, and frequent denial of access to virtual participants has the direct eff ect of discouraging lawyers and litigants to use technology. Not only does this aff ect the effi ciency and access to courts, but it also sends out the misguided message that access to courts can be restricted at whim to those who seek justice. 17. The use of technology by the Bar and the Bench is no longer an option but a necessity. Members of the Bench, the Bar and the litigants must aid each other to create a technologically adept and friendly environment. The above directions must be implemented by all concerned stakeholders in letter and in spirit. 18. List the proceedings on 6 November 2023. Headnotes prepared by: Directions issued. Divya Pandey 5 “APTEL”