In other words, a conviction cannot be based on the only circumstance of last seen together. Normally, last seen theory comes into play where the time gap, F between the point of time when the accused and the deceased were seen last alive and when the deceased is found dead, is so small that possibility of any person other than the accused being the perpetrator of the crime becomes impossible. To record a conviction, the last seen together itself would not be G sufficient and the prosecution has to complete the chain of circumstances to bring home the guilt of the accused. 11. In a similar fact situation this Court in the case of Krishnan v. State of Tamil (2014) 12 SCC 279, held as follows: 6 2005(12) SCC438 H 7 2016 (12) SCC 251 JABIR & ORS. v. THE STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 983 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 21. The conviction cannot be based only on circumstance of A last seen together with the deceased. In Arjun Marik v. State of Bihar (1994) Supp (2) SCC 372) “31. Thus the evidence that the Appellant had gone to Sitaram in the evening of 19-7-1985 and had stayed in the night at the house of deceased Sitaram is very shaky and inconclusive. B Even if it is accepted that they were there it would at best amount to be the evidence of the Appellants having been seen last together with the deceased. But it is settled law that the only circumstance of last seen will not complete the chain of circumstances to record the finding that it is consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused and, therefore, C no conviction on that basis alone can be founded.” 22. This Court in Bodhraj v. State of (2002) 8 SCC 45) held that: “31. The last seen theory comes into play where the time gap D between the point of time when the accused and the deceased were last seen alive and when the deceased is found dead is so small that possibility of any person other than the accused being the author of the crime becomes impossible.” It will be hazardous to come to a conclusion of guilt in cases where there is no other positive evidence to conclude that the E accused and the deceased were last seen together. 23. There is unexplained delay of six days in lodging the FIR. As per prosecution story the deceased Manikandan was last seen on 4-4-2004 at Vadakkumelur Village during Panguni Uthiram Festival at Mariyamman Temple. The body of the F deceased was taken from the borewell by the fire service personnel after more than seven days. There is no other positive material on record to show that the deceased was last seen together with the accused and in the intervening period of seven days there was nobody in contact with the G deceased. 24. In Jaswant Gir v. State of Punjab (2005) 12 SCC 438), this Court held that in the absence of any other links in the chain of circumstantial evidence, the Appellant cannot be convicted solely on the basis of “last seen together” even if version of the prosecution witness in this regard is believed.” H 984 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R.