[Para 6][257- A-E] 1.2 The trial court directed the plaintiff to pay some more D amount than the amount mentioned in the agreement to sell, at the most, the plaintiff can be said to be aggrieved. Still, the High Court considered such an passed by the trial court against the defendants. As such, the trial court was absolutely justified in compensating the defendants by paying some more amount while E passing a decree for specific performance. Therefore, in the facts and circumstances of the case and more particularly when the trial court exercised the discretion in favour of the plaintiff after having observed and recorded the findings on the execution of the agreement to sell by the defendants and that the part sale consideration was paid by the plaintiff which was accepted by the F defendants and thereafter the finding that the plaintiff was always ready and willing to perform his part of the contract, the trial court was absolutely justified in passing the decree for specific performance. The High Court has erred in interfering with the and decree passed by the trial court, without setting G aside the findings recorded by the trial court recorded while passing the decree for specific performance. The impugned and passed by the High Court is unsustainable, both, on law as well as on facts, and is quashed and set aside and the and decree passed by the trial court for specific performance of agreement to sell is restored. However, to do H 246 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A complete justice and in exercise of powers under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, it is directed that over and above the sale consideration mentioned in the agreement to sell and the amount already deposited by the plaintiff, the plaintiff to pay a further sum of Rs. 10,00,000/- (Rupees Ten Lakhs only) to the original defendants, to be paid within the stipulated period. The B amount which might have been deposited by the original defendants, deposited pursuant to the impugned and passed by the High Court, i.e., Rs. 3,10,000/- be also returned/paid to the original defendants. [Para 7, 8][257-F-H; 258- A-E] C Pratap Lakshman Muchandi v. Shamlal Uddavadas Wadhwa, (2008) 12 SCC 67 : [2008] 1 SCR 854 – relied on. PER B. V. NAGARATHNA, J. (Dissenting) : 1.1 The High Court relied on Section 20 of the Specific D Relief Act, prior to the same being substituted by way of Act No. 18 of 2018, to deny the relief of specific performance to the plaintiff. Section 20 of the Act as it stood prior to the Amendment Act of 2018 provided that the jurisdiction to decree specific performance is discretionary. It said that the Court is not bound E to grant such relief merely because it is lawful to do so. Such a discretion, however, was not to be exercised arbitrarily, but ought to have been based on sound and reasonable judicial principles. Even in the absence of discretionary power under Section 20 to deny the relief of specific performance, the plaintiff was not entitled to claim such relief as a matter of right.