(a) Any reference in a heading to an article shall be taken to include a reference to that article incomplete or unfinished, G provided that, as presented, the incomplete or unfinished article has the essential character of the complete or finished article. It shall also be taken to include a reference to that article complete or finished (or falling to be classified as H 32 [2019] 10 SCR 381: (2019) 8 SCC 416 M/S TRIMURTHI FRAGRANCES (P) LTD. THR. ITS DIRECTOR SHRI 1079 PRADEEP KUMAR AGRAWAL v. GOVT. OF N.C.T. OF DELHI THR. ITS PRINCIPAL SECRETARY (FINANCE) [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] complete or, finished by virtue of this rule), presented A unassembled or disassembled. (b) Any reference in a heading to a material or substance shall be taken to include a reference to mixtures or combinations of that material or substance with other materials or substances. Any reference to goods of a given B material or substance shall be taken to include a reference to goods consisting wholly or partly of such material or substance. The classification of goods consisting of more than one material or substance shall be according to the principles of rule 3. C 3. When by application of rule 2(b) or for any other reason, goods are, prima facie, classifiable under two or more headings, classification shall be effected as follows: - (a) the heading which provides the most specific description shall be preferred to headings providing a more general D description. However, when two or more headings each refer to part only of the materials or substances contained in mixed or composite goods or to part only of the items in a set put up for retail sale, those headings are to be regarded as equally specific in relation to those goods, even if one of them gives a E more complete or precise description of the goods. (b) mixtures, composite goods consisting of different materials or made up of different components, and goods put up in sets for retail sale, which cannot be classified by reference to (a), shall be classified as if they consisted of the material or component which gives them their essential character, insofar F as this criterion is applicable. (c) when goods cannot be classified by reference to (a) or (b), they shall be classified under the heading which occurs last in numerical among those which equally merit consideration.” G 61. In Collector of Central Excise Nagpur v. Simplex Mills Co. Ltd33this court outlined the role of the interpretive rules: 33 [2005] 2 SCR 441: (2005) 3 SCC 51 H 1080 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A “ […] for legal purposes, classification “shall be determined according to the terms of the headings and any relevant section or chapter notes”. If neither the heading nor the notes suffice to clarify the scope of a heading, then it must be construed according to the other following provisions contained in the Rules. Rule 1 gives primacy to the section B and chapter notes along with terms of the headings.