A (4) they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved, and (5) there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human B probability the act must have been done by the accused. 154. These five golden principles, if we may say so, constitute the panchsheel of the proof of a case based on circumstantial evidence.” 7. It can thus be seen that this Court has held that the C circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established. It has been held that the circumstances concerned “must or should” and not “may be” established. It has been held that there is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between “may be proved” and “must be or should be proved”. It has been held that the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the D guilt of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty. It has been held that the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency and they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one sought to be proved, and that there must be a chain of evidence so complete so as E not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused. 8. It is a settled principle of law that however strong a suspicion may be, it cannot take place of a proof beyond reasonable doubt. In the F light of these guiding principles, we will have to consider the present case. 9. The prosecution case mainly rests on the testimony of Mal Singh (PW-2), ex-Sarpanch of village Maluka insofar as extra-judicial confession is concerned. Insofar as the last seen theory is concerned, G the prosecution relies on the evidence of complainant Tapinder Singh (PW-3), step-son of appellant Manjit Kaur and the statement of Jagtar Singh (PW-9). The evidence of Dr. Rakesh Kumar Goel (PW-5), Medical Expert who has conducted the autopsy and SI Amritpal Singh (PW-11) would also be relevant. H PRITINDER SINGH @ LOVELY v. THE STATE OF PUNJAB 1041 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 10. Mal Singh (PW-2), ex-Sarpanch of village Maluka has stated A that on 4th September 1998, appellants Manjit Kaur and Pritinder Singh @ Lovely had come to him in his village. He stated that both were nervous at that time. He further stated that appellant Manjit Kaur took him on one side and told him that Ravinder Singh, son of Harbhajan Singh was killed by them as he suspected that she was carrying on illicit B relations with persons who used to come to her. 11. It is relevant to note that the village Jawadi where PW-2 resides is 100 kms.