12. At the same time, the finding recorded by the learned Single Judge that the action of the State Government was per se malafide in passing the dated 8th November, 2011 as directed in Para 33 was C held to be unjustified and that became the subject matter of challenge in appeals before this Court. 13. On the first date of hearing when the matter was listed, while issuing notice on 23rd September, 2014, the operation of the and dated 19th August, 2014 came to be stayed by this Court. D 14. It is brought to the notice of this Court that the State Government has introduced the scheme dated 7th June, 2022 to provide employment to the educated unemployed youth under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme to engage one person for one panchayat to fill up on certain conditions or such of the E unemployed youth on priority who had discontinued as MNP pursuant to passed by the Government dated 8th November, 2011 on monthly wages of Rs.7500/- per month. 15. It is informed to this Court that majority of the persons who were discontinued pursuant to the dated 8th November, 2011 and F who otherwise fulfil the conditions of eligibility have joined under the scheme introduced by the Government dated 7th June, 2022. Out of the total number of 13,500 MNPs, majority of them have joined and 489 MNPs have not opted the new policy despite opportunity being afforded by this Court. G 16. Learned counsel for the appellants submits that creation and abolition of posts rests with the Government and is a matter of Government policy, which can always be exercised in the interest and necessity of internal administration and the Court would be the least competent in the face of scanty material to decide whether the Government acted bonafidely in creating a post or refusing to create a post or its decision H 398 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A suffers from malice(legal or factual) and as long as the decision to abolish the post is taken in good faith, interference by the Court was not warranted. 17. The abolition of post is not a personal penalty against the individual who has served and is an executive decision and the Doctrine B of Estoppel will not be applicable against the State in its governmental, public or sovereign function and the only exception is that where it is necessary to prevent fraud or manifest injustice. 18. Learned counsel further submits that these are not the appointments made under the establishment of the State Government C against the cadre post whose service conditions are governed by the service rules framed under proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution.The present appointments are made only for the purpose of providing employment to educated youth in rural areas to work as MNP in implementation of various programmes at the village level on an honorarium which has been revised from time to time. D 19. The appointments are although made through a process held in the local area through the Committee constituted so that the large number of candidates who are inclined to seek an appointment, there must be some mechanism in place by which candidates could be shortlisted to offer appointment.