C This amount of Rs.2.70 crores agreed to be provided by the Corporate Debtor, was in addition to another amount of Rs.9.30 crores agreed to be provided by the Corporate Debtor to Energy Properties, for enabling them to tide over a crisis. The consideration for the Corporate Debtor D providing financial assistance to Energy Properties, both for the purchase of the aforesaid property and for overcoming a crisis, was actually two-fold, namely, (i) that 40% of shareholding in Energy Properties should be transferred to the Corporate Debtor; and (ii) the Corporate Debtor was to be given the exclusive right of development E of the property. (ii) Simultaneously with the execution of the aforesaid MoU, 40% of the total shares of Energy Properties was transferred to the Corporate Debtor. (iii) With the funds so provided by the Corporate Debtor, Energy F Properties purchased the land in question from UCO Bank, under a Sale Certificate dated 29.01.2008. The totalsale consideration indicated in the Sale Certificate was Rs.2,97,03,484/- (Rupees Two Crore Ninety-seven Lakhs Three Thousand Four Hundred and Eighty-four only). G (iv) On 16.06.2008, Energy Properties entered into an agreement with the Corporate Debtor, whereby the Corporate Debtor was conferred exclusive rights of development of the property. The actual physical possession of the property was also handed over under this agreement H 1030 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A to the Corporate Debtor. The factum of handing over of possession of the property in entirety to the Corporate Debtor was also confirmed in two subsequent MoUs dated 02.03.2010 and 24.06.2010, executed respectively by (a) the Shareholders of Energy Properties as well as by (b) Energy Properties themselves. B (v) Thereafter, the Corporate Debtor executed a Leave and License Agreement on 19.08.2011, granting a license to Victory, for the permissive use of 10000 sq.ft. of land out of the total extent of 10.19 acres. Energy Properties joined this Leave and License Agreement as a confirming party. C This agreement was to be for a period of 11 months commencing from August-2011. The license fee fixed under the said Agreement, was Rs.5,000/- per month. (vi) However, Victory (the licensee) now claims that they subsequently got permission to use the whole of the land, D of the total extent of Rs.10.19 acres by paying an additional license fee of Rs.5,000/- per month. (vii) Once a CIRP was initiated against the Corporate Debtor at the instance of a third-party financial creditor, the Interim Resolution Professional started claiming that the E development rights held by the Corporate Debtor formed part of the intangible assets of the Corporate Debtor and that, therefore, the same must be included in the Information Bulletin and protected. (viii) Energy Properties is objecting to the proposal of Resolution F Professional on the ground that the property, namely, the land does not belong to the Corporate Debtor and that therefore the said property should not be included in the assets of the Corporate Debtor, especially when there are disputes arising out of the Joint Development Agreement.