A found they fit the description of goods under chapter heading 570390.90. We accept this finding of the Tribunal. Once the subject goods are found to come within the ambit of that sub-heading, for the sole reason that they are exclusively made for cars and not for “home use” (in broad terms), those goods cannot be transplanted to the residual entry against the B heading 8708. As we find the subject-goods come under the chapter-heading 570390.90, and the other entry under the same Chapter forming the subject of dispute in the second of the Commissioner, in our opinion, there is no necessity to import the “common parlance” test or any other similar C device of construction for identifying the position of these goods against the relevant tariff entries.” 26. In the decision reported as Delton Cables Ltd (supra) too, this court had emphasized on the rule of classification of the goods in accordance with a specific description and observed that: D “3. There appears to be no dispute that were it not for Section Note 2(b), the item in question would be classified under Tariff Heading 85.44 as contended by the appellant. Sections Notes 2(a) and (b) respectively provide as follows: E “2. (a) Parts which are goods included in any of the headings of Chapter 84 or Chapter 85 (other than Headings 84.85 and 85.48) are in all cases to be classified in their respective headings. F (b) Other parts, if suitable for use solely or principally with a particular kind of machine, or with a number of machines of the same heading (including a machine of Heading 84.79 or Heading 85.43) are to be classified with the machines of that kind. However, parts which are equally suitable for use principally with the goods of Headings 85.17 and 85.25 to G 85.28 are to be classified in Heading 85.17.” 4. It is clear from a reading of the two clauses to the section note that clause H CCE, AURANGABAD v. M/S VIDEOCON INDUSTRIES LTD. 277 THR. ITS DIRECTOR [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (b) would only apply once it was found that the items in A question were not specifically classifiable under their respective headings. As has been clearly said by the Collector (Appeals) “from the sequence of the paragraphs given under Section B Note 2 it is clear that the question of switching over to Section Note 2(b) can arise only after ensuring that the parts are not covered by Section Note 2(b) [sic Section Note 2(a).] which begins with the expression “other parts” meaning thereby that the parts which are not covered by Section Note 2(a) would be considered for coverage by Section Note 2(b). One cannot C therefore directly jump over to Section Note 2(b) without exhausting the possibility of Section Note 2(a).” 27. M/S Intel Design Systems (India) (P) Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Customs and Central Excise11 is a decision, where the goods were described as parts of tanks and other armoured and motorized fighting D vehicles, under Heading 8710 was held to fall within Chapter 85.