What really was necessary to be considered by the High Court is E whether reasons existed to suspend the execution of sentence and thereafter grant bail. The High Court does not seem to have kept the correct principle in view.” 31. In Vijay Kumar v. Narendra and Othersreported in (2002) 9 SCC 364 and Ramji Prasad v. Rattan Kumar Jaiswal and Anotherreported in (2002)9 SCC 366, it was held by this Court that in F cases involving conviction under Section 302 of the IPC, it is only in exceptional cases that the benefit of suspension of sentence can be granted. In Vijay Kumar (supra), it was held that in considering the prayer for bail in a case involving a serious offence like murder punishable under Section 302 of the IPC, the court should consider the relevant G factors like the nature of accusation made against the accused, the manner in which the crime is alleged to have been committed, the gravity of the offence, and the desirability of releasing the accused on bail after they have been convicted for committing the serious offence of murder. 32. The aforesaid view is reiterated by this Court in the case of H Vasant Tukaram Pawar v. State of Maharashtra reported in (2005)5 OMPRAKASH SAHNI v. JAI SHANKAR CHAUDHARY & 163 ANR. ETC. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] SCC 281 and Gomti v. Thakurdas and Others reported in (2007)11 A SCC 160. 33. Bearing in mind the aforesaid principles of law, the endeavour on the part of the Court, therefore, should be to see as to whether the case presented by the prosecution and accepted by the Trial Court can be said to be a case in which, ultimately the convict stands for fair chances B of acquittal. If the answer to the above said question is to be in the affirmative, as a necessary corollary, we shall have to say that, if ultimately the convict appears to be entitled to have an acquittal at the hands of this Court, he should not be kept behind the bars for a pretty long time till the conclusion of the appeal, which usually take very long C for decision and disposal. However, while undertaking the exercise to ascertain whether the convict has fair chances of acquittal, what is to be looked into is something palpable. To put it in other words, something which is very apparent or gross on the face of the record, on the basis of which, the Court can arrive at a prima facie satisfaction that the conviction may not be sustainable. The Appellate Court should not D reappreciate the evidence at the stage of Section 389 of the CrPC and try to pick up few lacunas or loopholes here or there in the case of the prosecution. Such would not be a correct approach. 34. In the case on hand, what the High Court has done is something impermissible. High Court has gone into the issues like political rivalry, E delay in lodging the FIR, some over-writings in the First Information Report etc.