In the said case the challenge was to a notification issued by the State of Karnataka dated 31 May, 1981 withdrawing the exemption granted under Section 63(7) of the 1939 Act. The said exemption was granted C to promote tourist traffic on an inter-state basis. This Court, after considering the object behind the compensatory and regulatory levy, held that such tax fell outside Article 301 of the Constitution of India and withdrawal of the exemption granted would neither be discriminatory nor arbitrary and, accordingly, upheld the withdrawal. In this context, it would be useful to reproduce paragraphs 9 and 10: D “9. By virtue of the power given to them by Entries 56 and 57 of List Il each one of the States has the right to make its own legislation to compensate it for the services, benefit and facilities provided by it for motor vehicles operating within the territory of the State. Taxes resulting from such legislative activity are E by their very nativity and nature, cast (sic caste) and character, regulatory and compensatory and, are therefore, not within the vista of Article 301. unless, as we said, the tax is a mere pretext designed to injure the freedom of inter-State trade, commerce and intercourse. The nexus between the levy and the service F is so patent in the case of such taxes that we need say no more about it. The Karnataka Motor Vehicles Taxation Act and the Motor Vehicles Taxation Acts of other States are without doubt regulatory and compensatory legislations outside the range of Article 301 of the Constitution. 10. It is true that the object of enacting Section 63(7) by the G Parliament was to promote all-India and inter- State tourist traffic. But taxes on vehicles... suitable for use on roads is a State legislative subject and it is for the State Legislature to impose H 910 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A a levy and to exempt from the levy. True again, Entry 57 of the State List is subject to Entry 35 of the Concurrent List and, as explained by us at the outset, it is therefore open to the Parliament to lay down the principles on which taxes may be levied on mechanically propelled vehicles. But the Parliament while enacting Section 63(7) of the Motor Vehicles Act B refrained from indicating any such principles, either expressly or by necessary implication. The State’s power to tax and to exempt was left uninhibited. It may be that a State legislation, plenary or subordinate, which exempts “non-home- State tourist vehicles” from tax would be advancing the object of Section C 63(7) of the Motor Vehicles Act and accelerating inter-State trade, commerce and intercourse. But merely by Parliament legislating Section 63(7), the State Legislatures are not obliged to fall in line and to so arrange their tax laws as to advance the object of Section 63(7), be it ever so desirable. The State is obliged neither to grant an exemption nor to perpetuate an D exemption once granted.