It modifi es Article 370, which can only be done on exercise of power under Article 370(3); and b. Only the State Government may accord “concurrence” to the President under the second proviso to Article 370(1)(d). 356. These arguments are considered in turn. a. Amendment of Article 370 through Article 370(1)(d) I. The application of the Constitution to the State of Jammu and Kashmir 357. Before adverting to the issue at hand, it is necessary to understand the structure of Article 370 and the mechanism by which diff erent provisions of the Constitution were made applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. 358. Article 370(1)(a) stipulates that the provisions of Article 238 shall not apply in relation to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Article 238 concerned the application of the provisions of Part VI of the Constitution to States in Part B of the First Schedule. Article 238 was repealed by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act 1956, which modifi ed the categorisation of the constituent units in the country and did away with the distinction between Part A States and Part B States. Article 370(1)(b) limits the powers of Parliament to make laws for the State of Jammu and Kashmir, as specifi ed in sub-clauses (i) and (ii) of the provision. 359. Article 370(1)(c) stipulates that the provisions of Article 1 and “of this article” shall apply in relation to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. The import of Article 370(1)(c) is that Article 1 as well as “this Article,” meaning Article 370, applies to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Neither Article 370 nor any other provision of the Constitution contemplates a modifi cation or amendment of the application of Article 1 to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Article 1 is therefore applicable to the State without any exceptions, modifi cations, or amendments and without the possibility of any exceptions, modifi cations, or amendments. This is in accordance with the principle that Article 1 is founded on the territorial integrity and unity of India. As a Constitution Bench of this Court observed in Raja Ram Pal 216 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. v. Hon’ble Speaker, Lok Sabha,256 “India is an indestructible Union of destructible units.”257 The indestructible nature of the Union of India258 is underscored by its application to the State of Jammu and Kashmir, which was otherwise subject to a special federal arrangement by virtue of Article 370. The State of Jammu and Kashmir is an integral part of the Union of India. 360. Article 370, on the other hand, could be amended or modifi ed in its application to the State. Clause (3) of Article 370 stipulates that the President may declare that “this article” shall cease to be operative or shall be operative only with such exceptions and modifi cations as he may specify: “(3) Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing provisions of this article, the President may, by public notifi cation, declare that this article shall cease to be operative or shall be operative only with such exceptions and modifi cations and from such date as he may specify: Provided that the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly of the State referred to in clause (2) shall be necessary before the President issues such a notifi cation.” (emphasis supplied) 361.