IB made F the following two adverse remarks: (i) “Main source of income: MBL’s main source of income is the shares invested by cadres of JEI-H through its sympathizers. Most of the Board of Directors are JEI-H sympathizers”; and G (ii) “Anti-establishment stance: Media One channel is learnt to be espousing its anti-establishment stance on various issues ‘including UAPA, Armed Forces (Special Power) Act, H 73 “2018 Guidelines” MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 667 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] developmental projects of the Government, encounter A killings, Citizenship (Amendment) Act, CAA/NPR/NRC”. 95. The 2018 Guidelines stipulate that national security covers a wide range of issues but the principle focus, inter alia, is on (i) matters relating to preserving the unity, territorial integrity and sovereignty of the nation and protecting the life, and liberty of its citizens; and (ii) matters B vital to economic security, protection of critical infrastructure, and development and prosperity of the country and its citizens. Clause 3.2 stipulates that sector sensitive proposals emanating from, inter alia, MIB shall be assessed in accordance with the Guidelines. According to Clause 4 national security verification will be done through “record C checks/field enquiries and other means for the vetting of the company, entity and the persons associated with the same.” The provision stipulates that on receipt of a proposal from the concerned ministry (in this case, MIB), MHA would seek inputs from security and law enforcement agencies. Clause 5 stipulates that the intelligence and law enforcement agencies will conduct an assessment based on the list of security D parameters set out in in Annexure C. The assessment will be done on the basis of the reported threat, probability of materialization, and overall impact. Annexure C prescribes the security parameters. Sl. No 13 of the Annexure reads: “Terror funding, financial linkage with underworld, drug cartels, crime syndicates.” Sl No. 20 reads as E “Involvement in religious proselytization activities in India”, and Sl. No. 22 reads as “Intentional or systemic infringement of safety concerns or security systems endangering the safety of the public”. 96. MBL filed an application for renewal of permission to uplink and downlink the Media-One channel. MIB forwarded the application F for renewal to MHA for security clearance. MHA noted that there is no reason to consider the renewal of permission if security clearance has been denied to the company and its directors earlier: “3. It has been observed that Ministry of Information and Broadcasting has been forwarding the proposals for renewal of G security clearance to MHA on routine basis including cases, where security clearance has already been denied to the company and its directors, If security clearance has been denied by MHA to a company and its directors. there is no reason to consider its renewal unless there are specific reasons to indicate that the situation has changed. H 668 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A The security clearance guidelines dated 25.06.2018, para 7.4 stipulates that the decision on security clearance by the MHA will have prospective effect unless otherwise decided by the ministry /department concerned in the discharge of its mandate.