In that, the evidence so collected by the authorities is placed before the Adjudicating Authority for determination of the issue as to whether the provisional attachment issued under Section 5 deserves to be confi rmed and to direct confi scation of the property in question. The expression “investigation”, therefore, must be regarded as interchangeable with the function of “inquiry” to be undertaken by the authorities for submitting such evidence before the Adjudicating Authority. 880 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 28. In other words, merely because the expression used is “investigation” — which is similar to the one noted in Section 2(h) of the 1973 Code, it does not limit itself to matter of investigation concerning the off ence under the Act and Section 3 in particular. It is a diff erent matter that the material collected during the inquiry by the authorities is utilised to bolster the allegation in the complaint to be fi led against the person from whom the property has been recovered, being the proceeds of crime. Further, the expression “investigation” used in the 2002 Act is interchangeable with the function of “inquiry” to be undertaken by the Authorities under the Act, including collection of evidence for being presented to the Adjudicating Authority for its consideration for confi rmation of provisional attachment . We need to keep in mind that the expanse of the provisions of the 2002 Act is of prevention of money-laundering, attachment of proceeds of crime, adjudication and confi scation thereof, including vesting of it in the Central Government and also setting up of agency and mechanism for coordinating measures for combating money-laundering.” (emphasis supplied) 47. The power of arrest under Section 19 of the PMLA, 2002 is meant for investigation alone. A clear position which is taken note of in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra): “89. This argument clearly overlooks the overall scheme of the 2002 Act. As noticed earlier, it is a comprehensive legislation, not limited to provide for prosecution of person involved in the off ence of money-laundering, but mainly intended to prevent money-laundering activity and confi scate the proceeds of crime involved in money-laundering. It also provides for prosecuting the person involved in such activity constituting off ence of money- laundering. In other words, this legislation is an amalgam of diff erent facets including setting up of agencies and mechanisms for coordinating measures for combating money-laundering. Chapter III is a provision to eff ectuate these purposes and objectives by attachment, adjudication and confi scation. The adjudication is done by the Adjudicating Authority to confi rm the of V. SENTHIL BALAJI v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY 881 DEPUTY DIRECTOR AND ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] provisional attachment in respect of proceeds of crime involved in money-laundering. For accomplishing that objective, the authorities appointed under Chapter VIII have been authorised to make inquiry into all matters by way of survey, searches and seizures of records and property. These provisions in no way invest power in the Authorities referred to in Chapter VIII of the 2002 Act to maintain law and or for that matter, purely investigating into a criminal off ence.