The case of the prosecution was that later the appellant not only raped her and robbed her of her ornaments, but also laid her on the rail track to be run over by a passing train. It was also found as a fact that the deceased was last seen alive only in 3 There is a typographical error in the text of the . R. SREENIVASA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 61 [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] his company, and that on information furnished by the appellant in the course of investigation, the jewels of the deceased, which were sold to PW 11 by the appellant, were seized. There was clear evidence to prove that those jewels were worn by the deceased at the time when she left the Convent with the appellant. When questioned under Section 313 CrPC, the appellant did not even attempt to explain or clarify the incriminating circumstances inculpating and connecting him with the crime by his adamant attitude of total denial of everything. In the background of such facts, the Court held: (SCC p. 205, para 14) “Such incriminating links of facts could, if at all, have been only ex-plained by the appellant, and by nobody else, they being personally and exclusively within his knowledge. Of late, courts have, from the falsity of the defence plea and false answers given to court, when questioned, found the missing links to be supplied by such answers for completing the chain of incriminating circumstances necessary to connect the person concerned with the crime committed (see State of Maharashtra v. Suresh [(2000) 1 SCC 471 : 2000 SCC (Cri) 263]). That missing link to connect the accused-appellant, we fi nd in this case provided by the blunt and outright denial of every one and all the incriminating circumstances pointed out which, in our view, with suffi cient and reasonable certainty on the facts proved, connect the accused with the death and the cause for the death of Gracy.” 21. In Ram Gulam Chaudhary v. State of Bihar [(2001) 8 SCC 311 : 2001 SCC (Cri) 1546] the facts proved at the trial were that the deceased boy was brutally assaulted by the appellants. When one of them declared that the boy was still alive and he should be killed, a chhurablow was infl icted on his chest. Thereafter, the appellants carried away the boy who was not seen alive thereafter. The appellants gave no explanation as to what they did after they took away the boy. The question arose whether in such facts Section 106 of the Evidence Act applied. This Court held: (SCC p. 320, para 24) “In the absence of an explanation, and considering the fact that the appellants were suspecting the boy to have kidnapped and killed the child of the family of the appellants, it was for the appellants to have explained what they did with him after they took him away. When the 62 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. abductors withheld that information from the court, there is every justifi cation for drawing the inference that they had murdered the boy.