On the other hand, there is no justifi cation for discrimination based on identities which are protected under Article 15. State interests (even if established 274 Deni Mazrekaj, Kristof De Witte, Sofi e Cabus, School outcomes of children raised by same-sex parents: Evidence from administrative Panel Data, American Sociological Review Volume 85 Issue 5 275 See Navtej (supra) SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1401 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] which in this case it has not been) cannot be used to justify discrimination once the Court holds that the provision in eff ect discriminates based on identity. Of course, while the Court is assessing if the provision under challenge discriminates in eff ect based on identity, it must also evaluate whether the provision in question is a protective provision meant to achieve the guarantee of substantive equality. 313. For example, it cannot be argued that the Transgender Persons Act is violative of Article 15 because it provides special provisions to safeguard the interest of the transgender community in exclusion of cis-gender persons. A classifi cation based on the identities protected by Article 15 does not automatically lead to discrimination. This Court in State of Kerala v. NM Thomas276 held that protective provisions (such as for reservation) were not an exception to the anti-discrimination law but are in furtherance of the principle of equality (of which anti-discrimination is a facet). The Court examines if the law is discriminatory not based on whether there is a classifi cation based on the identity but whether there is discrimination based on the identity. While doing so it determines if it is a protective provision. However, once it is established that the law discriminates based on protected identities, it cannot be justifi ed based on state interest. Thus, once it is proved that the law discriminates based on sexual orientation as in this case (because it disproportionately aff ects queer persons), no amount of evidence or material submitted by the State that such discrimination is based on state’s interest can be used as a justifi cation. 314. We are of the opinion that if the children of persons from the queer community suff er it is because of the lack of recognition (at a legal and social plane) to same-sex unions. In fact, one of the studies submitted by Ms. Aishwarya Bhati highlights this aspect.277 The stigmatization (if any) faced by the children parented by persons of the queer community is because of the inherent biases that the society holds against the queer community, and in this context, biases about their fi tness to be parents. Thus, it is in the interest of children that the State endeavours to take steps to sensitise the society about queer relationships. 276 (1976) SCC 2 310 277 Solirios Sarantakos, Children in three contexts: Family, education, and social development, Children Australia Volume 21, No. 3, 1996 140 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 315. In fact, the Indian Psychiatric Society which consists of 7000 mental health professionals in India released a statement stating that children brought up by non-heterosexual parents may face stigmatization and that it is important that the civic society is adequately sensitized: “The Indian Psychiatric Society is very cognizant that a child adopted into a same gendered family may face challenges, stigma and/or discrimination along the way.