The aforesaid infi rmities cannot be overlooked and compensated by ing a sum of Rs.50,000/- to be paid by the fi rst respondent herein (appellant in the Second Appeal before the High Court) to the respondent-plaintiff (s). In this context, the law on the practice to be followed while considering a regular second appeal, has been re-iterated by this Court in C.A. No. 4935 of 2023 in Bhagyashree Anant Gaonkar vs. Narendra @ Nagesh Bharma Holkar and Anr. dated 07.08.2023, and the relevant extracts in this regard are exposited as under: a) Roop Singh v. Ram Singh, (2000) 3 SCC 708, as relied upon in C.A. Sulaiman vs. State Bank of Travancore, Alwayee (2006) 6 SCC 392: “7. It is to be reiterated that under Section 100 CPC jurisdiction of the High Court to entertain a second appeal is confi ned only to such appeals which involve a substantial question of law and it does not confer any jurisdiction on the High Court to interfere with pure questions of fact while exercising its jurisdiction under Section 100 CPC.” b) State Bank of India vs. S.N. Goyal (2008) 8 SCC 9215: “15. It is a matter of concern that the scope of second appeals and as also the procedural aspects of second appeals are often ignored by the High Courts. Some of the oft-repeated errors are: (a) Admitting a second appeal when it does not give rise to a substantial question of law. (b) Admitting second appeals without formulating substantial question of law. HEMAVATHI AND ORS. v. V. HOMBEGOWDA 485 [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] (c) Admitting second appeals by formulating a standard or mechanical question such as “whether on the facts and circumstances the of the fi rst appellate court calls for interference” as the substantial question of law. (d) Failing to consider and formulate relevant and appropriate substantial question(s) of law involved in the second appeal. (e) Rejecting second appeals on the ground that the case does not involve any substantial question of law, when the case in fact involves substantial questions of law. (f) Reformulating the substantial question of law after the conclusion of the hearing, while preparing the , thereby denying an opportunity to the parties to make submissions on the reformulated substantial question of law. (g) Deciding second appeals by reappreciating evidence and interfering with fi ndings of fact, ignoring the questions of law. These lapses or technical errors lead to injustice and also give rise to avoidable further appeals to this Court and remands by this Court, thereby prolonging the period of litigation. Care should be taken to ensure that the cases not involving substantial questions of law are not entertained, and at the same time ensure that cases involving substantial questions of law are not rejected as not involving substantial questions of law.” c) Municipal Committee, Hoshiarpur v. Punjab SEB, (2010) 13 SCC 216: “16 A second appeal cannot be decided merely on equitable grounds as it lies only on a substantial question of law, which is something distinct from a substantial question of fact.