v. Union of India (2004) 11 SCC 766.13 As seen from a discussion of the facts, the MPAT Abolition Case (supra) concerned the powers of the State of Madhya Pradesh under the Madhya Pradesh Reorganization Act 2000 as well as the D constitutional validity of certain provisions of that enactment. This Court was not called upon to adjudicate whether Section 21 of the General Clauses Act would be applicable to Section 4(2) of the Administrative Tribunals Act. A decision on the abolition of an SAT by the exercise of special powers under a legislation enacted for the reorganization of a E state does not have any bearing on whether an SAT may be abolished in exercise of powers under the Administrative Tribunals Act. The MPAT Abolition Case (supra) is therefore not germane to the issue of whether Section 21 of the General Clauses Act would be applicable to Section 4(2) of the Administrative Tribunals Act. However, the issue whether the decision to abolish the MPAT was arbitrary, unreasonable and F therefore violative of Article 14 of the Constitution was decided in that case. A similar issue is before us in the present case and this aspect of the decision in the MPAT Abolition Case (supra) may be instructive. b. The abolition of the TNAT Between 1994 and 2004, the Government of Tamil Nadu requested G the Union Government to abolish the TNAT. Thereafter, it stopped ap- pointing the Chairperson, the Vice Chairperson and the Members of the TNAT, which was rendered inoperative as a result. Approximately 30,000 cases were pending before it at this time. Various parties instituted writ H 13 “MPAT Abolition Case” ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 763 UNION OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] petitions before the Madras High Court seeking directions to the State A Government of Tamil Nadu to fill the vacancies in the TNAT to enable it to function until it was abolished. These writ petitions culminated in the decision of the Madras High Court in Tamil Nadu Government All De- partment Watchman and Basic Servants Association v. Union of In- dia14. B 25. In its decision in the above case, the Madras High Court held that the Union Government had the power to rescind a notification es- tablishing an SAT, under Section 21 of the General Clauses Act. It relied on the MPAT Abolition Case (supra) to hold that it was open to the State Government to take a “policy decision” to abolish the SAT and C request the Union Government to abolish it. It further held that the latter would have no option but to issue a notification in this regard. On this basis, it directed the Union Government to issue a notification abolishing the TNAT “as there is no necessity for the Central Government to wait for the amendment before the Parliament and the mere issu- ance of Notification would suffice for abolition of the Tribunal.” D Two appeals against the decision in the TNAT Abolition Case (supra) were preferred before this Court.