It is submitted that, therefore, F the decision of the Commissioner to dismiss the respondent from service was void ab initio and therefore, the subsequent ratification by the General Board cannot save the of dismissal. Reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in the case of Marathwada University Vs. Seshrao Balawant Rao Chavan, (1989) 3 SCC 132 (paras 27 and 28). G 5.2 In the alternative, it is further submitted that the respondent, at present, is aged 75 years of age and he is being paid Rs. 10,000/- per month w.e.f. 01.04.2012. 6. Heard the learned counsel for the respective parties. H MUNICIPAL COMMISSIONER, JAMNAGAR MUNICIPAL 1115 CORPORATION AND ANR. v. R. M. DOSHI [M. R. SHAH, J.] 7. At the outset, it is required to be noted that after departmental A proceedings and on conclusion of the inquiry, the charges and the misconduct alleged against the respondent have been proved, which has been even confirmed by the learned Single judge. However, thereafter, solely on the ground that the Commissioner, who passed the of dismissal had no power / authority to impose the penalty of dismissal on B the respondent, who, at the relevant time, was serving as City Engineer, the learned Single Judge quashed the of dismissal with all consequential benefits and the same has been confirmed by the Division Bench. 7.1 Now, insofar as the submission on behalf of the appellant C Corporation that vide Resolution No. 51 dated 20.11.1998, the Commissioner was authorized to take action against any officer with regard to the lapses and/or negligence on the part of the officers in various works and purchases is concerned, on going through the Resolution No. 51, it appears that though the issue raised was with regard to the lapses and negligence on the part of the officers in various works D and purchases and was discussed, however, ultimately, what was resolved was to empower the Commissioner to take proper and necessary action against those erring officers, who committed lapses and carelessness in various works in purchases and take action as per the rules and regulations, wherever, necessary. Therefore, the Commissioner was E authorized to take action against the erring officers with respect to the lapses and carelessness with various works in purchases only. Therefore, both the learned Single Judge as well as the Division bench of the High Court have rightly observed and held that the Resolution No. 51 did not authorize and/or confer any power upon the Commissioner to take action with respect to any other lapses other than the purchases. However, at F the same time, it is required to be noted that the decision of the Commissioner was placed before the General Board and the General Board vide its Resolution No.56 dated 15.12.1998 as amended by subsequent Resolution dated 30.12.1998, ratified the decision of the Commissioner dismissing the respondent from service. Learned counsel G appearing on behalf of the respondent has relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of Marathwada University (supra) and relying upon paragraph 27, it is submitted that as observed and held by this Court a decision ab initio void cannot be ratified.