This is necessary in to evaluate the threat or apprehension, its gravity or seriousness and the appropriateness of any condition that may have to be imposed. An application should be moved prior to the fi ling of an FIR, so long as the facts are clear and there is reasonable basis for apprehending arrest. b) It is advisable for the Court, to issue notice to the Public Prosecutor and obtain facts, even while granting limited interim anticipatory bail. c) Nothing in Section 438 CrPC, compels or obliges Courts to impose conditions limiting relief in terms of time, or upon fi ling of FIR, or recording of statement of any witness, by the police, during investigation or inquiry, etc. The Court has to consider the nature of the off ence, the role of the person, the likelihood of his infl uencing the course of investigation, or tampering with evidence (including intimidating witnesses), likelihood of fl eeing justice (such as leaving the country), etc. By virtue of Section 438(2), the Courts would be justifi ed and ought to impose conditions spelt out in Section 437(3). Conditions which limit the grant of anticipatory bail may be imposed, depending on the facts of the case but not be invariably imposed. d) Courts ought to be generally guided by considerations such as the nature and gravity of the off ences, the role attributed to the applicant, and the facts of the case. Whether to grant or not is a matter of discretion and similarly if bail is to be granted, the PRIYA INDORIA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA AND ORS. 557 ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] kind of conditions to be imposed or not to be imposed depends upon the facts of each case and subject to the discretion of the Court. e) Anticipatory bail granted can, depending on the conduct and behaviour of the accused, continue after fi ling of the charge-sheet till the end of trial. f) An of anticipatory bail should not be blanket in the sense that it should not enable the accused to commit further off ences and claim relief of indefi nite protection from arrest. It must be confi ned to the particular off ence or off ences relatable to an incident, for which apprehension of arrest is sought. It cannot operate in respect of a future incident that involves commission of an off ence. g) The grant of an anticipatory bail does not in any manner limit or restrict the rights or duties of the police or investigating agency, to investigate into the charges against the person who seeks and is granted pre-arrest bail. h) The observations in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia regarding limited custody or deemed custody in the context of Section 27 of the Evidence Act, does not require the accused to separately surrender and seek regular bail. i) It is open to the police or the investigating agency to move the Court concerned, which grants anticipatory bail, for a direction under Section 439(2) to arrest the accused, in the event of violation of any term, such as absconding, non-cooperating during investigation, evasion, intimidation or inducement to witnesses with a view to infl uence outcome of the investigation or trial, etc.