133/87, the appellants further claim of exemption under Notification No. 106/92 dated 1.3.92, in the alternative, does not required any consideration. The appeal is thus allowed.” 9. The Bill of Entry in the present case, describes the goods as B “Cutter Suction Dredgers and Ta Hsing along with Standard Spares, Accessories, Pipes etc., including Multicats (2 Nos.) & Anchor Boat (1 No. ); Dredging Pumping unit to be used with cutter suction dredger (2 Nos.) Engine (2 Nos.) along with Standard Spares & Accessories.” In the and appeal, the relevant portion of the inspection report of the C Chartered Engineer was taken note of. It is extracted below: “The main function of the dredger is to remove the sand, slurry etc., from the sea bed to increase the depth. There are various types of dredgers like cutter suction (without D propulsion), trailer suction with self propulsion, back hoe dredger etc. The selection of dredger and allied accessories like anchor boat and other dredge spread depends upon the area of operation. Since the dredger under import is a cutter suction E dredger without propulsion the anchor handling Multi cat boats and other boats to carry out survey, to take sounding at the dredged area and for transporting men and material from the shore to the dredger. The dredger requires continuous maintenance which invoices flushing the pipe lines, filters with compressed air F and welding, gas cutting of various parts and also machining of some vital components for the day to day operation is essential. Since most of the project site will not have a permanent power connection, hence the generators are deployed for G providing power to the shore support work shop wherein welding, machining and illumination of the site and etc., The pumping stations are basically engine, driven centrifugal pumps which are used as a booster pumps to pump the slurries/sludge to a place away from the site. H 746 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Hence, the complete dredge spread which involves various boats, and other machineries and equipments has to be decided based on the location and type of the job involved.” 10. The Appellate Commissioner then considered the previous B in Boskalis Dredging India Pvt. Ltd. (Supra) and dealt with each item separately. It was noticed that the dredger pumping units are essential for the cutter suction dredgers unlike in the case of hopper dredgers. Furthermore, the use of air compressors is also necessary to ensure a continuous supply of air to the booster pumps. The Appellate Commissioner took care to exclude some of the claims made by the C appellant towards generators, consumables lathe etc. Likewise, the Appellate Commissioner allowed the claim for exemption in respect of steel angle plates, pipes, and wire mesh which was held to be useful for the erection of booster pump stations. 11. Note 2 of the Section XVII which has been relied upon in the D present case by the revenue and the tribunal, is to the following effect: “The expression “parts” and “parts and accessories” do not apply to the following articles, whether or not they are identifiable as far the goods of this Section: - (a) to (d)…… E (e) machines or apparatus of headings 8401 to 8479, or parts thereof; articles of heading 8481 to 8482, or, provided they constitute integral parts of engines or motors, articles of heading 8483.” F 12.