c. A Senior Advocate shall be appointed as Amicus Curiae. d. The State shall be represented by the Advocate General or an Additional Advocate General. e. A senior Police Offi cer of the rank not below Inspector General of Police shall be present in the Court in each hearing to furnish requisite information, as and when required. f. Each Special Court will send a monthly status report to the High Court and the High Court, on examination of the same, will issue necessary directions to ensure speedy disposal of cases. g. The case shall be heard by the High Court at such interval as may be necessary; however, at least once three months.” 10. After hearing the Union and State Governments, we sought the opinion on the above referred suggestions along with an action plan for rationalization of the special courts from the Chief Justices of the respective High Courts3. This being an important , the relevant portion is extracted herein; “16. With respect to increasing the number of Special Courts and rationalizing the pending criminal cases, we deem it appropriate that, before passing any specifi c direction in respect thereto, it would be appropriate to direct the learned Chief Justice of each High Court to formulate and submit an action plan for rationalization of the number of Special Courts necessary, with respect to the following aspects: a. Total number of pending cases in each district b. Required number of proportionate Special Courts c. Number of Courts that are currently available d. Number of Judges and the subject categories of the cases e. Tenure of the Judges to be designated 3 See dated 16.09.2020. 276 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. f. Number of cases to be assigned to each Judge g. Expected time for disposal of the cases h. Distance of the Courts to be designated i. Adequacy of infrastructure 17. The learned Chief Justices while preparing the action plan should also consider, in the event the trials are already ongoing in an expeditious manner, whether transferring the same to a diff erent Court would be necessary and appropriate. 18. The learned Chief Justices of the High Courts shall also designate a Special Bench, comprising themselves and their designate, in to monitor the progress of these trials. 19. The learned Chief Justices are also requested to give their comments on the other suggestions of the learned amicus, as extracted by us in our dated 10.09.2020 and this . They are also requested to send us additional suggestion, if any, for the purpose of expedient disposal of pending criminal cases against legislators. The action plan, with the comments and suggestions of the learned Chief Justices of the High Courts, are to be sent to the Secretary General of this Court, preferably within a week. A copy may also be sent to the learned amicus curiae by way of e-mail. 20. We further request the learned Chief Justices of all the High Courts to list forthwith all pending criminal cases involving sitting/ former legislators (MPs and MLAs), particularly those wherein a stay has been granted, before an appropriate bench(es) comprising of the learned Chief Justice and/or their designates.