Principles of fair play require that borrower B ought to be given an opportunity of being heard before classifying the account as fraud in accordance with the procedure laid down under the Master Directions on Frauds. D.3 No implied exclusion of audi alteram partem 52. The RBI and the lender banks have contended that the Master C Directions on Frauds impliedly exclude the right to be heard. The objective of the Master Directions on Frauds is to ensure timely detection and reporting of cases of fraud to alert other banks and initiate criminal proceedings. The Directions contemplate an opportunity of hearing to a third party who is involved in the commission of fraudulent activity, but D do not explicitly provide for hearing to a borrower. Thus, it is urged that hearing to the borrowers is excluded by necessary implication. 53. The Master Directions on Frauds do not expressly exclude a right of hearing to the borrowers before action to class their account as frauds is initiated. The principles of natural justice can be read into a E statute or a notification where it is silent on granting an opportunity of a hearing to a party whose rights and interests are likely to be affected by the s that may be passed. 54. In a decision of a three-judge bench of this Court in Swadeshi Cotton Mills v. Union of India40, the issue was whether the Central government was required to comply with the requirements of audi alteram F partem before it took over the management of an industrial undertaking under Section 18-AA(1)(a) of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 195141. R S Sarkaria, J speaking for the majority consisting of himself and D A Desai, J laid down the following principles of law: G 44. In short, the general principle — as distinguished from an absolute rule of uniform application — seems to be that where a statute does not, in terms, exclude this rule of prior hearing but 40 (1981) 1 SCC 664 41 “IDR Act, 1951” H 514 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A contemplates a post-decisional hearing amounting to a full review of the original on merits, then such a statute would be construed as excluding the audi alteram partem rule at the pre- decisional stage. Conversely, if the statute conferring the power is silent with regard to the giving of a pre-decisional hearing to the person affected and the administrative B decision taken by the authority involves civil consequences of a grave nature, and no full review or appeal on merits against that decision is provided, courts will be extremely reluctant to construe such a statute as excluding the duty of affording even a minimal hearing shorn of all its formal C trappings and dilatory features at the pre-decisional stage, unless, viewed pragmatically, it would paralyse the administrative progress or frustrate the need for utmost promptitude. In short, this rule of fair play “must not be jettisoned save in very exceptional circumstances where compulsive necessity so demands”.