3.1 It is submitted that the Hon’ble High Court has erred in holding that the Designated Committee does not exist. It is submitted that the E Designated Committee under the Scheme was formed as per Rule 5 of the Scheme, 2019. The Designated Committee consists of either the Principal Commissioners, Commissioners, Additional Commissioners, Joint Commissioners or Deputy Commissioners of the Central Excise and Service Tax depending on the tax amount involved in the matter. It is submitted that in the present case, the Designated Committee F comprised of the Joint Commissioner and the Commissioner who are officers associated with the offices of Respondent nos.3 and 4. That the Designated Officers continue to act as the Designated Committee under the Scheme till the completion of the proceedings under the Scheme. 3.2 It is submitted that the Designated Committee under the G Scheme is being constituted on a need basis to comply with the s of the courts across the country. That in many cases the Designated Committee rejected the applications under the Scheme, 2019 erroneously and the different courts set aside the decisions of the Designated Committee after 30.06.2020 and directed the Designated Committee to H M/S. SHEKHAR RESORTS LIMITED (UNIT HOTEL ORIENT 1117 TAJ) v. UNION OF INDIA [M. R. SHAH, J.] consider the case of the respective applicants under the Scheme, 2019. A It is submitted that to reconsider the cases pursuant to the s passed by the courts/High Courts, the CBEC issued the instructions dated 17.03.2021 allowing for manual processing of declarations under the Scheme by the respective Designated Committees. It is submitted that therefore even after 30.06.2020 the respective Designated Committees B carried out their functions under the Scheme, however by manual processing. It is submitted that therefore the reasoning given by the Hon’ble High Court that the Designated Committees are not in existence after 30.06.2020 and therefore the appellant is not entitled to any relief, may not be accepted, as even after 30.06.2020 and even as per the instructions issued by the CBEC, the respective Designated Committees C continued to function and process the declarations manually. 3.3 It is further submitted by learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant that in the instant case the Hon’ble High Court has not properly appreciated the cause for which the appellant could not deposit the amount under the Scheme 2019 on or before 30.06.2020. It is D submitted that at the relevant time and more particularly at the time when the Form No.3 was issued and even during the period under the Scheme 2019, the appellant was subjected to the rigor of the provisions of the IBC by virtue of the moratorium period which ended on 24.07.2020 when the NCLT approved the Resolution Plan. It is submitted that in the E instant case, the appellant bonafidely could not deposit the settlement due, on or before 30.06.2020 on account of operation of law. It is next submitted that during the moratorium period, no payment could have been made as per the provisions of the IBC.