iv. Shri Syed Mohammad Ahmad Ali Khan and Shri Syed Mohammad Ali Khan were beneficiaries in the waqf-al-al- aulad. Rejecting the contention of the appellant that a beneficiary could not acquire title by adverse possession C over waqf property, it was found that title by adverse possession could be acquired. v. Relying upon Shri Mohammad Ismail Faruqui v. Union of India and others1 and also The Mosque Known as Masjid Shahid Ganj, and others v. Shiromani Gurdwaba D Prabandhak Committee, Amritsar, and another2, it was found that title by adverse possession could be acquired over waqf property. vi. A person in a fiduciary relationship or one, in whom the property was vested in trust, could not claim title by adverse E possession over trust property. A Mutawalli, accordingly, on the said principle, could not claim title by adverse possession over waqf property [See Faqir Mohd. Shah v. Qazi Fasihuddin Ansari and others3]. That a Co-owner also cannot acquire title by adverse possession over trust property, is found to be well-recognised in law. F vii. A beneficiary is not a co-owner and, therefore, the principle that a co-owner cannot acquire a right by adverse possession over the share of another co-owner, was not applicable to a beneficiary. A beneficiary did not hold the property in trust. G viii. “In every case of Waqf, whether public or private, the property vests in God Almighty or in the Waqf itself as an 1 AIR 1995 SC 605 2 AIR 1940 PC 116 H 3 AIR 1956 SC 713 SABIR ALI KHAN v. SYED MOHD. AHMAD ALI KHAN AND 949 OTHERS [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] institution or a foundation economic, for the time being in A force”. The High Court drew support from the aforesaid view expressed by a Full Bench in the decision reported in Moattar Raza and others v. Joint Director of Consolidation, U.P. Camp at Bareilly and others4. ix. Article 96 of the Limitation Act, 1963, provides for a period B of twelve years for a Suit by a Manager of a Muslim Religious or Charitable Endowment, inter alia, to recover possession transferred by a previous Manager for valuable consideration. The sale executed by Shri Kasim Ali Khan (the first sale) would not come under its purview as he was C not the Mutawalli/Manager. x. In regard to the sale deed executed in 1974 by Shri Qasim Ali Khan, who was noted as the Mutawalli, the Court went into the interplay of Articles 65 and 96 of the Limitation Act, 1963. It was found that Article 96 would not apply in D the case of a void transfer. In the case of a transfer being void on account of breach of a statutory requirement, adverse possession of the transferee would commence from the date of the transfer. If the Suit for Recovery of Possession was not instituted within the period of twelve years under Article 65, the rights of the Manager to recover E the endowed property would stand extinguished under Section 27 of the Limitation Act.