Sinha as a Member of Committee during his tenure, which has just expired (V.N. Sinha, J. Abstaining.) ii. In respect of Agenda Item No.5 of Vol.I the resolution will stand enlarged with a further direction that the in question dated 24.10.2008 be listed on judicial side before appropriate Bench for considering suo motu exercise of revisional power under Code of Criminal Procedure. iii. In respect of Additional Agenda Item No.2 the resolution is modifi ed to the extent that shri Krishna Kant Tripathi shall also not be posted as Principal Judge in Family Court at Aurangabad but as District and Sessions Judge Nawadah and Shri Akhilesh Kumar Jain Shall be posted as District and Sessions Judge at Jehanabad instead of Nawadah.” 53. It is on the decision of the Standing Committee that Criminal Revision No. 1345 of 2009 was registered with cause title as “The State of Bihar Versus Prabhunath Singh & Ors”. The Learned Single Judge dismissed the said criminal revision, vide impugned judgement dated 02.12.2011, giving rise tothe present appeal. 54. Learned Single Judge of the High Court, while dismissing the revision, recorded the following fi ndings: a) Revisional Power is akin to the appellate power in view of Section 401 CrPC. b) Fard Bayan, turned into lodging of FIR, has not been proved by any witness. The offi cer or authority, who recorded the said statement, has not been produced as a witness. Moreover, it does not contain a certifi cation of the mental/physical health of the injured (later deceased). Besides, the non-production of any such witness, who was present and heard the statement being made, has not been produced as a witness. Hence, Fard Bayan is not liable to be read as evidence. 436 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. c) PW-10, the doctor, who attended to the injured persons and had prepared the injury report, had stated that the three injured were unconscious. Hence, the deceased Rajendra Rai (the injured) was not in a position to make his statement (Fard Bayan/Bayan Tahriri). He also stated that Daroga Rai was very serious and accordingly, after having given fi rst aid, all the injured were referred to Sadar Hospital, Chapra. d) Dr B.D. Prasad had conducted the post-mortem of Rajendra Rai, but he was not produced in Court as a prosecution witness and the contention that his report could be admitted under Section 294 of CrPC, is unacceptable as the post-mortem report is not covered by the said provision. e) CW-1 Lalmuni Devi is not a hearsay witness, as held by the Trial Court, but is a tutored witness in view of her last two lines in cross-examination. (The High Court went one step further from the Trial Court in treating the CW-1 as a tutored witness.) f) Any other prosecution witness of fact does not corroborate the testimony of CW-1. Instead, their testimonies are against CW-1 as no other prosecution witness has stated about her presence. g) It was observed that although CW-1 was not named in the chargesheet but Pirbahor Police Station probably recorded her statement while she was attending to her injured son in the Primary Medical Health Centre (PMHC), which is suffi cient to indicate that her statement was recorded during the investigation.