The eff ort is to fi nd the true essence of the business arrangement and to unravel from a layered structure of commercial arrangements, an intent to bind someone who is not formally a signatory but has assumed the obligation to be bound by the actions of a signatory.”74 44. The Court did not rely on the Group of Companies doctrine. Yet, Cheran (supra) is an important case to demonstrate that a non- signatory company can be determined to be a party to an arbitration agreement, based on factors such as relationship of the non-signatory with the signatory parties, commonality of subject-matter, and composite nature of transaction. It is also possible for the court to construct such an agreement where the intention of a business arrangement is apparent and the non-signatories have bound themselves by their conduct to fulfi ll such business arrangement. 45. The subsequent decision in Ameet Lalchand Shah v. Rishabh Enterprises75 is yet another instance where this Court has allowed a non- signatory to be party to an arbitration agreement, in connected contracts, on the ground of business effi cacy, noting that all agreements were executed for a single commercial project. This approach was noted in the subsequent decision of Discovery Enterprises,76 where learned Chief Justice has noted: 74 ibid, para 23. 75 (2018) 15 SCC 678 [2018 INSC 450]. 76 ONGC v. Discovery Enterprises Pvt Ltd (2022) 8 SCC 42 [2022 INSC 483]. 738 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. “In Ameet Lalchand, the Court did not explicitly invoke the group of companies doctrine to bind a non-signatory, rather it relied on Chloro Controls to hold that a non-signatory would be bound by the arbitration clause in the mother agreement, since it is a party to an inter-connected agreement, executed to achieve a common commercial goal.”77 (emphasis supplied) 46. In Reckitt Benckiser (India) Pvt Ltd v. Reynders Label Printing India Pvt Ltd,78 the Court inferred that since the non-signatory neither signed the arbitration agreement nor had any causal connection with the negotiation or execution of the agreement, an intent to consent to the arbitration agreement could not be discerned. Hence, the non-signatory was not bound by the arbitration agreement.79 Thus, in Reckitt, the Court reverted to the approach of ascertaining mutual intention of the parties for applying the doctrine, although it did not result in the non-signatory being made a party to the arbitration. 47. MTNL v. Canara Bank80 is the decision which acknowledged the Group of Companies doctrine, formulated its principles, and applied them to the proceedings by recognising CANFINA, a non-signatory, to be party to the arbitration agreement. The Court held: “10.5. The group of companies doctrine has been invoked by courts and tribunals in arbitrations, where an arbitration agreement is entered into by one of the companies in the group; and the non-signatory affi liate, or sister, or parent concern, is held to be bound by the arbitration agreement, if the facts and circumstances of the case demonstrate that it was the mutual intention of all parties to bind both the signatories and the non-signatory affi liates in the group.