Recently, John Fellas elaborated on the principle of binding a non-signatory to an arbitration agreement from the lens of the H GUJARAT COMPOSITE LIMITED v. A INFRASTRUCTURE 135 LIMITED & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] doctrine of estoppel. He situated the rationale behind the application A of the principle of direct estoppel against competing considerations of party autonomy and consent in interpreting arbitration agreements. Fellas observed that non-signatory parties can be bound by the principle of direct estoppel to prohibit such a party from deriving the benefits of a contract while disavowing the B obligations to arbitrate under the same: “There are at least two distinct types of estoppel doctrine that apply in the non-signatory context:”the direct benefits” estoppel theory and the “intertwined” estoppel theory. The direct benefits theory bears the hallmark of any estoppel C doctrine-prohibiting a party from taking inconsistent positions or seeking to “have it both ways” by “rely[ing] on the contract when it works to its advantage and ignor[ing] it when it works to its disadvantage.” Tepper Realty Co. v. Mosaic Tile Co. [Tepper Realty Co. v. Mosaic Tile Co., 259 F Supp 688 (SDNY 1966)]. The direct benefits doctrine reflects that core D principle by preventing a party from claiming rights under a contract but, at the same time, disavowing the obligation to arbitrate in the same contract. * * * E By contrast, the intertwined estoppel theory looks not to whether any benefit was received by the non-signatory, but rather at the nature of the dispute between the signatory and the non- signatory, and, in particular whether “the issues the non-signatory is seeking to resolve in arbitration are intertwined with the agreement that the estoppel [signatory party] has signed….the F intertwined estoppel theory has as its central aim the perseveration of the efficacy of the arbitration process is clear when one looks at the typical fact pattern of an intertwined estoppel case.” [John Fellas, “Compelling Signatories to Arbitrate with Non-Signatories”, New York Law Journal (28-3-2022)] G (emphasis supplied) 40. In deciding whether a company within a group of companies which is not a signatory to arbitration agreement would nonetheless be bound by it, the law considers the following factors: H 136 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A (i) The mutual intent of the parties; (ii) The relationship of a non-signatory to a party which is a signatory to the agreement; (iii) The commonality of the subject-matter; B (iv) The composite nature of the transaction; and (v) The performance of the contract.”” 14. In the case of Intercontinental Hotels Group (supra), the Court has essentially proceeded on the enunciation in Vidya Drolia (supra) even while accepting the requirement of constituting larger bench C to settle the jurisprudence of the implication of non-stamping or under- stamping on the arbitration agreement. This Court, however, provided that until decision by the larger bench, the matters at pre-appointment stage be not kept pending. Not much of dilation is required in that regard. 15. It is at once clear that the observations and enunciations in the D aforesaid have no application to the facts of the present case.