426 SUPREME CO[U2R02T3 ]R 7E PSO.CR.RT.S 426 [2023] 7 S.C.R. A THE ANIMAL WELFARE BOARD OF INDIA AND ORS. v. UNION OF INDIA & ANR. (Writ Petition (Civil) No. 23 of 2016) B MAY 18, 2023 [K. M. JOSEPH, AJAY RASTOGI, ANIRUDDHA BOSE, HRISHIKESH ROY AND C. T. RAVIKUMAR, JJ.] Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 – Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 2017 – Prevention C of Cruelty to Animals (Maharashtra Amendment) Act, 2017 – Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Karnataka Second Amendment) Act, 2017 – Held: The expressions Jallikattu, Kambala and Bull Cart Race as introduced by the Amendment Acts of the three States have undergone substantial change in the manner they were used D to be practiced or performed and the factual conditions that prevailed at the time the A. Nagaraja was delivered cannot be equated with the present situation – The Supreme Court cannot come to the conclusion that in the changed circumstances, absolutely no pain or suffering would be inflicted upon the bulls while holding these sports – But the Court is satisfied that the large E part of pain inflicting practices, as they prevailed in the manner these three sports were performed in the pre-amendment period have been substantially diluted by the introduction of these statutory instruments. Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 – Prevention of F Cruelty to Animals (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 2017 – Is the Tamil Nadu Amendment Act referable, in pith and substance, to Entry 17, List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India, or does it further and perpetuate cruelty to animals; and can it, therefore, be said to be a measure of prevention of cruelty to animals? Is it G colourable legislation which does not relate to any Entry in the State List or Entry 17 of the Concurrent List – Held: The Tamil Nadu Amendment Act is not a piece of colourable legislation – It relates, in pith and substance, to Entry 17 of List III of Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India – It minimises cruelty to animals in the concerned sports and once the Amendment Act, along with their H 426 THE ANIMAL WELFARE BOARD OF INDIA AND ORS. v. 427 UNION OF INDIA & ANR. Rules and Notification are implemented, the bovine sports would A not come within the mischief sought to be remedied by Sections 3, 11(1) (a) and (m) of the 1960 Act. Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 – Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 2017 – The Tamil Nadu Amendment Act states that it is to preserve the cultural heritage B of the State of Tamil Nadu – Can the impugned Tamil Nadu Amendment Act be stated to be part of the cultural heritage of the people of the State of Tamil Nadu so as to receive the protection of Article 29 of the Constitution of India – Held: Jallikattu is a type of bovine sports – It is going on in the State of Tamil Nadu for at least C last few centuries – But whether this has become integral part of Tamil culture or not requires religious, cultural and social analysis in greater detail, which is an exercise that cannot be undertaken by the Judiciary – The question as to whether the Tamil Nadu Amendment Act is to preserve the cultural heritage of a particular State is a debateable issue which has to be concluded in the House D of the People – This ought not be a part of judicial inquiry – This question cannot be conclusively determined in the writ proceedings – Since legislative exercise has already been undertaken and Jallikattu has been found to be part of cultural heritage of Tamil Nadu, the Court would not disrupt this view of the legislature.