It H 918 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A is submitted that section 153A bears the heading “assessment in case of search or requisition”. That assessment under section 153A is required to be made after a search under section 132 or requisition under section 132A. That the crucial words “search” and “requisition” appear in the substantive provision and the provisos of Section 153A is accordingly to be read in B light of such provisions relating to search and requisition , i.e., sections 132 and 132A. That both the provisions 132 and132A contemplate search and requisition where the assessee is not likely to disclose his income and the said provisions can be resorted to only in the circumstances stated therein. That section C 132(1)(c) entitles the Revenue to carry out search in case the specified officer has reason to believe that any person is in possession of any money, bullion, jewellery or other valuable article or thing etc. which have not been disclosed for the purpose of the Act. That object of both the provisions, namely, sections 132 and 132A is to unearth the income which the D assessee has not or is not likely to disclose. It is submitted that since the assessment under section 153A is linked with search and requisition under sections 132 and 132A of the Act, 1961, it is evident that the object of the section is to bring to tax the undisclosed income which is found during the course of or E pursuant to the search or requisition. iv) It is next submitted that now, in case time limit to make regular assessment under section 143(3) is pending or an assessment is underway as on the date of search, the said assessment shall get abated and the AO will have jurisdiction F to carry out assessment in respect of such abated assessment dehors any incriminating material. However, in respect of completed/unabated assessments, under section 153A of the Act, 1961, an assessment has to be made in relating to the search or requisition, namely, in relation to material disclosed during the search or requisition. It is submitted that in case the G Revenue is permitted to make assessment in respect of any issue despite the fact that no incriminating material is found during the course of search, the same would lead to the expression “search” and “requisition” used in Section 153A being rendered otiose. Not only that, search will become a tool H to enlarge limitation period for making regular assessment under PRINCIPAL COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, CENTRAL-3 919 v. ABHISAR BUILDWELL P. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] section 143(3), which is not permissible. It is submitted that it A is the settled position of law that what cannot be done directly, cannot be done indirectly. v) It is submitted that search and requisition can be undertaken in limited circumstances stated under sections 132 and 132A to unearth the income which the assessee has not or is not B likely to disclose. Even in a case where there are bona fide reasons to believe that the aforesaid circumstances stated in sections 132 and 132A are present, however, upon undertaking the search, if no incriminating material whatsoever is unearthed, it naturally follows that the very belief that the circumstances C exist stands contradicted.