14. The 1986 National Policy on Education, modified in the year 1992, declared that free and compulsory elementary education of ‘satisfactory quality’ be given to all children up to the age of fourteen years, before the nation enters the next century i.e., 21st Century. 15. Later in the seminal of this court in Unni Krishnan J.P. versus State of Andhra Pradesh and Ors. (AIR 1993 SC 2178), it was held that children have a fundamental right to free education, till they complete the age of fourteen years. 16. In the year 1997, in to make free and compulsory education a fundamental right the 83rd Constitutional Amendment Bill was introduced in Parliament, to insert a new Article in Part III of the Constitution of India, which was to be Article 21A. The Bill was sent for the scrutiny of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Human Resources Development. The Standing Committee not only welcomed the amendment but in addition emphasizes on the ‘quality of elementary education’. This is what it said. “The eminent educationists felt that the Bill is silent on the ‘Quality’ of Education. They suggested that there should be a reference to ‘quality’ of education in the Bill. The Secretary, Education agreed that the ‘quality’ aspect also has to be seen. Education defi nitely must mean ‘quality’ education and anything less than that should not be called education. Therefore, the emphasis would be through strengthening the teacher education content, the Secretary stated.”6 Finally, by way of the Constitution (86th Amendment) Act of 2002, Article 21A, was inserted as a Fundamental Right in Part III of the Constitution, and made eff ective from 01.04.2010. Article 21A of the Constitution reads as under: “Article 21A: The State shall provide free and compulsory education to all children of the age of six to fourteen years in such manner as the State may, by law, determine.” 17. In to fulfi l the above mandate Right to Education Act, 2009, was passed by the Parliament on August 20, 2009, which became eff ective from 01.04.2010. The object and reasons of the Act declared loud and clear that what the Act seeks to achieve is not merely ‘free’ and ‘compulsory’ elementary education, but equally important would be the 6 Para 13 of the Report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Human Resource Development. DEVESH SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. 175 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] ‘Quality’ of this education! The Preamble to the Act states “that every child has a right to be provided full time elementary education of satisfactory and equitable ‘quality’ in a formal school which satisfi es certain essential norms and standards”. 18. When the validity of the Act was challenged before this Court7, this Court, while upholding its validity emphasized that the Act, was intended not only to impart “free” and “compulsory” education to children, but the purpose was also to impart ‘quality’ education! “The provisions of this Act are intended not only to guarantee right to free and compulsory education to children, but it also envisages imparting of ‘quality’ education by providing required infrastructure and compliance of specifi ed norms and standards in the schools.” [See Para 8, (2012) 6 SCC 1] 19.