Such an understanding of the concept of Rule of Law places much emphasis on the centrality of individual dignity in a society governed by the Rule of Law. Justice Aharon Barak, former D Chief Justice of Israel, has lucidly explained this facet of Rule of law in the following manner: “The Rule of law is not merely public , the Rule of law is social justice based on public . The law exists to ensure proper social life. Social life, however, is not a goal in itself but a means E to allow the individual to live in dignity and develop himself. The human being and human rights underlie this substantive perception of the Rule of law, with a proper balance among the different rights and between human rights and the proper needs of society. The substantive Rule of law “is the Rule of proper law, which balances the needs of society and the individual”. F This is the Rule of law that strikes a balance between society’s need for political independence, social equality, economic development, and internal , on the one hand, and the needs of the individual, his personal liberty, and his human dignity on the other. The Judge must protect G this rich concept of the Rule of law.” (Emphasis by me) 24. As recognised by this Court in K.S. Puttaswamy (Retd.) vs. Union of India, (2019) 1 SCC 1(“Puttaswamy”), a substantive aspect of the Rule of Law is the balance between the individual and society. In H 760 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A that background, this Court discussed the scope of Constitutional rights under our Constitutional scheme and the extent of their protection. While emphasising that there are no absolute constitutional rights, this Court laid down, in the following words that one of the only rights which is treated as “absolute” is the right to human dignity: B “62. It is now almost accepted that there are no absolute constitutional rights [Though, debate on this vexed issue still continues and some constitutional experts claim that there are certain rights, albeit very few, which can still be treated as “absolute”. Examples given are:(a) Right to human dignity which is inviolable,(b) Right not to be subjected C to torture or to inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. Even in respect of such rights, there is a thinking that in larger public interest, the extent of their protection can be diminished. However, so far such attempts of the States have been thwarted by the judiciary.] and all such rights are related. As per the analysis D of Aharon Barak [Aharon Barak,Proportionality: Constitutional Rights and Their Limitation (Cambridge University Press 2012). ], two key elements in developing the modern constitutional theory of recognising positive constitutional rights along with its limitations are the notions of democracy and the Rule of law. Thus, the requirement of proportional limitations of constitutional rights by a E sub-constitutional law i.e. the statute, is derived from an interpretation of the notion of democracy itself.