the C.I.A. staff by me. When I alongwith the accused now present in the Court coming to the Sonepat then the CIA staff person met me and I handed ovr the accused to them. The accused also confessed their guilt in my presence as well as before the Police. My statement was recorded by the police.” 39. The guilt of the appellants herein was sought to be brought home mainly relying on the extra judicial confession. Hence, the question is whether the evidence of PW-7, in that regard, would inspire confi dence. While considering this relevant aspect certain factors revealed from the evidence on record require attention. Obviously, going by the case of the prosecution the murder had taken place in the evening, at about 08.30 pm on 25.06.1999. The dead body was recovered on 28.06.1999 from Delhi Canal and on 03.07.1999 statements of PW-8 Azad and Azad’s son, PW-10 Mukesh were recorded by police. We have already referred to their version. PW-8 is the brother of PW-7 and PW-10 is the son of PW-8. PW-7 claims that on 09.07.1999 the appellants herein came to him and confessed as extracted hereinbefore. He was examined before the trial Court on 02.03.2001. His oral testimony would reveal that he is the Tau(uncle) of deceased Devinder and at the same time a scanning of his evidence would reveal his feeble attempt to show that he is equi-related to the deceased and the accused (appellants herein). It would reveal that he could not rather, did not depose as to what exactly is his relation with the appellants herein. He deposed that he could not tell the name of grandfather of accused Joginder. Though he deposed precisely the date on which the appellants came to him and also the exact date of occurrence his cross-examination would reveal that he is oblivious of (or not telling truth on) most of the other incidents and matters related to the death of Devinder. This is revealed from the following recital from his cross-examination: - “I have no knowledge that on 28-6-1999 Krishan and Govind told me that the dead body of Davinder has been found by them. I cannot tell the exact date of cremation of Davinder but he was cremated in my presence. I do not know whether my brother Azad, his son Mukesh and Sharvn son of Ram Kishan were present of not. I do not know whether the police was present at the time of the cremation or not. I also did not see the police on the next date of cremation. I have not seen the 884 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. police prior to 9-7-1999. If the police had come to the village I have not seen. When the accused were produced before the police, then PW Govind only was present with me. None else was present there. There are large number of shops in village Nahri. All the shops were opened at the time but none came out of the shop.” 40.