In Cox and Kings (supra), Surya Kant, J questioned whether the principles of alter ego or piercing the corporate veil can alone justify the application of the group of companies doctrine even in the absence of implied consent. This Court in Cheran Properties (supra) clarifi ed that there is an important distinction between the group of companies doctrine and the principle of veil piercing or alter ego. The principle of alter ego disregards the corporate separateness and the intentions of the parties in view of the overriding considerations of equity and good faith. In contrast, the group of companies doctrine facilitates the identifi cation of the intention of the parties to determine the true parties to the arbitration agreement without disturbing the legal personality of the entity in question. Therefore, the principle of alter ego or piercing the corporate veil cannot be the basis for the application of the group of companies doctrine. iv. The determination of mutual intention 105. In multi-party agreements, the courts or tribunals will have to examine the corporate structure to determine whether both the signatory and non-signatory parties belong to the same group. This evaluation is fact specifi c and must be carried out in accordance with the appropriate principles of company law. Once the existence of the corporate group is established, the next step is the determination of whether there was a mutual intention of all the parties to bind the non-signatory to the arbitration agreement. COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 689 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 106. The group of companies doctrine requires the courts and tribunals to consider the commercial circumstances and the conduct of the parties to evince the common intention of the parties to arbitrate. It is important to note that the group of companies doctrine concerns only the parties to the arbitration agreement and not the underlying commercial contract.96 Consequently, a non-signatory could be held to be a party to the arbitration agreement without becoming a formal party to the underlying contract. The existence of a group companies is one of the essential factors to determine whether the conduct amounts to consent but membership of a group is not suffi cient in itself. This has been the consistent position of law, starting from the Dow Chemicals (supra) award, where it was observed that the common intention of the parties to bind the non-signatory party to the arbitration can be inferred from the ”circumstances that surround the conclusion and characterize the performance and later the termination of the contracts.” In other words, it was held that a non-signatory party could be considered as a “true party” to the arbitration agreement on the basis of their role in the conclusion, performance, or termination of the underlying contract containing the arbitration agreement. 107. This Court in Chloro Controls (supra) laid down four factual indices that the courts or tribunals should consider to bind a non-signatory party to arbitration agreement. It is important to extract the relevant paragraphs in full: “72.