3.9 By the impugned and , the Division Bench of D the High Court has allowed the writ petitions including the public interest litigation by holding that :- (i) the acquisition proceedings from the stage of initiation till the date of purported awards which in fact and in law not awarded and that the alleged taking over the possession of the lands is in flagrant violation of the statutory provision of Sections 4, 5A, 6, 9, E 10, 11, 12, (2), 23, 24, read with the provisions under Part - VII of the Act, 1894.; (ii) the initiation of the acquisition proceedings in favour of the beneficiary company, on the requisition made by the Vedanta Foundation by misrepresenting fact and playing fraud on the State F Government, has vitiated the entire acquisition proceedings. ; (iii) that the public interest at large is affected and there is violation of rule of law. ; (iv) the Public Interest Litigation was maintainable, which was on behalf of small land holders who have no sustenance to approach G this Court to fight litigation. ; (v) therefore, the acquisition proceedings in its entirety in respect of persons who have approached this Court and even who have not approached this Court are liable be quashed for the reason that there is flagrant violation of the provisions of the Act, 1894. H ANIL AGARWAL FOUNDATION ETC. ETC. v. STATE OF 979 ORISSA AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] 3.10 Thereafter, the High Court has passed the following in A terms of paragraph 69, which is as under:- “69. In the result, we allow the writ petitions, quash the impugned land acquisition proceedings including the notification under Sections 4(1) and 6 and the award passed in the Land Acquisition Proceedings for acquisition of land in favour of the beneficiary B company and direct that the possession of the acquired lands shall be resorted to the respective land owners irrespective of the fact whether they have challenged the acquisition of their lands or not. On restoration of the possession to the land owners, they shall refund the amount received by them as compensation or otherwise C in respect of their lands. We also quash the grant of Government Land in favour of the Beneficiary Company under Rule 5 of the Government Land Settlement Rules with a direction to the State Government to resume the lands which were granted to the beneficiary company by way of lease. All concerned including the State Government, the land owners and beneficiary company D shall implement the aforesaid direction at an early date.” 3.11 The impugned common and passed by the High Court and the operative portion of the in paragraph 69 of are the subject matter of the present appeals. E 4. Shri C. Aryama Sundaram and Shri Rakesh Dwivedi, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respective appellants have vehemently submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case, the High Court has materially erred in quashing and setting aside the entire acquisition proceedings and that too even with respect to the landowners whose lands came to be acquired, did not challenge the F acquisition proceedings and/or even many of them did not raise any objections under Section 5A of the Act, 1894.