In the meanwhile, the AP Tax on Entry of Goods into Local Areas Act, 2001whichwasdeclared unconstitutional, was also adopted by the State of Telangana vide G.0.M No.45 dated 01.06.2016. 47. It is submitted that where the law was declared as unconstitutional and thereby obliterated from the statute book, such law cannot be treated as ‘a law in force’ as contemplated under the Amendment. Accordingly, where the AP Tax on Entry of Goods into Local Area Act of 2001 was not in force on the date immediately before the commencement of the Amendment, such legislation in any case, cannot continue to be in force in the manner as contemplated under the Amendment. 48. It is further submitted that even the adoption of the AP Tax on Entry of Goods into Local Area Act, 2001 by the State of Telangana was also unconstitutional in as much as the AP Tax on Entry of Goods into Local Area Act, 2001 was already declared as unconstitutional as on 31.12.2007. Accordingly, being a dead law, the same could not have been adopted by the State of Telangana on 01.06.2016. Further, the subsequent decision of this court which set aside the of the Hon’ble AP High Court cannot breathe life and validate the adoption as it was well settled that the validity of a statute is to be tested at the time of enactment by the legislature. An After-acquired power cannot ex proprio vigore validate a statute void when enacted. 27 2007 SCC OnLine AP 1158 : (2008) 13 VST 15 172 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 49. Section 6 of the Telangana Tax on Entry of Goods into Local Area Act, 2001 incorporates the provisions of the Telangana VAT Act in relation to assessment, returns etc. Accordingly, the present is a case of ‘legislation by incorporation’.On this basis, it is submitted that the amendments in the Telangana VAT Act will have no impact and bearing on the Telangana Tax on Entry of Goods into Local Area Act, 2001 and as such the extension in the period of limitation from 4 to 6 years would not be applicable to the assessment made in respect of entry tax. This is based on a well settled principle of law as laid down by this Court in the case of State of Madhya Pradesh v. M.V. Narasimhan (hereafter, “M.V. Narasimhan”)28, which held that where a subsequent enactment incorporates the provisions of a previous act, then the borrowed provisions become an integral and independent part of the subsequent act and are totally unaff ected by any repeal or amendment in the previous act. The exception to this principle is: (i) Where the subsequent Act and previous Act are supplemental to each other; (ii) Where the two Acts are pari materia; (iii)Where the amendment in the previous Act if not imported into the subsequent Act also, would render the subsequent Act wholly unworkable and ineff ectual; (iv)Where the amendment of the previous Act, either expressly or by necessary intendment applies the said provisions to the subsequent Act.