Whose act (or knowledge, or state of mind) was for this purpose intended to count as the act etc. of the company? One fi nds the answer to this question by applying the usual canons of interpretation, taking into account the language of the rule (if it is a statute) and its content and policy.’ Lord Hoffmann, in his opinion stated that: “. . their Lordships would wish to guard themselves against being understood to mean that whenever a servant of a company has authority to do an act on its behalf, knowledge of that act will for all purposes be attributed to the company. It is a question of construction in each case as to whether the particular rule requires that the knowledge that an act has been done, or the state of mind with which it was done, should be attributed to the company. Sometimes, as in In re Supply of Ready Mixed Concrete (No. 2) [1995] 1 A.C. 456 and this case, it will be appropriate . . .. On the other hand, the fact that a company’s employee is authorised to drive a lorry does not in itself lead to the RELIGARE FINVEST LIMITED v. STATE OF NCT OF 211 DELHI & ANR. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] conclusion that if he kills someone by reckless driving, the company will be guilty of manslaughter. There is no inconsistency. Each is an example of an attribution rule for a particular purpose, tailored as it always must be to the terms and policies of the substantive rule.” 24. This court, considered the issue in Iridium India Telecom v Motorola Inc22 and held, inter alia, that: “38. From the above it becomes evident that a corporation is virtually in the same position as any individual and may be convicted of common law as well as statutory off ences including those requiring mens rea. The criminal liability of a corporation would arise when an off ence is committed in relation to the business of the corporation by a person or body of persons in control of its aff airs. In such circumstances, it would be necessary to ascertain that the degree and control of the person or body of persons is so intense that a corporation may be said to think and act through the person or the body of persons.” Earlier, in the Constitution Bench ruling in Standard Chartered Bank v Directorate of Enforcement23, the court referred to Section 11 of the IPC, which defined “person”. “The word “person” includes any Company or Association or body of persons, whether incorporated or not”; the court also referred to the 41st and 47th Law Commission reports. The Law Commission had stated that “In every case in which the offence is only punishable with imprisonment or with imprisonment and fi ne and the off ender is a company or other body corporate or an association of individuals, it shall be competent to the court to sentence such off ender to fi ne only.” The judges- in the majority held that all penal statutes are to be strictly construed, in the sense that the court must see that the thing charged as an offence is within the plain meaning of the words used and must not strain the words.