It was held, in the impugned that: “[..] On a conjoint reading of BOQ item No.2.02 and clause 305.8 of the technical specifi cation, to us, it is clear that the cross sections have to be taken in respect of the diff erent materials used, i.e. soil and pond ash. Pertinently, it is not the case of the respondents that the two are mixed into a mixture and then used. Soil and pond ash are used separately. Thus, the cross sections are to be taken at intervals. We cannot permit the respondent to contend that it is not possible to compute the volumes of the two materials in the cross section, when for 30 months both the appellant and the respondent were actually making measurements accordingly. The respondent itself made the IPCs and submitted for payments which were duly paid by the appellant. Such 3 By the dated 30.11.2011 628 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. measurements were made on the basis of actual utilization of the two materials. We fail to appreciate how the arbitral tribunal could have come to a conclusion that the mode of measurement of the two items separately was not in accordance with the contract. The majority view, after having noticed the principles of consensus ad idem, seems to have failed to appreciate this vital issue.[.. ]” Contentions of parties 5. On behalf of the appellant/contractors, Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Mr. V. Giri, and Mr. Anil Airi, learned senior counsels, Mr. Sameer Parekh and Mr. George Thomas learned counsel made submissions. It was argued that the impugned goes far beyond the scope of the jurisdiction under Section 34 /Section 37 of the Act. The Division Bench while interfering with the award on the grounds that it did, transgressed the extremely narrow scope of interference under Section 37 of the Act. It was argued that this court in a plethora of cases has held that the intent of the Act is to restrict the grounds of challenge to an arbitral award to the barest minimum. It is submitted that this court has time and again held that the general approach of the courts should be to uphold the award and the arbitral award and not to sit with a meticulous legal eye endeavouring to pick holes, inconsistencies and faults in the award. 6. It was argued that contractual conditions relating to a method of measurement are dependent heavily on technical understanding and cannot be read and interpreted like the general provision of a contract. They have meanings developed over time based on the views and the courts should defer to the fi nding by the technical experts. It was argued that the specifi c point of dispute was whether any outstanding amount “on account of ‘construction of embankment’ with pond ash in accordance with BOQ Item No. 2.02 (b) read with clause 305.2.2.3 of the Technical Specifi cations” was payable to the contractor. This was a pure question of fact, over which the fi ndings in the award had to be left alone.