The complainant-creditor of Section 138 NI Act proceedings may or may not have any role to play in the approval of the resolution plan and majority of Section 138 creditors may be small players unlike big financial creditors. 68. The terms of the resolution plan cannot run contrary to the C enactment i.e. the IBC or any other plenary law or rules. 69. Thus, the said clauses of the resolution plan have no role to play in answering the neat question of law, which is dependent on the interpretation of various provisions of the IBC and NI Act. D 70. It was also sought to be argued on behalf of the appellant that the plain reading of the clauses of the resolution plan referred to above, would indicate that the respondent (complainant) could be said to have compounded the offence punishable under Section 138 of the NI Act. 71. ‘Compounding’ and ‘quashing’ are not synonymous terms. In E law, they have different meanings and consequences. They arise from different situations and operate in different fields and stages. There is no apparent legal interdependence or interlink to the extent that one could exist only if the conditions of the other were satisfied or vice- versa. Quashing is one of the facets of inherent powers, while compounding of an offence being a statutory expression contained under F Section 320 the CrPC is entirely a different concept. 72. The expressions ‘compromise’ and ‘compounding’ are not synonyms in criminal jurisprudence even though these expressions are usually used without any distinction. Any dispute can be compromised between the parties if the terms are not illegal. But only a compoundable G offence allowed by law can be compounded. A dispute relating to a crime can be compromised even before the case is registered, and in that case, victim of the crime may refuse to file a complaint. But if in spite of compromise, if he files a complaint and court finds that what is compromised is a compoundable offence, depending upon the facts and H AJAY KUMAR RADHEYSHYAM GOENKA v. TOURISM 1041 FINANCE CORP. OF INDIA LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] circumstances of each case Magistrate can refuse to take cognizance, A or acquit the accused as offence was compounded or the complaint can be quashed in proceedings under Section 482 of the CrPC. 73. In a compromise, consensus between the parties to give and take is more important and in a compounding, decision of the victim of the offence not to prosecute and not to continue with prosecution is B more important. 74. I am of the view that the clauses as contained in the resolution plan referred to above, only extinguishes the liability of the corporate debtor and not the natural persons. C 75. As per Section 138 of the NI Act, when the cheque was dishonoured and a statutory notice demanding the cheque amount was issued, the accused shall pay the cheque amount within 15 days from the date of receipt of the said notice.