The High Court viewed that since no construction was possible on an area of 2308 sq.m., the same could not be treated as ‘vacant land’ within the meaning of Section 2(q)(i) of the Act. The remaining land was held to be within the permissible ceiling limit of Pune city. 30. The aggrieved State approached this Court. In his leading , G.P. Mathur, J. [for Khare, CJ and himself] analysed Section 2(q)(i) and affi rmed the view taken by the High Court, laying down as follows: “A plain reading of the provision would show that any land on which construction is not permissible under the building regulations in force in the area would not come within the ambit of “vacant land”. Sub-rule (9) of Rule 2 of the Building Rules framed by the Collector of Pune for Koregaon Park lays down that not more than one-third of the total area of any building plot shall be built upon and in calculating the area covered by a building the plinth area of the building and other structures excepting compound walls, shall be taken into account. It further provides that any area covered by staircase and projections of any kind shall be considered as built over. The appellant does not dispute the applicability of this building rule to Koregaon Park area where the plot of land CTS No. 82 is situate. The defi nition of “vacant land” as given in Section 2(q) clearly provides that land on which construction of a building is not permissible under the building regulations in force in the area has to be excluded. As under the relevant rules in force in the area construction was not permissible on two-thirds of the area 740 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. of the plot, the High Court was perfectly justifi ed in holding that for determining the vacant land in CTS No. 82, Koregaon Park, Pune, two-third portion of each of the respondents had to be excluded and thus the vacant land held by each one of them in the said area was only 905 sq metres. In fact, on the plain language of the statute and the prohibition contained in the Building Rules in Koregaon Park area, which are in operation, it is not possible to take any other view.” (emphasis applied) 31. S.B. Sinha, J., in his separate concurring opinion held that the Ceiling Act, being an expropriatory legislation, is required to be construed strictly. Since Parliament has excluded the categories of lands as are specifi ed in sub-clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of Section 2(q) from the defi nition of ‘vacant land’, such exclusionary clauses must receive a liberal construction. The expression ‘means’ in Section 2(q) of the Ceiling Act was held to be, prima facie, restrictive and exhaustive. The previous decisions of this Court in Jhonson1, Meera Gupta2, Atmaram Aggarwal vs. State of U.P. [1993 Supp(1) SCC 1], Kunj Behari Lal vs. District Judge, Gorakhpur [(1997) 6 SCC 257] besides the observations by a two-Judge Bench in Angoori Devi3, as well as the reference made by the three-Judge Bench in Angoori Devi4 to a larger Bench of fi ve-Judges were duly noticed.