She testified that “on the day of incident, I went to the house of my maternal uncle as my Nani was ill leaving my both the sons with their father/accused”. 55.In view of the testimonies of PWs-1, 4, 6 and 9, in our view, it stands firmly established that the children were with their father E as per the testimony of PW-9. As per the testimonies of PWs-1, 4 and 6, the appellant had himself informed them that his children had come with him at the canal and while playing, they have got drowned. The testimonies of PWs-1, 4 and 6 on this aspect has remained unrebutted. 56.Dr. V.K. Jha, PW-14, has testified that cause of death is F asphyxia as a result of manual strangulation and all the injuries were ante-mortem in nature and neck injury on their persons was sufficient to cause their death in the ordinary course of nature. The evidence of Dr. Jha clearly points out that the children did not die due to drowning but on account of manual strangulation. Neither G the appellant has been able to make any dent in the examination of this witness nor there is any reason for us to disbelieve the testimony of Dr. V.K. Jha. 57.The motive stands established. Upon reading of the testimony of PW-7, Mahender Kumar Yadav, the deceased were the sons H of his niece Sunita. He has testified that the appellant used to PREM SINGH v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 835 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] comment on the chastity of her niece Sunita and accused her of A bad character. He was in the habit of drinking liquor and beating Sunita. This witness has also testified that the appellant used to comment that the children did not belong to him but to someone else and, in fact, had attempted to kill the children in the park by giving them electric shock. However, the children were saved by B their mother. In the past, Sunita had remained in the house of PW-7 for 5-6 months, however, she joined the company of her husband but he continued to misbehave with her and used to talk inappropriately and accuse her of indulging in sexual activities. Even on 03.05.2009, as per the testimony of PW-7, the mother of the deceased had come to his house and informed him that appellant C was quarrelling with her. He had tried to reconcile the matter, but could not succeed. On the same day, he received a phone call by the police that both the children of his niece had died by drowning in the canal. PW-7 has further testified that he had suspected that both the children had not drowned on their own but they were D killed by the appellant. 58.PW-8, Rajender Yadav has also testified that his niece was married to the appellant and whenever Sunita came to their house, she complained that appellant used to abuse her and beat her as well as the children. On learning the news about death of both the E children, this witness also testified that he had strong suspicion that appellant had drowned his children on the issue of character of Sunita.