is a terrorist organization, and hence the respondent cannot be penalized merely for belonging to the P.F.I. Moreover, even assuming that the P.F.I. is an illegal organization, we have yet to consider whether all members of the H organization can be automatically held to be guilty. ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 509 [M. R. SHAH, J.] 11. In Scales vs. United States 367 U.S. 203 Mr. Justice Harlan of A the U.S. Supreme Court while dealing with the membership clause in the McCarran Act, 1950 distinguished between active ‘knowing’ membership and passive, merely nominal membership in a subversive organization, and observed : “The clause does not make criminal all association with an B organization which has been shown to engage in illegal activity. A person may be foolish, deluded, or perhaps mere optimistic, but he is not by this statute made a criminal. There must be clear proof that the defendant specifically intends to accomplish the aims of the organization by resort to violence.” C 12. In Elfbrandt vs. Russell 384 US 17-19 (1966) Justice Douglas of the U.S. Supreme Court speaking for the majority observed : “Those who join an organization but do not share its unlawful purpose and who do not participate in its unlawful activities surely pose no threat, either as citizens or as public employees. A law D which applies to membership without the `specific intent’ to further the illegal aims of the organization infringes unnecessarily on protected freedoms. It rests on the doctrine of `guilt by association’ which has no place here.” 13. In Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee vs. McGrath 341 E US 123 at 174 (1951) Mr. Justice Douglas of the U.S. Supreme Court observed : “In days of great tension when feelings run high, it is a temptation to take shortcuts by borrowing from the totalitarian techniques of our opponents. But when we do, we set in motion a subversive F influence of our own design that destroys us from within.” 14. We respectfully agree with the above decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court, and are of the opinion that they apply in our country too. We are living in a democracy, and the above observations apply to all democracies.” G 2.1 That thereafter the Division Bench of this Court in another decision in the case of Arup Bhuyan (supra) whist relying upon Raneef (supra) and relying upon the same American doctrines which were earlier considered in the case of Raneef (supra) has observed in paragraph 12 as under: H 510 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A “We respectfully agree with the above decisions, and are of the opinion that they apply to India too, as our fundamental rights are similar to the Bill of Rights in the U.S. Constitution. In our opinion, Section 3(5) cannot be read literally otherwise it will violate Articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution. It has to be read in the light of our observations made above. Hence, mere membership of a B banned organisation will not make a person a criminal unless he resorts to violence or incites people to violence or creates public dis by violence or incitement to violence.