The Constitution Bench pronounced its 5 on 4 July 2018. The contained three judicial opinions. The opinion of the majority was authored by Chief Justice Dipak Misra, in which Justice G A.K. Sikri, and Justice A.M. Khanwilkar joined.6 One of us (Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, J.) and Justice Ashok Bhushan delivered separate concurring opinions. The Constitution Bench dealt with the constitutional 5 "2018 Constitution Bench ”; (2018) 8 SCC 501 6 " of the majority” H 508 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A status of NCTD and the modalities of its administration based on the division of powers, functions and responsibilities of the elected government of NCTD and the Lieutenant Governor, who as the nominee of the President of India, serves as the representative of the Union Government. We shall discuss the principles laid down in that in Section C of this . B 6. Upon deciding the interpretation of Article 239AA, the appeals were directed to be listed before a regular Bench to decide the specific issues. On 14 February 2019, a two-Judge Bench of Justice A.K. Sikri and Justice Ashok Bhushan delivered two separate s. The judges differed on whether “services” are excluded in view of Article C 239AA(3)(a) from the legislative and executive domain of GNCTD.7 7. The matter fell for consideration before a Bench of three Judges. There, the Union argued that the 2018 Constitution Bench did not analyze two crucial phrases in Article 239AA(3)(a): (i) “in so far as any such matter is applicable to Union Territories”; and (ii) “Subject to the D provisions of this Constitution’’. By an dated 6 May 2022, the three-judge Bench observed that: “8. From the reference application moved by the Union of India, as well as the rival contentions of the parties, the main bone of contention relates to the interpretation of the phrases: “in so far E as any such matter is applicable to Union Territories” and “Subject to the provisions of this Constitution” as contained in Article 239AA(3)(a) of the Constitution. On perusing the Constitution Bench , it appears that all the issues except the one pending consideration before this bench, have been elaborately F dealt with. Therefore, we do not deem it necessary to revisit the issues that already stand settled by the previous ConstitutionBench. 9. The limited issue that has been referred to this Bench, relates to the scope of legislative and executive powers of the Centre and NCT Delhi with respect to the term “services”. The G Constitution Bench of this Court, while interpreting Article 239AA(3)(a) of the Constitution, did not find any occasion to specifically interpret the impact of the wordings of the same with respect to Entry 41 in the State List. H 7 "2019 split verdict” GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 509 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 10. We therefore deem it appropriate to refer the above limited A question, for an authoritative pronouncement by a Constitution Bench in terms of Article 145(3) of the Constitution.” The above reference forms the subject of adjudication before this Constitution Bench.