That an additional liability was imposed on NRIs as they had to produce a certificate issued by the Indian Customs upon arrival after 30th December, 2016, indicating C the import of SBNs and the details and value of the same. 8.11 The learned senior counsel brought to the Court’s notice an article titled “Using Fast Frequency Household Survey Data to Estimate the Impact of Demonetisation on Employment” authored by Mr. Mahesh Vyas, Centre for Monitoring Indian D Economy (2018) to contend that owing to the demonetisation carried out, there was a substantial reduction in employment andemployment rates were 12 million lower than it was two months’ preceding demonetisation. Relying on the said article, he submitted that demonetisation resulted in a loss of millions of jobs. E 9. Per contra, learned Attorney General for India, Shri R.Venkataramani, vehemently countered the arguments of Shri P. Chidambaram, learned senior counsel, by contending that the power vested with the Central Government under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act is not arbitrary or without guidance. That the power to F demonetise any currency note or legal tender is vested with the Central Government and such power is of a wide import and amplitude and this Court may not give an interpretation, restricting the said power. He contended that the power vested with the Central Government is exercised by the issuance of a notification in the Gazette of India which G is on the basis of a recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank. 9.1 In this regard, learned Attorney General emphasized that earlier demonetisations were carried out in the years 1946 and 1978 by issuance of Ordinances and thereafter, converting the said Ordinances into Acts of Parliament. But in the instant case, the demonetisation dated 8th November, H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 163 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 2016 was for all series of bank notes of Rs.500/- and of A Rs.1,000/- denominations, by the issuance of a gazette notification, which is perfectly valid in the eyes of law and in accordance with sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. 9.2 Learned Attorney General contended that the impugned B gazette notification was issued having regard to the salient objectives that had to be achieved by the demonetisation of Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/- currency notes which are set out clearly in the notificationdated 8th November, 2016.The salient objectives of demonetisationin the year 2016 were C to eradicate black money, to eliminate fake currency from the Indian economy and to prevent terror funding. He therefore, contended that there is no merit in the submissions made by the learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioners as the impugned notification dated 8th November, 2016 is in accordance with sub-section (2) of Section 26 of D the Act and therefore, is valid. 9.3 Shri R.Venkataramani, learned Attorney General, next submitted that the action taken by way of the impugned notification stands ratified by the 2017 Act and as the executive action has been validated by the will of the E Parliament, the challenge to the notification would not survive.