See Union of India v Popular Construction Co. 2001 8 B SCC 470, United India Insurance Companty v Kumar Texturisers AIR 1999 Bom 118) Section 5 restrains the Courts from interfering with the process of arbitration except in the manner provided in the 1996. CDC Financial Services (Mauritius) Ltd v BPI Communications Ltd. 2005 (Supp.) Arb LR 558(SC)” C [Emphasis supplied] 78.4 At the cost of repetition, let us now refer to Section 5 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 to understand the special nature of the Act. As noted above, Arbitration Act, 1996 is a special legislation and Section 5 begins with a non-obstante clause which overrides powers of judicial authorities acting under any other law other than the Arbitration Act, D 1996. As argued by the learned Counsel for the Intervenor, Debesh Panda, the special nature of the Act is also established from the non- obstante clause in Section 5 of the Arbitration Act, 1996. On the Arbitration Act being a self-contained code, Justice Indu Malhotra61, comments as under: E “The Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 is a self-contained code governing the law relating to Arbitration, including Section 5 which gives it an overriding effect over statutes. Once it is held that the 1996 Act is a self-contained code and is exhaustive, it carries with it the negative import that only such acts which are F permissible in the statute may be done, and none others.” 78.5 The use of the expression “so provided” in Section 5, disregards all forms of intervention except that, which is specified in Part I. Such intention is apparent from the language of the non-obstante clause. As noted earlier, this provision is yet another instance where Parliament went a step beyond the language employed in the UNCITRAL G Model Law of 1985. 78.6 The doctrine of generalia specialibus non derogant i.e. general law will yield to the special law is well-established in Indian 61 Justice Indu Malhotra, Commentary on the Law of Arbitration, Vol. I, 4th Ed., P. 248 H 472 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A jurisprudence. In the concurring opinion of Chandrachud DY J. (as he then was) in Ayyasamy(supra) on Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996, it was noted: “44. ….Once an application in due compliance of Section 8 of the Arbitration Act is filed, the approach of the civil court should B be not to see whether the court has jurisdiction. It should be to see whether its jurisdiction has been ousted. There is a lot of difference between the two approaches. Once it is brought to the notice of the court that its jurisdiction has been taken away in terms of the procedure prescribed under a special statute, the civil court should first see whether there is ouster of jurisdiction in C terms or compliance of the procedure under the special statute. The general law should yield to the special law - generalia specialibus non derogant. In such a situation, the approach shall not be to see whether there is still jurisdiction in the civil court under the general law.