Provided also that the secured creditor shall furnish an undertaking to the liquidator to pay the balance of the workmen’s dues, if any. Explanation.— For the purposes of this sub-section,— (a) “record date” means the date agreed upon by the secured creditors representing not less than sixty per cent. in value of the amount outstanding on such date; (b) “amount outstanding” shall include principal, interest and any other dues payable by the borrower to the secured creditor in respect of secured asset as per the books of account of the secured creditor. (10) Where dues of the secured creditor are not fully satisfi ed with the sale proceeds of the secured assets, the secured creditor may fi le an application in the form and manner as may be prescribed to the Debts Recovery Tribunal having jurisdiction or a competent court, as the case may be, for recovery of the balance amount from the borrower. (11) Without prejudice to the rights conferred on the secured creditor under or by this section, secured creditor shall be entitled to proceed against the guarantors or sell the pledged assets without fi rst taking any of the measured specifi es in clauses (a) to (d) of sub-section (4) in relation to the secured assets under this Act. (12) The rights of a secured creditor under this Act may be exercised by one or more of his offi cers authorised in this behalf in such manner as may be prescribed. (13) No borrower shall, after receipt of notice referred to in sub- section (2), transfer by way of sale, lease or otherwise (other than in the ordinary course of his business) any of his secured assets referred to in the notice, without prior written consent of the secured creditor.” (Emphasis supplied) 35. We are concerned in the present litigation with sub-section 8 of Section 13 of the SARFAESI Act referred to above. Section 13(8) is in two parts; (i) it enables the borrower to exercise his right of redemption upto a particular point of time and at the same time (ii) it enables the secured creditor to exercise its power to deal or dispose off the secured asset. First, CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 87 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] by stipulating the time limit during which the borrower can tender all the dues with interest, costs and charges to the secured creditor, and secondly, by providing as to when the secured creditor can proceed to sell, auction, assign or lease the secured asset. 36. Rules 8 and 9 respectively of the Rules of 2002 prescribe the procedure and formalities to be followed for the sale of immovable secured asset as per Section 13 of the SARFAESI Act and reads as under: - “8. Sale of immovable secured assets. – (1) Where the secured asset is an immovable property, the authorised offi cer shall take or cause to be taken possession, by delivering a possession notice prepared as nearly as possible in Appendix IV to these rules, to the borrower and by affi xing the possession notice on the outer door or at such conspicuous place of the property.