It held that there was no legitimate state aim which justifi ed the diff erence in treatment of heterosexual and homosexual couples, and found that the Rent Act therefore violated the rights of the respondent under the ECHR. Having so found, it relied on Section 3 of the Human Rights Act to interpret the Rent Act to mean that the survivor of a homosexual couple would have rights on par with the survivor of a heterosexual relationship for the purposes of succession as a statutory tenant. 202. Section 3 of the Human Rights Act reads as follows: “3. Interpretation of legislation (1) So far as it is possible to do so, primary legislation and subordinate legislation must be read and given eff ect in a way which is compatible with the Convention rights.” 174 “ECHR” 175 “Human Rights Act” 176 By a majority of 4-1. 134 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. As noticed by the House of Lords in Ghaidan (supra): a. This provision was one of the primary means by which rights under the ECHR were brought into the law of the UK; b. Section 3 permitted courts in the UK to depart from the unambiguous meaning of a statute, if required; c. It also authorized courts in the UK to depart from legislative intent in interpreting the language used in a statute, if required; d. It allowed courts to read in words to a statute which changed the meaning of that statute, to make it compliant with the ECHR as long as the new meaning was compatible with the underlying thrust of that enactment; and e. Section 3 did not authorize courts to make decisions for which they were not equipped, such as when there were many ways of making a particular provision compliant with the ECHR. The House of Lords also noted that diffi cult problems could arise in some cases. 203. It is not open to this Court to adopt the interpretative principle laid down in Section 3 of the Human Rights Act for a simple reason: the House of Lords derived the power to depart from legislative intent and read words into a statute such that it was compliant with the ECHR from the Human Rights Act, a statute enacted by the Parliament of UK. It did not rely on a common law principle or fashion a principle of interpretation based on common law. The House of Lords itself noted that “the interpretative obligation decreed by section 3 is of an unusual and far-reaching character.”177 In India, there is no legislation which permits this Court to depart from legislative intent and read words into a legislation such that it is compliant with the Constitution.178 As discussed in the previous segment of this on the 177 Opinion of Lord Nicholls of Birkenhead, Ghaidan (supra). 178 Principles of interpretation which are well accepted in India must guide this Court’s decision. For example, when two constructions of a provision are possible, courts ought to prefer the construction which gives eff ect to the provision rather than the one which renders it inoperative.