In Assistant Collector of Central Excise vs. Madras Rubber Factory Ltd., 1986 Supp SCC 751, the question arose under the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 with regard to the method of computation of assessable value in a cum-duty price at the factory gate and the E permissible deductions to be made from the cum-duty paid selling price to arrive at the assessable value and then tariff rate being applicable to the assessable value. One of the contentions regarding deduction was with regard to TAC-warranty discount to be made for determining the assessable value. It was observed that a warranty is not a discount on F the tyre already sold, but relates to the goods which are being subsequently sold to the same customers. It cannot be strictly called as discount on the tyre being sold. It is in the nature of a benefit given to the customers by way of compensation for the loss suffered by them in the previous sale. G 64. The said view was reiterated in Government of India vs. Madras Rubber Factory Ltd., (1995) 4 SCC 349 where the question was whether the claim put forward as TAC-warranty discount is a trade discount within the meaning of Section 4 of Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944. It was observed that the claim is only a claim for refund by the buyer for the manufacturing defect in the tyre sold by the assessee H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1343 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] therein, which is being honoured by the assessee in a manner acceptable A to both the parties. It was reiterated that it is a benefit given to the customers by way of compensation for the loss suffered by them in the previous sale owing to a defective tyre. It is a compensation in the nature of a warranty allowance on a defective tyre. 65. Thus, the manufacturer gives the warranty to the consumer B by making a representation with regard to the automobile. It is in the nature of a promise which the dealer assessee carries out on behalf of the manufacturer. There is transfer of property in the spare part from the stock of the dealer to the customer for which the manufacturer pays by way of a credit note. The said promise is carried out and a valuable C consideration is received by the dealer through credit notes. In substance, when the dealer receives a credit note, it is a sale within the meaning of the definition under the respective sales tax legislation under consideration, pursuant to the warranty for which the manufacturer compensates the dealer by issuance of a credit note. The value of the credit note is a valuable consideration received which is in the nature of a benefit from D the manufacturer which is exigible to tax. If the dealer had sold a spare part of the automobile from his stock to any other consumer across the counter, he would have collected the requisite sales tax along with the price from that consumer but in the instant case, the consideration is received in the form of a credit note from the manufacturer which is E subject to sales tax.