No constructions shall be permitted which may have the object of using it as a commercial undertaking other than the industry permitted to be established. Provided that the State Government, on the application of the E lessee for establishment of industry other than the industry for which the was given, may grant permission for establishment of such industry. But in case of government land allotted under these rules, such permission shall not be granted for establishment of tourism units. F (2) The permission for construction of the labour colony shall be given if required at the time of the establishment of an industry. (3) The industrialist shall be free to use an area upto 200 sq. meter for his own residential purpose on first floor of the factory premises. G 9. Lessee debarred from sale of land etc. – The lessee shall have the limited ownership on the land leased till the lease subsists and shall have the right of assignment only for the purpose of taking a loan for the development of the industry or for pledging as collateral security for a loan taken by the lessee or some other H BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 245 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] industry owned by the same management. The lessee shall have A no right to sell the land: (i) Provided that the land can be pledged as collateral security only in favour of Industrial Financial Corporation of India, Rajasthan Finance Corporation, IDBI, ICICI, LIC, IRBI, HDFC, SIDBI, EXIM Bank, Co-operative Banks and any B Public Financial Institution as defined in the Public Financial Institute Act or Scheduled Banks or private lending agencies subject to ensuring that the lessee has cleared all the outstanding dues of the lessor and the lessee creates first charge in favour of the State Government and second to the financing body or bodies. C (ii) Provided further that once the land has been utilised for the purpose for which it was allotted within the period specified in rule 7, the lessee may, with the permission of the Allotting Authority transfer his right or interest in the whole land, so leased out, on the following conditions:- D (a) In case of government land allotted under these rules, he shall pay 50% of prevailing market price of land after deducting allotment price charged under rule 3A and the transferee shall pay 50% of excess amount of yearly lease land mentioned in rule 5 and E other conditions of lease shall be remained unchanged. (b) In case of converted Khatedari land allotted under these rules for industrial purpose, the transferee shall pay 50% excess amount of yearly lease rent mentioned in rule 5 and other conditions of lease shall F be remained unchanged. (iia) Provided also that if after grant of permission the transferee has failed to execute the lease deed and further transferred the allotted land without prior permission of allotting authority, such transfer may be regularised by the allotting authority on payment of penalty of Rs.3000/- for each transfer.