The decisions of the Delhi 756 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. High Court in Moin Akhtar Qureshi (supra) and the Bombay High Court in Chhagan Chandrakant Bhujbal (supra), which hold to the contrary, do not lay down the correct law.…” 14. It hardly needs to be emphasized that as well settled, it is in to guard against the possibility of inconsistent decisions on the points of law by diff erent Division Benches that the Rule of precedent has been evolved. It is in to promote the consistency and certainty in the development of law and its contemporary status that the statement of law by a Division Bench is considered binding on a Division Bench of the same or lesser number of Judges. In this regard, we may refer to the pronouncement of the Constitution Bench in Union of India and Another vs. Raghubir Singh (Dead) by LRs. Etc.6 “7. ……..The position is substantially different under a written Constitution such as the one which governs us. The Constitution of India, which represents the Supreme Law of the land, envisages three distinct organs of the State, each with its own distinctive functions, each a pillar of the State. Broadly, while Parliament and the State Legislature in India enact the law and the Executive Government implements it, the Judiciary sits in not only on the implementation of the law by the Executive but also on the validity of the legislation sought to be implemented. One of the functions of the superior judiciary in India is to examine the competence and validity of legislation, both in point of legislative competence as well as its consistency with the Fundamental Rights. In this regard, the courts in India possess a power not known to the English Courts. Where a statute is declared invalid in India it cannot be reinstated unless constitutional sanction is obtained therefore by a constitutional amendment or an appropriately modifi ed version of the statute is enacted which accords with constitutional prescription. The range of judicial review recognised in the superior judiciary of India is perhaps the widest and the most extensive known to the world of law. The power extends to examining the validity of even an amendment to the Constitution, for now it has been repeatedly held that no constitutional amendment can be sustained which violates the 6 (1989) 2 SCC 754 RAM KISHOR ARORA v. DIRECTORATE OF 757 ENFORCEMENT [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] basic structure of the Constitution. (See Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Kerala [(1973) 4 SCC 225 : 1973 Supp SCR 1] , Indira Nehru Gandhi v. Raj Narain [1975 Supp SCC 1 : (1976) 2 SCR 347] , Minerva Mills Ltd. v. Union of India [(1980) 2 SCC 591] and recently in S.P. Sampath Kumar v. Union of India [(1987) 1 SCC 124 : (1987) 1 SCR 435 : (1987) 2 ATC 82] .) With this impressive expanse of judicial power, it is only right that the superior courts in India should be conscious of the enormous responsibility which rest on them.