The relevant fi ndings recorded in Rajesh Constructions Co. (supra) are as under: “20. Clause 29 specifi cally stipulates, as indicated herein earlier, that if any dispute arises between the parties, the party seeking invocation of the arbitration clause, shall fi rst approach the Chief Engineer and on his failure to arbitrate the dispute, the party aggrieved may fi le an appeal to MPL Com, failing which, the Corporation shall constitute an Arbitration Board to resolve the disputes in the manner indicated in clause 29. However, before doing so, the party invoking arbitration clause is required to furnish security of a sum to be determined by the Corporation. 21. In this case, admittedly, the security has not been furnished by the respondent to the Corporation. We, in fact, asked Mr Sharma, appearing on behalf of the respondent to ascertain on the date of the hearing of the appeal, whether the security deposit was made or not. On instruction, Mr Sharma informed us that such security has not yet been deposited. Such being the position even today, we hold that the obligation of the Corporation to constitute an Arbitration Board to resolve disputes between the parties could not arise because of failure of the respondent to furnish security as envisaged in clause 29(d) of the contract. Therefore, we are of the opinion, that on account of non-furnishing of security by the respondent, the question of constituting an Arbitration Board by the Corporation could not arise at all. Accordingly, we hold that the High Court was not justifi ed in 964 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. appointing a retired Chief Justice of a High Court as arbitrator by the impugned . 22. It is not disputed before us that the learned Arbitrator appointed by the High Court has already commenced the arbitration proceeding. Mr Mukherjee, appearing on behalf of the Corporation, on instruction, had submitted before us that they shall constitute an Arbitration Board as soon as the respondent furnishes security in terms of clause 29(d) of the contract and if any direction is given to the Arbitration Board to proceed from the stage the learned arbitrator had already reached, that would not be objected to. That is to say, Mr Mukherjee contended that the Arbitration Board may be directed to take over the arbitration proceedings from the stage the learned arbitrator had already reached. 23. Such being the stand taken by the Corporation, we direct the respondent to furnish the security of a sum to be determined by the Corporation within six weeks from this date and in the event security determined by the Corporation is furnished within the time mentioned herein earlier, the Corporation shall constitute an Arbitration Board in compliance with clause 29 of the contract. It is directed that the Arbitration Board shall proceed from the stage the learned arbitrator appointed by the High Court had already reached. 24. That apart, it has to be kept in mind that it is always the duty of the court to construe the arbitration agreement in a manner so as to uphold the same.