137. To the question, which we posed, viz., whether what is involved is acquisition of the property or an exercise of the power of D eminent domain,we are of the view that stipulating the conditions that a person who seeks to develop his property in a sprawling and ever-growing urban metropolis which is sought to be regulated by a law relating to a town planning cannot be viewed as acquisition of land within the meaning of Entry 42 in List III. Acquisition of land involves, no doubt, compulsory divesting of the rights of a person in his property. E 138. We must bear in mind that while right to hold and enjoy property was a Fundamental Right under Article 19(1)(f), w.e.f. 1978 it ceased to be a Fundamental Right. Equally, Article 31, which was also a Fundamental Right in regard to property, including the right to compensation as provided under Article 31(2) stood deleted. Article 300A F was inserted resurrecting only Article 31(1).The right to propertyhas been described by this Court as a Statutory Right; a human right and also a constitutional right. We must therefore proceed on the basis that a person would continue to have despite the Forty-FourthAmendment, a statutory right, a human right and a constitutional right to property. G 139. An acquisition is a compulsory vesting of the property of a person with the state. It is traceable undoubtedly to the power of eminent domain assured to every sovereign. It can undoubtedly be exercised only for securing public interest as contrasted with promotion of private interest (See K.T. Plantation (supra)66). 66 (2011) 9 SCC 1 H 1140 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 140. K.T. Plantations (supra) was a case which involved the validity of a law which provided for compulsory acquisition under the State enactment. The understanding of this Courtin K.T. Plantations (supra) was that a person cannot be deprived of his property merely by executive fiat without any specific legal authority or without support of law made by a competent Legislature (See paragraph-168).We must B notice here that law for the scope of Article 300A has been explained by this Court in Bishambhar Dayal Chandra Mohan and others v. State of Uttar Pradesh and others67 (paragraph-41) as follows: “41. There still remains the question whether the seizure of wheat amounts to deprivation of property without the authority of law. C Article 300-A provides that no person shall be deprived of his property save by authority of law. The State Government cannot while taking recourse to the executive power of the State under Article 162, deprive a person of his property. Such power can be exercised only by authority of law and not by a mere executive D fiat or . Article 162, as is clear from the opening words, is subject to other provisions of the Constitution. It is, therefore, necessarily subject to Article 300-A. The word “law” in the context of Article 300-A must mean an Act of Parliament or of a State legislature, a rule, or a statutory , having the force of law, that is positive or State made law.