A State has, therefore, the right to control education including medical education so long as the field is not occupied by any Union Legislation. It was further observed that the State cannot, while G controlling education in the State, impinge on standards in institutions for higher education because that is exclusively within the purview of the Union Government. Therefore, while prescribing the criteria for admission to the institutions for higher education including higher medical education, the H State cannot adversely affect the standards laid down by BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 957 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] the Union of India under Entry 66 of List I. That since A norms for admission can have a direct impact on the standards of education, only such norms or rules may be prescribed which are consistent with or do not affect adversely the standards of education prescribed by the Union in exercise of powers under Entry 66 of List I. By way of B illustration, it was stated that a State may, for admission to the postgraduate medical courses, lay down qualifications in addition to those prescribed under Entry 66 of List I. That such a rule would be consistent with promoting higher standards for admission to the higher educational courses; but any lowering of the norms laid down can and does have C an adverse effect on the standards of education in the institutes of higher education. It was declared that it is within the legislative competence of the State Legislature, in exercise of power under Entry 25 of the Concurrent List to prescribe higher educational qualifications and higher marks D for admission in addition to the one fixed by the Indian Medical Council in to bring out the higher qualitative output from the students who pursue medical course. The following factors were listed, which are non-exhaustive, which determine the standard of education in an institution: E “(1) The calibre of the teaching staff; (2) A proper syllabus designed to achieve a high level of education in the given span of time; (3) The student-teacher ratio; (4) The ratio between the students and the hospital beds F available to each student; (5) The calibre of the students admitted to the institution; (6) Equipment and laboratory facilities, or hospital facilities for training in the case of medical colleges; G (7) Adequate accommodation for the college and the attached hospital; and (8) The standard of examinations held including the manner in which the papers are set and examined and the clinical performance is judged.” H 958 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A It was concluded in the said case that whether lower minimum qualifying marks for the reserved category candidates can be prescribed at the post-graduate level of medical education was a question which must be decided by the Medical Council of India since it affects standards of post-graduate medical education. That even if minimum B qualifying marks can be lowered for the reserved category candidates, there cannot be a wide disparity between the minimum qualifying marks for the reserved category candidates and the minimum qualifying marks for the general category candidates at the level of post-graduation.