SUMANBAI 501 PANDURANG PETKAR [SANJAY KAROL J.] the law erroneously; or (iii) the courts have wrongly cast the burden of proof. A decision based on no evidence, does not refer only to cases where there is a total dearth of evidence, but also refers to case, where the evidence, taken as a whole, is not reasonably capable of supporting the fi nding.” 17.2 The extent of the same may be underscored by the observation that: “32. In a second appeal, the jurisdiction of the High Court being confi ned to substantial question of law, a fi nding of fact is not open to challenge in second appeal, even if the appreciation of evidence is palpably erroneous and the fi nding of fact incorrect as held in V. Ramachandra Ayyar v. Ramalingam Chettiar [V. Ramachandra Ayyar v. Ramalingam Chettiar, AIR 1963 SC 302] . An entirely new point, raised for the fi rst time, before the High Court, is not a question involved in the case, unless it goes to the root of the matter.” (Emphasis Supplied) 18. It is apparent from the above extracted principles and a perusal of the respective s that the second appeal is envisioned, much like any other process of the Court to be a step-by-step process, each step further being a consequence of the previous one. Framing of substantial questions at the stage of admission, the appeal then being admitted for hearing, hearing thereon, and then a reasoned . 19. However, as a reading of the impugned reveals, these steps came to be followed, only partially, more so, ignoring the time element, inherent therein. 20. As Sumara Umar Ahmad (supra), Kichha Sugar (supra) and Virupakshappa (supra) and also the ingredients identifi ed by Gurdev Kaur (supra) show, hearing the parties, on all questions, framed at the time of admission as also the one framed, added or altered, is absolutely essential. 21. In the present case, the parties were not given the requisite time to meet the questions framed by the Court. Section 100(5) CPC suggests that there is a gap between framing of the questions at admission and hearing, as the proviso thereto gives an opportunity to the Court to frame additional 502 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. questions at the time of hearing, on which the parties would have to be heard as well. Meaning thereby, that the questions framed at the time of admission, at such point of subsequent framing of questions are already known to the parties and they have had time to prepare to address arguments on the same. It is during the arguments that a further important issue is discovered and a question in that regard is framed, with the parties then being granted time to meet that question as well. 22. Our view fi nds support in Amar Singh v. Dalip Singh28 wherein this Court held: - a) The purpose of framing of substantial question of law is to give the parties an opportunity to come prepared on that particular question.