Moreover, the prosecution has not explained this factor, E and the defense has definitely not questioned Dr. Sumesh Garg (PW-4) on this aspect. But considering the importance of this aspect this question should have been put to the prosecution and particularly to the doctor who had done the post mortem. If not by the defense then this question ought to have been put to the witness by the Court under the powers F vested with the Court under Section 165 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (for short ‘Act’). But we will come to this in a while. 4. Meanwhile the co-accused Mange Ram was arrested on 12.05.2000 and the next day i.e., 13.05.2000, on the information given by him to the police he was taken to the place which was disclosed to be the place where he and Dinesh Kumar had killed the deceased. From G this place, two pairs of “chappals” (slippers) one belonging to the appellant (Dinesh Kumar) and the other, belonging to the co-accused Mange Ram, 1 A textbook of Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology by Modi (Chapter 15, Pg. 342) 2 Ibid (Chapter 15, Pg. 342) H 228 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A were recovered. Some burnt hair of the deceased were also recovered from this place. Mange Ram then took the police party to the canal from where the dead body was dropped. 5. On 14.05.2000 (i.e., the next day) Mange Ram led the police party to the place where the tractor of the deceased was abandoned by B him and Dinesh Kumar. All the same, by the time the police party reached that place, the tractor had already been discovered by the local Police, and was in their custody at Rampur Police Station, Saharnpur, Uttar Pradesh. The possession of the tractor was taken from the local police, by the Investigating Officer. C 6. The present appellant was arrested on 14.05.2000, from ‘Nandgarh’ village. On his disclosure a wrist watch, ‘Parna’ (turban) and currency notes amounting to Rs. 250/- allegedly belonging to the deceased were recovered from his residence. He then took the Police to the same place as the co-accused Mange Ram had earlier taken them to the two places i.e., the place where the deceased was killed and D the place where the tractor was abandoned3. 7. The evidence of last seen is of Karanjit Singh (PW-10) who is the neighbour of the complainant (PW-11). PW-10 had seen the deceased along with the two accused i.e., Dinesh Kumar and Mange Ram at about 7:00 P.M. on 08.05.2000. According to the witness the deceased E was driving the tractor and the two i.e., the appellant and Mange Ram were sitting on the mudguard of the tractor. 8. As we can see the case of the prosecution rests on two circumstantial evidences: (A) The disclosure given in the police custody and the discovery on its basis and (B) The evidence of last seen in the F form of PW-10. In a case of circumstantial evidence, motive too is of significance.