A and remained silent for 14 months, and when the price of the property had increased substantially, she gave another legal notice to the deceased G. Venugopala Rao’s legal heirs (including the Appellants herein), which was followed by the suit for specific performance. Now, the market value property has gone up manifold and it is around Rs.1,50,000 per gadi. Therefore, directing the Appellants herein to execute the sale deed B for the original price after 20 years would undue loss to the Appellants herein. Reliance in this regard was placed on this Court’s in Nanjappan vs Ramasamy & Anr.3 20. The learned Senior Counsel further contended that the sale agreement was for 90 cents of land at the rate of Rs. 2,200 per Gadi. C But, the suit was filed by the Plaintiff for with regard to land to the extent of 50 cents only. As per Section 12 (1) of the Specific Relief Act, the plaintiff cannot seek to enforce the contract for a lesser extent. To support his contention, the learned Senior Counsel relied on this Court’s in Jaswinder Kaur vs Gurmeet Singh & Ors4. It was also D argued that the deceased G. Venugopala Rao’s mother (who was his class 1 legal heir and a necessary party having 1/4th share in the suit schedule property) was not impleaded in the suit. The Trial Court had specifically held that the suit cannot be decreed in the absence of a necessary party, but the High Court ignored this aspect. Lastly, it was argued that the Appellants herein are minors, and, in the High Court, the E Plaintiff had shown them as being represented by their maternal grandmother. But, when the appeal was taken up, there was no representation for the minors. When the guardian of the minors had not effectively defended the cause of the minors, then, as per 32 Rule 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, the Court has to suo motu F appoint a new guardian and proceed to adjudicate the appeal thereafter. In the present case, the High Court simply proceeded to dispose the appeal ex-parte which is not legally sustainable. 21. Per contra, Mr. C. Mohan Rao, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the Respondents argued that the present Civil G Appeal is liable to dismissed with costs in view of the detailed of the High Court, which was passed after minutely examining the evidence on record. The learned Senior Counsel contended that the deceased G. Venugopala Rao entered into a sale agreement with 3 (2015) 14 SCC 341 H 4 2017 (12) SCC 810 GADDIPATI DIVIJA & ANR. v. PATHURI SAMRAJYAM & 811 ORS. [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] Respondent No. 1 herein with regard to 90 cents of land. Out of the said A 90 cents, he was the owner of 50 cents which he had purchased from one Smt. Balsa Allvelu Magamma. The deceased G. Venugopala Rao claimed that he had an agreement with Smt. Balsa Allvelu Magamma in respect of the remaining 40 Cents, and agreed to sell the entire 90 Cents of land to Respondent No.