D 161. In 2010, MBL applied for permission to uplink and downlink the news and current affairs television channel, ‘Media One’. MHA sought reports from IB and CBI for granting security clearance. CBI remarked that there was nothing adverse on record against MBL. IB reported that MBL shares a close association with ‘Madhyamam Daily’, and that the tenor of the articles carried out by Madhyamam Daily are E adverse. To substantiate its conclusion on the adverse tenor of the articles, IB referred to reports of Madhyamam Daily on the alleged discrimination against Muslims in India and the allegedly soft attitude taken against “Hindu fundamentalists responsible for bomb blasts as opposed to the view taken against Muslim fundamentalists”. MHA considered the report F and concluded that the remarks were not strong enough to deny permission on security grounds, thereby granting security clearance to MBL. 162. Between 2014-2019, similar reports were submitted by IB when security clearance was sought for other proposals of MBL. IB made adverse remarks on MBL’s main source of income which was G alleged to be from JEI-H sympathizers, and its anti-establishment stance. To substantiate its conclusion that MBL has been taking an anti- establishment stance, references were made to its reports on UAPA, Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, development projects of the Government, encounter killings, Citizenship (Amendment) Act, NRC, NPR, the Indian Judiciary’s alleged “double standards in terrorism cases”, H 706 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A and the alleged portrayal of security forces in a bad light. MHA denied security clearance based on the IB reports. We are required to decide if these reasons provide a justifiable ground for the denial of security clearance, and consequently, restricting MBL’s right to the freedom of press under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. B 163. The freedom of the press which is protected as a component of Article 19(1)(a) can only be restricted on the grounds stipulated in Article 19(2) of the Constitution. The grounds stipulated in Article 19(2) include the “sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with Foreign States, public , decency or morality or in relation to contempt of court, defamation or incitement to an C offence.” We have already held in Part C of this that security clearance is a requirement for renewal of an Uplinking and Downlinking license. The denial of security clearance to operate a news channel is a restriction on the freedom of press, and such restriction is constitutionally permissible only on the grounds stipulated in Article 19(2) of the D Constitution. 164. Though the courts have been using the proportionality standard to test the reasonableness of restrictions on fundamental rights after the decisions in Modern Dental (supra) and Justice KS Puttaswamy (9J) (supra), this has generally been deployed in the area E of legislative action. The position laid down by this court is that all violations of fundamental rights have to be tested on the standard of proportionality. The court under Article 13 of the Constitution has the power to declare ‘laws’ that violate fundamental rights to be void.