Thereafter, all 272 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. other criminal cases against sitting MPs/MLAs, followed by similar cases against former MPs/MLAs were to be taken up. This also suggested that the designated courts will take up and hear the subject cases on a day- to-day basis. 8. On 05.03.2020, the High Courts were directed to provide information about the (i) the MP/MLA involved in a case, (ii) whether sitting or former, (iii) date of FIR, (iv) off ence alleged, (v) date of fi ling of charge sheet, (vi) date of framing of charges, (vii) present status, (viii) stay of trial, if any by the High Court, (ix) expected time of completion of trial, (x) name of the court, and (xi) the district in which the case is fi led. The initial information received from the High Courts related only to IPC off ences. In to have a comprehensive understanding of the subject cases, by an dated 10.09.2020, this Court called for information about prosecution of MPs and MLAs under special legislations. The High Courts compiled the said information and submitted their reports to us in the form of affi davits. 9. On the basis of the above information, a comprehensive protocol, in the nature of guidelines for identifi cation of designated courts, the number of such courts, the procedure and practice that they need to adopt and follow, witness protection, etc. was prepared by the learned Amicus. These were noted by this Court in the dated 10.09.2020 and they are reproduced hereinbelow for ready reference: (i) Special Courts in every district for MPs/MLAs:- a. Each High Court may be directed to assign/allocate criminal cases involving former and sitting legislators to as many Sessions Courts and Magisterial Courts as the respective High Courts may consider proper, fi t and expedient having regard to the number and nature of pending cases. Such decisions may be taken by the High Courts within four weeks of the . b. The State Governments will issue necessary notifi cation in terms of the recommendation of the High Court within two weeks from the receipt of the recommendation. c. Case records to be transferred expeditiously to the Special Courts. (ii) Practice Directions :- ASHWINI KUMAR UPADHYAY v. UNION OF INDIA 273 DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI a. Special Courts will give priority to the trial of cases in the following :- i. Off ences punishable with death/life imprisonment; ii. Off ences punishable with imprisonment for 7 years or more; iii. Other off ences. b.Cases involving sitting legislators to be given priority over former legislators. c. Forensic laboratories will give priority in furnishing the report in respect of cases being tried by the Special Courts and will submit all pending reports within one month. d. State Governments/UTs will appoint/designate at least two Special Public Prosecutors for prosecuting cases in the Special Courts in consultation with District and Sessions Judge in the concerned District. e. No adjournment shall be granted except in rare and exceptional circumstances and for reasons to be recorded.