Further, the original motive for the crime was a dispute arising from keeping of jewellery by the deceased with her sister, whereas the statement of prosecution witnesses established that the jewellery had been returned H STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH v. PHOOLCHAND RATHORE 615 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] much before the incident, therefore, there existed no cogent motive for A the crime. In paragraph 40 of the , the High Court observed that the recovery of blood-stained clothes and stones was doubtful because the seizure witness Shiv Kumar Rathore (PW6) had categorically denied seizure of those articles in his presence and had stated that his signatures were obtained at the police station. Moreover, B the evidence recorded revealed that the accused was arrested in the night of 01.02.2010 itself. The High Court also noticed that the FSL report Ex.P-35 could not confirm the blood group on the clothes as to match it with the deceased. Otherwise also, once the seizure of articles became doubtful and as per the statement of PW4 the accused had washed off those clothes and had kept them in the house to dry, the C entire prosecution story in respect of seizure of blood-stained clothes from the hut was rendered doubtful. Taking a conspectus of the circumstances highlighted above, the High Court opined that the case set up by the prosecution appeared extremely unnatural and hard to believe. The High Court therefore discarded the circumstance of seizure D of stones and blood-stained clothes from the hut of the accused and upon finding that there were glaring contradictions in the prosecution case, irreconcilable in nature, gave the benefit of doubt to the accused. 14. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and have perused the record. E Submissions on behalf of the Appellant 15. The learned counsel for the appellant submitted that this is a case where a daughter has deposed against her own father. The testimony of PW-4 is straightforward and coupled with other evidences establishes beyond doubt the following: F (i) that there used to be fights/quarrels between the deceased and the accused; (ii) that on the fateful day, there was a quarrel between the two; and G (iii) that soon after the quarrel the deceased was taken on a bicycle by the appellant to the field and shortly thereafter near the hut/field of the accused, on a railway track, the deceased was found in a seriously injured state suggesting that she was badly assaulted. H 616 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 16. It was argued that the High Court wrongly discarded the entire statement of PW4 upon noticing that she was not truthful on certain aspects, namely, — the accused had returned alone from the field wearing blood-stained clothes, changed his clothes in the house, washed them and made an extra judicial confession to PW4. It was contended that falsus in uno, falsus in omnibus doctrine is not applicable in India B therefore, the High Court ought to have severed the unreliable part from the remaining part, noticed above, and examine whether the remaining part on its own could sustain conviction, particularly, when there was no explanation forthcoming from the accused as to where he was during that period and how his wife sustained those injuries.