In other words, this is not a case where the Court F has been invited to pronounce on the vires of the Act. 75. Coal continues to be an important and scarce natural resource. Nothing more is required to establish the same than the very lis over it. It forms an important raw material in the production of vital final products. Also, it forms a kind of fuel, which drives power plants. A monopoly, G undoubtedly, stood created by the Nationalisation Act. The mines, which were the subject matter of the Act, stood vested with the Central Government. The first appellant is a Government Company, which came into being, as contemplated under Section 5 of the Nationalisation Act. The appellant-Company operates the mines. It is tasked with the power H 866 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A and the duty to distribute coal. This attracts the Directive Principle enshrined in Article 39(b). The said Directive Principle contemplates that the ‘State’ should direct its policy towards securing that the ownership and control of the ‘material resources’ are so ‘distributed’ so as to ‘subserve the common good’. The argument of the appellants is partly based on the dictate of Article 31(B), which, together with the Ninth B Schedule, the insertion in which Schedule, immunizes laws from being invalidated on the ground that they take away or abridge Fundamental Rights. The Nationalisation Act was inserted in the Ninth Schedule on 10th August, 1975. We are not, in this case, called upon to sit in over the insertion of the Nationalisation Act on the basis that it is violative C of the basic structure of the Constitution in terms of what has been laid down in I.R. Coelho (supra). We proceed on the basis, therefore, that the Nationalisation Act was insulated by virtue of Article 31B. Equally, we proceed on the basis that it can be treated as a law giving effect to the policy of the State towards securing the principles enshrined in Article 39(b). D 76. Here we are not dealing with a plea to overturn the Nationalisation Act on the score that it is violative of any of the Fundamental Rights. The Nationalisation Act was enacted to vest in the Central Government, the rights of the lessees in the coal mines so that they could be operated so as to ensure the rational, coordinated and E scientific development and utilization of the coal resources consistent with the growing requirements of the country. The Preamble clearly indicates that the Law-Giver had in mind the goal in Article 39(b), viz., acquiring ownership over coal mines so that coal mined from the mines could be so distributed so that common good was best subserved. The F Statement of Objects and Reasons of Act 67 of 1976, by which the Nationalisation Act was amended, indicated that after the nationalisation took place, persons holding mining leases took to unauthorized mining and in a most reckless and unscientific manner. This was noted to be without bearing in mind considerations of conservation, safety and the welfare of the workers.