He clarified that during the course of the hearing, the counsel for the State of Kerala adopted the stand that the sale was between dealer and manufacturer. F (ii) On the question of law referred to this Court, it was contended that, Mohd. Ekram Khan struck a discordant note against the well-established principle, enunciated in Premier Automobiles, Prem Nath Motors, Prem Motors and Geo Motors, that the cost of warranty was included in G the initial transaction of sale and was not taxable separately. Therefore, it was contended that all transfers are not sales, as a sale has a definitive connotation in sale tax law. Sales tax is not applicable to all transfers which may happen by means of transactions other than sale, such as gift, barter, or exchange. Relying upon State of Madras vs. Gannon H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1299 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Dunkerley & Co, (1959) SCR 379, [Gannon Dunkerley A (I)], it was submitted that crucial elements of a tax-eligible sale transaction are: i) the existence of buyer and seller, ii) existence of an agreement between parties for transferring title of goods, iii) such transfer should be supported by monetary consideration, and iv) property in goods must pass B or be transferred. It was contended that the present facts do not present a taxable sale because: a. firstly, spare parts are supplied to the customers by the dealers completely free of charge by way of replacement of goods already sold. C b. secondly, customer receives the new spare part as installed in his vehicle and returns the defective part. c. thirdly, the substance of the transaction remains the discharge of a warranty obligation assumed by the manufacturer, and through him, the dealer, while D selling the original goods. As the spare parts are deducted from the stock of the dealer due to convenience, credit is deservedly given by the manufacturer to the dealer to account for the value of the goods supplied on behalf of the manufacturer. E d. fourthly, any dealer of the manufacturer herein can be approached for discharging the warranty obligation free of charge. e. fifthly, the department has wrongly assumed that the supply of spare parts to the customer is a sale made F to the manufacturer albeit the title is being transferred to the customer on account of the dealership agreement. (iii) Learned senior counsel further submitted that replacement of spare parts during the warranty period does not constitute G a sale. This proposition is supported by Section 12(3) of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 (“the Act”, for short) which states that a warranty is a stipulation collateral to the main purpose of the contract. Reliance was also placed upon the decision of the Canadian Supreme Court in General Motors Products of Canada Ltd. vs. Leo Krabvitz, (1979) SCC H 1300 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Online CAN SC 2, wherein it was clarified that the warranty claim by a purchaser was connected to his title over the product which was acquired through the original sale.