Therefore, in Chelmsford Club, since the appellant provided recreational facilities exclusively to its members and their guests on “no-profi t-no-loss” basis and surplus, if any, was used solely for maintenance and development of the Club, the Court allowed the exception of mutuality. 23. The mandate of the club is a question of fact and can be determined from the memorandum or articles of association, rules of membership, rules of the organisation, etc. However, the mandate must not be construed myopically. While in some situations, the benefi ts may be evident directly in the short run, in others, they may be accruable to an organisation indirectly, in the long run. Space must be made for both such forms of interactions between the organisation and its members. Therefore, as Finlay, J. observed in National Assn. of Local Govt. Offi cers v. Watkins (Inspector of Taxes), where member of a club s dinner and consumes it, there is no sale to him. At the same time, as in CIT v. Bankipur Club Ltd., where a club makes “surplus receipts” from the subscriptions and charges for the various conveniences paid by members, even though there is no direct benefi t of the receipts to the customers, the fact that they will eventually be used in furtherance of the services of the club must be considered as a furtherance of the mandate of the club. 24. Thirdly, there must be no scope of profiteering by the contributors from a fund made by them which could only be expended or returned to themselves. The locus classicus pronouncement comes from Rowlatt, J.’s observations in Thomas (Inspector of Taxes) v. 992 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. Richard Evans & Co. Ltd. wherein, while interpreting Styles case, he held that if profi ts are distributed to shareholders as shareholders, the principle of mutuality is not satisfi ed. He observed thus: (Richard Evans case, KB pp. 46-47) “… But a company can make a profi t out of its members as customers, although its range of customers is limited to its shareholders. If a railway company makes a profi t by carrying its shareholders, or if a trading company, by trading with the shareholders even if it is limited to trading with them, makes a profi t, that profi t belongs to the shareholders in a sense, but it belongs to them qua shareholders. It does not come back to them as purchasers or customers; it comes back to them as shareholders upon their shares. Where all that a company does is to collect money from a certain number of people—it [does not matter] whether they are called members of the company or participating policy-holders—and apply it for the benefi t of those same people, not as shareholders in the company, but as the people who subscribed it, then, as I understand Styles case, there is no profi t. If the people were to do the thing for themselves, there would be no profi t, and the fact that they incorporate a legal entity to do it for them makes no diff erence; there is still no profi t. This is not because the entity of the company is to be disregarded; it is because there is no profi t, the money being simply collected from those people and handed back to them, not in the character of shareholders, but in the character of those who have paid it.