The High Court observed that none of the parameters to invoke F jurisdiction under Section 321 of CrPC were applied either by the Public Prosecutor or by the State and resultantly, it was held that the exercise was bad in law and that the mala fides of the State was evident from its contradictory stand wherein it previously opposed the bail applications but now was seeking to withdraw the prosecution itself. Accordingly, the High Court directed that any action taken in the meantime, pursuant G to the State Government’s notification dated 26.02.2021, including the allowing withdrawal of the case was liable to be set aside. It ed accordingly. 10. The De-facto Complainant thereafter submitted an affidavit before the Trial Court expressing his ‘no-objection’ to the grant of bail to H AFJAL ALI SHA @ ABJAL SHAUKAT SHA v. STATE OF WEST 1099 BENGAL & ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] Respondent No. 2. Meanwhile, Respondent No. 2 appealed against the A of the learned Single Judge before a Division Bench, inter alia, on the ground of violation of the principles of audi alteram partem. The Division Bench set aside the on this ground and remanded the matter for fresh adjudication. It must be noted that the Petitioner herein had also filed an application for impleadment in the proceedings before B the Division Bench but the same was closed with liberty to renew the prayer before the Single Judge. 11. On remand, the learned Single Judge first considered the prayer of the De-facto Complainant for withdrawal of the writ petition and also the application of the Petitioner herein to be impleaded as a party. The C learned Single Judge, vide an interim in the second round of proceedings, noted firstly that the Petitioner is the brother of the Deceased and has the locus to file a fresh writ petition and secondly, in view of the alleged threat to life & liberty of the De-facto Complainant, his name was deleted and the Petitioner was transposed as the writ petitioner. The Single Judge observed that the withdrawal of the writ D petition at that stage would frustrate the of the learned Division Bench as well as the ends of justice. It was, thus, again directed that the of the Link Judge would not be acted upon and Respondent No. 2 shall not be released from custody, without an of the competent court. This was later, upheld by the Division Bench in appeal. E 12. Meanwhile the trial proceeded but during his cross-examination, the De-facto Complainant is stated to have resiled from the statement made during examination-in-chief but nevertheless he was not declared hostile by the Public Prosecutor. Thereafter, the Petitioner filed an application before the Trial Court to declare the De-facto Complainant F hostile and to allow the Petitioner’s lawyer to cross-examine him. The Trial Court considered the said application and noted that the De-facto Complainant had “made some statements in his cross examination, which are not in conformity with the version of his examination-in- chief”.