The only area where D we find what could perhaps be understood as a reference to the first report is clause 4.2.2. It reads as follows: “4.2.2. As intimated by project authority that and acquisition of pipeline corridor on the right side of Vallabhh Pant Sagar is in the final stages and other information gathered during site visit by E WAPCOS/CWPRS team by local enquiry survey area ‘A’ was identified for detailed survey during detailed survey it is found that sufficient depth is not available for intake well as bed level of the reservoir is around 252.5 and this was also in a small patches. So, this area is discarded.” F (76) It would appear that the word ‘project authority’ according to Shri M.G. Ramachandran is to be understood as the first respondent. All that even clause 4.2.2 indicates is that the first respondent intimated that the acquisition for the pipeline corridor was in its final stages and thereafter it is indicated that during the detailed survey, it was found sufficient depth is not available. G (77) We do not think this can be the basis for acting upon the second report after describing the first report as grossly erroneous. (78) Now we may consider the disclaimer clauses. The disclaimers have their genesis in the guidelines. Note 4 of the RFP indicates that the procurers apart from their Directors, employees must not be treated as H 54 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A having made any representation or warranting whatsoever in respect of any statements or omissions or the accuracy, completeness or reliability of information contained therein. They were not to incur any liability under any law inter alia even if any loss or damage is caused to the bidder by any act or omission on their part. Again clause 1.4 of the RFP clearly indicated to the bidders that the procurers inter alia do not make B any representation or accept any responsibility or liability in respect of any statements or omissions made in the water intake study report and the project report. There is a specific disclaimer also about the accuracy, completeness or reliability of information contained therein. This is even if any loss or damage is caused to the selected bidder by any act or C omission on their part. Thus, in respect of the water intake study report, the prospective seller or the bidders were specifically told in no uncertain terms that any statements or omissions in water intake study report would not result in the procurers being visited with liability even if there was loss or damage caused to the selected bidder. This must be borne in mind at this juncture for the following reasons. D (79) The first respondent has a case that water intake system goes to hydrology whereas in relation to geology, the first respondent was duty bound to make its own inquiries. Since the connect between hydrology and water intake system is real and since in regard to conditions about hydrology, the first respondent relied on the procurers or the report E prepared by a public sector unit, in particular, they should stand relieved of any obligation to conduct any further inquiry on their own, runs the argument.