10. What is wholly apparent from this outline of the scheme of the Act, is that the role of the District Offi cer, is pivotal; they are responsible for numerous aspects in the implementation of the Act. It is where the buck stops, so to say, in terms of coordination and accountability relating to the POSH Act. Even in terms of payment and fees – the District Offi cer is responsible for payment of allowances to the Chairman and members of the LC16, which it receives from the agency set up by the State Government (ref: Section 8 of the Act). Interestingly, the District Offi cer also performs a duty in terms of enforcement; under Section 13, if the respondent in any case fails to pay any sum so directed, the ICC/LC can forward the for recovery of the sum as an arrear of land revenue to the concerned District Offi cer17. 11. Section 5 stipulates that: “5. The appropriate Government may notify a District Magistrate or Additional District Magistrate or the Collector or Deputy Collector as a District Offi cer. for every District to exercise powers or discharge functions under this Act.” And Chapter VII, titled ‘Duties and Powers of the District Offi cer’ states under Section 20: 13 Section 23 of the POSH Act. 14 Section 24 of the POSH Act. 15 Section 25 of the POSH Act. 16 Rule 5 of the POSH Rules 17 Second proviso to Section 13(3) of the POSH Act. INITIATIVES FOR INCLUSION FOUNDATION & ANR. v.687 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] “20. The District Offi cer shall, - (a) monitor the timely submission of reports furnished by the Local Committee; (b) take such measures as may be necessary for engaging non- governmental organisations for creation of awareness on sexual harassment and the rights of the women.” While the language used in Section 5 is ‘may’, the context of the statute – as elaborated above, and specifi cally Section 20 (which uses ‘shall’ and obligates the District Offi cer to perform pivotal functions) makes it quite clear that the District Offi cer, is the most important functionary in the system, tasked with keeping the redressal and monitoring framework both intact, and smoothly running. In one of the fi rst cases on the interpretation of ‘may’, this court in State of Uttar Pradesh v. Jogendra Singh18 held: “There is no doubt that the word “’may” generally does not mean ‘must’ or ‘shall’. But it is well settled that the word “may” is capable of meaning “must” or ‘shall’ in the light of the context. It is also clear that where a discretion is conferred upon a public authority coupled with an obligation, the word ‘may’ which denotes discretion should be construed to mean a command. Sometimes, the legislature uses the word “may” out of deference to the high status of the authority on whom the power and the obligation are intended to be conferred and imposed. In the present case, it is the context which is decisive.” Treating Section 5 as directory, would leave a gaping hole in the otherwise clearly delineated workfl ow and redressal mechanism, and the effi cacy of this legislation, as a result, falls fl at.