The Court noted that the said position was affirmed by a Bench of three 3 (2005) 8 SCC 618 4 (2017) 9 SCC 729 H 306 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A learned Judges in Mayavati Trading Private Limited v. Pradyuat Deb Burman5. Still further, the Court went on to notice the rendered by the Bench of two learned Judges in Garware Wall Ropes Limited v. Coastal Marine Constructions & Engineering Limited6 and referred to para 22 of the said decision where this Court relied on Section 2 (h) of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 (hereinafter referred to as, ‘the Contract B Act’, for short) and found that an unstamped agreement to be unenforceable. 6. In Garware(supra), the Bench of two learned Judges took the view that the Arbitration Clause contained in the sub-contract would not exist as a matter of law until the sub-contract was duly stamped. It was C further found that Section 11(6A) deals with existence as opposed to Section 8, and Section 45 of the Act [See paragraph 29 of Garware (supra)]. The Bench of three learned Judges in its in N.N. Global (supra), containing the of Reference to the Constitution Bench, found that an Arbitration Agreement is not included in the D Schedule as an instrument chargeable to stamp duty. The Court referred to Item 12 of Schedule I of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958, in this regard. Thereafter, the Court went on to find that the Work was chargeable to payment of stamp duty. The Court, however, found that the non-payment or the deficiency on the Work did not invalidate the main contract. Section 34 of the Maharashtra Act corresponding to E Section 35 of the Stamp Act did not make the unstamped instrument, invalid, non-existent or unenforceable in law. The Court found that the Arbitration Agreement was a distinct and an independent contract. On the Doctrine of Separability, it would not be rendered invalid, unenforceable or non-existing, even if the substantive contract, in which F it is contained, was inadmissible in evidence or could not be acted upon, in view of it not being stamped. The Bench in N.N. Global (supra) went on to hold as follows: “26. In our view, there is no legal impediment to the enforceability of the arbitration agreement, pending payment of stamp duty on G the substantive contract. The adjudication of the rights and obligations under the work or the substantive commercial contract would, however, not proceed before complying with the mandatory provisions of the Stamp Act. 5 (2019) 8 SCC 714 H 6 (2019) 9 SCC 209 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 307 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] 27. The Stamp Act is a fiscal enactment for payment of stamp A duty to the State on certain classes of instruments specified in the Stamp Act. Section 40 of the Stamp Act, 1899 provides the procedure for instruments which have been impounded, and sub- section (1) of Section 42 requires the instrument to be endorsed after it is duly stamped by the Collector concerned.