We refrain from further comment on the Appellants, noting the pendency of the contempt proceeding. 40. As made clear by us in the foregoing paragraphs, the situation emanating herein is, in a manner of speaking, unprecedented. With a sense of anguish, it would not be wrong to say that the instant has been invited upon themselves by the Appellants. The s of the High Court, in our considered opinion, were in aid of the electoral process, and no fault can be found therewith. 41. The learned ASG’s submission that nobody representing R1 had fi led his/her nomination form, by the last date notifi ed, is inapposite, inasmuch as in the position existing, no candidate/representative affi liated with R1 could have fi lled up the form as the Plough symbol was neither a reserved symbol nor a free symbol, and thus, could not have been opted for by any candidate when fi ling the nomination form. The serious consequence was that R1’s identity as a political party was eclipsed, right before the election to the LAHDC, where it was the incumbent party in power. 42. This Court has previously bestowed consideration on the importance of the symbol in an electoral system, especially one allotted to a political party. Taking note of the 3-Judge Bench decision in Shri Sadiq Ali v Election Commission of India, New Delhi, (1972) 4 SCC 664, another Bench of 3 learned Judges in All Party Hill Leaders’ Conference, Shillong v Captain W A Sangma, (1977) 4 SCC 161 put it thus: “29. For the purpose of holding elections, allotment of symbol will fi nd a prime place in a country where illiteracy is still very high. It has been found from experience that symbol as a device for casting votes in favour of a candidate of one’s choice has proved an invaluable aid. Apart from this, just as people devel- op a sense of honour, glory and patriotic pride for a fl ag of one’s country, simi-larly great fervour and emotions are generated for a symbol representing a po-litical party. This is particularly so in a parliamentary democracy which is con-ducted on party lines. 100 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. People after a time identify themselves with the symbol and the fl ag. These are great unifying insignia which cannot all of a sudden, be eff acced.11” (emphasis supplied) 43. Placing reliance on Shri Sadiq Ali (supra), a 2-Judge Bench summed up as under, in Edapaddi K Palaniswami v TTV Dhinakaran, (2019) 18 SCC 219: “39. We say so because the effi cacy of having a common symbol for a polit-ical group has been underscored in Sadiq Ali v. Election Commissionof India [Sadiq Ali v. Election Commission of India, (1972) 4 SCC 664] . In para 21 of the said , this Court observed thus : (SCC pp. 674-75) “21. … It is well known that overwhelming majority of the electorate are il-literate. It was realised that in view of the handicap of illiteracy, it might not be possible for the illiterate voters to cast their votes in favour of the candidate of their choice unless there was some pictorial representation on the ballot paper itself whereby such voters might identify the candidate of their choice.