It is submitted that even the High Court found that there were discrepancies in the statements of the prosecution G witnesses who were examined during the trial. It is further submitted that the High Court also observed the glaring discrepancies in the statement of the Complainant/PW-1 with regard to Biju @ Babu (accused No. 2) on the basis of which, the High Court acquitted the said accused Biju @ Babu (accused No. 2) of all the charges levelled against him. H 342 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 6. Shri Basant submitted that a Memorandum under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (hereinafter referred to as “the Evidence Act”) is required in cases of recovery initiated at the instance of an accused person, based on the statements made before the Police. It is submitted that, on perusal of evidence on record in the instant matter, neither such Memorandum under Section 27 of the Evidence Act was B prepared at the time of the recovery of the body of deceased Vishwanathan, nor were signatures of independent or panch witnesses taken at the time of said recovery. It is further submitted that it was the duty of the Investigating Officer (for short, ‘IO’) to have prepared the said Memorandum while acting on the information obtained from Boby C (appellant herein) and that such inaction on part of the IO would vitiate the prosecution case, at least insofar as proving the recovery of the dead body of the deceased is concerned. 7. Shri Basant submitted that the trial court solely relied on the last seen theory and held that the prosecution had proved the same with D regard to the chain of circumstances in this case. It is further submitted that conviction of an accused person cannot be sustained only on the basis of proving the last seen theory as the same was required to be corroborated with the statements of the witnesses that are examined during trial along with other evidence placed on record. While pointing E out the discrepancies in the statements of prosecution witnesses, which were relied upon by the courts below, it was submitted that the conviction of the appellant herein could not be sustained on the said ground alone. 8. Shri Balgopal, on the contrary, submits that the courts below have concurrently found the accused persons guilty of the offences F charged with. The prosecution has proved the incriminating circumstances beyond reasonable doubt. It has also proved the chain of circumstances which leads to no other conclusion than the guilt of the accused. He relies on the of this Court in the case of Suresh Chandra Bahri v. State of Bihar1. G 9. Undisputedly, the present case rests entirely on circumstantial evidence. A three-Judges Bench of this Court in the case of Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra2, has laid down the golden principles with regard to conviction in a case which rests entirely on 1 1995 Supp. (1) SCC 80 H 2 (1984) 4 SCC 116 BOBY v. STATE OF KERALA [B. R. GAVAI, J.]