16. It is to be noted that though the landowners had executed documents giving possession to the Municipal Council, when the Municipal Council sought physical possession in 2012, the landowners fi led Civil Suit seeking perpetual injunction along with an application seeking a temporary injunction against the Municipal Council. The said application for temporary injunction was rejected by the Trial Court. The appeal thereagainst was rejected vide dated 14th January 2015. The same was challenged before the High Court by fi ling the writ petition. The writ petition was withdrawn vide dated 17th January 2018. 17. Parallelly, the proceedings with regard to the mutation of the Municipal Council in the revenue records were also in progress. In the said proceedings, the landowners lost up to the Divisional Commissioner. In the meantime, the Municipal Council vide dated 23rd January 2018, passed a resolution to develop the plot, reserved for ‘amenity space’, for the purpose of a swimming pool and indoor game hall. 18. Only thereafter, the landowners and the plot holders fi led writ petitions before the High Court. SHIRDI NAGAR PANCHAYAT v. KISHOR SHARAD 553 BORAWAKE [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 19. It could thus be seen that the landowners had taken advantage of the Government Notifi cation dated 18th August 2004, vide which the land, which was reserved for ‘Green Zone (No Development Zone)’, was converted into ‘Yellow Zone (Development Zone)’/ ‘Residential Zone’. It is thus clear that having taken advantage of the sanctioned plan and on the basis of the same laying down the layout and only after failing to get the relief in the Civil Suit and the Revenue proceedings, the landowners approached the High Court. The High Court, therefore, rightly found no merit in the petition of the landowners. 20. Insofar as the plot holders are concerned, they also did not stand on a better footing. They had purchased the plot knowing very well that in the sanctioned layout, 10% of space was to be reserved as ‘open space’ and 10% of the land was to be handed over to the Municipal Council as ‘amenity space’. They were very well aware that 10% of the land would be transferred to the Municipal Council by the landowners free of cost and that the land would vest in the Municipal Council. Knowing this fully well, they entered into transactions with the landowners. As such, the writ petition at their behest also challenging the Notifi cation after a period of almost 14 years ought to have been dismissed on the grounds of delay and laches. No doubt that the High Court was justifi ed in holding that the ownership of the ‘open space’ would vest in the owners of the plot in view of the relevant DCR. The High Court was also right in holding that insofar as ‘open space’ is concerned, it was required to be kept as ‘open space’ for use by the plot holders. 21. However, insofar as the ‘amenity space’ is concerned, the High Court mixed it with the ‘open space’.