v. STATE OF TELANGANA AND 647 OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] and Industries Private Limited v. State of Haryana25 where the practice of GPA sales was deprecated and it was noted that the same did not constitute ‘sale’ or ‘transfer’ as contemplated under the Transfer of Property Act, 1882. 64. However, we must note that the term ‘transfer’ as defi ned under the 1977 Act is much more inclusive than the one employed in the Transfer of Property Act, 1882. The defi nition under the 1977 Act uses the phrase ‘any other transaction’, which, in our considered opinion, necessarily includes the GPA executed as an instrument to surrender ownership and possessory rights in favour of M.A. Baksh. The intent of `transfer’ through the said GPA by the Assignees authorizing the attorney holder to sell or transfer the subject Property without any restriction as is evident from its recitals and for which they admittedly received consideration from M.A. Baksh, is beyond any doubt. This was precisely the kind of practice deprecated by this Court in Suraj Lamp and Industries Private Limited26. We have thus no hesitation in holding that the said GPA falls within the ambit of the term ‘transfer’, especially in view of the objective of the 1977 Act, which was manifestly intended to save the landless poor persons from the clutches of the rich and the resourceful, who deprived them of the precious title assigned to them by the Government for their occupation and the source of livelihood. 65. Our observations are in continuity with the view previously taken by this Court in Dharma Naika v. Rama Naika27 wherein an ‘agreement to sale’ was held to be included within the defi nition of ‘transfer’ as provided under the Karnataka Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prohibition of Transfer of Certain Lands) Act, 1978. Its pertinent to mention that the defi nition of ‘transfer’ in the aforesaid statute is somewhat similar to the one employed by the 1977 Act. This Court noted that:– “12. A bare reading of the defi nition of “transfer” as defi ned in Section 3(1)(e) of the Act would show that an “agreement for sale” of any “granted land” is included within the meaning of “transfer”. That being the position, the word “transfer” as defi ned under the Act is an inclusive defi nition. That is to say, it includes “sale” as 25 Suraj Lamp and Industries Private Limited v. State of Haryana (2012) 1 SCC 656 26 ibid. 27 Dharma Naika v. Rama Naika (2008) 14 SCC 517. 648 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. well as “agreement for sale”, although an agreement for sale under the Transfer of Property Act is not a transfer and the right, title or interest in the land does not pass until the sale deed is executed and registered. “Sale” has been defi ned in Section 54 of the Transfer of Property Act which means “transfer of ownership in exchange for a price paid or promised or part-paid and part-promised”. As noted herein earlier, an agreement to sell does not by itself create any interest of the proposed vendee in the immovable property but only creates an enforceable right in the parties.