In the present case, as it has been held that Section 6A of DSPE Act is violative of Article 14 of Part-III of the Constitution, as such, the same would be void. The word “void” has been interpreted in a number of s of this Court beginning 1951 till recently and it has been given diff erent nomenclature such as ‘non est’, ‘void ab initio’ ‘still born’ and ‘unenforceable’. 42. A brief reference to the case law on the point would be necessary at this stage. It may be worthwhile to mention that the earlier seven-judge Bench and Constitution Bench s relate to Article 13(1) of the Constitution, dealing with pre-existing laws at the time of commencement of the Constitution. There are later s relating to Article 13(2) of the Constitution. However, reliance is placed upon the s on Article 13(1) while interpreting the word ‘void’ used in Article 13(2). (i) The facts in the case of Keshavan Madhava Menon (supra), was that a prosecution was launched against the appellant therein under 42 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. the provision of the Indian Press (Emergency Powers) Act, 193157 for a publication issued without the necessary authority under Section 15(1) of the said Act, and as such, became an off ence punishable under Section 18 (1) of the same Act. This prosecution had been launched in 1949 itself and registered as Case No. 1102/P of 1949. During the pendency of the said proceedings, the Constitution of India came into force on 26.01.1950. The appellant therein took an objection that provisions of 1931 Act were ultra vires of Article 19(1) (a) read with Article 13(1) of the Constitution and would, therefore, be void and inoperative as such he may be acquitted. The High Court was of the view that the proceedings pending on the date of commencement of the Constitution would not be aff ected even if the 1931 Act was inconsistent with the Fundamental Rights conferred by Part III of the Constitution. However, the same would become void under Article 13(1) of the Constitution only after 26.01.1950. (ii) The seven-judge Bench of this Court gave rise to three separate opinions: Justice Sudhi Ranjan Das authored the majority judgement with Chief Justice Kania, Justice M. Patanjali Sastri and Justice N. Chandrasekhara Aiyar concurring; Justice Mehar Chand Mahajan authored a separate opinion concurring with the majority view; Justice Fazal Ali wrote a dissenting with Justice B.K. Mukherjea agreeing with him. The majority agreed with the view taken by the High Court. They accordingly dismissed the appeal. Para 16 of the report which contains the dictum is reproduced hereunder: “16. As already explained above, Article 13(1) is entirely prospective in its operation and as it was not intended to have any retrospective eff ect there was no necessity at all for inserting in that article any such saving clause. The eff ect of Article 13(1) is quite diff erent from the eff ect of the expiry of a temporary statute or the repeal of a statute by a subsequent statute.