The submission F is wholly untenable. On facts, in the decision referred to the Court was concerned with the note of the Revenue Minister in the file,, and was not a decision taken by the Cabinet at its meeting. Secondly, in the instant case the decision of the Cabinet was communicated to all concerned officers directing them to act in accordance with the and report compliance. Pursuant to G the said decision, a letter was written by the Respondent to the Claimant accepting the proposal based on variable charge in accordance with the prevailing cost of fuel and dollar. This clearly shows that the Government acted upon the said decision of the Cabinet. H RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 429 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 43. For all these reasons, the Tribunal finds that the plea of the A Claimant that the Respondent was obliged to pay for the power purchased by it pursuant to the proposal accepted by it, on the basis of invoices prepared and submitted by the Claimant taking into account the variable cost of oil and dollar, must be accepted, and the plea of the Respondent to the contrary, must be rejected.” B 16.3. Insofar as the contention of State with regard to non- consideration of clauses 12.1.4 to 12.1.7 of PPA is concerned, in our view, the claimant is right in its submission that the main issue raised before the Arbitral Tribunal was only as to whether the agreement was to supply power on a fixed rate of fuel price and fixed rate of exchange C in terms of US dollar to Indian rupee. 16.4. It might appear that in the latter part of the pleadings, the Government of Goa referred to the aforesaid clauses 12.1.4 to 12.1.7 of PPA but, fact of the matter remains that they were not as such considered by the parties to be forming material propositions of law or facts so as to D form the part of the issue before the Arbitral Tribunal. Even on the first principles pertaining to settlement of issues, like those in XIV Rule 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 190818, the Court, while dealing with regular civil suit, would be ascertaining as to upon what material proposition of fact or law the parties are at variance, and thereupon would frame and record the issues on which the right decision of the E case appears to depend. The present case had been that of arbitration 18 XIV Rule 1 CPC reads as under: - “1. Framing of issues.—(1) Issues arise when a material proposition of fact or law is affirmed by the one party and denied by the other. (2) Material propositions are those propositions of law or fact which a plaintiff F must allege in to show a right to sue or a defendant must allege in to constitute his defence. (3) Each material proposition affirmed by one party and denied by the other shall form the subject of a distinct issue. (4) Issues are of two kinds: (a) issues of fact, (b) issues of law.