Rule 131 of the Karnataka Value Added Tax Rules, 2005 (for short “KVAT Rules”) relates to the apportionment of ITC in cases of dealer falling under Section 17 of the Karnataka VAT Act. 55. The relevant portion of Section 17 of the Karnataka VAT Act and Rule 131 of KVAT Rules are reproduced below: “17. Partial rebate.- Where a registered dealer deducting input tax.- (1) makes sales of taxable goods and goods exempt under Section 5, or xxx xxx xxx Rule 131. Apportionment.— Apportionment of input tax in the case of a dealer falling under section 17 shall be calculated as follows.- (1) All input tax directly relating to sale of goods exempt under section 5 other than such goods sold in the course of export out of the territory of India, is non-deductible. (2) All input tax directly relating to taxable sales may be deducted, subject to the provisions of section 11. (3) Any input tax relating to both sale of taxable goods and exempt goods, including inputs used for non-taxable transactions, that is, the non-deductible input tax, may be calculated on the basis of the following formula:” (Emphasis supplied) 56. This Court while examining Section 17 of the KVAT Act, read with Rule 131 of the KVAT Rules, held that ITC was admissible to the extent of inputs used in the sale of taxable goods. The relevant observations of this Court are reproduced below: “28. The fi rst mistake which is committed by the High Court is to ignore the plain language of sub-section (1) of Section 17. This provision which allows partial rebate makes the said provision applicable on the ‘sales’ of taxable goods and goods exempt under Section 5. Thus, 770 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. this sub-section refers to ‘sale’ of the ‘goods’, taxable as well as exempt, and is not relatable to the ‘manufacture’ of the goods. The High Court has been swayed by the fact that while extracting oil from sunfl ower, cake emerges only as a by-product. Relevant event is not the manufacture of an item from which the said by-product is emerging. On the contrary, it is the sale of goods which triggers the provisions of Section 17 of KVAT Act. Whether it is by-product or manufactured product is immaterial and irrelevant. Fact remains that de-oiled cake is a saleable commodity which is actually sold by the respondent assessee. Therefore, de-oiled cake fi ts into the defi nition of “goods” and this commodity is exempt from payment of any VAT under Section 5 of the KVAT Act. Thus, provisions of Section 17 clearly get attracted when ‘sale’ of these goods takes place. 29. Secondly, as rightly pointed out by the learned counsel for the appellant, the High Court has not considered the import and eff ect of sub-rule (3) of Rule 131 of the KVAT Rules. We have already reproduced Rule 131, including sub-rule (3) thereof. After perusing Rule 131 in its entirety, it becomes clear that sub-rule (1) pertains to input tax directly relatable to sales of exempt goods which is non- deductible.