3. Shri N. Venkataraman, learned Additional Solicitor General of India has appeared on behalf of the Revenue and S/Shri Arvind P. Datar, Kavin Gulati, Preteesh Kapoor, learned Senior Advocates and Shri Ved C Jain, learned counsel have appeared on behalf of the respective assessees. 3.1 Shri N. Venkataraman, learned ASG has made the following submissions on behalf of the Revenue: i)It is submitted that under the Act, 1961, the charging section is section 4. It is submitted that thus the income tax is tax on ‘total D income.’ It is submitted that the term ‘total income’ has been defined in section 2(45) of the Act, 1961, which means the total amount of income referred to in section 5 and computed in the manner laid down in the Act. It is submitted that as per section 5 of the Act, 1961, the ‘total income’ of any previous year of a E person who is a resident includes all income from whatever source derived. It is submitted that therefore the income tax is a tax on all income from whatever source derived in the case of a resident- assessee. Therefore, if any taxable income is left out, the resultant figure would be ‘partial income’ and not ‘total income’. It is submitted that any interpretation of any provision of the Act, 1961 F which seeks to exclude any portion of the ‘total income’ from the ambit of taxation runs contrary to the scheme of taxation and hence is impermissible. It is submitted that thus the income tax is a tax on ‘total income,’ the assessee furnishes a return of ‘total income’ (as per Section 139 of the Act, 1961) and the AO assesses G ‘total income’ only. ii) It is next submitted that while considering the issue involved, the manner and mode of passing assessment/re-assessment s is required to be considered. It is submitted that section 139 of the Act, 1961 requires an assessee to furnish his return of total income H PRINCIPAL COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, CENTRAL-3 907 v. ABHISAR BUILDWELL P. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] for the previous year. The return is processed under section 143(1). A Sub-sections (2) and (3) contain provision for assessment of ‘total income’ by the AO. It is submitted that there is a possibility that income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment in the first instance. Section 147 of the Act, 1961 enables the AO to assess or reassess the case and bring to tax such income also. Thus, the B Act, 1961 contains elaborate machinery to facilitate determination of ‘total income’ and collection of tax thereon. iii) It is further submitted that the AO, in to determine ‘total income’ correctly, needs to collect information from the assessee as well as third parties. The Statute contains many provisions C enable the Department to collect information relating to the assessee, directly as well as indirectly, so as to enable it to detect tax evasion and make proper assessment of ‘total income’. Section 132 of the Act, 1961 is such a provision which enables to conduct ‘search and seizure’.