It is to be noted that what transpired after the accused left along with the deceased, is only within the knowledge of the accused. However, the accused persons have utterly failed to G discharge the said burden. 19. In that view of the matter, we find that no interference would be warranted with the concurrent findings of the Trial Court and the High Court that the accused appellants are guilty of offence punishable under Section 302 of the IPC. H DIGAMBAR v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA 103 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 20. However, the only question that arises is, as to whether the A present case could be considered as one to be ‘rarest of the rare’ so as to award death penalty. 21. In the case of State of Uttar Pradesh v. Krishna Master and others1, the accused had killed six persons and wiped of almost the whole family on the ground of saving the honour of the family. In the B said case, though this Court found that the same would fall within the ‘rarest of the rare’ case, it commuted the capital sentence to the one to rigorous imprisonment for life and fine of Rs.25,000/- each. 22. This Court in the case of Gandi Doddabasappa alias Gandhi Basavaraj v. State of Karnataka2, wherein the accused had committed C murder of his daughter, who was in the advanced stage of pregnancy, though upheld the conviction of the accused under Section 302 IPC, but commuted the sentence from capital punishment to imprisonment for life. 23. There are certain other precedents of this Court as to which D cases would fall under the category of ‘rarest of rare’ case. 24. In the case of Prakash Dhawal Khairnar (Patil) v. State of Maharashtra3, the appellant was a Senior Scientific Assistant. He wiped out his brother’s entire family. This Court found that this was done by him on account of frustration as his brother was not partitioning the E alleged joint property. Though this Court held that the crime was heinous and brutal, but it could not be considered to be ‘rarest of rare’ case. This Court held that, it is difficult to hold that appellant is a menace to the society and that there is no reason to believe that he cannot be reformed or rehabilitated. F 25. In the case of Mohinder Singh v. State of Punjab4, this Court observed thus: “25. It is well-settled law that awarding of life sentence is a rule and death is an exception. The application of the “rarest of rare” cases principle is dependent upon and differs from case to case. G However, the principles laid down and reiterated in various decisions 1 (2010) 12 SCC 324 2 (2017) 5 SCC 415 3 (2002) 2 SCC 35 4 (2013) 3 SCC 294 H 104 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A of this Court show that in a deliberately planned crime, executed meticulously in a diabolic manner, exhibiting inhuman conduct in a ghastly manner, touching the conscience of everyone and thereby disturbing the moral fibre of the society, would call for imposition of the capital punishment in to ensure that it acts as a deterrent.