Leo Roy Frey v. Superintendent, District Jail, Amritsar [(1958) SCR 822] and Thomas Dana v. State of Punjab [1959 Supp (1) SCR 274 at p. 298] is the same. In Dana B case [(1959) SCR 821 at p. 836] Subba Rao, J., said at p. 298: “If the authority concerned makes an of confiscation it is only a proceeding in rem and the penalty is enforced against the goods. On the other hand, if it imposes a penalty against the person concerned, it is a proceeding against the person C and he is punished for committing the offence. It follows that in the case of confiscation there is no prosecution against the person or imposition of a penalty on him.” In Maqbool Hussain’s case [(1953) SCR 730] the question for decision was whether after proceedings had been taken under D the Sea Customs Act an accused person could be prosecuted and could or could not rely upon the plea of double jeopardy, it was held that he could not. In Shewpujanrai case [(1959) SCR 821 at p. 836] the contention raised was that after proceedings had been taken under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act it was not open to the Customs Authorities to take any action under the E Sea Customs Act. The other two cases were similar to Maqbool Hussain case [(1953) SCR 730] . The contention now raised before us is quite different. What is to be decided in the present case is whether the penalty which was paid by the appellant firm was an allowable deduction within s. 10(2)(xv) of the Income-tax F Act which provides: S. 10. (2)(xv) “any expenditure (not being in the nature of capital expenditure or personal expenses of the assessee) laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purpose of such business, profession or vocation.” G The words “for the purpose of such business” have been construed in Inland Revenue v. Anglo Brewing Co. Ltd. [(1925) 12 TC 803, 813] to mean “for the purpose of keeping the trade going and of making it pay”. The essential condition of allowance is that the expenditure should have been laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purpose of such business. H 112 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A In deciding this case, reference to decisions in some English cases will be fruitful. In Commissioners of Inland Revenue v. Warnes & Co. [(1919) 2 KB 444] , the assessee who carried on the business of oil exporters were sued for a penalty on an information exhibited by the Attorney-General under the Sea Customs Consolidation Act for breach of s and B proclamations. The matter was settled by consent on the assessee agreeing to pay a mitigated penalty of £ 2000. All imputations on the moral culpability of the assessees were withdrawn. The provisions of the Act under which this information was lodged and penalty paid was similar to the provisions of the Indian Sea C Customs Act. This amount was held not to be a proper deduction because in to be within the provision similar to s. 10(2)(xv) of the Indian Act the loss had to be something within commercial contemplation and in the nature of a commercial loss.