5.2 It is submitted that therefore in absence of any notice under B Section 11A of the Central Excise Act which was required to be issued within six months from the date of actual refund, the Tribunal as well as the High Court has rightly set aside the demand and passed an of refund. It is submitted that since the time limit for filing the appeal under Section 35E(2) is longer than the time limit prescribed under Section 11A, the show cause notice should precede the proceedings under Section C 35E(2). 5.3 It is submitted that therefore the issue of show cause notice under Section 11A of the Central Excise Act is a condition precedent for recovery of the alleged erroneous refund within the normal period of limitation prescribed under Section 11A of the Act notwithstanding D proceedings under Section 35E being initiated by the Revenue against the granting refund. Making above submissions it is prayed to dismiss the present appeal. 6. We have heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the E respective parties at length. 7. The short question which is posed for consideration before this Court is whether Notice under Section 11A of the Central Excise Act is necessary for the recovery of the amount when the refund granted is reviewed under Section 35E of the Act and whether a separate notice F under Section 11A of the Act to be issued within the time limit prescribed under Section 11A and before the proceedings under Section 35E of the Act are initiated and/or the notice under Section 11A of the Act shall precede the proceedings under Section 35E of the Act? 7.1 While considering the aforesaid issue it is required to be noted G that as such in the present case the original authority while passing the O-I-O allowed the refund. That the -in-original sanctioning the refund was the subject matter of review under Section 35E of the Act. On merits the Reviewing Authority set aside the -in-original sanctioning the refund. Therefore, as such stricto sensu it can be said H to be giving effect to the passed under Section 35E of the Act. As COMMISSIONER OF CENTRAL EXCISE MUMBAI – I v. M/S MORARJEE 897 GOKULDAS SPG. & WVG. CO. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] such the assessee is claiming the refund on the basis of O-I-O sanctioning A the refund which as such has been set aside in the proceedings under Section 35E of the Central Excise Act. 7.2 Now so far as the submissions made on behalf of the Assessee relying upon the decisions of the Tribunal in the case of Re-Rolling Mills (supra) and Bajaj Auto Ltd (supra) that for refund of the duty B a separate show cause notice under Section 11A of the Act is reviewed and that too within the time limit prescribed under Section 11A and that as such notice under Section 11A must precede within the time limit prescribed under Section 11A before the notice under Section 35E of the Act is concerned, as such the aforesaid issue is now not res integra C in view of the direct decision of this Court in the case of Asian Paints (India) Ltd. (supra).