180. So far as the decision of the Gujarat High Court in S.C. Kothari’s case is concerned—which decision has been confirmed by the Supreme Court— it must be observed that the is an authority only for the proposition that illegality F of any business is irrelevant for the purpose of computing the net income thereof under the Income-tax Act and while the revenue is entitled to levy tax on the income of the assessee earned even from unlawful business, the assessee is also entitled to insist on deduction of loss arising out of such unlawful G business. There could be no quarrel with this statement of law which has been approved by the Supreme Court. But even there, the loss in respect of which deduction could be claimed while computing the profits of the unlawful business must be a trade loss or commercial loss or loss incidental thereto but suffered by the assessee in his character as a trader and not H 130 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A loss suffered as a result of confiscation of goods for an infraction of law which would be a loss suffered by him in some capacity other than as a trader. Besides, in S.C. Kothari’s case neither the Gujarat High Court nor the Supreme Court had to consider the question whether the loss suffered by way of penalty or confiscation of goods amounted to commercial loss or not. In B fact, while setting out the facts of the case it has been stated by the Supreme Court in paragraph 1 of its that the loss of Rs. 3,40,000 and odd which was claimed as deductible loss had arisen out of certain transactions entered into by the assessee with different people for the supply of groundnut oil C and it was expected by the assessee that those contracts would be performed but owing to certain reasons some of the contracts could not be performed and difference has to be paid. From this it appears clear that the loss of Rs. 3,40,000 which was claimed as deductible loss was clearly in the nature of commercial or trade loss for which deduction was claimed D under section 10(1) of the Act. In the circumstances, it is clear that the statement of law enunciated in the case of S.C. Kothari is unexceptionable but, with respect, I would like to point out that the decision is no authority for the proposition that the loss suffered by way of penalty or confiscation of E goods amounts to commercial loss that could be deducted while computing the net profits of a business under section 10(1) of the Act. It is true that in Piara Singh’s case, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has taken the view that the confiscation of cash amount of Rs. 65,500 from the assessee, who was engaged in the business activity of smuggling gold, amounted F to trade loss and hence was deductible under section 10(1) of the Act. But for coming to that conclusion the Punjab High Court has principally relied upon the decision of the Gujarat High Court and of the Supreme Court in S.C. Kothari’s case, in which, as I have stated above, neither the Gujarat High Court G nor the Supreme Court was required to consider the question whether the loss arising from penalty or confiscation of goods for an infraction of law amounted to trade loss or commercial loss; in fact admittedly the nature of loss suffered by the assessee was commercial since it had arisen on account of payment of differences.