879 [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] Investigating Agency, we shall refer to them separately. In the subject- A case, initially investigation was conducted by the regular law enforcement agency, being the State police. The Central Government, in exercise of their power under Section 6(5) read with Section 8 of the National Investigation Agency Act, 2008 directed the National Investigation Agency (“NIA”) to take up investigation of the case by an passed on 24th B January 2020. The case was re-registered at the NIA Police Station, Mumbai as RC No.01/2020/NIA/MUM. Before us, the appeals have been contested by Mr. Nataraj, learned Additional Solicitor General, appearing for the NIA. 3.The proceedings against the appellants have their origin in an C FIR, bearing CR No.4/2018 dated 8th January 2018 registered with Vishrambaug Police Station, Pune, Maharashtra. The informant is one Tushar Ramesh Damgude. The incident which prompted filing of the FIR was in relation to a programme at Shaniwar Wada, Pune held on 31st December 2017. The organisers for this event- Elgar Parishad, were activists of Kabir Kala Manch, a cultural organisation.There were various D events in connection with the said programme, which according to the prosecution, were provocative in nature and had the effect of creating enmity between caste groups leading to violence and loss of life, as also state wide agitation. There were books kept at the venue, which, according to the maker of the FIR were also provocative. There were E incidents of violence, arson, and stone pelting near Bhima-Koregaon and six members of Kabir Kala Manch and other associates were named as accused in the FIR. The appellants did not feature in the FIR. The scope of the investigation was subsequently expanded, as we find in the giving rise to Criminal Appeal No.639 of 2023 on 17th April 2018 the Pune Police conducted searches at the residences of eight F individuals, i.e. (1) Rona Wilson of Delhi, (2) Surendra Gadling of Nagpur, (3) Sudhir Dhawale of Mumbai, (4) Harshali Potdar of Mumbai, (5) Sagar Gorkhe (also referred to as Sagar Gorakhe by the prosecution) of Pune, (6) Deepak Dhengale of Pune, (7) Ramesh Gaichor of Pune and (8) Jyoti Jagtap of Pune. The residences of Shoma Sen and Mahesh G Sitaram Raut, who have also been implicated in the same case, were searched on 6th June 2018. It has been argued by the NIA that during the searches, electronic devices and documents apart from other materials were recovered and the seized articles were sent to Forensic Science Laboratory (“FSL”) for analysis. Cloned copies thereof, according to the prosecution, revealed incriminating materials. The appellants’ names H 880 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A did not also figure in the initial chargesheet dated 15th November 2018, which implicated ten individuals as accused. Among them were Sudhir Dhawale, Surendra Gadling, Shoma Sen, Mahesh Raut and Rona Wilson, who were in detention at that point of time. Rest five accused persons were absconding at that point of time. We are informed by Mr. Nataraj that one of the absconding accused, Milind Teltumbde, has since passed B away.