This aspect had also not been taken into consideration while notifying the 2017 Rules. It is difficult to appreciate as to how on one hand, the Chandigarh Administration is taking a stand that apartmentalization is not permissible and on the other hand, turning G Nelson’s eye when plans, which ex-facie amount to apartmentalization, are being submitted and sanctioned under its very nose. 137. It is further pertinent to note that in the CMP-2031 itself, the Expert Committee has recommended thus: 18[1961] 3 SCR 185 H 19 2012 SCC OnLine P&H 21473 RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 667 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] “Master Plan Committees’ recommendation A Preparation and notification of Heritage Regulations should be prioritized. The earlier approved Draft Notification prepared at the time of preparation of the UNESCO Nomination Dossier and the Model Heritage Regulations issued by the GOI can be used as a reference. B To prevent undue change or damage to the historic and cultural value of Le Corbusier’s urbanism, interim s must be issued not to make any modifications in the heritage areas approved by the Government of India, the circulation structure, the generic sector, architectural control and the plantations till such time as heritage regulations are finalized.” C 138. It has been recommended that to prevent undue change or damage to the historic and cultural value of Le Corbusier’s urbanism, interim s must not be issued to make any modifications in the heritage areas approved by the Government of India, the circulation structure, the generic sector, architectural control and the plantations. D 139. Judicial notice can be taken of the creation of the city of Brasilia as the capital of Brazil. From the website of the “UNESCO World Heritage Convention”, it could be seen that the city was planned by urban planner Lucio Costa and architect Oscar Niemeyer. It will be interesting to note that while planning the said city, urban living as promoted by Le Corbusier and his treatise titled “How to Conceive Urbanism” E served as an inspiration. It is worthwhile to note that in spite of various changes, Lucio Costa’s Pilot Project (Plano Piloto) still remains preserved. It will be apposite to refer to the following extract from the said website: “The urban framework of Brasilia includes all of the elements required to demonstrate outstanding universal value. A city that is F at once urbs and civitas, Brasilia has preserved its original guiding principles intact, as reflected in the protection of its urban scales, legally protected by local and federal organisms of government of the country. The city finds itself today in the midst of a process of consolidation, in accordance with its dual function as city and capital, through G the continuing implementation of new urban services and structures. The World Heritage property is vulnerable to urban development pressure including increased traffic and public transport requirements. The city’s various sectors, as laid out in the initial plan, are now in the process of being supplemented and, indeed, concluded, in line with the original urban principles.