“6. The deficiency in service cannot be alleged without attributing G fault, imperfection, shortcoming or inadequacy in the quality, nature and manner of performance which is required to be performed by a person in pursuance of a contract or otherwise in relation to any service. The burden of proving the deficiency in service is upon the person who alleges it. The complainant has, on facts, been found to have not established any wilful fault, imperfection, H THE CHAIRMAN & MANAGING DIRECTOR, CITY UNION BANK 695 LTD. & ANR. v. R. CHANDRAMOHAN [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] shortcoming or inadequacy in the service of the respondent. The A deficiency in service has to be distinguished from the tortious acts of the respondent. In the absence of deficiency in service the aggrieved person may have a remedy under the common law to file a suit for damages but cannot insist for grant of relief under the Act for the alleged acts of commission and omission attributable B to the respondent which otherwise do not amount to deficiency in service. In case of bona fide disputes no wilful fault, imperfection, shortcoming or inadequacy in the quality, nature and manner of performance in the service can be informed (sic). If on facts it is found that the person or authority rendering service had taken all precautions and considered all relevant facts and circumstances C during the transaction and that their action or the final decision was in good faith, it cannot be said that there had been any deficiency in service. If the action of the respondent is found to be in good faith, there is no deficiency of service entitling the aggrieved person to claim relief under the Act. The rendering of D deficient service has to be considered and decided in each case according to the facts of that case for which no hard and fast rule can be laid down. Inefficiency, lack of due care, absence of bona fides, rashness, haste or omission and the like may be the factors to ascertain the deficiency in rendering the service” E 10. The ratio of the aforestated decision has also been followed in case of Branch Manager, Indigo Airlines Kolkata (supra). In Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. vs. Munimahesh Patel5, this Court held that the proceedings before the Commission are essentially summary in nature and the issues which involve disputed factual questions, should not be adjudicated by the Commission. F 11. So far as the facts of the present case are concerned, even if the allegations made in the complaint are taken on their face value, then also it clearly emerges that there was no wilful fault, imperfection, shortcoming or inadequacy in the discharge of the duty on the part of the employees of the appellants’ bank, which could be termed as “deficiency G in service” under Section 2(1)(g) of the said Act. As emerging from the record, some disputes were going on amongst the Directors of the Company and one of the Directors, if allegedly had committed fraud or 5 (2006) 7 SCC 655 H 696 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R.