It is in this background that this suppression before the Delhi High Court demonstrates complete lack of probity on the part of the ED. Its prompt retaliatory move, upon grant of interim protection to the appellants, by recording the second ECIR and acting upon it, all within the span of a day, so as to arrest the appellants, speaks for itself and we need elaborate no more on that aspect. 24. Further, when the second ECIR was recorded on 13.06.2023 ‘after preliminary investigations’, as stated in the ED’s replies, it is not clear as to when the ED’s Investigating Offi cer had the time to properly inquire into the matter so as to form a clear opinion about the appellants’ involvement in an off ence under the Act of 2002, warranting their arrest within 24 hours. This is a sine qua non in terms of Section 19(1) of the Act of 2002. Needless to state, authorities must act within the four corners of the statute, as pointed out by this Court in Devinder Singh v. State of Punjab7, and a statutory authority is bound by the procedure laid down in the statute and must act within the four corners thereof. 25. We may also note that the failure of the appellants to respond to the questions put to them by the ED would not be suffi cient in itself for the Investigating Offi cer to opine that they were liable to be arrested under Section 19, as that provision specifi cally requires him to fi nd reason to believe that they were guilty of an off ence under the Act of 2002. Mere non-cooperation of a witness in response to the summons issued under Section 50 of the Act of 2002 would not be enough to render him/her liable to be arrested under Section 19. As per its replies, it is the claim of the ED that Pankaj Bansal was evasive in providing relevant information. It was however not brought out as to why Pankaj Bansal’s replies were categorized as ‘evasive’ and that record is not placed before us for verifi cation. In any event, it is not open to the ED to expect an admission of guilt from the person summoned for interrogation and assert that anything short of such admission would be an ‘evasive reply’. In Santosh S/o Dwarkadas Fafat vs. State of Maharashtra8, this Court noted that custodial interrogation is not for the purpose of ‘confession’ as the right against self-incrimination 7 (2008) 1 SCC 728 8 (2017) 9 SCC 714 734 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. is provided by Article 20(3) of the Constitution. It was held that merely because an accused did not confess, it cannot be said that he was not co- operating with the investigation. Similarly, the absence of either or both of the appellants during the search operations, when their presence was not insisted upon, cannot be held against them. 26. The more important issue presently is as to how the ED is required to ‘inform’ the arrested person of the grounds for his/her arrest.