Contrasting the appeals/ pleadings filed before High Court of Karnataka by taxpayers and department available as part of batch of appeals filed would enable appreciation of the case made out before the High Court. This is essential to appreciate the correctness of conclusions by the High Court in this batch of appeals/petitions. Tax department is H 438 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A attempting to seek intervention of this Court in present batch of department’s cases without reference to/de hors any of this relevant background facts. Over last two decades, Tribunal and various High Courts have applied the guidelines laid down in the IT Act and the Rules contributing to evolution of a process. Intervention in the department’s appeals in present batch of cases and/or laying down any guidelines B ignoring this background could potentially disturb the well settled principles under section 260A (equivalent to section 100 CPC). In background facts or present batch of department’s appeals, acceptance of department’s contention about lack of application of mind by the High Court would cast an unjust burden on the High Court to undertake a suo C moto exploration of facts not placed before it, make out a case for the department and decide the same without any assistance from the appellant before the High Court. Any such guidelines would upset settled law not only with reference to section 260A but also impact process under section 100 CPC. Unlike the assessees cases involved in this batch of appeals, it was never the case of the department that the High Court has not D considered any of its written/ oral pleadings before the High Court. It is submitted that considered view may be taken after taking into account pleadings before the High Court, pleadings in the appeals before this Court in Assessees and department appeals and not based on sweeping generalization. E 3.11 It is submitted that Transfer Pricing provisions are essentially a valuation exercise involving determination of a statistical sample of comparables. Under Section 92C(2) of the IT Act, Arm’s Length Price is always in a range. It is not a science but it is an art. This Court in G.L. Sutania and Anr v SEBI and Ors. reported in 2007 (5) SCC 133 at F paras 84 and 85, have unequivocally stated that valuation is a question of fact. 3.12 It is submitted that the case of the Revenue is that the proposition in Softbrands India (P) Ltd. (supra) that no question of law can arise out of the transfer pricing matters involving selection of G comparables or application of filters, and the Tribunal is the final fact finding authority and all the questions decided by the Tribunal are questions of fact is too broadly stated, and as a result of this proposition, it would appear that the High Court has held that no appeal would lie to it under section 260A of the IT Act. H SAP LABS INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED v. INCOME TAX 439 OFFICER, CIRCLE 6, BANGALORE [M. R. SHAH, J.]