It cannot be presumed that despite the conspicuous difference in the said expressions, under paragraph 2 (a) ‘certified copy’ alone was permitted to be appended along with the application under Section 11 of H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 385 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] the Act, unintentionally. I am of the considered view that it was so A prescribed, fully understanding the nature of exercise of power under Section 11 (6) of the Act and also the presumption of genuineness and correctness of ‘certified copy’ available by virtue of Section 79 of the Evidence Act. With this addendum, I fully endorse all the conclusions and findings B in the of my learned brother Justice K. M. Joseph. RASTOGI, J. INDEX* C D E F G *Ed. Note: Pagination in the Index is as per the original . H 386 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A I. Reference 1. This case deals with the larger question regarding the scope and ambit to which there should be an intervention of courts at the pre- referral stage in the working of arbitration contracts. 2. A three-Judge Bench of this Court in M/s. N.N. Global B Mercantile PrivateLimited v. M/s. Indo Unique Flame Limited and Others1has doubted the correctness of the view expressed in paras 146 and 147.1 of the coordinate three-Judge Bench of this Court in Vidya Drolia and Others v. Durga Trading Corporation2 and referred the matter to be settled authoritatively by the Constitution Bench of this Court. C 3. The reference which has been made to settle authoritatively by the Constitution Bench is referred as under: “Whether the statutory bar contained in Section 35 of the Stamp Act, 1899 applicable to instruments chargeable to stamp duty under D Section 3 read with the Schedule to the Act, would also render the arbitration agreement contained in such an instrument,which is not chargeable to payment of stamp duty, as being non-existent, unenforceable, or invalid, pending payment of stamp duty on the substantive contract/instrument?” E (emphasis added) 4. It is necessary to give background facts for better appreciation of the reference made for our consideration. II. Conflicting s 5. In the case of SMS Tea Estates Private Limited v. Chandmari F Tea Company Private Limited,3 a two-Judge Bench of this Court was considering the issue in a pre-2015 amendment regime of whether an arbitration agreement in an unregistered and unstamped lease deed, which required compulsory registration under the Registration Act, 1908 (hereinafter being referred to as the “Act 1908”) was valid and G enforceable. It was held as follows: “19. Having regard to Section 35 of the Stamp Act, unless the stamp duty and penalty due in respect of the instrument is paid, 1 (2021) 4 SCC 379 2 (2021) 2 SCC 1 H 3 (2011) 14 SCC 66 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 387 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] the court cannot act upon the instrument, which means that it A cannot act upon the arbitration agreement also which is part of the instrument.