The power of the court to receive material relevant to a proceeding in a sealed cover is read from XIII Rule 7. Unlike the closed material procedure in the United Kingdom and Canada, the sealed C cover procedure is not a creation of the legislature but of the courts. In fact, Rule 7 while prescribing the power of the court to receive material in a sealed cover also recognises non-disclosure on the ground of public interest immunity. The provision does not stipulate any guidelines for the exercise of power by the court to secure material in a sealed cover. D However, the Rule as a whole indicates that the court may exercise its power to secure material in a sealed cover if the material is confidential or the disclosure of which would injure public interest. As discussed above, public interest immunity claims also seek to address the same harms. It was not intended that the sealed cover procedure shall replace public interest immunity proceedings which constitute an established E method for dealing with claims of confidentiality. The sealed cover procedure cannot be introduced to cover harms that could not have been remedied by public interest immunity proceedings. 146. In both the sealed cover procedure and public interest immunity claims, the documents that are sought to be withheld from F disclosure are not revealed to the counsel for the applicant. The proceedings, in effect, are conducted ex-parte where the counsel for the party claiming disclosure is precluded from accessing a part of the record in the proceedings. However, one crucial difference between the sealed cover procedure and public interest immunity claims is that in the G former, the court relies on the material that is disclosed in a sealed cover in the course of the proceedings, as opposed to the latter where the documents are completely removed from the proceedings and both the parties and the adjudicator cannot rely on such material. Sealed cover procedures violate both principles of natural justice and open justice. In Al Rawi v. The Security Service111, the Supreme Court of the United H 111 (2011) UKSC 34 MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 699 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Kingdom recognised that the closed material procedure causes a greater A degree of harm as compared to the public interest immunity. As held above, the closed material procedure is similar to the sealed cover procedure in as much as relevant material that is not disclosed to the applicant is used in the course of substantive hearings. In that case, the issue before the Court was whether the court has the power to a B closed material procedure for the whole or a part of the trial. In a closed proceeding, the claimant would be represented by a Special Advocate who would be unable to take instructions from the claimant. The Supreme Court of the United Kingdom observed that a closed material procedure, unlike the law relating to public interest immunity, departs from the principles of both open justice and natural justice.