Similar reasons have been recorded in various other documents of the State Government which relate to the abolition of the OAT. The H ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 785 UNION OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] State Government requested the Union Government to establish the OAT A with a view to creating an alternate forum to the Orissa High Court. The State Government envisioned a structure of litigation whereby appeals from the OAT would lie directly to the Supreme Court, and would exclude the High Court both as the court of first instance as well as a forum of appeal. In the State Government’s view, the structure of litigation under B the Administrative Tribunals Act would ensure that the dispute achieved quietus in a maximum of two tiers of litigation. However, the decision of this Court in L. Chandra Kumar (supra) held that the jurisdiction of High Courts could not be ousted. This resulted in the creation of three tiers of litigation under the Administrative Tribunals Act – first, before the OAT, followed by the High Court, and culminating with the Supreme C Court. The State Government was consequently of the opinion that the “speedy redressal of grievances” was no longer possible in view of the additional rung of litigation. It was of the opinion that its reason for establishing the OAT no longer survived. 78. The appellants contend that the State Government has D misinterpreted the decision in L. Chandra Kumar (supra). It is their submission that the number of tiers of litigation remains the same even if the OAT is abolished and that there is therefore no advantage to be obtained by abolishing the OAT. Instead of parties instituting a case before the OAT at the first instance and preferring a petition under Article E 226 before a Division Bench of the High Court and a Special Leave Petition under Article 136 before the Supreme Court, they will institute a case directly before the High Court. This will be heard by a single judge and parties have the remedy of a writ appeal before a Division Bench of the High Court and a further challenge before this Court. There are hence, three tiers of litigation, regardless of the forum in which the F proceedings are conducted. The appellants also contend that the Orissa High Court is itself burdened with a large number of pending cases and that an increase in its workload would not result in efficiency in the disposal of cases. 79. It was not the State Government’s case that it was obliged to G abolish the OAT as a result of the decision in L. Chandra Kumar (supra) or that the abolition of the OAT would result in fewer tiers of litigation. Rather, the State Government evaluated the effect of the decision in L. Chandra Kumar (supra) on the purpose that it intended to achieve with the establishment of the OAT. Tribunals, including administrative tribunals, H 786 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A may be set up for any number of reasons.