Many of the smaller States merged with the provinces; b. Many other States were united to form Unions of States; and c. Some States came to be directly administered as Chief Commissioners’ Provinces. 82 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 136. These changes required a re-adjustment of the representation of the States. The modalities which were followed were thus: a. For States which were merged in Provinces, the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly was authorised to hold elections and to notify the persons elected or nominated to the Constituent Assembly; b. Where the States were united to form a Union of States and for Hyderabad, Mysore and Jammu and Kashmir, the Rajpramukh or Ruler was entrusted with this function; and c. In the case of States which were constituted into Chief Commissioners’ Provinces, the function was entrusted to the Chief Commissioner. 137. On 17 October 1949, four seats were allotted to the State of Jammu and Kashmir, among other States, in the Council of States. The allocation of seats of all states was as follows: “REPRESENTATIVES OF STATES FOR THE TIME BEING SPECIFIED IN PART III OF THE FIRST SCHEDULE States/ Total Seats 1 Hyderabad 11 2 Jammu & Kashmir 4 3 Madhya Bharat 6 4 Mysore 6 5 Patiala & East Punjab States Union 3 6 Rajasthan 9 7 Saurashtra 4 8 Travancore-Cochin 6 9 Vindhya Pradesh 4 Total: 53 TOTAL OF ALL SEATS. 205” IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 83 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 138. Draft Article 306A, which later became Article 370 on the adoption of the Constitution, was debated in the Constituent Assembly on 17 October 1949. Gopalaswami Ayyangar, while participating in the debate, furnished the rationale for Article 370. Ayyangar’s speech has been read and re-read numerous times in the course of submissions. Ayyangar stated that: “Sir, this matter, the matter of this particular motion, relates to the Jammu and Kashmir state. The house is fully aware of the fact that that State has acceded to the Dominion of India. The history of this accession is also well known. The accession took place on the 26th October, 1947. Since then, the State has had a chequered history. Conditions are not yet normal in the state. The meaning of this accession is that at present that state is a unit of a federal state namely, the Dominion of India. This Dominion is getting transformed into a Republic, which will be inaugurated on the 26th January, 1950. The Jammu and Kashmir State, therefore, has to become a unit of the new Republic of India. As the House is aware, accession to the Dominion always took place by means of an instrument which had to be signed by the Ruler of the State and which had to be accepted by the Governor- General of India. That has taken place in this case as the House is also aware, instruments of accession will be a thing of the past in the new Constitution. The States have been integrated with the Federal Republic in such a manner that they do not have to accede or execute a document of accession for the purpose of becoming units of the Republic, but they are mentioned in the Constitution itself; and, in the case of practically all States other than the State of Jammu and Kashmir, their constitutions also have been embodied in the Constitution for the whole of India.