The paramount considerations in cases where bail C or anticipatory bail is claimed are the nature and gravity of the offence, the propensity or ability of the accused to influence evidence during investigation or interfere with the trial process by threatening or otherwise trying to influence the witnesses; the likelihood of the accused to flee from justice and other such considerations. During the trial, the court is always in control of the proceedings, and it is open for it to impose any D condition which it deems necessary to ensure the accused’s presence and participation in the trial. The court must, in every case, be guided by these overarching principles. 10. In the five judge Bench decision of Sushila Aggarwal v. State (NCT of Delhi)7, this court had occasion to review past decisions, E including considering the in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia v State of Punjab8 and decide whether imposition of conditions limiting the of pre-arrest bail, particularly when charge-sheet is filed, is warranted. The court held, inter alia, in its (M.R. Shah, J) that: “7.6. Thus, considering the observations made by the F Constitution Bench of this Court in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia [Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia v. State of Punjab, (1980) 2 SCC 565 : 1980 SCC (Cri) 465] , the court may, if there are reasons for doing so, limit the operation of the to a short period only after filing of an FIR in respect of the matter covered by and the applicant may in such case be G directed to obtain an of bail under Sections 437 or 439 of the Code within a reasonable short period after the filing of the FIR. The Constitution Bench has further observed that 7 2020 (2) SCR 1 H 8 1980] 3 SCR 383 MD. ASFAK ALAM v. THE STATE OF JHARKHAND & ANR. 1189 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] the same need not be followed as an invariable rule. It is A further observed and held that normal rule should be not to limit the operation of the in relation to a period of time. We are of the opinion that the conditions can be imposed by the court concerned while granting pre-arrest bail including limiting the operation of the in relation to a B period of time if the circumstances so warrant, more particularly the stage at which the “anticipatory bail” application is moved, namely, whether the same is at the stage before the FIR is filed or at the stage when the FIR is filed and the investigation is in progress or at the stage when the investigation is complete and the charge-sheet is filed. C However, as observed hereinabove, the normal rule should be not to limit the in relation to a period of time.” The concurring view expressed (by the author of this ) was: D “85.3. Section 438 CrPC does not compel or oblige courts to impose conditions limiting relief in terms of time, or upon filing of FIR, or recording of statement of any witness, by the police, during investigation or inquiry, etc.