Act of 1956, consider and dispose of the claims of the applicant (respondent No. 1), as determined in appeal and in accordance with law. 8. The appellant challenged the aforesaid and dated E 25.04.2007 of the Company Court by way of appeals before the Division Bench of the High Court but, the appeals came to be dismissed by the impugned and dated 05.02.2009. 8.1. The appellant OL contended before the Division Bench that he had not carried on any business of the company and consequently, F did not in any way earn profit from use of the assets of the company in liquidation; that the provisions of the Companies Act did not envisage payment of post-liquidation taxes on property and water and the assets were only custodia legis after the winding up until the sale; and that the sale was on “as is where is whatever there is” basis, which would mean that the assets were not free from encumbrances when G sold and thereby, the liability of taxes was shifted to the purchaser. 8.2. The respondent No. 1 Nigam contended that the appellant would be liable to pay taxes to the Nigam out of sale proceeds, and apart from this, reiterated the submissions made before the Company Court. H 1092 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Similarly, the auction purchaser, respondent No. 3, submitted that he was neither the owner nor the occupier until 04.07.2003 when the sale was confirmed and, therefore, there would be a shift of the charge to the sale proceeds and not to the purchaser. However, a creditor of the company, respondent No. 2, contended that the claim towards arrears of property and water tax would be directed against the auction purchaser B and not the OL. 8.3. The Division Bench did not accept the submissions of appellant and respondent No. 2 and held that respondent No. 3 - the auction purchaser – was not liable to pay the said charges accrued post-liquidation because, from the terms and conditions of sale, it could not be discerned C that the purchaser was put to notice about any liability towards arrears due to the Nigam. The Division Bench held that in absence of clear provision in the sale notice that intending purchaser had to satisfy himself as regards assets of company in liquidation in all respects including encumbrances, the appellant was obliged to discharge the post-liquidation D liability towards property and water taxes; and that it would not be reasonable to fasten liability on a purchaser without informing him about the encumbrances prior to the sale. The Division Bench also distinguished the decision of this Court in the case of United Bank of India v. Official Liquidator and Ors. : 79 Company Cases 262 [= (1994) 1 SCC 575] whiletaking note of the peculiar factual matrix and specific terms E and conditions of sale in that case. After making a comparison between the terms and conditions of sale in the present case and those of sale in the aforesaid case, it was observed that sale notice in the present case was not couched in similar and comprehensive language and there was no occasion for respondent No.