Raj Darbar Material Trading Pvt. Ltd. In the said transactions, the petitioners had received the sale consideration of INR 76.72 crores and not INR 150 crores as alleged. D 13. Mr. Hora further submitted that the petitioners had sold the units after obtaining valid NOCs from UCO Bank, IDBI AND DHFL and none of the banks has raised any grievance against the petitioners, as all the dues were cleared in respect of the units mentioned therein by the petitioners before obtaining NOCs from the said banks. He further E submitted that the petitioner-Anoop Bartaria being a renowned architect had provided architectural services to Mr. Bharat Bomb for his Royal Raj Villas project at Udaipur and the amount of fees received from Mr. Bomb was also reflected in the income tax and service tax returns of the petitioners. F 14. According to Mr. Hora, the alleged offences under the PMLA are not cognizable offences and the entire investigation carried out by the ED was without any authority of law. Lastly, he submitted that the petitioners who are absolutely unconnected to Mr. Bharat Bomb are suffering the business loss and the credibility and therefore the complaint deserves to be quashed in view of the of this Court in case of G Pepsi Foods Ltd. and Another vs Special Judicial Magistrate and Others2. 1 (2018) 11 SCC 1 H 2 (1998) 5 SCC 749 ANOOP BARTARIA & ETC. v. DY. DIRECTOR 537 ENFORCEMENT DIRECTORATE [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] 15. Per contra, the learned Additional Solicitor General appearing A for the respondents vehemently submitted that the petitioners having filed frivolous petitions before the High Court, the same were dismissed by the High Court with cost, which being just and proper should not be interfered with by this Court. Relying upon the State of Haryana and Others. vs. Bhajan Lal and Others3 he submitted that the power B of quashing a complaint can only be exercised in rarest of rare case where allegations taken on face value do not prima facie constitute any offence. In the instant case, there are specific allegations of money laundering against the petitioners which had surfaced during the course of investigation carried out by the authorized officer under the PMLA, which prima facie constitute offence against the petitioners under the C said Act. 16. Placing reliance on the Prosecution complaint filed by the Directorate of Enforcement, the learned ASG pointed out that the petitioner-Anoop Bartaria had availed fraudulent loan of Rs. 4.80 crores from the Syndicate Bank under the guise of purchasing three offices in D his name in the World Trade Park, for which the Syndicate Bank had lodged FIR with CBI on 23.03.2017. It was also revealed that the instalment of the said term loan to the extent of 1.50 crores were being paid by getting money from the fictitious firms controlled by Mr. Bharat Bomb and his associates. He also pointed out that the said current bank E account opened by the petitioner-Anoop Bartaria with Syndicate bank on 30.09.2014 was exclusively operated for receiving tainted money from Mr. Bharat Bomb and no other transactions had taken place in the said account.