… Each case depends on its own facts and a close similarity between one case and another is not enough because even a single signifi cant detail may alter the entire aspect. In deciding such cases, one should avoid the temptation to decide cases (as said by Cardozo) by matching the colour of one case against the colour of another. To decide therefore, on which side of the line a case falls, the broad resemblance to another case is not at all decisive.’ *** ‘Precedent should be followed only so far as it marks the path of justice, but you must cut the dead wood and trim off the side branches else you will fi nd yourself lost in thickets and branches. My plea is to keep the path to justice clear of obstructions which could impede it.’ “ [Ed. : As observed in Union of India v. Amrit Lal Manchanda, (2004) 3 SCC 75 at pp. 83-84, paras 15-18. ]” (emphasis supplied) 75. Satya Pal Singh v. State of Madhya Pradesh, (2015) 15 SCC 613: “12. It is well established that the proviso of a statute must be given an interpretation limited to the subject-matter of the enacting provision. Reliance is placed on the decision of this Court rendered by a four-Judge Bench in Dwarka Prasad v. Dwarka Das Saraf, (1976) 1 SCC 128 , the relevant para 18 of which reads thus: (SCC p. 137) “18. … A proviso must be limited to the subject-matter of the enacting clause. It is a settled rule of construction that a proviso must prima facie be read and considered in relation to the principal matter to which it is a proviso. It is not a separate or independent enactment. ‘Words are dependent on the principal enacting words to which they are tacked as a proviso. They 924 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. cannot be read as divorced from their context’ (Thompson v. Dibdin, 1912 AC 533 (HL)). If the rule of construction is that prima facie a proviso should be limited in its operation to the subject-matter of the enacting clause, the stand we have taken is sound. To expand the enacting clause, infl ated by the proviso, sins against the fundamental rule of construction that a proviso must be considered in relation to the principal matter to which it stands as a proviso. A proviso ordinarily is but a proviso, although the golden rule is to read the whole section, inclusive of the proviso, in such manner that they mutually throw light on each other and result in a harmonious construction.” (emphasis supplied) 13. Further, a three-Judge Bench of this Court by majority of 2:1 in S. Sundaram Pillai v. V.R. Pattabiraman, (1985) 1 SCC 591 has elaborately examined the scope of the proviso to the substantive provision of the section and rules of its interpretation. The relevant paragraphs are reproduced hereunder: (SCC pp. 607-08, paras 30, 32-33 & 36-37) “30. Sarathi in Interpretation of Statutes at pp. 294-95 has collected the following principles in regard to a proviso: (a) When one fi nds a proviso to a section the natural presumption is that, but for the proviso, the enacting part of the section would have included the subject-matter of the proviso.