[2023] 15 S.C.R. 984 : 2023 INSC 949 CASE DETAILS MUMTAZ YARUD DOWLA WAKF v. M/S BADAM BALAKRISHNA HOTEL PVT. LTD. & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 6933 of 2023) OCTOBER 20, 2023 [M. M. SUNDRESH AND PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Objection raised by the respondents that the suit fi led by the appellant as decreed, ought not to have been entertained by the Wakf Tribunal, was dismissed by the Executing Court. High Court, whether justifi ed in reversing the decision of the Executing Court by placing reliance upon the decision of the Supreme Court in Ramesh Gobindram case, the basis whereof has been removed after the amendment made by the Act 27 of 2013, as held in Rashid Wali Beg case. The Wakf (Amendment) Act, 2013 (Amendment Act 27 of 2013 ) – Eff ect of removal of the basis of the – Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – s.47 – Suit fi led by the appellant-owner of the suit property before the Wakf Tribunal for ejectment and recovery of possession was decreed – Respondents fi led revision petition, dismissed – Appellant fi led execution petition – After four years, respondents raised plea with respect to the jurisdiction of the Wakf Tribunal – Application fi led u/s.47 dismissed by Executing Court – High Court reversed the said decision by placing reliance upon the decision of this Court in Ramesh Gobindram (Dead) through LRs. v. Sugra Humayun Mirza Wakf [2010] 10 SCR 945 – Plea of the appellant that the said decision has been explained by this Court in Rashid Wali Beg v. Farid Pindari and Others [2021] 13 SCR 1 and by the amendment brought in under the Act 27 of 2013, the basis of the decision in Ramesh Gobindram has been removed: Held: This Court in Rashid Wali Beg took note of the earlier decision rendered in Ramesh Gobindram and held that after the amendment made by the Act 27 of 2013, the basis of the said decision was correctly removed – It 984 MUMTAZ YARUD DOWLA WAKF v. M/S BADAM 985 BALAKRISHNA HOTEL PVT. LTD. & ORS. was further held that there are suffi cient provisions even otherwise to maintain a suit for eviction over a Wakf property – Wakf Tribunal has got suffi cient jurisdiction to try every suit pertaining to either Wakf or a Wakf property, notwithstanding the nature of relief concerned, except as mandated under the statute – High Court while passing the impugned , unfortunately did not have the benefi t of the decision rendered in Rashid Wali Beg – Even otherwise, as per the amendment by way of the Act 27 of 2013, the jurisdiction now lies with the Wakf Tribunal – An adjudicating forum being a product of a procedural right has to come under retrospective operation when an amendment is introduced to cure a defect which paved the way for a decision of the Court in holding otherwise – Protracted proceedings have helped respondents to be in possession for over two decades, notwithstanding the expiry of the lease way back in 1999 – The Act 27 of 2013 is a procedural amendment and therefore, has to be applied retrospectively in the context of change of forum and jurisdictional provisions – The decision in Rashid Wali Beg agreeed with – The amendment has been brought forth in to get over the interpretation given in Ramesh Gobindram – Impugned set aside while that of the Executing Court is restored – Waqf Act, 1995 – Practice and Procedure.