Keeping this in mind, he had cancelled the E-auction process. 13.4. On the submission that Liquidator did not assail the decision of the Tribunal and therefore had accepted the same, his contention is that in all the proceedings Liquidator had contested the case projected by the appellant. Now that the appeal of Respondent No.1 has been allowed by the Appellate 878 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Tribunal, Liquidator is bound by the same. He submits that decision of the Liquidator to cancel the auction was vindicated when post cancellation of auction, Liquidator received letter dated 05.08.2021 from Sugna Feeds Private Limited expressing its intention to participate in the auction of the subject property. Sugna Feeds Private Limited is a well-established player in the poultry sector whereas appellant was incorporated after issuance of the E-auction sale notice. 14. Mr. Siddharth Bhatnagar, learned senior counsel appearing for the intervenor highlighted the issue of ‘related party’. According to him, appellant should have been disqualifi ed from participating in the E-auction by reason of being a ‘related party’. Promoter director of the appellant, Mr. Vijay Kumar Ghidia, is the maternal uncle of Mr. Harish Bagla, the intervener. Mr. Vijay Kumar Ghidia is one of the directors of the appellant. He was also one of the promoter directors and original subscribers to the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the corporate debtor. Elaborating further, he submits that mother of the intervenor Smt. Chanda Bagla is the sister of Mr. Vijay Kumar Ghidia. Intervenor has a signifi cant stake in the corporate debtor having held about fi fty-three per cent of the paid-up share-capital of the corporate debtor. Liquidator, therefore, should have cancelled the auction sale notice only on the ground that appellant is a ‘related party’ to the corporate debtor. Referring to the e-mail dated 10.09.2021, he submits that Mr. Amit Ghidia, son of Mr. Vijay Kumar Ghidia had brought to the notice of the Liquidator that Mr. Vijay Kumar Ghidia is the maternal uncle of the intervenor. By virtue of such relationship, appellant would attract disqualifi cation under Section 29A read with Section 5(24) and Section 5(24A) of the Code. 15. Referring to the above contentions, Mr. Neeraj Kishan Kaul, learned senior counsel for the appellant submits that it was because of the activities of persons like the intervenor that the corporate debtor has landed in the present situation. Therefore, it is not open to such persons to talk about getting proper valuation of the auctioned assets of the corporate debtor. In so far allegation of ‘related party’ is concerned, he submits that the same is no bar at all and cannot be held as a disqualifi cation for the appellant inasmuch as Mr. Vijay Kumar Ghidia had ceased to be a director of the corporate debtor way back in the year 2011. To attract disqualifi cation under Section EVA AGRO FEEDS PRIVATE LIMITED v. PUNJAB NATIONAL 879 BANK AND ANR. [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] 29A, the relationship has to be proximate. In this connection, he has placed reliance on the decision of this Court in the case of Swiss Ribbons Private Limited and Another versus Union of India and Others1.