5. That as per the Scheme of examination referred to under Rule 20 of the Rules, 2010, the competitive examination for recruitment to the D post of Civil Judge shall be conducted by the recruiting authority in two stages i.e. preliminary examination followed with Main examination as per the Scheme specified in Part-IV of the Rules, 2010. With the stipulation that the marks obtained in the preliminary examination by the candidates who are declared qualified for admission to the Main E examination shall not be counted for determining their merit and those who qualified in the Main examination will be called for interview and the marks secured in the Main examination and interview shall be the governing factor in determining merit and those who finally placed in the merit list, their names will be recommended by the recruiting authority for appointment under Rule 24 and the appointments will be made by the F appointing authority in consultation with the Court in terms of Rule 26 of Rules, 2010. 6. Around 120 vacancies of the year 2020-21 of Civil Judge came to be advertised by the respondent pursuant to advertisement dated 22nd G July, 2021 and category-wise reservation was indicated in the tabulation chart as referred to under Clause 4 of the advertisement, which is reproduced as under:- H 594 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A B C D *Out of 05 posts reserved for persons with Benchmark Disabilities, 01(one) post is reserved for blindness and low vision, 01 (one) for deaf and hard of hearing, 01 (one) for locomotor disability including cerebral palsy, leprosy cured, dwarfism, acid attack victims and muscular dystrophy and 02 (two) for autism, intellectual disability, specific learning disability and mental illness and multiple disabilities from the amongst persons under Clauses (a) to (d) including deaf-blindness in the posts identified for each disabilities. E 7. Under Clause 5 of the advertisement, it is indicated that in the absence of vacancies reserved of various categories remained unfilled, what method has to be adopted in filling those unfilled vacancies with a note appended thereto that the applicants who are from the State of Rajasthan and members of Other Backward Class (Creamy Layer)/ F More Backward Class (Creamy Layer) and applicants from other than the State of Rajasthan and members of SC/ST/OBC (Creamy Layer/ Non-Creamy Layer) and More Backward Class (Creamy Layer/Non- Creamy Layer) and Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) shall be considered in general category and as referred to under Clause 6(i) and G (iii) of the advertisement, caste certificate issued as per Rules in the prescribed format by the competent authority has to be produced for seeking reservation and under Clause 22(3) (Other Important Instructions), it was indicated that the applicant has to produce on demand of the recruiting authority all such documents/certificates while claiming benefit of reservation required by the Rajasthan High Court or the H SAKSHI ARHA v. THE RAJASTHAN HIGH COURT AND 595 OTHERS [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] concerned recruiting authority. The extract of Clause 6(i) and (iii) read A with Clause 22(3) of the advertisement are reproduced hereunder: “6.