– By virtue of Article 326, the right to vote became a constitutional right E granted to citizens – The said right was given effect by s.62 of Representation of the People (ROP) Act, 1951 – The right to vote is not just a statutory right – The right to vote is an expression of the choice of the citizen, which is a fundamental right under Art.19(1)(a) – The right to vote is not limited only to Art.326, but flows through Arts.15, 17, 19, 21 – The right to vote in direct elections is a F fundamental right, subject to limitations laid down in Art. 326 – The right to vote is not merely a constitutional right, but a component of Part III of the Constitution. Election Laws: Constitution of India – Art.14 – Rule of Law – Role of Election Commission – Held (per K. M. Joseph, J.) (for himself, G Aniruddha Bose, Hrishikesh Roy and C. T. Ravikumar, JJ. ): Rule of law is the very bedrock of a democratic form of governance – An Election Commission which does not ensure free and fair poll as per the rules of the game, guarantees the breakdown of the foundation of the rule of law – Any action or omission by the H 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Election Commission in holding the poll which treats political parties with an uneven hand and in an unfair or arbitrary manner would be anathema to the mandate of Article 14, and therefore, cause its breach. Constitution of India – Art. 142 – Power of the Court to lay B down guidelines in to fill legislative gaps – Held (per Ajay Rastogi, J. ): The Supreme Court has plenary power under Article 142 to issue directions to do “complete justice” – The Court has created a jurisprudence, where it has exercised its power under Article 142 to fill legislative gaps – Supreme Court has laid down guidelines in to fill the legislative gap on a number of C occasions – Series of case laws authoritatively demonstrate the commitment of Supreme Court to intervene to preserve and promote the “Rule of Law”, by supplementing the legislative gaps till the Legislature steps in. Partly allowing the writ petitions, the Court D HELD: per K. M. JOSEPH, J. (for himself, Aniruddha Bose, Hrishikesh Roy and C. T. Ravikumar, JJ. ): 1. In regard to the use of Constituent Assembly debates, the law has not stood still. At any rate, whatever may be the E controversy, as regards its employment to discern, the purport of a provision there can be no taboo involved in its use to understand the history of a provision under the Constitution and tshe various steps leading up to and accompanying its enactment. [Para 28][51-E-F] F 2. All the Members of the constituent assembly were of the clear view that election must be conducted by an independent Commission. It is equally clear that the Members of the Committees, including the Constituent Assembly, wanted the appointment to the Election Commission not to be made by the G Executive.