Yet another definition that has been given by Stroud is: “ ‘owner’ applies ‘to every person in possession or receipt either of the whole, or of any part, of the rents or profits of any land or tenement; or in the occupation of such land or tenement, F other than as a tenant from year to year or for any less term or as a tenant at will’.” 19. It is well settled that there cannot be two owners of the property simultaneously and in the same sense of the term. The intention of the legislature in enacting Section 32 of the Act would G be best fulfilled by allowing deduction in respect of depreciation to the person in whom for the time being vests the dominion over the building and who is entitled to use it in his own right and is using the same for the purposes of his business or profession. Assigning any different meaning would not subserve the legislative H M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 577 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] intent. To take the case at hand it is the appellant assessee who A having paid part of the price, has been placed in possession of the houses as an owner and is using the buildings for the purpose of its business in its own right. Still the assessee has been denied the benefit of Section 32. On the other hand, the Housing Board would be denied the benefit of Section 32 because in spite of its being B the legal owner it was not using the building for its business or profession. We do not think such a benefit-to-none situation could have been intended by the legislature. The finding of fact arrived at in the case at hand is that though a document of title was not executed by the Housing Board in favour of the assessee, but the houses were allotted to the assessee by the Housing Board, part- C payment received and possession delivered so as to confer dominion over the property on the assessee whereafter the assessee had in its own right allotted the quarters to the staff and they were being actually used by the staff of the assessee. It is common knowledge, under the various schemes floated by bodies D like Housing Boards, houses are constructed on a large scale and allotted on part-payment to those who have booked them. Possession is also delivered to the allottee so as to enable enjoyment of the property. Execution of document transferring title necessarily follows if the schedule of payment is observed by the allottee. If only the allottee may default the property may revert back to the E Board. That is a matter only between the Housing Board and the allottee. No third person intervenes. The part-payments made by the allottee are with the intention of acquiring title. The delivery of possession by the Housing Board to the allottee is also a step towards conferring ownership.