Incidentally, we may point out that the off ence with which Respondent 1 has been charged with is one triable by jury. The High Court, by dealing with the evidence in the way in which it has done, has in eff ect sanctioned the usurpation by the Magistrate of the functions of a jury which the Magistrate was wholly incompetent to do.” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 34. It is true that neither Vadilal Panchal (supra) nor Chandra Deo Singh (supra) arose out of proceedings for defamation but in both cases defence of the accused was considered in varying circumstances. As noted above, in Vadilal Panchal (supra) the of the Presidency Magistrate dismissing the complaint on the ground that the accused had exercised his right of self-defence was restored upon setting aside of the of the High Court of Bombay; whereas, in Chandra Deo Singh (supra), the of the Sub-Divisional Magistrate directing further inquiry was restored upon setting aside the of the High Court at Calcutta. The decision in Vadilal Panchal (supra) was not overruled by the larger Bench in Chandra Deo Singh (supra). Such decisions, in our opinion, assume relevance because the guidance provided thereby carries great weight. 35. In Jeff rey J. Diermeier (supra), this Court was called upon to consider whether the High Court at Calcutta was right in refusing to quash a private complaint under section 500 read with section 34, IPC. It was held that it is for the accused to demonstrate, by leading evidence during trial, that the purportedly defamatory statement came under an exception 22 1958 SCR 618 M/S IVECO MAGIRUS BRANDSCHUTZTECHNIK GMBH v. 247 NIRMAL KISHORE BHARTIYA [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] enumerated in section 499, IPC. The appellants therein had issued a public notice against the respondent no. 2, which the respondent no. 2 alleged to be defamatory in nature. The appellants pleaded that the aforesaid notice was published in public interest, and thus it was covered under the Tenth Exception to section 499, IPC. This Court held that it was trite law that the burden of proof for the accused could not be proof beyond reasonable doubt, yet the accused still had to show a preponderance of probability that his statement would be covered under an exception to section 499, IPC. A mere averment by the accused stating that his statement was in public good was not suffi cient to accept his defence and he must justify the same by leading evidence during trial. Considering the complaint as a whole as well as for the aforesaid reasons, this Court held that the impugned did not warrant interference. 36. In Manoj Kumar Tiwari (supra), an refusing to quash a summoning was considered by this Court. Therein, the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate had issued a summons to one of the accused under section 500, IPC without going into the contents of the alleged defamatory statement. The High Court of Delhi, on the other hand, while examining the statements, upheld the summons by simply relying on section 499 of the IPC.