That apart, the concept of locus standi which is strictly applicable to service jurisprudence for the purpose of canvassing the legality or correctness of the action should not be allowed to have any entry, for such allowance is likely to exceed the limits of quo warranto which is impermissible. The basic purpose of a writ of quo warranto is to confer jurisdiction on the constitutional courts to see that a public offi ce is not held by usurper without any legal authority. (Emphasis supplied) 38. More recently, in Bharati Reddy v. State of Karnataka and Others reported in (2018) 6 SCC 162, a three-Judge Bench of this Court, of which one of us (Justice D.Y. Chandrachud) was a part, noted the line of precedent clarifying the remit of the writ of quo warranto. DR. PREMACHANDRAN KEEZHOTH & ANR. v. THE 417 CHANCELLOR KANNUR UNIVERSITY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 39. Through these decisions, the Court has settled the position that the writ of quo warranto can be issued where an appointment has not been made in accordance with the law. Accordingly, the rival contentions must be analyzed by dealing with the scheme of the statutory provisions governing the appointment and reappointment of the Vice-Chancellor. K. QUESTIONS OF LAW FORMULATED. 40. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record the following questions of law fall for our consideration: (i) Whether reappointment is permissible in respect of a tenure post? (ii) Whether the outer age limit of sixty years for the appointment of Vice-Chancellor as stipulated under sub-section (9) of Section 10 of the Act 1996 is to be made applicable even in the case of reappointment of the Vice-Chancellor for one more term of four years? (iii) Whether the reappointment of the Vice-Chancellor has to follow the same process as a fresh appointment by setting up a selection committee under Section 10(1) of the Act 1996? (iv) Did the Chancellor abdicate or surrender his statutory power of reappointment of the Vice-Chancellor? L. ANALYSIS i) Whether reappointment is permissible in respect of a Tenure Post? 41. It was argued on behalf of the appellants that in the case of a tenure post such as the post of Vice-Chancellor, there can be no reappointment. In other words, at the end of the tenure the appointment automatically comes to an end and there can only be a fresh appointment and not reappointment. 42. In the aforesaid context, it is necessary to understand what is meant by a “tenure post”. The word “Tenure” is derived from the Latin word tenere which means “to hold”. The Black’s Law Dictionary defi nes “tenure” in the context of a post or offi ce as follows [See: Henry Campbell Black on “Black’s Law Dictionary”, 1968, 4th Edition Pg. 1639]: - 418 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. “TENURE IN OFFICE. Right to perform duties and receive emoluments thereof.” 43. This Court in its decision in Dr. L.P. Agarwal (supra), while examining what is meant by a “tenure post” held that it is a post where the person appointed to it is entitled to continue in it till his term is complete unless it is curtailed for justifi able reasons.