Being in possession with a right to be possession may lead to a presumption that the possessor is the owner, unless B it be that there are indications to the contrary. The beneficial vesting may in the context clothe the person with title as the owner. Another concept which emerges is a person in receipt of money having actual control over the property with no person having a better right to defeat his claim of possession may open the doors to a finding that he is the owner within the meaning of C Section 69A. A person in actual physical control of the property and realising the entire income for his own use may indicate the presence of ownership. The absence of the conveyance needed to complete the transfer may not detract from a person being found to be the owner. The soul of the reasoning appears to be D the entitlement to receive the income from the property ‘in his right’. [Paras 58 & 59][579-B-G] 6. Appellant as a carrier was entrusted with the goods. The possession of the appellant began as a bailee. The Court proceeds further on the basis that instead of delivering the goods, the E appellant did not deliver the goods to the concerned divisions of the department in the State of Bihar. Ownership of the goods in question by no stretch of imagination stood vested at any point of time in the appellant. Property would pass from the consignor to the consignee on the basis of the principles which are declared in the Sale of Goods Act. It is inconceivable that any of those F provisions would countenance passing of property in the goods to the appellant who was a mere carrier of the goods. Section 406 of the IPC makes it an offence for a person entrusted with property which includes goods entrusted to a carrier being misappropriated or dishonestly being converted to the use of the carrier. A specific G illustration under Section 406 makes it abundantly clear that any such act by a carrier attracts the offence under Section 406. The Court in other words would have to allow the commission of an offence by the appellant in the process of finding that the appellant is the owner of the goods. In other words, proceeding on the H 536 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A basis that there was short delivery of the goods by the appellant, inevitably, the Court must find that the act was not a mere omission or a mistake but a deliberate act by a carrier involving it in the commission of an offence under Section 406. In other words, the Court must necessarily find that the appellant continued to possess the bitumen and misappropriated and it is in this state B that assessing officer would have to find that the appellant by the deliberate act of short delivering the goods and continuing with the possession of the goods not only contrary to the contract but also to the law of the land, both in the Carriers Act 1865 and breaking the penal law as well, the appellant must be treated as C the owner.