(See Mulla’s Hindu Law, 14th Edn. p. 403, para 315). In a partition between Khandappa and his two sons there would be four sharers in the coparcenary property the fourth being Khandappa’s wife, the plaintiff . Khandappa would have therefore got a 1/4th share in the coparcenary property on the hypothesis of a partition between himself and his sons.” In a notional partition of the coparcenary property between him, his widow and his 2 sons, Khandappa would have obtained a 1/4th share. The share of the plaintiff in his 1/4th share was 1/6th, i.e. 1/24th. This Court held that there was no justifi cation to limit the share of the plaintiff to 1/24th by REVANASIDDAPPA & ANR. v. MALLIKARJUN & ORS. 349 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] ignoring the 1/4th share which she would have obtained had there been an actual partition during her husband’s lifetime between him and his two sons. The Court held that the Explanation to Section 6 “compels the assumption of a fi ction” that in fact a partition of the property had taken place immediately before the death of the person in whose property the heirs claimed a share. This Court held: “13. In to ascertain the share of heirs in the property of a deceased coparcener it is necessary in the very nature of things, and as the very fi rst step, to ascertain the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property. For, by doing that alone can one determine the extent of the claimant’s share. Explanation 1 to Section 6 resorts to the simple expedient, undoubtedly fi ctional, that the interest of a Hindu Mitakshara coparcener “shall be deemed to be” the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition of that property had taken place immediately before his death. What is therefore required to be assumed is that a partition had in fact taken place between the deceased and his coparceners immediately before his death. That assumption, once made, is irrevocable. In other words, the assumption having been made once for the purpose of ascertaining the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property, one cannot go back on that assumption and ascertain the share of the heirs without reference to it. The assumption which the statute requires to be made that a partition had in fact taken place must permeate the entire process of ascertainment of the ultimate share of the heirs, through all its stages. To make the assumption at the initial stage for the limited purpose of ascertaining the share of the deceased and then to ignore it for calculating the quantum of the share of the heirs is truly to permit one’s imagination to boggle. All the consequences which fl ow from a real partition have to be logically worked out, which means that the share of the heirs must be ascertained on the basis that they had separated from one another and had received a share in the partition which had taken place during the lifetime of the deceased.