from the date of adoption of the Repeal Act under Clause (2) of Article 252 of the Constitution. The State of Uttar Pradesh also adopted the Repeal Act and, consequently, the Ceiling Act ceased to operate in the State of Uttar Pradesh. It rendered the reference in Angoori Devi4 case to a fi ve-Judge Bench as infructuous. 26. It is extremely important to quote paragraph 4 of the Statement of Objects and Reasons dated 17th February, 1999 of the Repeal Bill, which interestingly said that: “4. The proposed repeal, along with some other incentives and simplifi cation of administrative procedures, is expected to revive the stagnant housing industry. The repeal will facilitate construction of dwelling units both in the public and private sector and help achievement of targets contemplated under National Agenda for Governance. The repeal will not, however, aff ect vesting of any vacant land under sub-section (3) of section 10 of the Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act, 1976 the possession of which has been taken over by the State Governments. It will not aff ect payments made to the State Governments for exemptions. The exemptions granted under section 20 of the Act will continue to be operative. The amounts paid out by the State Governments will become refundable before restoration of the land to the former owners.” While we do not mean to infuse any binding force in a Statement of Objects and Reasons, but it certainly gives us a glimpse of the miserable failure of a reformatory legislation. 27. We may now turn to State of Maharashtra and Another vs. B.E. Billimoria and others5 --a dictum rendered by a three-Judge Bench and the sheet anchor of Shri Jaideep Gupta, learned Senior Counsel for the appellants. 28. That was a case where Billimoria (Respondent No. 1) and Laxmi Bai Kalyanji Kapadia jointly owned a plot measuring 5428.09 sq.m in Koregaon Park, Pune. In addition, Billimoria owned a fl at having an area of 297.28 sq.m in a building owned by a co-operative housing in Mumbai. 5 (2003) 7 SCC 336 M/S. KEWAL COURT PVT. LTD. AND ANR. v. THE STATE 739 OF WEST BENGAL AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] Kapadia also owned a residential fl at having an area of 111.11 sq.m. in a building owned by a cooperative housing in Mumbai. The Competent Authority under the Ceiling Act held that Billimoria owned half of the plot in Koregaon Park which came to 2714.05 sq.m. The area of his fl at in Mumbai was added to hold that Billimoria owned 3308.61 sq.m. which was in excess of the ceiling limit of 1000 sq.m. in Pune city, to the extent of 2308.61 sq.m. Kapadia was also found owning more than the permissible retainable land. 29. Billimoria challenged the decisions of the competent authority and the appellate authority in a writ petition before the High Court of Bombay. The High Court relied upon the Building Regulations as were in force in the Koregaon Park area of Pune whereunder no construction on more than 1/3rd of the total area of the plot was permissible.