While so rejecting, the learned Judge followed His Lordship’s previous decision in Pomi Sengupta vs. Biswajit Sengupta1which, in turn, had entirely relied on the decision of this Court in Durgesh Sharma vs. Jayshree2. The and of rejection of the application under section 24 of D the CPC is under challenge in this appeal. 5. The appellants, by way of abundant caution, have also applied before this Court under section 25 of the CPC seeking the same relief that was disallowed by the learned Judge. APPELLANTS’ CONTENTIONS E 6. Appearing in support of the appeal, Mr. Goswami, learned senior counsel contended that: a. Article 214 of the Constitution of India ordains that there shall be a High-Court for each State. Article 231 of the Constitution of India provides for the establishment of a common High Court for two or more F States. b. The relevant provisions of the CPC for the purpose of a decision on the present dispute are sections 22 to 25 read with section 3 thereof dealing with subordination of courts. c. The power of the High Court and the District Courts to direct G transfer of proceedings is provided in section 24 of the CPC. d. The facts of the instant case clearly satisfy all the ingredients of section 24 CPC, more particularly, sub-clause (ii) of clause (b) of sub-section (1) thereof. A bare perusal of such provision 24 would indicate 1 (2015) 6 GLR 396 H 2 (2008) 9 SCC 648 SHAH NEWAZ KHAN v. STATE OF NAGALAND 991 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] that the High Court may, at any stage, direct transfer of proceedings A pending before it to any court subordinate to it, or transfer proceedings pending in any court subordinate to it to itself or to any other court subordinate to it. Thus, the emphasis under the said provision is on the expression “court subordinate to it”. Section 3 of the CPC, inter alia, defines the courts subordinate to the High Court. Thus, on a plain reading B of section 24 of the CPC, it is evident that the common High Court, i.e., the Gauhati High Court, has the power and jurisdiction to direct inter- State transfer of proceedings, provided both the transferor and transferee courts are subordinate to it, and fall within its territorial jurisdiction, which is the case here. e. On a harmonious construction of section 24 and section 25 of C the CPC, it is clear that the latter will apply only to inter-State transfer of proceedings between two States where the two States in question have different High Courts, whereas, in a case involving inter-State transfer of proceedings within the territorial jurisdiction of a common High Court, the common High Court would have the power and jurisdiction D to direct inter-State transfer of proceedings of the nature stated above, in exercise of its power under section 24 of the CPC. f.It is a settled proposition of law that in construing a provision, the consequences that befall on a particular interpretation of a provision is a relevant consideration.