C We, therefore, have no hesitation in going by the test culled out in the TMA Pai Foundation and hold that the provisions of the Commission Act are not violative of the rights of the minority educational institutions on any count.” 7. In Para 58, the court declared the nominations by the D Commission in pursuance of the provisions of the Act as valid, and the appointments made, after disposal of the matters by the High Court as deemed to be valid for all purpose. However, there is no discussion with respect to whether the court had applied its mind as to how the madrasas had proceeded to appoint teachers as teaching/non-teaching staff. Also E there is no discussion regarding rules/regulations, applicable circulars and guidelines in terms of which aided and unaided recognized institutions could make appointments, having regard to the standard of education required and the requisite experience; whether a transparent method was followed; whether the madrasa concerned was recognized one or not; whether the committee or body selecting the individual was F constituted in accordance with the rules and regulations, etc. The argument of the respondent/alleged contemnors that there ought to be an exercise of verification, therefore, appears to be merited and substantial. G 8. In these circumstances, given the nature of the interim s made during the pendency of the appeal, there can be no doubt that the court declared the appointments to be valid to the extent, they conformed to the concerned rules and binding norms. To hold otherwise would be to disregard the provisions, norms and guidelines constituting the essential H SNEHASIS GIRI AND ORS. v. SUBHASIS MITRA 305 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] and basic standards which every educational institution is expected to A conform to. 9. Furthermore, there is merit in the respondents’ submission that the court, in contempt proceeding cannot enlarge its scope and examine matters which are not part of its remit, i.e. extent of the direction or B s contained in the judgement of which contempt being alleged. In fact, in the decision in Sudhir Vasudeva (supra), it was held as follows: “19. The power vested in the High Courts as well as this Court to punish for contempt is a special and rare power available both under the Constitution as well as the Contempt of Courts C Act, 1971. It is a drastic power which, if misdirected, could even curb the liberty of the individual charged with commission of contempt. The very nature of the power casts a sacred duty in the Courts to exercise the same with the greatest of care and caution. This is also necessary as, more often than not, D adjudication of a contempt plea involves a process of self- determination of the sweep, meaning and effect of the in respect of which disobedience is alleged. The Courts must not, therefore, travel beyond the four corners of the which is alleged to have been flouted or enter into questions E that have not been dealt with or decided in the or the violation of which is alleged.