to the extent of the inconsistency with the fundamental rights. Besides there could not be any question of an existing law being void ab initio on account of the inconsistency with Art. 13(1), as they were passed by competent legislatures at the time when they were enacted. Therefore, it was pointed out that the eff ect of Art. 13(1) with respect to existing laws insofar as they were unconstitutional was only that it nullifi ed them, and made them “’ineff ectual and nugatory and devoid of any legal force or binding eff ect”. The meaning of the word “void” for all practical purposes is the same in Art. 13(1) as in Art. 13(2), namely, that the laws which were void were ineff ectual and nugatory and devoid of any legal force or binding eff ect. But the pre-Constitution laws could not become void from their inception on account of the application of Art. 13(1) The meaning of the word ‘,’void” in Art. 13 (2) is also the same viz., that the laws are ineff ectual and nugatory and devoid of any legal force on binding eff ect, if they contravene Art. 13(2). But there is one vital diff erence between pre-Constitution and post-Constitution laws in this matter. The voidness of the pre-Constitution laws is. not from inception. Such voidness supervened when the Constitution came into force; and so, they existed and operated for some time and for certain purposes; the voidness of post-Constitution laws is from their very inception and they cannot therefore continue to exist for any purpose. This distinction between the voidness in one case and the voidness in the other arises from the circumstance that one is a pre-Constitution law and the other is a post-Constitution law; but the meaning of the word void” is the same in either case, namely, that the law is ineff ectual and nugatory and devoid of any legal force or binding eff ect. 24. Then comes the question as to what is the effect of an amendment of the Constitution in the two types of cases. So far ‘as pre-Constitution laws are concerned the amendment of the Constitution which removes the inconsistency will result in the revival of such laws by virtue of the doctrine of eclipse, as laid down in Bhikaji Narain’s case (1) for the pre-existing laws were not still-born and would still exist though eclipsed on account of CBI v. R.R. KISHORE 49 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] the inconsistency to govern_ pre-existing matters. But in the case of post- Constitution laws, they would be still born to the extent of the contravention. And it is this distinction which results in the impossibility of applying the doctrine of eclipse to post- Constitution laws, for nothing can be revived which never had any valid existence. We are therefore of opinion that the meaning of the word “void” is the same both in Art 13 (1) and Art. 13 (2), and that the application of the doctrine of eclipse in one case and not in the other case does not depend upon giving a diff erent meaning to the word “void’ in the two parts of Art.