adverse effect on the scalp or skin, which is against the basic A concept of a medicament, which is prescribed or used for a limited period and overdose of a medicament is known to result in contra indications like diahorrea, acidity, ulceration, rashes etc. Even a medically prescribed skin cream or ointment has a limited use for the particular indication or symptom. We normally find a warning B on such creams that prolonged usage will result or cause irritational symptoms, which if persist, should be remedied by a consultation with the Doctor. Nothing of that sort is found herein. In any case, the point that becomes clear is that AHAHO is a neither a prescribed medicament of a medical practitioner nor it is claimed to have any substantial therapeutic or prophylactic properties. I C also find that as regards labels, Hon’ble Supreme court observed in the case of Ishaan Laboratories (supra) that “Further it was obvious from the labels of the products which we have ourselves inspected in the court that there is a claim made in each of the label of the medicinal properties of the product. It is also found D that there was a specific claim that this is not a cosmetic product.” Though in that case, the products were held to be medicaments, the label description on the basis of which such a conclusion was drawn (apart from other factors) indicates that the product should be projected and marketed in I such a manner so as to express the intention of the manufacturer that the product is a medicament E and not a cosmetic. Such a situation does not exist in the present case inasmuch as the labels neither contain a positive indication that it is a medicament nor a negative indication that it is not a cosmetic. However, it is certainly labeled as a Hair Oil, prominently. If the intention is to identify the product as F medicament, there was no need to label it is Hair Oil. Hence following the finding in the said case, I am inclined to hold that AHAHO cannot be categorized as a medicament but has to be classified as a Hair Oil. Accordingly, AHAHO does not fit into the first criteria prescribed under the said Circular.” G 6.8. As regards the common parlance criteria i.e., the way the product was marketed, it was observed that AHAHO was accessible in both Medical and General Stores and could be bought across the counter. Moreover, depiction of a lady with long, black flowing hair on its label indicated its categorisation as cosmetic and not as a medicament. The Adjudicating Authority even proceeded to observe that ‘Hair growth is H 306 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A at best a cosmetic necessity rather than a disease requiring immediate attention or treatment’; and held that the product in question failed on the second criteria of common parlance too. 6.9. The Adjudicating Authority also observed that the drug licenses issued by respective authorities, per se did not make AHAHO a B preparation of homeopathic medicine, thereby failing the third criteria also.