[Para 13] LIST OF CITATIONS AND OTHER REFERENCES Anathula Sudhakar v. P. Buchi Reddy (dead) by Lrs. and Others (2008) 4 SCC 594 : [2008] 5 SCR 331 – relied on. 212 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. OTHER CASE DETAILS INCLUDING IMPUGNED AND APPEARANCES CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 4471 of 2010. From the and dated 10.02.2010 of the High Court of Karnataka at Bangalore in RSA No.1361 of 2007. Appearances: Rohan Dewan, Balaji Srinivasan, Advs. for the Appellant. Amit Anand Tiwari, Ms. Shakun Sharma, Ms. Devyani Gupta, Ms. Tanvi Anand, Anirudh Singh, Advs. for the Respondents. / OF THE SUPREME COURT ABHAY S. OKA, J. FACTUAL ASPECTS 1. The original plaintiff has preferred this appeal for challenging the of the High Court in a second appeal by which the High Court has interfered and has set aside the decree passed by the fi rst Appellate Court. PLAINT 2. The appellant fi led a suit for a perpetual injunction in respect of the immovable property more particularly described in the schedule to the plaint (for short, ‘the suit property’). According to the appellant, he and his brothers succeeded to the suit property after the demise of his father. He claimed that the suit property was allotted to his share under a family settlement dated 25th April 1993, executed by and between him and his brothers. The appellant claims to be in exclusive possession of the suit property. The suit is founded on the cause of action that on 18th June 1994, the respondents tried to interfere with his possession of the suit property. Therefore, a suit simpliciter for injunction was fi led by him. WRITTEN STATEMENT CUM COUNTER-CLAIM 3. The respondents-defendants fi led a written statement cum counter- claim accepting that the suit property was originally owned by Sri. SRI. K.M. KRISHNA REDDY v. SRI. VINOD REDDY & ANR. 213 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] Muniswamappa, the late father of the appellant. The respondents’ contention in the written statement was that they, along with their family members, were continuously in possession of the suit property from 1978 and were storing fi rewood, bricks, and manure. According to their case, they have been uninterruptedly using the suit property since 1978, and they have done so with the knowledge of the appellant, his father and their other family members, including his brother M. Jayarama Reddy (for short, ‘Jayarama’). Therefore, the respondents claimed that they had perfected the title to the suit property by adverse possession. 4. Another contention raised by the respondents was that in the partition which took place after the death of the appellant’s father, the suit property was allotted to the share of Jayarama. In October 1983, the said Jayarama approached their mother and stated that if consideration was paid to him, the respondents could absolutely enjoy the suit property. According to the respondents, their mother paid a sum of Rs.5,500/- as a consideration to Jayarama who executed an agreement for sale in favour of their mother. It was also contended that in part performance for the agreement for sale, the respondents’ mother was put in possession of the suit property.