Yet further, there is no fixed test or static parameter for correct classification of a product and it essentially depends on the meaning assigned to it by the E persons concerned with it. One of the essential factors for determining whether a product falls under Chapter 30 or not is as to whether the product is understood as a pharmaceutical product in common parlance. However, the quantity of medicament used in a particular product is not a relevant factor because, ordinarily, the extent of use of medical ingredients is F very low as a larger use may be harmful for the human body. Moreover, the mere fact that a product is sold across the counters and not under a doctor’s prescription, does not by itself lead to a conclusion that it is not a medicament; and that a product may be medicinal without having been prescribed by a medical G practitioner. The items which may be sold under names bearing a cosmetic connotation would nevertheless remain medicines based on the composition. As regards the question as to whether a particular product is classifiable under Chapter 30 as ‘medicament’ or under Chapter 33 as ‘cosmetic’, one of the essential features would be as to whether the preparation is H COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 283 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY essentially for cure or prevention of disease (medicament) or for A care (cosmetic); and the preparation having only subsidiary curative or prophylactic value would fall under Chapter 33. [Para 18.1][338-F-H; 339-A-F] 2.2 In an overall comprehension of the matter, and with application of the relevant principles to the facts of the instant B case, the product in question sails through the twin tests without any doubt and has rightly been held as medicament by the tribunal. [Para 21][344-G-H] 2.3 Taking up the test relating to the ingredients, there appears absolutely no reason to suggest that the product in C question, AHAHO, does not pass this test. It remains indisputable that the product has been manufactured as a drug after being duly licensed by the competent authorities and carries the combination of as many as four Homeopathic medicines, Arnica Montana, Cantharis, Pilocarpine, and Cinchona in its preparation. D These Homeopathic medicines are duly found mentioned in Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia of India as also in the Dictionary of Practical Materia Medica. [Para 22][344-H; 355-A-B] 2.4 The Adjudicating Authority in its elaborate could not otherwise doubt the recognition of other ingredients of E AHAHO as being Homeopathic drugs. The approach of the Adjudicating Authority in his micro analysis of the contents of label had also been in the nature of a fishing inquiry as if only to find some gap or some loophole therein, without looking at the substance of the matter that the product in question was clearly indicated to be a Homeopathic medicine under Schedule K to F the Rules of 1945. Looking to the nature of the product and its properties, the relevant indications have also been specified in reasonable terms and looking to its nature and purpose, directions for use have also been given in the manner that it was to be massaged directly on the scalp and should be left overnight for G best results.