The carrier can escape his liability only if it is established that the loss or damage was due to an act of God or enemies of the State (or the enemies of King, a phrase used by the Privy Council). The Calcutta decision in C British & Foreign Marine Insurance Co. v. India General Navigation and Rly. Co. Ltd., the Assam decision in River steam Navigation Co. Ltd. v. Syam Sunder Tea Co. Ltd., the Rajasthan decision in Vidya Ratan v. Kota Transport Co. Ltd. and the Kerala decision in Kerala Transport Co. v. Kunnath Textiles which have D already been referred to above, have considered the effect of special contract within the meaning of Sections 6 and 8 of the Carriers Act, 1865 and in, our opinion, they lay down the correct law.” 39. To apply Section 69A of the Act, it is indispensable that the E Officer must find that the other valuable article, inter alia, is owned by the assessee. A bailee, who is a common carrier, is not an owner of the goods. A bailee who is a common carrier would necessarily be entrusted with the possession of the goods. The purpose of the bailment is the delivery of the goods by the common carrier to the consignee or as per the directions of the consignor. During the subsistence of the contract of F carriage of goods, the bailee would not become the owner of the goods. In the case of an entrustment to the carrier otherwise than under a contract of sale of goods also, the possession of the carrier would not convert it into the owner of the goods. E. THE CARRIAGE BY ROAD ACT, 2007 G 40. Under Section 15 of the Carriage by Road Act, 2007, the carrier can, after issuing notice as provided, when there is a failure by the consignee to take delivery, sell the goods in the case of a sale which is so authorised by a statute. The buyer from the carrier would acquire a good title even as against the consignee. It may be true that as far as H 558 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A the sale proceeds received by the common carrier from the sale, he would be accountable to the consignee as provided in Section 15 of the Act. Likewise, in a case covered under Section 15(4), the common carrier would have the power to dispose of the consignment for recovery of dues from the consignee. In such cases if the other ingredients of Section 69A are satisfied, there may be no fallacy involved if an assessee is B found to be the owner of the goods which he disposes of under the authority of law. F. CRIMINAL BREACH OF TRUST 41. Section 405 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 reads as follows: C “405. Criminal Breach of Trust Whoever, being in any manner entrusted with property, or with any dominion over property, dishonestly misappropriates or converts to his own use that property, or dishonestly uses or disposes of that property in violation of any direction of law prescribing the D mode in which such trust is to be discharged, or of any legal contract, express or implied, which he has made touching the discharge of such trust, or wilfully suffers any other person so to do, commits “criminal breach of trust”.