Endorsement of instruments in which duty has been paid under section 35, 40 or 41.— D (1) When the duty and penalty (if any) leviable in respect of any instrument have been paid under section 35, section 40 or section 41, the person admitting such instrument in evidence or the Collector, as the case may be, shall certify by endorsement thereon that the proper duty or, as the case may be, the proper duty and penalty (stating the amount of each) have been levied E in respect thereof, and the name and residence of the person paying them. (2) Every instrument so endorsed shall thereupon be admissible in evidence, and may be registered and acted upon and authenticated as if it had been duly stamped, and shall F be delivered on his application in this behalf to the person from whose possession it came into the hands of the officer impounding it, or as such person may direct: Provided that— G (a) no instrument which has been admitted in evidence upon payment of duty and a penalty under section 35, shall be so delivered before the expiration of one month from the date of 31 Omprakash v. Laxminarayan 2014(1) SCC 618 32 Pattoolal Sharma v Rajadhiraj Umrao Singh AIR 1955 NUC 2621 H 33 Wilson & Co. Pvt. Ltd. V K.S. Lokavinayagam AIR 1992 Mad 100 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 441 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] such impounding, or if the Collector has certified that its further A detention is necessary and has not cancelled such certificate; (b) nothing in this section shall affect the Code of Civil Procedure, 1882 (14 of 1882), section 144 clause 3.” [emphasis supplied] B 30. The phraseology of Sections 36, 35 and 42 of the Stamp Act, 1899 was considered in Hindustan Steel(supra). The factual backdrop therein was that Hindustan Steel made an application under Section 30 and 33 of the Indian Arbitration Act, 1940 for setting aside the award on the ground that it was unstamped and as such, void C ab initio. This Court, however, held that there is no bar against an instrument not duly stamped being “acted upon”,after payment of stamp duty and penalty according to the procedure prescribed in the Act. It was pertinently observed as follows: “6. Relying upon the difference in the phraseology between D Sections 35 and 36 it was urged that an instrument which is not duly stamped may be admitted in evidence on payment of duty and penalty, but it cannot be acted upon because Section 35 operates as a bar to the admission in evidence of the instrument not duly stamped as well as to its being acted upon, and the Legislature has by Section 36 in the conditions set out therein E removed the bar only against admission in evidence of the instrument. The argument ignores the true import of Section 36. - F By that section an instrument once admitted in evidence shall not be called in question at any stage of the same suit or proceeding on the ground that it has not been duly stamped.