Adv., Arjun Garg, Shobhit Jain, Aakash Nandolia, Ms. Sagun Shrivastava, Advs. for the Appellant. Sanjay K. Agrawal, Sarthak Nema, Ms. Ankita Khare, Ramsakha Kushwaha, Yashovardhan Jain, Ms. Sangeeta Singh, Advs. for the Respondents. E The of the Court was delivered by M. R. SHAH, J. 1. Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned and dated 29.04.2016 passed by the High Court of Madhya Pradesh F Principal Seat at Jabalpur in W.P. No. 3342/2015, by which, the High Court has allowed the said writ petition preferred by respondent No. 1 herein and has set aside the passed by the lower Appellate Court and has restored the passed by the Executing Court with respect to the property in question, the original respondent No. 1– objector before the Executing Court has preferred the present appeal. G 2. The facts leading to the present appeal in a nutshell are as under: - 2.1 There was a dispute between National Ginni Enterprises and Smt. Gayatri Agrawal with respect to the L.P.G. gas agreement. A civil suit No. 07-A/98 was filed by the said Smt. Gayatri Agrawal against the H National Ginni Enterprises. The learned Trial Court passed a decree by GAS POINT PETROLEUM INDIA LIMITED v. RAJENDRA 435 MAROTHI & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] directing the debtor (National Ginni Enterprises) to provide A L.P.G. gas as per the conditions of the agreement. The decree provided that if the defendants are unable to implement the said , in alternatively it was directed that the plaintiff was entitled to get the amount of Rs. 2,38,450/- + Rs. 23,500/- (sic) relating to cost of the gas cylinders and regulators respectively. The debtor did not fulfill the first B portion of the and did not supply the gas cylinders and regulators. Therefore, the decree holder filed the execution petition before the Executing Court. It was decided to sell the property of the debtor. Accordingly, a declaration was made and property was auctioned and sold on 03.11.2011 in favour of respondent No. 1 herein. The appellant herein – original respondent No. 1 filed objection before the Executing C Court, contending, inter-alia, that the property was purchased by him from debtor on 31.08.1999 and that they are in possession of the said land. An application under 21 Rule 90 r/w 151 of the CPC was filed. The learned Executing Court overruled the objections and rejected the application under 21 Rule 90 by dated 23.01.2013. The appellant flied miscellaneous civil appeal before the D Court of Additional District Judge, Damoh being Misc. Civil Appeal No. 12/2013. The lower Appellate Court allowed the said appeal and set aside the of Executing Court dated 23.01.2013 and remitted the matter back to the Executing Court to rehear the parties and after taking into account all the facts and circumstances, pass a fresh in E accordance with law. The passed by the lower Appellate Court was the subject matter before the High Court by way of present writ petition. By the impugned and the High Court has allowed the said writ petition and has set aside the passed by the lower Appellate Court by observing that the appellant herein – original respondent No.