Further, it was contended by referring to a clarification provided by the GoI, contained in OM dated 25th October, 2002, that “(T)here is no E reservation for the persons with disabilities when promotions are made to Group ‘A’ and Group ‘B’ posts”. Insofar as circular dated 5th July, 2000 of the RBI is concerned, it was pleaded that instructions contained therein were withheld and not given effect. Finally, reference was made to paragraph 22 of the OM dated 29th December, 2005 F providing as follows: “If sufficient number of persons with disabilities are not available on the basis of the general standard to fill all the vacancies reserved for them, candidates belonging to this category may be selected on relaxed standard to fill up the remaining vacancies reserved for them provided they are not G found unfit for such post or posts. Thus, to the extent the number of vacancies reserved for persons with disabilities cannot be filled on the basis of general standards, candidates belonging to this category may be taken by relaxing the standards to make up the deficiency in the reserved quota H 788 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A subject to the fitness of these candidates for appointment to the post/posts in question.” 6. The Division Bench of the High Court was referred to its coordinate Bench decision in National Confederation for Development of Disabled & Anr. vs. Union of India & Ors.1, where the prayer was B for issuing a mandamus to the respondents to appoint disabled persons in terms of section 33 of the PwD Act, 1995 in Indian Administrative Service posts by promotion from the State Civil Services or by selection from persons who hold gazetted posts in connection with the affairs of the State but are not members of the State Civil services, as per their entitlements, retrospectively from 1996 and to comply with the said C provisions hereafter. The decision in Govt. of India & Anr. vs. Ravi Prakash Gupta & Anr.2was also referred, where this Court dealt with the question of reservation in the matter of appointment to All India Service and while confirming the decision under challenge held that reservation was applicable to posts in Groups ‘A’, ‘B’, ‘C’ and ‘D’. D Attention of the Division Bench was also invited to the decision in Union of India vs. National Federation of the Blind3, where this Court was of the view that “the computation of reservation for persons with disabilities has to be computed in case of Group A, B, C and D posts in an identical manner, viz. computing 3% reservation on total number of vacancies in the cadre strength, which is the intention of E the legislature”. The Division Bench read the decision as laying down the law that reservation has to be computed with reference to total number of vacancies in the cadre strength and, therefore, no distinction can be made between the posts to be filled in by direct recruitment and by promotion. It was, accordingly, held that the “total number of vacancies F in the cadre strength would include the vacancies to be filled in by nomination and vacancies to be filled in by promotion”.