22. From a reading of Section 24 of the Evidence Act what is clear is that a confession made by an accused due to any inducement, threat or promise having reference to the charge against the accused person would be irrelevant in a criminal proceeding. This court held in State of Punjab Vs. Barkat Ram 1962 (3) SCR 338 that customs offi cers are not police offi cers for the purpose of Section 25 of the Evidence Act which says that no confession made before a police offi cer shall be proved as against a person accused of any off ence. A constitution bench of this court in Ramesh Chandra Mehta Vs. State of West Bengal, AIR 1970 SC 940 held that customs offi cers are entrusted with the powers specifi cally relating to collection of customs duty and prevention of smuggling. For that purpose, they are invested with the power to search any person on reasonable suspicion, to summon a person to give evidence, to arrest such a person if there is a reasonable suspicion that such a person is guilty of an off ence under the Customs Act etc. 196 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 23. For collecting evidence, the customs offi cer is entitled to serve summons upon a person to produce a document or other thing or to give evidence etc. However, he has no power to investigate a customs infringement as an off ence nor has he the power to submit a report under the Code of Criminal Procedure. A customs offi cer is not a police offi cer. Dealing with Sections 167(8) and 178(A) of the Sea Customs Act, 1878, this court in Collector of Customs, Madras Vs. D. Bhoormall, (1974) 2 SCC 544 held that provisions of the Evidence Act and the Code of Criminal Procedure did not govern the onus of proof under Section 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act. In such proceedings, the customs offi cer was guided by the basic principles of criminal jurisprudence and natural justice. The burden of proving that the goods were smuggled goods was on the department. The cardinal principle having an important bearing on the incidence of burden of proof was that suffi ciency and weight of the evidence was to be considered according to the proof which it was in the power of one side to prove and in the power of the other side to have contradicted. 24. In Ramesh Chandra Mehta (supra), the objections as to admissibility of a confessional statement under Section 25 of the Evidence Act were rejected, holding that such a statement was admissible in evidence in customs proceedings since customs offi cers are not police offi cers. 25. This court in Naresh J. Sukhawani Vs. Union of India, AIR 1996 SC 522 clarifi ed that a statement made before the customs offi cer is not a statement recorded under Section 161 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973. It is material piece of evidence collected by the customs offi cer under Section 108 of the Customs Act.