(2) The public announcement under this section shall be made in such manner as may be specified.” G (c) It is important to note that the resolution professional has no adjudicatory powers in regard to the claims unlike the liquidator. The resolution professional only collates the claims. In this regard, the decision of this Court in the case of Swiss Ribbons Private Limited and Another v. Union of India and Others reported in (2019) 4 SCC 17 assumes importance. I quote paras 88-91 of Swiss Ribbons (supra) as under: H AJAY KUMAR RADHEYSHYAM GOENKA v. TOURISM 1011 FINANCE CORP. OF INDIA LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] Resolution professional has no adjudicating powers A “88. It is clear from a reading of the Code as well as the Regulations that the resolution professional has no adjudicatory powers. Section 18 of the Code lays down the duties of an interim resolution professional as follows: “18. Duties of interim resolution professional.—(1) The B interim resolution professional shall perform the following duties, namely— (a) collect all information relating to the assets, finances and operations of the corporate debtor for determining the financial position of the corporate debtor, including C information relating to— (i) business operations for the previous two years; (ii) financial and operational payments for the previous two years; (iii) list of assets and liabilities as on the initiation D date; and (iv) such other matters as may be specified; (b) receive and collate all the claims submitted by creditors to him, pursuant to the public announcement made under Sections 13 and 15; E (c) constitute a Committee of Creditors; (d) monitor the assets of the corporate debtor and manage its operations until a resolution professional is appointed by the Committee of Creditors; F (e) file information collected with the information utility, if necessary; and (f) take control and custody of any asset over which the corporate debtor has ownership rights as recorded in the balance sheet of the corporate debtor, or with G information utility or the depository of securities or any other registry that records the ownership of assets including— (i) assets over which the corporate debtor has ownership rights which may be located in a foreign country; H 1012 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A (ii) assets that may or may not be in possession of the corporate debtor; (iii) tangible assets, whether movable or immovable; (iv) intangible assets including intellectual property; B (v) securities including shares held in any subsidiary of the corporate debtor, financial instruments, insurance policies; (vi) assets subject to the determination of ownership by a court or authority; C (g) to perform such other duties as may be specified by the Board. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, the term “assets” shall not include the following, namely— (a) assets owned by a third party in possession of the D corporate debtor held under trust or under contractual arrangements including bailment; (b) assets of any Indian or foreign subsidiary of the corporate debtor; and E (c) such other assets as may be notified by the Central Government in consultation with any financial sector regulator.” 89.