E 45. It is further stated in the application that based on the recommendation of the Expert Committee (ESZ), the Ministry finalizes the notification of ESZs and after due legal vetting by the Ministry of Law & Justice, final notifications specifying the ESZs around the Protected Areas are notified. It could thus be seen that an elaborate procedure including consideration by a Committee of Experts coming F from 13 organizations having expertise in wildlife ecology, forest etc. is followed before a final notification prescribing ESZs is notified. 46. In the application filed by the Union of India, various illustrations have been given to point out as to how if the directions issued in paragraph 56.5 of the dated 3rd June 2022 (supra) are not modified, a severe G hardship would be caused to the millions of people. We refer to the same hereunder: (i) “The ESZ around Nagarjunasagar Srisailam Tiger Reserve in Andhra Pradesh extends from 0 to 26 kilometres and 100 villages are situated within it (Zero extent of ESZ is H 628 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A due to Krishna River and interstate boundary with Telangana); (ii) The ESZ around Valmiki Wildlife Sanctuary, Valmiki National Park and Valmiki Tiger Reserve in Bihar extends from 0 to 9 kilometres and 323 villages are situated within it B (zero extent of ESZ is towards Western side sharing inter-state boundaries with Uttar Pradesh and towards Northern side sharing international boundary with Nepal); (iii) The ESZ around Betla National Park, Palamau Wildlife C Sanctuary, and Mahuadanr Wolf Sanctuary in Jharkhand extends from 0 to 9 kilometres and 382 villages are situated within it (Zero extent of ESZ is due to Inter-State boundary); (iv) The ESZ around Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary in Karnataka extends from 1 to 14.5 kilometres and 107 villages are D situated within it; (v) The ESZ around Kanha National Park and Phen Wildlife Sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh extends from 0 to 30 kilometres and 168 villages are situated within it (Zero extent of Eco-sensitive Zone is towards the eastern side having E interstate boundary with Chhattisgarh); (vi) The ESZ around Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve in Maharashtra extends from 3 to 6 kilometres and 150 villages are situated within it; F (vii) The ESZ around Jaisamand Wildlife Sanctuary in Rajasthan extends from 1.6 to 8.9 kilometres and 83 villages are situated in it; (viii) Even a small ESZ such as the one around Keoladeo National Park in Rajasthan which extends from 0.5 to 1.5 kilometres G has 22 villages situated in it.” 47. It would thus reveal that in the ESZ around Nagarjunasagar Srisailam Tiger Reserve in Andhra Pradesh, 100 villages are situated within it. In the ESZ around Valmiki Wildlife Sanctuary, Valmiki National Park and Valmiki Tiger Reserve in Bihar, 323 villages are situated within H it. In the ESZ around Betla National Park, Palamau Wildlife Sanctuary, IN RE: T.N. GODAVARMAN THIRUMULPAD v. UNION OF 629 INDIA AND OTHERS [B. R. GAVAI, J.] and Mahuadanr Wolf Sanctuary in Jharkhand, 382 villages are situated A within it.