Under the above sections, the Magistrate is fi rst required to consider the police report and the documents sent with it under Section 173 CrPC and examine the accused, if he thinks necessary, and give an opportunity to the prosecution and the accused of being heard. If on such consideration, examination and hearing the Magistrate fi nds the charge groundless he has to discharge the accused in terms of Section VISHNU KUMAR SHUKLA & ANR. v. THE STATE OF UTTAR 1083 PRADESH & ANR. [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] 239 CrPC; conversely, if he fi nds that there is ground for presuming that the accused has committed an off ence triable by him he has to frame a charge in terms of Section 240 CrPC. 7. If charges are framed in accordance with Section 240 CrPC on a fi nding that a prima facie case has been made out — as has been done in the instant case — the person arraigned may, if he feels aggrieved, invoke the revisional jurisdiction of the High Court or the Sessions Judge to contend that the charge-sheet submitted under Section 173 CrPC and documents sent with it did not disclose any ground to presume that he had committed any off ence for which he is charged and the revisional court if so satisfi ed can quash the charges framed against him. To put it diff erently, once charges are framed under Section 240 CrPC the High Court in its revisional jurisdiction would not be justifi ed in relying upon documents other than those referred to in Sections 239 and 240 CrPC; nor would it be justifi ed in invoking its inherent jurisdiction under Section 482 CrPC to quash the same except in those rare cases where forensic exigencies and formidable compulsions justify such a course. We hasten to add even in such exceptional cases the High Court can look into only those documents which are unimpeachable and can be legally translated into relevant evidence. 8. Apart from the infi rmity in the approach of the High Court in dealing with the matter which we have already noticed, we further fi nd that instead of adverting to and confi ning its attention to the documents referred to in Sections 239 and 240 CrPC the High Court has dealt with the rival contentions of the parties raised through their respective affi davits at length and on a threadbare discussion thereof passed the impugned . The course so adopted cannot be supported; fi rstly, because fi nding regarding commission of an off ence cannot be recorded on the basis of affi davit evidence and secondly, because at the stage of framing of charge the Court cannot usurp the functions of a trial court to delve into and decide upon the respective merits of the case.’ (emphasis supplied) 18. With great respect, we express our reservations in fully acceding to what has been stated above. If Paragraph 8 of Minakshi Bala (supra) 108 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R.