We will dilate on this point a little later. The suspicious circumstances enumerated by the High Court are as under: (i) Failure to prove that the testatrix executed the Will after understanding its contents; (ii) The prominent-participation of the beneficiaries of the Will in getting the Will executed; (iii) No reason is forthcoming, virtually not discernible, from the Will as to why some of the children were dis-inherited by the testatrix; (iv) Non-examination of the material witnesses including the advocate who prepared the draft Will and; (v) Sale of some of the properties by the plaintiffs after the death of the testatrix, but before the grant of probate of the Will. 7. It was assigning such reasons and taking them as suspicious circumstances surrounding the subject Will that the High Court reversed the and decree of the trial Court holding that the trial Court went wrong in finding that the plaintiffs had succeeded in proving due and valid execution of the Will dated 10.11.1992. 8. It is well-nigh settled position that the burden to prove the execution of the Will is on the propounder(s) and on its discharge the onus would be on the opposing contestant to establish that it is not valid. Certainly, if 155 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. suspicious circumstances have been pleaded by the contestant opposing Will and prima facie shown them to be true, then the onus would be shifted to the propounder(s) to dispel the suspicious circumstances to the satisfaction of the court so as to accept it as genuine. In the light of the position so settled and in view of the fact that the trial Court and the High Court are at issue on the question whether the Will in question was proved as valid, in accordance with law, we will have to proceed to consider the said question. In that regard, in view of the undisputed position that the Will was executed by Cecelia Gertrude Lobo, the question to be considered is whether the circumstances taken as suspicious circumstances by the High Court are in troth, suspicious circumstances, capable of calling the propounder to dispel them. 9. For a proper consideration of the case on hand it is apposite to refer to the decision of this Court in “Moturu Nalini Kanth v. Gainedi Kaliprasad (Dead, Through Lrs. )1” rendered after referring to and relying on various previous authorities on the legal requirements to prove a Will. This Court had elaborately considered the essential legal requirements to prove a Will and ultimately held that mere registration of a Will would not attach to it a stamp of validity and it must still be proved in terms of the legal mandates under the said provisions of Section 63 of the Succession Act and Section 68 of the Evidence Act. 10. Section 63 of the Succession Act prescribes the mode and method of proving a Will and going by the provisions under Section 68 of the Evidence Act, though a Will shall not be used as evidence until one of the attesting witnesses has been examined.