C 14. Learned counsel further submits that the High Court has committed a manifest error and has failed to take into consideration that once the auction sale is confirmed, the objections to the said auction can only be entertained if there are material irregularities and fraud. Furthermore, the process of auction sale would forever remain incomplete D because somebody may always come up after the confirmation of the sale with an offer for higher value and that conduct has always been deprecated by this Court in Valji Khimjiand Company v. Official Liquidator of Hindustan Nitro Product (Gujarat) Limited and Others1. E 15. Learned counsel further submits that the appellants had scrupulously adhered to the conditions of the ASC and were ready to make payment of the entire sale consideration and till September, 2004, the appellants were never made aware that the bank guarantee equivalent to the bid amount would have to be furnished and immediately on their appeal being allowed by the AAIFR, the appellants herein made over F the bid amount of Rs.2,84,00,000/- on 3rd June, 2005 and 7th June, 2005 and hence there was no violation of any terms and conditions of the sale of assets. 16. To buttress further, learned counsel submits that once the auction sale stands approved, at least the employees who were residing G in the property in question and who had never participated in the bidding process, have no locus to question the passed by the AAIFR confirming the auction bid under its dated 1st April, 2005 and the offer made by the respondent/original petitioner (BCI Staff Colony) was 1 (2008) 9 SCC 299 H 88 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A of no substance and if such practice is being permitted, then such of the applicants who have not participated in the bidding process would make an offer at a later stage, no auction bid at any given point of time could be finalized and it will never fetch the value of the asset and the transaction can never attain finality. In support of his submissions, the counsel has placed reliance on the of this Court in National B Highways Authority of India v. Gwalior-Jhansi Expressway LimitedThrough Director2. 17. Learned senior counsel, Shri Ravi Prakash Mehrotra, appearing for the appellants in Civil Appeal No.10127 of 2011 submits that the auction bid of the appellants in Civil Appeal No.10128 of 2011 has been C rightly set aside by the Division Bench of the High Court but they are aggrieved only where the Division Bench has directed that the subject property be sold, if need be, as per the provisions of law. 18. Learned counsel submits that since the appellants have made an offer of Rs.3 crores which was higher than the bid furnished by the D appellants in Civil Appeal No.10128 of 2011 and they being residing for sufficiently long time over the property in question put to auction, at least they seek an indulgence of this Court that their offer may be accepted and the authorities may be directed to execute the sale certificate in their favour.