1 and defendant No. 3 to 5 as null and void; (F) This Hon’ble Court may be pleased to direct the defendant No. 2 to take over all the current assets of the plaintiff pertaining D to or in connection with the operation of A.C. Sheet and Cement. Manufacturing unit under license agreement at their book value and make payment to the plaintiff for the current assets available at the time of handing over of the possession, if required.” 3.9. An application was preferred by the appellant under Section E 8 of the Act of 1996 in the said commercial civil suit bearing No. 90 of 2017 for reference of the dispute to arbitration. In the written statement of the appellant, objection was also raised against the jurisdiction of the Commercial Court, given the arbitration clause in the licence agreement. Respondent No. 1 filed a reply to the application and the appellant filed an affidavit in rejoinder to the aforesaid reply on 03.07.2017. F 3.10. In relation to the said application moved by the appellant in terms of Section 8 of the Act of 1996, another material factor may also be noticed. Two memos (pursis), came to be filed before the Commercial Court on 06.12.2017. In one of the memos, the respondent Nos. 3 to 5 (subsequent purchasers of the property in question) purportedly stated G that they were not having any objection if the dispute concerning them was resolved by arbitration proceedings. The appellant, by another memo of the even date, suggested that the tripartite amended agreement was with reference to the licence agreement and it was agreed that till the time of the defendant No. 1 (appellant) making payment of a sum of Rs. H GUJARAT COMPOSITE LIMITED v. A INFRASTRUCTURE 115 LIMITED & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 5 crore to the plaintiff, the title deeds of the immovable property would A remain with the bank. The appellant suggested that with a view that the dispute between the parties should be resolved by arbitration proceedings, keeping all contentions open, they would be depositing the said amount of Rs. 5 crore in the Court and that in this manner ‘the dispute with defendant No. 2 would be ended’ and then, the bank who was handed B over the title deed, would deposit the same in the Court and the Court would be pleased to place the same in sealed cover till the dispute of the other parties was not resolved by arbitration proceedings. 3.11. Before adverting to the passed by the Commercial Court on the prayer of the appellant for reference to arbitration in terms C of Section 8 of the Act of 1996, we may complete the narration concerning the parallel proceedings in terms of Section 11 of the Act of 1996, even while deviating a little from the chronology. The said IAAP No. 63 of 2017 was withdrawn on 07.07.2017, as it was a composite petition against both respondent No. 1 and its sister concern with liberty to file fresh petitions.