(b) That a man heard or saw something, is a fact. (c) That a man said certain words, is a fact. (d) That a man holds a certain opinion, has a certain intention, acts in good faith or fraudulently, or uses a particular word in a particular sense, or is or was at a specifi ed time conscious of a particular sensation, is a fact. (e) That a man has a certain reputation, is a fact.” xxx xxx xxx (emphasis supplied) 16. Reputation is indeed a fact as defi ned under Section 3 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (hereinafter referred to as “Evidence Act”). Facts can broadly be divided into external and internal facts. External facts are those which can be perceived by the fi ve senses while internal facts arise through thoughts and feelings such as love, anger, fear, hatred and intention etc. A reputation has to be seen from the point of view of an identifi able group while character is what a person really is. Character is to be formed while reputation is to be acquired. Character may lead to formation of one’s reputation but both are distinct and diff erent. Reputation thus forms part of internal facts and therefore it is required to be proved in the form of opinion of persons who form it accordingly. When reputation is to be taken as a relevant fact, its evidentiary value becomes restrictive and limited. It is indeed a weak piece of evidence when becomes relatable to a fact in issue. 17. A court of law cannot declare the reputation of a person based upon its own opinion merely because a person is educated and said to be God-fearing, that by itself will not create a positive reputation. HARVINDER SINGH @ BACHHU v. 1165 THE STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] 18. Character and reputation do have an element of interconnectivity. Reputation is predicated on the general traits of character. In other words, character may be subsumed into reputation. Courts are not expected to get carried away by the mere background of a person especially while acting as an appellate forum, when his conduct, being a relevant fact, creates serious doubt. In other words, the conduct of a witness under Section 8 of the Evidence Act, is a relevant fact to decide, determine and prove the reputation of a witness. When the conduct indicates that it is unnatural from the perspective of normal human behaviour, the so-called reputation takes a back seat. 19. We wish to place reliance on the decision of this Court in Lahu Kamlakar Patil And Another v. State of Maharashtra, (2013) 6 SCC 417, “26. From the aforesaid pronouncements, it is vivid that witnesses to certain crimes may run away from the scene and may also leave the place due to fear and if there is any delay in their examination, the testimony should not be discarded. That apart, a court has to keep in mind that diff erent witnesses react diff erently under diff erent situations.