Additionally, costs were imposed upon the appellant– Lalitbhai Jesangbhai Parmar and strictures were passed against the appellant-Yogesh Navinchandra Ravani for his conduct as advocate of Lalitbhai Jesangbhai Parmar, D while seeking withdrawal of the Second Appeal. Hence, the present appeals. 6. We have heard Mr. Harin Raval, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants and Ms. Divya Anand and Mr. Ankit Anandraj Shah, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the E respondents. 7. Mr. Raval submits that the very application for review of the dated 11th September 2017, at the behest of the so- called Power of Attorney Holder Vitthalbhai Maganbhai Parmar, was not maintainable. It is submitted that the Power of Attorney in favour of F the said Vitthalbhai Maganbhai Parmar stood cancelled vide Public Notice dated 20th June, 2017. It is submitted that the application for review, filed using the earlier Power of Attorney of original plaintiff dated 4th January 2001 could not have been filed, inasmuch as, on the death of the original plaintiff, the Power of Attorney Holder Vitthalbhai G Maganbhai Parmar had no authority to continue with the proceedings. Learned counsel submitted that unless a fresh Power of Attorney by the legal heirs of the deceased original plaintiff was executed, he could not have continued with the proceedings. It is further submitted that once the appellant-Lalitbhai Jesangbhai Parmar had filed an application for transposing of the other legal heirs of the deceased original plaintiff H YOGESH NAVINCHANDRA RAVANI v. NANJIBHAI 285 SAGRAMBHAI CHAUDHARY & ORS. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] as defendants and once the High Court, having allowed the said A application vide dated 9th March 2016, he became the dominus litis. 8. It is submitted that the strictures passed by the High Court against the appellant-Yogesh Navinchandra Ravani, who was only a lawyer appearing on behalf of the appellant- Lalitbhai Jesangbhai Parmar, B were totally unwarranted and uncalled for. 9. The respondent Nos. 5 to 7 have filed their reply, stating therein that they had not executed any Power of Attorney in favour of said Vitthalbhai Maganbhai Parmar. It is submitted that they also did not C intend to challenge the dated 23rd July 2015, passed by the 4th Additional District Judge, Mehsana, dismissing the First Appeal, viz. Regular Civil Appeal No.77 of 2008 and, as such, the application filed by said Vitthalbhai Maganbhai Parmar for restoration of the Second Appeal was not tenable. D 10. From the perusal of the record, it would reveal that Second Appeal No.238 of 2015 was filed on behalf of all the legal heirs of the original plaintiff by Vitthalbhai Maganbhai Parmar, claiming to be the Power of Attorney Holder under Power of Attorney executed by the original plaintiff on 4th January 2001. Another Power of Attorney dated 20th November 2012 was executed in favour of said Vitthalbhai E Maganbhai Parmar by the appellant-Lalitbhai Jesangbhai Parmar. It is, thus, clear that after the death of the original plaintiff on 31st December 2006, the said Power of Attorney dated 4th January 2001 executed by him in favour of Vitthalbhai Maganbhai Parmar ceased to have any effect.