This is the reason why the power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India is undefined and uncatalogued, so as to ensure elasticity to mould relief to suit a given situation. The fact that the power is conferred only on this Court is an assurance that it will be used with F due restraint and circumspection.30 Creases: Re-examining the Contours of Invoking Article 142(1) of the Constitution, (2011) 6 NSLR 1; Ninad Laud, Rationalising “Complete Justice” under Article 142, (2021) 1 SCC J-30; and Virendra Kumar, Notes and Comments: Judicial Legislation G Under Article 142 of the Constitution: A Pragmatic Prompt for Proper Legislation by Parliament, 54 JILI (2012) 364]. As observed by us, the ratio as expounded in Union Carbide Corporation (supra) holds good and applies. 28 See – Prem Chand Garg (supra), paragraph 13. 29 However, this aspect has been, to some extent, examined in paragraphs 16 to 22 and 30 infra. 30 See – Delhi Development Authority v. Skipper Construction Co. (P) Ltd. And Another, H (1996) 4 SCC 622. SHILPA SAILESH v. VARUN SREENIVASAN 191 [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] Hindu marriage and divorce under the Hindu Marriage Act, A 1955. 14.Hindu marriage is traditionally considered to be a sacred union; a devout relationship that lasts till eternity. The Hindu Marriage Act provides the right to approach the court for dissolution of Hindu marriage by grant of a decree of divorce on the grounds mentioned in Section 13 B thereof. The provisions of the Hindu Marriage Act have undergone considerable changes over a period of time. Section 13(1)(i-a) was enacted by the Marriage Laws (Amendment) Act, 197631 to provide for divorce in cases of cruelty. Section 13-B of the Hindu Marriage Act was introduced for providing divorce by mutual consent. Explanation C was added to Section 9 of the Hindu Marriage Act, which relates to restitution of conjugal rights, stating that where a question of whether there has been reasonable excuse for withdrawal from society arises, the burden of proving reasonable excuse shall be on the person who has so withdrawn from the society. The effect of the said amendment, as noticed below, partially dilutes the rigours of sub-section (1)(a) to Section D 23 of the Hindu Marriage Act, which stipulates that the court, while examining whether any ground for granting relief exists, should be satisfied that the petitioner is not, in any way, taking advantage of his/her own wrong or disability for the purpose of such relief. 15.Section 13-B of the Hindu Marriage Act reads as under: E “13-B. Divorce by mutual consent.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act a petition for dissolution of marriage by a decree of divorce may be presented to the district court by both the parties to a marriage together, whether such marriage was solemnized before or after the commencement of the Marriage F Laws (Amendment) Act, 1976 (68 of 1976), on the ground that they have been living separately for a period of one year or more, that they have not been able to live together and that they have mutually agreed that the marriage should be dissolved.