Relying upon the observations made by a Constitution Bench of this Court In re. Delhi Laws Act, 1912, AIR 1952 SC 332, it was observed: “23. But, these niceties apart, we think that Section 87 is quite valid even on the “policy and guideline” theory if one has proper regard to the context of the Act and the object and purpose sought to be achieved by Section 87 of the Act. The judicial decisions referred to above make it clear that it is not necessary that the legislature should “dot all the i’s and cross all the t’s” of its policy. It is suffi cient if it gives the broadest indication of a general policy of the legislature. If we bear this in mind and have regard to the history of this type of legislation, there will be no diffi culty at all. Section 87, like the provisions of Acts I, II and III, is a provision necessitated by changes resulting in territories coming under the legislative jurisdiction of the Centre. These are territories situated in the midst of contiguous territories which have a proper legislature. They are small territories falling under the legislative jurisdiction of Parliament which has hardly suffi cient time to look after the details of all their legislative needs and requirements. To require or expect Parliament to legislate for them will entail a disproportionate pressure on its legislative schedule. It will also mean the unnecessary utilisation of the time of a large number of members of Parliament for, except the few (less than ten) members returned to Parliament from the Union territory, none else is likely to be interested in such legislation. In such a situation, the most convenient course of legislating for them is the adaptation, by extension, of laws in force in other areas of the country. As Fazl Ali, J. pointed out in the Delhi Laws Act case [1951 SCC 568 : AIR 1951 SC 332 : 1951 SCR 747] it is not a power to make laws that is delegated but only a power to 4 1989 Supp (1) SCC 430 COMMANDING OFFICER, RAILWAY PROTECTION SPECIAL FORCE, 679 MUMBAI v. BHAVNABEN DINSHBHAI BHABHOR & OTHERS [MANOJ MISRA, J.] “transplant” laws already in force after having undergone scrutiny by Parliament or one of the State legislatures, and that too, without any material change. There is no dispute before us — and it has been unanimously held in all the decisions — that the power to make modifi cations and restrictions in a clause of this type is a very limited power, which permits only changes that the diff erent context requires and not changes in substance. There is certainly no power of modifi cation by way of repeal or amendment as is available under Section 89.” (Emphasis supplied) 58. In the light of the above decision, it would be useful to explore the purpose of the amendment brought by the Adaptation of 1950 (supra) with reference to Article 372(2) of the Constitution of India.