12 SS Dhanoa vs Union of India, AIR 1991 SC 1745 13 AIR 1978 SC 851. PUBLIC INTEREST COMMITTEE FOR SCHEDULING SPECIFIC 1103 AREAS v. UOI [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] for its actions, notwithstanding the scope of its powers under Article 324. This Court held as follows: “Two limitations at least are laid on its plenary character in the exercise thereof. Firstly, when Parliament or any State Legislature has made valid law relating to or in connection with elections, the Commission, shall act in conformity with, not in violation of, such provisions but where such law is silent Article 324 is a reservoir of power to act for the avowed purpose of, not divorced from, pushing forward a free and fair election with expedition14” 60. The power of the Election Commission under Article 324 is meant to supplement and not supplant the law made by the Parliament and must be read in harmony with the provisions of the statutes governing the fi eld- which include the Delimitation Act of 2002 and the RP Act 1950. Scope of Powers of the Election Commission under RP Act. 61. Under Section 8 of the RP Act, the Election Commission is to consolidate s made by the Delimitation Commission under Section 10 and under Sections 10-A and 10-B of the Delimitation Act. The consolidation has been carried out by the Election Commission and the 2008 Delimitation of Parliamentary and Assembly Constituencies is an outcome of this consolidation. 62. Section 8(1), RP Act uses the words “having regard to all the s referred to in sub-section (5) of Section 4 and sub-section (3) of Section 7 relating to delimitation of parliamentary and assembly constituencies in all States and Union Territories”. These provisions in turn, refer to the extent of the constituencies as determined by the Delimitation Commission under the Delimitation Act 2002. Once the extent is determined, the Election Commission’s role under Section 8, is (i) to update the “description” of the extent of the constituencies, without altering the extent and (ii) to consolidate the s into one , under clauses (a) and (b) respectively. Neither of these clauses pertains to incorporating provisions relating to the reservations for newly designated Scheduled Tribes. 14 ibid para 92. 110 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 63. There is a duty to consolidate the s, as signifi ed by the use of “shall” in Section 8, but that duty specifi cally pertains to consolidation of s made by the Delimitation Commission. Once consolidated in this manner, which is what the of 2008does, Section 9, RP Act comes into operation. 64. The marginal note to Section 9 is titled “Power of Election Commission to maintain Delimitation up-to-date”. Unlike Section 8, Section 9 uses phrase “may”. Further, Section 9(1)(aa), which the petitioners have relied on, encompasses the power to : “(aa) make such amendments in the Delimitation of Parliamentary and Assembly Constituencies , 2008 as appear to it to be necessary or expedient for consolidating with that any notifi cation or relating to delimitation of Parliamentary or assembly constituencies (including reservation of seats for the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes in such constituencies) issued under Section 8-A of this Act or any other Central Act”.