The plaintiff never denied the fact of renewal to the defendant and is therefore put to the strictest proof thereof.” Main argument before the Trial Court centred around legality of the notice. The defendant’s case was that the premises was let out for manufacturing purpose and in terms of Section 106 of the 1882 Act, a clear six months’ notice was required to be given. The Trial Court on analysis of evidence found that the suit property was not let out for agricultural or manufacturing purpose. 5. The Trial Court held:- “I have no hesitation to hold that the tenancy of the defendant was month by month governed under the T.P. Act and after expiry of terms of the lease, the said tenancy was not extended by the parties with mutual consent as per provision of the agreement dated 27.03.03. It is the case of the plaintiff that the defendant is also a defaulter and he did not pay the rent of the suit premises from October, 2007. Such contention of the plaintiff is also admitted by the plaintiff that the rent, municipal charges and maintenance charges of the suit premises were not paid by 34 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. the defendant from October, 2007 but pleaded that the plaintiff never sent her representative to the defendant for collection of rent which was the usual practice. From Ext. 7 which is the notice issued upon the defendant, it appears that a 15 days clear notice was duly served upon the defendant by the plaintiff asking him to quit and vacate the suit premises on and from 31.03.08. It is further appears from the case record hat during the trial, the defendant has fi led a return before the reasonable offi ce of Thika Controller for determination of right title interest under the Thika Tenancy Act along with others which was registered as Misc. Case 79 & 80 of 2007. From Ext. 8 fi led by the plaintiff , it appears that upon hearing the parties, the Ld. Thika Controller was pleased to hold that the plaintiff is the recorded owner of the suit premises. So, from the overall discussion, evidence and materials on record, I am of view that the suit premises was let out to the defendant for other purposes other than agricultural or manufacturing purposes and such tenancy of the defendant deemed to be a lease from month to month terminable on the part of either lessor or lessee by 15 days notice and after expiry of the term of the lease i.e. on 31.10.07, a clear 15 days notice was served upon the defendant requesting him to quit and vacate the suit premises and hand over the peaceful possession of the same to the plaintiff . As such, the plaintiff is entitled to get relief as prayed for. Hence, the above issues are also decided in favour of the plaintiff .” (quoted verbatim from the paperbook) 6. The Trial Court found that the tenancy of the defendant was month by month governed under the 1882 Act and after the expiry of the lease, the said tenancy was not renewed by the parties on mutual consent as per the terms and provisions of the agreement dated 27.03.2003.On the question of Thika tenancy, the Trial Court recorded that the Thika Controller had already held that the plaintiff was the owner of the suit premises.