In Ramanbhai Naranbhai Patel v. State of Gujarat, (2000) 1 SCC 358, after considering the earlier decisions this, Court observed:- (SCC p. 369, para 20) “20. It becomes at once clear that the aforesaid observations were made in the light of the peculiar facts and circumstances wherein the police is said to have given the names of the accused to the witnesses. Under these circumstances, identifi cation of such a named accused only in the Court when the accused was not known earlier to the witness had to be treated as valueless. The said decision, in turn, relied upon an earlier decision of this Court in the case of State (Delhi Admn.) v. V.C. Shukla [(1980) 2 SCC 665 : 1980 SCC (Cri) 561 : AIR 1980 SC 1382] wherein also Fazal Ali, J., speaking for a three-Judge Bench made similar observations in this regard. In that case the evidence of the witness in the Court and his identifying the accused only in MUKESH SINGH v. THE STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 919 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] the Court without previous identifi cation parade was found to be a valueless exercise. The observations made therein were confi ned to the nature of the evidence deposed to by the said eyewitnesses. It, therefore, cannot be held, as tried to be submitted by learned counsel for the appellants, that in the absence of a test identifi cation parade, the evidence of an eyewitness identifying the accused would become inadmissible or totally useless; whether the evidence deserves any credence or not would always depend on the facts and circumstances of each case. It is, of course, true as submitted by learned counsel for the appellants that the later decisions of this Court in the case of Rajesh Govind Jagesha v. State of Maharashtra [(1999) 8 SCC 428 : 1999 SCC (Cri) 1452 : AIR 2000 SC 160] and State of H.P. v. Lekh Raj [(2000) 1 SCC 247 : 2000 SCC (Cri) 147 : AIR 1999 SC 3916] had not considered the aforesaid three-Judge Bench decisions of this Court. However, in our view, the ratio of the aforesaid later decisions of this Court cannot be said to be running counter to what is decided by the earlier three-Judge Bench s on the facts and circumstances examined by the Court while rendering these decisions. But even assuming as submitted by learned counsel for the appellants that the evidence of these two injured witnesses i.e. Bhogilal Ranchhodbhai and Karsanbhai Vallabhbhai identifying the accused in the Court may be treated to be of no assistance to the prosecution, the fact remains that these eyewitnesses were seriously injured and they could have easily seen the faces of the persons assaulting them and their appearance and identity would well remain imprinted in their minds especially when they were assaulted in broad daylight. They could not be said to be interested in roping in innocent persons by shielding the real accused who had assaulted them.” [Emphasis supplied] 47. In Malkhansingh v. State of M.P., (2003) 5 SCC 746, a three-Judge Bench of this Court considered the evidentiary value of the identifi cation of the appellant in that case by the prosecutrix in the Court without holding a TIP in the course of the investigation.