It is submitted that therefore, the circumstances set out by the High Court do not support the prosecution case. 4.4 It is further submitted that so far as the recovery of the dead body from the place identified by A-1 is concerned, it D is submitted that as such on 31.12.2007, after the arrest, A- 2 gave a voluntary confessional statement before Police in which he disclosed the place of burial. It is submitted that the place of burial was disclosed by A-2. It is submitted that therefore the place of burial of the dead body was E within the prior knowledge of Police. 4.5 It is further submitted that when PW-22 received the extra judicial confession letter on 29.12.2007, which he handed over to the Police on 30.12.2007 in that letter place of burial of the dead body was mentioned. It is submitted that the place of burial was disclosed on 29.12.2007 itself. It is F submitted that the Police arrested A-1 at the instance of PW-22 on 30.12.2007. It is submitted that as such the alleged extra judicial confession letter addressed to PW-22 received on 29.12.2007 is not believable at all and as such the Courts below has not believed the same. It is submitted that the G said letter has been rejected by the High Court. It is submitted that therefore, the entire investigation can be said to be tainted and cannot be relied upon. 4.6 It is vehemently submitted that the place of burial was not discovered from A-1’s confessional statement but it was H JOHN ANTHONISAMY @ JOHN v. STATE, REP. BY THE 285 INSPECTOR OF POLICE [M. R. SHAH, J.] discovered already from A-2’s confession and extra judicial A confession. It is submitted that therefore, the appellant – accused could not have been convicted on the basis of recovery of the dead body on the alleged disclosure made by the A-1. 4.7 Now so far as the recovery of the car without engine and B gear box recovered from the place identified by A-1 is concerned, it is submitted that for the aforesaid the High Court has relied upon PW-16 evidence. It is submitted that however, the learned Trial Court rejected the PW-16 evidence and suspected the recovery of M.O.1, M.O.2 and C M.O.3 i.e., the car, engine, and gear box, respectively. It is submitted that while accepting PW-16 evidence, the High Court has failed to consider and/or discuss the evidence recorded by the learned Trial Court. 4.8 Now so far as the recovery of engine and gear box of the D car recovered from PW-17 is concerned, it is submitted that all the witnesses in connection with the recovery of stolen objects like PW-17 and PW-23 did not support the recovery of car – M.O.1. It is submitted that therefore, the alleged recovery of gear box, engine and car speakers stated to have been recovered in pursuance of alleged confession E are not acceptable. 4.9 It is submitted that therefore when the prosecution case rests only on the above circumstantial evidence, each of which is demonstrably untrustworthy and inadequate to sustain the serious charges against the accused, the F prosecution is required to establish the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt and/or to substantiate each link to sustain the conviction, which the prosecution has failed.