[2023] 4 S.C.R. 1053 1053 BHASIN INFOTECH AND INFRASTRUCTURE PRIVATE LTD. A v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH AND ANR. (Transferred Case (Civil) No. 82 of 2022) MARCH 17, 2023 B [DINESH MAHESHWARI AND J. K. MAHESHWARI, JJ.] Lease: Conversion of land from leasehold to freehold in view of policy formulated by the State – Entitlement to – On facts, allotment of commercial plots to the petitioner company by the State C Industrial Development Corporation-UPSIDC, land allotted on 90 years lease basis – Building plan for construction over allotted land sanctioned – Construction completed and issuance of partial completion certificate – Thereafter, policy formulated by the respondent no. 1 for growth of tourism by setting up theme/ amusements parks – Policy laid down conditions and incentives, D available to theme parks – Thereafter, proposal by the petitioner for recognition of its project as a theme based mall – Petitioner then sought conversion of the subject land from leasehold to freehold – Non-acceptance of the proposal of the petitioner to convert subject land from leasehold to freehold as per the policy E formulated and thereafter amended – Challenge to – Held: When the land had already been leased to the petitioner and the petitioner is also holding the same as lessee under the lease deeds executed for the purpose, no reason, justification, logic or rationale that such leasehold rights be converted into freehold rights – Amended policy relied upon by the petitioner came into existence only after F second completion certificate had been issued to the petitioner and, the mall had been put into operation – No stipulation found in the original policy or its amendment that it could be applied with retrospective effect and to override the existing legal rights as also the existing legal obligations - Policy in question with its amendment G is of no application whatsoever in relation to the subject land and the project – Thus, the claim of the petitioner for freehold rights in relation to the subject land cannot be accepted – Furthermore, the petitioner seems to have developed a mall on the subject land through private investment and there is no participation of the State H 1053 1054 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Government or any public sector undertaking or any instrumentality of the State therein – Thus, the claim of the petitioner to seek benefits flowing from the Office Memo is struck down. Disposing of the matters, the Court HELD: 1.1 The entire case of the petitioner-company, B asserting its right to get the subject land converted from leasehold to freehold, is premised on the policy formulated by the respondent No. 1 on 06.11.2013 and amended on 03.05.2016. The petitioner would assume that the said policy with its amendment is applicable to its project and to the subject land. C This assumption is without any legal basis and the claim of the petitioner turns out to be hollow and baseless because neither the original policy formulated on 06.11.2013 nor its amendment on 03.05.2016 have any application to the subject land or to the project of the petitioner.