Pharmacology is G an important component in the study of Pharmacy and is included among the major areas of instruction in the curriculum of a degree in pharmacy at the Bachelor’s and Master’s levels. All those who study and undergo the training in pharmacy are necessarily to study Pharmacology. A pharmacist has to learn H TAJVIR SINGH SODHI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF JAMMU 729 AND KASHMIR & ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] the effects of the medicine as well as the ways in which A medicine can be introduced into the body. Pharmacists are medication experts and their responsibilities include dispensing medication to patients, monitoring patient health and progress and optimising the patient’s response to medication therapies. That pharmacology and pharmacy, therefore, are not like chalk B and cheese, too different from each other. One who has studied medicine, and is an expert in pharmacology is expected to have fairly good knowledge of pharmacy. ii) The learned Single Judge was of the view that the Court while exercising the power of judicial review cannot step into the C shoes of the Selection Committee or assume an appellate role to examine whether the marks awarded by the Selection Committee in the viva-voce are excessive and not corresponding to their performance in such test. The assessment and evaluation of the performance of candidates appearing before the Selection Committee/Interview Board D should be best left to the members of the Committee. Thus, there was no reason to find fault with the marks awarded by the Selection Committee/Interview Board only because 100% marks had been awarded or that the marks awarded were on a higher side. That once the writ petitioners had participated E in the Selection Process, they were not to feel aggrieved with the process for the reason that the marks awarded to them in the viva-voce were not up to their expectations or on the lower side. The learned Single Judge of the High Court, however, held that the Court may not look into the decision but it was within its domain to examine whether the procedure F and guidelines were followed. The Court thus examined the decision-making process. iii) The learned Single Judge observed that in the case in hand, the award rolls prepared by the members of the Selection Board individually were not on the selection record. Even the G final award roll reflecting the performance of the candidates in the viva-voice and the data of points secured on the basis of merit in the eligibility qualification and the qualification warranting extra weightage was not signed by the Members of the Selection Committee and there was nothing on record H 730 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A to indicate the assessment of candidates individually made by the members of the Selection Committee and their overall merit including the marks awarded in the interview. That the absence of the award rolls prepared individually by the Members of the Selection Committee, vitiated the entire selection process and the selection process did not conform B to the prescribed procedure.