This however does not mean that the sub-section is valid with respect to the sales which took place subsequent to August 1, 1957. The subsection being void in its provisions with respect to a certain initial period, we cannot change the provision with respect to the period as enacted to the period for which it could be valid as that would be re-writing the enactment. We have therefore to hold that sub-s.(1) of Section 2 void accordingly hold so.” 104. It was held by this court, in Jaya Thakur v Union of India & Ors37that: “the challenge to the legislative Act would be sustainable only if it is established that the legislature concerned had no legislative competence to enact on the subject it has enacted.” 105. The state of Telangana had argued to the contrary, and explained that when the ordinance was issued, there was no doubt about the state possessing legislative competence. As of that date (17.06.2017) the power to amend existing laws, was permissible under Section 19 of the Amendment. However, that argument is not tenable, because the ordinance’s validity and eff ect might not have been suspect on the date of its promulgation; yet, the issue is that on the date when it was in fact, approved and given shape as an amendment, the State legislature had ceased to possess the power. By that time, the State GST and the Central GST Acts had come into force (on 01.07.2017). Therefore, Section 19 ceased to be eff ective. The original entry (Entry 54 of the State List) ceased to exist. In the circumstances, the state legislature had no legislative 37 2023 SCC OnLine SC 813 THE STATE OF TELANGANA & ORS. v. M/S TIRUMALA 205 CONSTRUCTIONS [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] competence to enact the amendment, which approved the ordinance, which consequently was rendered void. 106. A subsidiary argument was that acts done in pursuance of the ordinance cannot lapse, because they are saved, by virtue of the repeal and savings clause (Section 17438) of the State GST Act, all action taken pursuant to the ordinance, when it was in force, would be saved. In the opinion of this court, there is no merit in that argument. The invalidity of the amendment by the state legislature (which conformed to the ordinance, on 02.12.2017) went to its root of the jurisdiction of those acting under the amended provisions of the State GST, rendering them (as indeed, the substantive provisions) void and unenforceable. Furthermore, even if for some reason, there were any doubts regarding validity and continuance of any notice, or proceedings, initiated pursuant to the provisions of the ordinance, their invalidity is such that they cannot be sustained. Furthermore, as held in Krishna Kumar Singh (supra) unless the consequences are “irreversible” there is ordinarily no question of any action- taken under an ordinance that is rendered void, due to operation of the provisions of the Constitution, being continued. Though the observations of this court were in the context of ordinances lapsing due to their not being presented before the House of the legislatures, the same principle would, in this court’s considered view, apply to cases, where the legislature ceases to have competence over the subject matter.