They have thus violated the directions contained in the admission dated 01.03.2021; B iii. Although the IRP had made submissions that the suspended director having transferred huge amount from the account of the company to his personal account and from there having made the payment to the OC under the settlement but the same was not conclusively proved; C iv. The suspended director and their counsel made frivolous arguments before the NCLT which were contrary to record in to obtain favourable s; v. As many as 35 claims of creditors both operational and financial have been filed in the meantime. As such withdrawal of the proceedings would adversely affect their D rights; vi. The proceedings once admitted and IRP having initiated, such proceedings are in rem and all stake holders can participate in the proceedings with their respective claims; and E vii. Regulation 30A of IBBI Regulations was not binding upon it and such provision would not be of any help to the CD or its suspended Directors; 16. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the material F on record. 17. Shri Shyam Divan, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant referring to statutory provisions like section 12A of IBC, Regulation 30A of IBBI Regulations and alsoto Rule 11 of the NCLT Rules, 2016 submitted that such provisions clearly permit settlement G between the creditor and the debtor and withdrawal of proceedings prior to the constitution of CoC. According to him, once the settlement was arrived at and acted upon prior to the constitution of CoC, the NCLT committed a grave error in not allowing the withdrawal of the proceedings. He has placed reliance on a number of s/s passed by this Court exercising powers under Article 142 of the Constitution allowing H ABHISHEK SINGH v. HUHTAMAKI PPL LTD. & ANR. 607 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] withdrawal of such petitions where settlement had been arrived at and A also certain s passed by NCLAT permitting withdrawal before constitution of CoC.Reliance was also placed upon a of this Court in the case of Swiss Ribbons (P) Ltd. V. Union of India11 dated 25.01.2019 whereafter the Central Government vide Notification dated 25th July, 2019 inserted Regulation 30A in IBBI Regulations which B permitted withdrawal of petitions before constitution of CoC. 18. Further submission advanced by Mr.Divan is to the effect that NCLT was swayed by the fact that there were several other creditors who had raised their claims against the CD and as such without hearing such creditors, permission of withdrawal would not be proper. This, C according to the learned senior counsel, was an error committed by the NCLT inasmuch as these third party claims could not have been taken into consideration nor they should have weighed with the NCLT in forming its opinion. Once the CoC had not been constituted the claims of other creditors would not come into play to defeat the settlement arrived at between the OC and the CD. In support of the said submission D he has placed reliance upon a of this Court in the case of Ashok G. Rajani v. Beacon Trusteeship Ltd.&Ors.12 Reliance is also placed upon another of this Court in the case of Kamal K.Singh v. Dinesh Gupta & Anr., dated 25.08.2021 in Civil Appeal No.4993 of 2021.