The Petitioner’s application was however, rejected after appreciation of the statutory provisions and the case law. The Trial Court G held as follows: “In view of the discussions made in the foregoing paragraphs, I am of the opinion that the prosecution should be given a fair chance to unearth the true facts, and an H 1100 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A opportunity shall be given to the Ld. Spl. P.P. to cross examine PW1 after declaring him hostile. Hence, the Ld. Spl. P.P., and not the Ld. Advocate appointed by this instant petitioner, shall be given permission to cross-examine PW1. The Ld. Advocate appointed by the B petitioner Afjal Ali Sha can only be permitted to act under the direction of Ld. Public Prosecutor in view of Sec 301(2) of CrP.C.” 13. Meanwhile, the instant Transfer Petition was filed in which this Court vide dated 05.10.2021 directed stay on further C proceedings in the trial. 14. Thereafter, the learned Single Judge of the High Court, on 02.08.2022, finally decided the writ petition and set aside the Government’s notification dated 26.02.2021. It was observed that “The attending circumstances of the present case do not inspire much confidence in the bona fides of the State and PP behind the withdrawal”. The D Court viewed that: - “When the charges were initially levelled, the State itself wished Godspeed to the prosecution, which is reflected from the pace at which investigation was concluded and trial commenced. Yet, when the respondent no. 5 allegedly leaned E in favour of the ruling party of the State, the prosecution beat a hasty retreat by seeking to withdraw the prosecution, which would have the effect of the accused being discharged scot- free without trial.” It was also noted that on the one hand, the State was defending F the withdrawal of Prosecution and on the other, was expediting the trial wherein several witnesses were resiling from their statements. In light of these circumstances, all action taken in pursuance of the notification dated 26.02.2021, including the application and Trial Court’s under Section 321, CrPC was set aside. The said appears to not have G been challenged and has attained finality. 15. The Petitioner has further alleged that multiple abnormalities have occurred during the pendency of the trial, such as the change of the Public Prosecutor four times and the harassment meted out to the prosecution witnesses and relatives of the Deceased. The wife of the H AFJAL ALI SHA @ ABJAL SHAUKAT SHA v. STATE OF WEST 1101 BENGAL & ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] Deceased, Saida Sabana Banu Khatun, is alleged to have been attacked A by Respondent No. 2’s henchmen and relatives of the other accused persons in the premises of the Trial Court. One witness, named Imran Ali, was allegedly abducted by associates of Respondent No. 2 who also threatened to kill him. The Petitioner has contended that his security cover was withdrawn. It is also averred that the authorities were duly B informed of such instances but no appropriate action has been taken.