As H RAJENDRA KUMAR SHRIVAS v. STATE OF MADHYA 223 PRADESH & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] observed hereinabove and as directed by this Court, 10% seats were A required to be filled up by limited departmental competitive examination w.e.f. 1.1.2011 and any recruitment made from 1.1.2011 onwards. Therefore, the High Court has to undertake the exercise from 1.1.2011 adjusting the posts and if any appointments are found to have been made beyond 10% seats in a particular recruitment, the same shall have to be B adjusted in future recruitment. 9. So far as challenge to the appointments made in excess of the quota under limited departmental competitive examination since 2007 and the appointments made in the year 2017/2018, no relief can be granted to the original writ petitioners in absence of those selected/appointed C candidates. At this stage, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the High Court has strongly opposed the locus of original writ petitioners by submitted that original writ petitioner No.1 – appellant herein was a suspended judicial officer who subsequently came to be compulsorily D retired. However, without further opining on the locus of the original writ petitioners, we have considered the matter on merits in light of the decision of this Court in the case of All India Judges’ Association (supra). 10. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the E present appeal stands disposed of by directing as under: The High Court of Madhya Pradesh is hereby directed to act as per the directions issued by this Court in the case of All India Judges’ Association (supra), more particularly directions contained in paragraphs 8 & 9 of the said decision and is directed to see that 10% seats are filled up by limited departmental competitive examination on and from 1.1.2011 F and if it is found that in any recruitment subsequent to 1.1.2011, the 10% quota is breached, all such posts shall be adjusted in the future recruitments. 11. The instant Civil Appeal stands disposed of in the aforesaid terms. No costs. G Ankit Gyan Appeal disposed of. (Assisted by : Abhishek Pratap Singh, LCRA) H