[Paras 17 and 18] Penal Code, 1860 – s. 390 – Robbery – Theft when amounts to robbery: Held: Three ingredients mentioned in s.390 must always be satisfi ed before theft can amount to robbery – Firstly, the off ender must have voluntarily caused or attempted to cause to any person death or hurt or wrongful restraint, or fear of instant death or of instant hurt, or of instant wrongful restraint – Secondly this must be in to the committing of the theft, or in committing the theft, or in carrying away or attempting to carry away property obtained by the theft – Thirdly the off ender must voluntarily cause or attempt to cause to any person hurt etc., for that end, that is, in to the committing of the theft or for the purpose of committing theft or for carrying away or attempting to carry away property obtained by the theft. [Paras 14 and 15] Penal Code, 1860 – s. 504 – Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace – Necessary ingredient u/s. 504: MOHAMMAD WAJID AND ANR. v. STATE OF U.P. 315 AND ORS. Held: Mere abuse, discourtesy, rudeness or insolence, may not amount to an intentional insult within the meaning of s. 504 if it does not have the necessary element of being likely to incite the person insulted to commit a breach of the peace of an off ence and the other element of the accused intending to provoke the person insulted to commit a breach of the peace or knowing that the person insulted is likely to commit a breach of the peace – Each case of abusive language shall have to be decided in the light of the facts and circumstances of that case – There cannot be a general proposition that no one commits an off ence u/s. 504 if he merely uses abusive language against the complainant. [Paras 25 and 26] Penal Code, 1860 – s. 506 – Off ence of criminal intimidation – When: Held: Before an off ence of criminal intimidation is made out, it must be established that the accused had an intention to cause alarm to the complainant – On facts, to settle a land dispute the informant and his brother visited the house of the appellant on their own free will wherein the appellant and the other co-accused assaulted the informant and his brother, forcibly took Rs. 2 lakh from the informants’ pocket and thereafter took their signatures forcibly on a blank paper and FIR was registered u/ss. 395, 504, 506 and 323 – Prima facie case to constitute the off ence punishable u/s. 506 may probably could be said to have been disclosed but not u/s. 504 – In the FIR, all that the informant has stated is that abusive language was used by the accused persons – What exactly was uttered in the form of abuses not stated in the FIR – One of the essential elements constituting an off ence u/s. 504 is that there should have been an act or conduct amounting to intentional insult – Where that act is the use of the abusive words, it is necessary to know what those words were in to decide whether the use of those words amounted to intentional insult – In the absence thereof, not possible to decide whether the ingredient of intentional insult present – Thus, case of criminal intimidation punishable u/ss.