Hence, the decision of this Court in Jalan Trading Co., turns on its own facts. 7.4. Sri Sachit Jolly, learned counsel appearing for the respondent- assessees in Civil Appeal No. 4902 of 2022 adopted the submissions of learned senior counsel, Sri Ajay Vohra and Sri Arvind P. Datar and further contended as follows: i. That merely because the DoT can rescind the licence owing to non-payment of the variable licence fee, it does not mean that the payment of such fee is towards the acquisition of the licence. Violation of other conditions of licence like non-maintenance of KYC of subscribers could also lead to cancellation of licence. In fact, payment of licence fee for any one year, neither leads to acquisition of any new asset nor to any enduring benefi t. Further, the benefi t, if any, of the variable licence fee is only restricted to one year to which the payment pertains. Hence, the same could not be held to be capital expenditure or expenditure incurred for acquisition of a capital asset. ii. That the interpretation sought to be canvassed by the appellant would result in a completely absurd result wherein the deduction under Section 35ABB would exceed the actual payment made by the assessee in a given year, in the later years. This aspect C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 399 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] of the matter was rightly appreciated by the Delhi High Court in the impugned judgement and it was accordingly held that the interpretation proposed by the appellant would give Section 35ABB a ballooning eff ect with the amortised amount substantially increasing in the later years and in the last year, the entire licence fee along with the brought forward, amortised amount would be allowed as deduction. It was rightly held that after a certain point of time, deduction allowable under Section 35ABB would be more than the actual payment made by the assessee as licence fee for that year. In this context, reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in CIT, Bangalore vs. J.H. Gotla, A.I.R. 1985 SC 1698 to contend that it is settled law that an interpretation which leads to an absurd result should be avoided and such interpretation should give way to a more harmonious interpretation so that the legislation is given its desired result. iii. With the aforesaid submissions, it was stated that the impugned decision of the High Court of Delhi is detailed and well-reasoned. It is not contrary to any principle laid down by this Court and hence does not merit interference. It was prayed that the appeals fi led by the Revenue be dismissed on the ground that there is no infi rmity in the impugned of the High Court of Delhi. Reply arguments: 8. By way of reply, learned ASG, Sri N. Venkataraman, reiterated his submissions while also contending that the of this Court in Mewar Sugar Mills Ltd. and the of the Madras High Court in Sarada Binding Works, relied upon by Sri Datar to substantiate the claim that the same source of expenditure incurred by an assessee could be construed as partly capital and partly revenue would not come to the aid of the respondents-assessees in the present case.