12. Even otherwise, the investigating agency is not precluded from further investigation in respect of an offence in spite of forwarding a report under sub-section (2) of section 173 of a H STATE THROUGH CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. 171 HEMENDHRA REDDY & ANOTHER. ETC. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] previous occasion. This is clear from Section 173(8) of the A Code.” (Emphasis supplied) 76. Thus, a conspectus of the aforesaid decisions of this Court rendered in cases where final reports (closure reports) had already been B submitted and accepted makes the position of law very clear that even after the final report is laid before the Magistrate and is accepted, it is permissible for the investigating agency to carry out further investigation in the case. In other words, there is no bar against conducting further investigation under Section 173(8) of the CrPC after the final report submitted under Section 173(2) of the CrPC has been accepted. It is C also evident, that prior to carrying out a further investigation under Section 173(8) of the CrPC, it is not necessary for the Magistrate to review or recall the accepting the final report. 77. We may summarise our final conclusion as under: (i) Even after the final report is laid before the Magistrate and is D accepted, it is permissible for the investigating agency to carry out further investigation in the case. In other words, there is no bar against conducting further investigation under Section 173(8) of the CrPC after the final report submitted under Section 173(2) of the CrPC has been accepted. E (ii) Prior to carrying out further investigation under Section 173(8) of the CrPC it is not necessary that the accepting the final report should be reviewed, recalled or quashed. (iv) Further investigation is merely a continuation of the earlier investigation, hence it cannot be said that the accused are being F subjected to investigation twice over. Moreover, investigation cannot be put at par with prosecution and punishment so as to fall within the ambit of Clause (2) of Article 20 of the Constitution. The principle of double jeopardy would, therefore, not be applicable to further investigation. G (v) There is nothing in the CrPC to suggest that the court is obliged to hear the accused while considering an application for further investigation under Section 173(8) of the CrPC. ONE DISTURBING PART OF THE PRESENT LITIGATION H 172 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 78. While recording the facts in the earlier part of our , we have made reference of the passed by a Co-ordinate Bench of the High Court dated 11.09.2014 in Crl. O.P. No. 6371 of 2014. All legal issues which we have discussed in the present were looked into by the High Court and by a reasoned , the High Court took the view that it was permissible for the CBI to undertake further investigation B and the objections raised on behalf of the accused were not sustainable in law. We quote some of the relevant observations made by the High Court in its dated 11.09.2014: “5.