This Court in Lily Thomas (supra) held that Parliament lacked the power to enact sub-section (4) of section 8 and declared the same ultra vires. It also found no merit in the submissions advanced on behalf of the respondents that if a sitting member of Parliament or a Legislative Assembly suff ers from a frivolous conviction by the trial court of the nature referred to in sub-sections (1), (2) and (3) of section 8, he will be remediless and suff er immense hardship as he would stand disqualifi ed on account of such conviction in the absence of sub-section (4). While repelling such submission, Rama Narang (supra) and Ravikant S. Patil (supra) were referred to and it was held that in an appropriate case not only could the appellate court in exercise of its power under section 389(1) of the Cr. PC stay the of conviction, but the High Courts in exercise of its inherent jurisdiction under section 482 of the Cr. PC could also stay the conviction if the power was not to be found in section 389 thereof. 18. Lok Prahari through General Secretary S.N. Shukla v. Election Commission of India & Ors.11 was cited by Dr. Singhvi. There, a society registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 invoked the Public Interest Litigation jurisdiction of this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution seeking, inter alia, a declaratory relief that since the law does not provide for stay of conviction, even in case of stay of conviction by the appellate court for an off ence attracting disqualifi cation under section 10 (2013) 7 SCC 653 11 (2018) 18 SCC 114 996 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 8 of the RoP Act, any such stay does not have the eff ect of wiping out the disqualifi cation and reviving the membership with retrospective eff ect and consequently, the seat of the member concerned is deemed to have become vacant with eff ect from the date of conviction in terms of Articles 101(3)(a) and 190(3)(a) of the Constitution. This Court, having considered Rama Narang (supra), Lily Thomas (supra), Navjot Singh Sidhu (supra) and Ravikant S. Patil (supra), expounded the position of law as follows: “16. These decisions have settled the position on the eff ect of an of an appellate court staying a conviction pending the appeal. Upon the stay of a conviction under Section 389 CrPC, the disqualifi cation under Section 8 will not operate. The decisions in Ravikant S. Patil and Lily Thomas conclude the issue. Since the decision in Rama Narang, it has been well settled that the appellate court has the power, in an appropriate case, to stay the conviction under Section 389 besides suspending the sentence. The power to stay a conviction is by way of an exception. Before it is exercised, the appellate court must be made aware of the consequence which will ensue if the conviction were not to be stayed. Once the conviction has been stayed by the appellate court, the disqualifi cation under sub-sections (1), (2) and (3) of Section 8 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 will not operate.