To put it simply, all that is required in class or special legislation is that the legislative classifi cation must not be arbitrary but should be based on an intelligible principle having a reasonable relation to the object which the legislature seeks to attain.” 74. After a fairly detailed examination of previous precedents, recently, in Chandan Banerjee v. Krishna Prasad Ghosh67, this court explained the principles applicable to determine whether classifi cation by any law or policy can be upheld: “27. The principles which emerge from the above line of precedents can be summarised as follows: (i) Classification between persons must not produce artificial inequalities. The classifi cation must be founded on a reasonable basis and must bear nexus to the object and purpose sought to be achieved to pass the muster of Articles 14 and 16; (ii) Judicial review in matters of classification is limited to a determination of whether the classifi cation is reasonable and bears a nexus to the object sought to be achieved. Courts cannot indulge in a mathematical evaluation of the basis of classifi cation or replace the wisdom of the legislature or its delegate with their own; [..]” 66 [1954] 1 SCR 30 67 [2021] 11 SCR 720 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1469 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] This court, in Transport & Dock Workers Union v. Mumbai Port Trust68 explained how diff erential treatment may not always result in discrimination and “it violates Article 14 only when there is no conceivable reasonable basis for the diff erentiation.” 75. The diff erentiation or classifi cation has to be based on the object or end sought to be achieved: a facet highlighted in Union of India v. M.V. Valliappan69, where the court held that if there is a diff erentiation, having rational nexus with the “object sought to be achieved by particular provision, then such diff erentiation is not discriminatory and does not violate the principles of Article 14 of the Constitution”. In fact, earlier, this court in State of J&K v. Triloki Nath Khosa70 ruled that “the object to be achieved” ought not to be “a mere pretence for an indiscriminate imposition of inequalities and the classification” should not be “characterized as arbitrary or absurd”. 76. The discussion on equality and the limits of permissive classifi cation were conveniently summarized by the seven-judge bench in In Re the Special Courts Bill, 1978 (hereafter, “Re Special Court’s Bill”)71. Some of the propositions were stated as follows: “[..] (2).The State, in the exercise of its governmental power, has of necessity to make laws operating diff erently on diff erent groups or classes of persons within its territory to attain particular ends in giving eff ect to its policies, and it must possess for that purpose large powers of distinguishing and classifying persons or things to be subjected to such laws. (3). The constitutional command to the State to aff ord equal protection of its laws sets a goal not attainable by the invention and application of a precise formula.