B 28. It may be noted at this stage, that the High Court was still to hear the application for the grant of anticipatory bail. When the impugned was passed on 18 April 2023, the High Court was moved with an application for ad interim stay of arrest pending the disposal of the application for anticipatory bail. Even at that stage, the High Court has C proceeded to observe that : “15. The CBI, during the course of investigation has found that there are multiple motives for the murder of the deceased. One of the motives as attributed to this petitioner is regarding political aspirations and that the deceased may come in his D way. The Learned counsel for petitioner submitted that it is not in dispute that the deceased canvassed for the petitioner and this is the second time that the petitioner was elected. However, according to the charge sheet, though there were separate motives and grudges, the accused had come together to do away with the deceased. E 16. The case is still under investigation and multiple motives are suggested. The motive attributed to this petitioner is on the basis of the confession of A4 who according to him was informed by Al that big persons are involved and named this petitioner along with A7 and two others. There is no F other evidence apart from what was available in the year 2021, however this petitioner was not arrested or examined until January this year. It is not the case that this petitioner was absconding. The CBI has chosen not to arrest this petitioner along with A7 but issued a 160 CRPC notice. G Since there were allegations of bias, fabrication of evidence and false implication, the Hon’ble Supreme Court directed change of the investigating officer according to the Counsel for the petitioner. The deadline imposed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court for concluding investigation is 30th April, 2023.” H 576 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 29. The above finding of the High Court at this stage is premature, particularly in the context of what has been stated by the CBI on affidavit. Having due regard to what has been stated by the CBI in its affidavit, we are clearly of the view that the High Court has misapplied itself and passed an extraordinary in terms of the directions which have been issued. The High Court has observed that the first respondent may B not appear for investigation apprehending arrest and seek alternative remedies. While directing that the first respondent should be available for questioning “along with A6 and A7 who are given police custody, and the High Court has directed that the first respondent shall attend the office of the CBI between 19 and 25 April 2023 and that (i) the question C and answer shall be in printed/written form; and (ii) the questionnaire may also be handed over to the respondent. 30. An of this nature would stultify the investigation. There is absolutely no warrant for the High Court to direct that the investigation of a person who has been interrogated as a suspect in the conspiracy D should be in the printed or written form.