Admittedly, 6 (1972) 2 SCC 266 H GMR WARORA ENERGY LTD. v. CENTRAL ELECTRICITY 221 REGULATORY COMMISSION (CERC) [B. R. GAVAI, J.] prior to the cut-off date, the same was not a requirement. It is thus clear A that the said Notifications dated 11th July 2012 and 2nd January 2014 would amount to “Change in Law’. As such, no fault can be found with the finding of the learned APTEL that the same would amount to ‘Change in Law’. Shortfall in Linkage Coal due to Change in NCDP B 106. Insofar as shortfall in linkage coal due to changes in the NCDP issued by the Ministry of Coal (“MoC” for short) is concerned, the issue is no more res integra. This Court in the case of Energy Watchdog (supra) so also in Adani Rajasthan case (supra) and recently in MSEDCL v. APML & Ors. (Supra) has held that the change in NCDP C would amount to ‘Change in Law’. Forest Tax 107. Insofar as Forest Tax is concerned, perusal of the material placed on record would reveal that, as on the cut-off date, there was no Forest Tax applicable on coal mined and transported from South Eastern D Coalfields Limited (“SECL” for short) mines located in Forest area. For the first time, vide Notification of the Chhattisgarh State Government, Department of Forest, under the provisions of Chhattisgarh Transit (Forest Produce Rule) 2001, a fee at the rate of Rs.7 per ton was levied. Undisputedly, the said Notification is issued by the Forest Department E of the Government of Chhattisgarh, which is an instrumentality of the State. As such, no error can be found with the finding of the learned APTEL in that regard. Add on Premium Price 108. Insofar as ‘Add on premium price’ is concerned, undisputedly, F ‘add on premium’ was required to be paid on account of cancellation of captive coal blocks and inordinate delay on account of Go-No-Go policy. As such, it cannot be said that the reasoning adopted by the learned APTEL is perverse and arbitrary. Evacuation Facility Charges (EFC) G 109. Undisputedly, EFC was imposed by CIL vide its Circular dated 19th December 2017. 110. As already discussed herein above, CIL is an instrumentality of the State. It is thus clear that, on the cut-off date, there was no H 222 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A requirement of EFC, which has been brought into effect only on 19th December 2017. As such, the circular of CIL dated 19th December 2017 would also amount to ‘Change in Law’. 111. As discussed herein above, it is also not in dispute that EFC has been paid by the generators while paying the base price, other charges B and statutory charges at the time of delivery of coal. As such, no interference would be warranted with the said finding. 112. That leaves us with the issue with regard to carrying cost. Carrying Cost 113. This is the issue on which there is a serious contest between C the DISCOMS and the Generators.