Therefore, in the facts and circumstances of the case, these are the cases where the review applications are to be allowed and the appropriate G public authorities are to be given an opportunity to put forward their case afresh, which shall be in the larger public interest. 9. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, all these review/recall applications are allowed. The s passed in the respective Civil Appeals are hereby recalled and the respective Civil H GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI THR. THE SECRETARY, LAND AND BUILDING 225 DEPT. v. M/S. K.L. RATHI STEELS LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] Appeals are hereby ed to be restored to their original file. Let the A said Civil Appeals be considered in accordance with law and on their own merits and in light of the decision in the case of Indore Development Authority v. Manohar Lal (supra). All the defences and/or contentions which may be available to the respective parties are kept open including the possession and neither I have entered into the questions on merits B nor expressed anything on merits in favour of either of the parties. 10. In view of the passed in the review applications, no further is required to be passed in Contempt Petition (Civil) No. 735/2018 in Civil Appeal No. 11857/2016, which stands disposed of. C NAGARATHNA, J. I have had the advantage of reading the proposed by His Lordship M.R. Shah, J. in these review petitions. However, I am unable to agree with the reasoning as well as the conclusions arrived at by him. D 2. In these batch of cases, the issue revolves around in my view the very maintainability of these review petitions both on the ground of delay and on a consideration of Article 137 of the Constitution of India as well as XLVII Rule 1 of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013 (for short, “S.C. Rules - 2013”) and XLVII Rule 1 of the Code of Civil E Procedure, 1908 (‘CPC’ for short). The aforesaid provisions are respectively extracted as under for immediate reference: “Article 137 of the Constitution of India: ‘137. Review of s or s by the Supreme F Court. -Subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament or any rules made under Article 145, the Supreme Court shall have power to review any pronounced or made by it.’ ****** G XLVII Rule 1 of Supreme Court Rules, 2013: ‘ XLVII Rule 1- The Court may review its or , but no application for review will be entertained in a civil proceeding except on the ground mentioned in H 226 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A XLVII Rule 1 of the Code, and in a criminal proceeding except on the ground of an error apparent on the face of the record. The application for review shall be accompanied by a certificate of the Advocate on Record certifying that it is the first application for review and is based on the grounds B admissible under the Rules.’ ****** ‘ XLVII Rule 1 CPC- 1.