Section 9 of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa guarantees equality before law and equal protection and the benefit of the law to everyone. Section 9.3 mandates the State not to unfairly discriminate directly or indirectly against anyone, on one or more C grounds including race, gender, sex, pregnancy, marital status, ethnic or social origin, colour, sexual orientation, age, disability, religion, conscience, belief, culture, language, and birth. If Section 9.3 is a mandate against the State, what follows in Section 9.4 is a mandate against every person. Section 9.4 reads as follows: “9. Equality D ….. 4. No person may unfairly discriminate directly or indirectly against anyone on one or more grounds in terms of sub-section (3). National legislation must be enacted to prevent or prohibit E unfair discrimination.” 61. Again, Section 10 recognises the right to human dignity. While doing so, it employs a language, which applies to non-State actors also. Section 10 states that “Everyone has inherent dignity and the right to have their dignity respected and protected”. F 62. During the period from April 1994 to February 1997, when the Republic of South Africa had an Interim Constitution, the Constitutional Court of South Africa had an occasion to deal with a defamation action in Du Plessis and Others vs. De Klerk and Another59. The defamation action was instituted by an Airline company, against a newspaper for G publishing an article implicating the Airline in the unlawful supply of arms to UNITA (National Union for the Total Independence of Angola). After the Interim Constitution came into force, the defendant-newspaper raised a defence that they were insulated against the defamation action, under Section 15 of the Constitution which protected the freedom of the press. H 59 1996 ZACC 10 KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 657 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] The Transvaal Provincial Division of the Supreme Court referred two A issues to the Constitutional Court. One of the issues was whether Chapter 3 (fundamental rights) of the Constitution was applicable to legal relationships between private parties. The majority (11:2) of the Court held that Chapter 3 could not be applied directly to the common law in actions between private parties. But they left open the question B whether there were particular provisions of the Chapter that could be so applied. However, the Court held that in terms of Section 35(3) of the Interim Constitution, Courts were obliged in the application and development of common law, to have due regard to the spirit, purport and objects of Chapter 3. The majority held that it was the task of the Supreme Court to apply and develop the common law as required by C Section 35(3). 63. Interestingly, the dissenting opinion given by Kriegler, J. became the subject matter of lot of academic debate. To begin with, Kriegler, J. rejected the idea that the debate was one of “verticality versus horizontality”. He said that Chapter 3 rights do not operate only as D against the State but also horizontally as between individuals where Statutes are involved.