e. The same appellate authority’s clearly went beyond its remit, and- as discussed earlier, went on to highlight entirely external factors, such as the appellant’s alleged marital discord; it even mentioned the name of his spouse. f. Once the appellant approached the Commission, and notice was issued, in 2017, the respondents decided that the issue had to somehow be dealt with; by s issued in May 2018, after notice was received, and when the reply was being planned, the CoI was constituted. g. The CoI did not involve the appellant at all; the entire eff ort was to somehow see how the respondents could absolve themselves from liability. 83. This court has, in the past, highlighted that the head of mental agony has to be assessed and granted while awarding compensation (Ref. Spring Meadows; V. Krishna Kumar v State of Tamil Nadu67). In the latter case, the High Court had awarded damages, upon a fi nding of negligence on account of lack of care due to blood transfusion to the baby at the time of her premature birth, which led to a medical condition, i.e., progressive retinal disease. The court not only granted damages under the head of mental agony, but also towards past medical expenses, and future medical expenses, after factoring an annual infl ation rate of 1% per annum. The total sum awarded was ₹1.38 crores. 84. In the present case, the shock and agony faced by the appellant, the trauma which he felt because of the virtual denial of his condition, the stonewalling attempts of the respondents, in fi rstly denying his requests for information, and then, holding a CoI behind his back, are actionable. 67 2015 (8) SCR 100. CPL ASHISH KUMAR CHAUHAN (RETD.) v. COMMANDING 657 OFFICER & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] Whilst individuals’ roles cannot be pinpointed, the overall inference one is left to draw is overwhelming prejudice- despite the appellant’s unblemished track record of service in the IAF. The premature retirement, and to cap it all (in an incident for which the respondents cannot be held responsible) his rejection by a public sector company, the Food Corporation of India (FCI) on the ground of his being HIV positive are aggravated factors. The IAF could certainly have taken pro-active steps to ensure that the appellant was provided with some alternative employment, within its organization, or as part of the armed forces’ rehabilitation programmes for veterans and ex-servicemen. The overall result was acute mental agony caused to the appellant. This court is of the opinion, that the appellant is entitled to ₹ 50,00,000/- (Rupees fi fty lakhs only) towards this head. 85. The appellant had highlighted how his attempt to secure employment elsewhere has been thwarted and relied upon the correspondence with FCI. The respondents cannot be fastened with liability on that score, however, at the same time, it would be relevant to highlight that Parliament has enacted the HIV and AIDS (Prevention and Control) Act, 2017 (hereafter, “HIV Act”) which protects and promotes the rights of persons aff ected by HIV and AIDS.