(SIB) Commercial Tax Gonda dated 16.7.2011 has submitted a detailed report. Copy of which is attached. In this context the Addi. Commissioner Grade-1 Commercial Tax Faizabad Zone, Faizabad has given the following report: The Joint Commissioner (SIB) Commercial Tax Gonda in the perspective of provisions of section 13(3) (B) read with section 13(1)(f) of the VAT Act has expressed this presumption that if the sale of any taxable goals is effected at the low price than the purchase cost of the raw material then the trader shall get the benefit of ITC only up to the extent of sale value of manufactured goods. The trader produce the rice bran oil by purchasing the rice bran in which de-oiled rice bran is received as a byproduct/ waste product. In this way such produced is sold at much lower price in the perspective of cost of production whereas ITC is being claimed on the entire amount of utilized rice bran which is in contra to Section 13(1)(f). In this manner the trader shall get the benefit of ITC on the utilized rice bran up to the limit of sale of produced rice bran. Hence in relation to above please examine the records manufacturing units of your zone involved in the extraction of rice bran and oil cake. The details of action taken in this regard be please made available within a period of one week. Encl: as above Yours faithfully, Sd/- Sadhna Tripathi Addl. Commissioner (Legal) Comm. Tax HQ, UP” (Emphasis supplied) 46. It is to be noted that the DORB falls within exempted goods under S. No. 4 of Schedule I of the UP VAT Act. The relevant Entry is reproduced below for ease of reference: M/S MODI NATURALS LTD. v. THE COMMISSIONER OF 767 COMMERCIAL TAX UP [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] “SCHEDULE I [See clause (b) of Section 7 of Uttar Pradesh Value Added Tax Act, 2008] LIST OF EXMEPTED GOODS SI. NO. Name and description of goods (1) (2) I [1.] xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx 4. Aquatic feed; poultry feed including balanced poultry feed; cattle feed including balanced cattle feed; and cattle fodder including green fodder, chuni, bhusi, chhilka, choker, javi, gower, de-oiled rice polish, de-oiled rice bran, de-oiled rice husk, de- oiled paddy husk or outer covering of paddy; aquatic, poultry and cattle feed supplement, concentrate and additives thereof; wheat bran and de-oiled cake but excluding oil cake; rice polish; rice bran and rice husk; sanai and dhaincha” 47. A bare perusal of the scheme under Section 13 of the UP VAT Act [and specifi cally under Section 13(1)(a)] makes it abundantly clear that in cases where the purchased goods (in the present case Rice Bran) are used in the manufacture of taxable goods (in the present case RBO and physically refi ned RBO) except the non-VAT goods, and where such manufactured goods are sold within the State or in the course of inter-state trade and commerce, the registered dealers (like the assessee herein) are entitled to claim input tax credit of the full amount.