154. These five golden principles, if we may say so, constitute D the panchsheel of the proof of a case based on circumstantial evidence.” 13.1.1. It is also pertinent to notice that in the said case of Sharad Birdhichand Sarda, this Court also enunciated the principles for using the false explanation or false defence as an additional link to complete E the chain of circumstances in the following terms: - “158. It may be necessary here to notice a very forceful argument submitted by the Additional Solicitor General relying on a decision of this Court in Deonandan Mishra v. State of Bihar7 to supplement his argument that if the defence case is false it would constitute an additional link so as to fortify the prosecution F case…….. 159. It will be seen that this Court while taking into account the absence of explanation or a false explanation did hold that it will amount to be an additional link to complete the chain but these observations must be read in the light of what this Court said G earlier viz. before a false explanation can be used as additional link, the following essential conditions must be satisfied: (1) various links in the chain of evidence led by the prosecution have been satisfactorily proved, H 7 AIR 1955 SC 801: (1955) 2 SCR 570, 582. PREM SINGH v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 845 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] (2) the said circumstance points to the guilt of the accused with A reasonable definiteness, and (3) the circumstance is in proximity to the time and situation. 160. If these conditions are fulfilled only then a court can use a false explanation or a false defence as an additional link to lend an assurance to the court and not otherwise.……..” B 14. Moving on to the other applicable provisions and principles, we may usefully take note of Section 106 of the Evidence Act, casting burden of proving a fact especially within knowledge of any person, and a few relevant decisions in regard to its operation qua an accused. C 14.1. Section 106 of the Evidence Act reads as under: - “106. Burden of proving fact especially within knowledge. —When any fact is especially within the knowledge of any person, the burden of proving that fact is upon him.” 14.2. In the case of Trimukh Maroti Kirkan v. State of D Maharashtra: (2006) 10 SCC 681, the accused was charged of the murder of his wife; there had been allegations of ill-treatment of the deceased-wife by the accused-husband; and though the victim had been killed by strangulation, the information given to her parents as also to all in the village was that she had died on account of snakebite. After taking note of the facts of the case, this Court exposited on the principles E governing the assessment of circumstantial evidence, the operation of Section 106 of the Evidence Act, and the effect of want of necessary explanation or giving of false explanation by the accused, inter alia, in the following passages: - “14.