H 766 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A (2) Where books of account or documents or assets seized or requisitioned as referred to in sub-section (1) has or have been received by the Assessing Officer having jurisdiction over such other person after the due date for furnishing the return of income for the assessment year relevant to the previous year in which search is conducted under Section 132 or requisition B is made under Section 132-A and in respect of such assessment year— (a) no return of income has been furnished by such other person and no notice under sub-section (1) of Section 142 has been issued to him, or C (b) a return of income has been furnished by such other person but no notice under sub-section (2) of Section 143 has been served and limitation of serving the notice under sub-section (2) of Section 143 has expired, or (c) assessment or reassessment, if any, has been made, D before the date of receiving the books of account or documents or assets seized or requisitioned by the Assessing Officer having jurisdiction over such other person, such Assessing Officer shall issue the notice and assess or reassess total income of such other person of such assessment year in the manner E provided in Section 153-A.” 4.1 It is submitted by Shri Nataraj, learned ASG that the amendment in Section 153C was necessitated in view of the observation of the Delhi High Court in the case of Pepsico India Holdings Private Limited Vs. Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, 2014 SCC OnLine F Del 4155 whereby the High Court has observed that the words “belongs or belong to” should not be confused with the words ‘relates to or refers to,’ the former being much narrower than the latter. It is submitted that it was held that therefore, the provision could not have been invoked unless the documents / material ‘belong to’ the third party (other than G the searched person). That in such a situation, where though incriminating material pertaining to a third party was found during search proceedings under Section 132, the Revenue could not proceed against such third party in view of the observations of the Delhi High Court. Therefore, as such, the said observation of the Delhi High Court was coming in the way of suppressing the very mischief which the legislature intended to H INCOME TAX OFFICER v. VIKRAM SUJITKUMAR BHATIA 767 [M. R. SHAH, J.] suppress. That therefore, vide Finance Act, 2015, w.e.f. 01.06.2015, A Section 153C has been amended by way of substitution to replace the words “belongs or belong to” with the words “pertains or pertain to” insofar as books of account and documents are concerned. 4.2 It is further submitted that there is a difference between the words or phrases “belongs or belong to” and “pertains or pertain to”. It B is submitted that the words “pertains or pertain to” are of much wider import than “belongs or belong to”. That, therefore, the legislature has expanded the scope of operation of Section 153C to include the situation where during search proceedings under Section 132 of the Act, 1961, if incriminating documents / materials pertaining to a third party are found, C the Revenue can proceed against such third party.