Therefore, there H M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR. v. ANITA 1111 MERCHANT [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] is no escape from the conclusion that they are guilty of A unfair trade practice as defined under Section 36- A(1)(i)(ii) and (ix) of the Act. 37. The cancellation of allotment made in favour of the complaint deserves to be declared as wholly arbitrary, illegal and capricious. It is not in dispute that Smt. B Gursharan Kaur amount. The complainant, Dr. (Mrs.) Manjeet Kaur Monga deposited three other instalments. She did not despite further instalments because the respondents did not complete the construction within the stipulated time. For the first time a vague statement about C the construction was made in letter dated 26.12.2001, which was issued after 12 years of the booking. Even thereafter the respondents did not disclose the stage-wise progress in the construction work and, as mentioned above, they deliberately misconstrued the complaint’s protest dated 22.05.2002 as her disinclination to take the flat. D …..Therefore, it must be held that the complainant was justified in not paying further instalments of price and the respondent committed grave illegality by cancelling the allotment.” The quantum of compensation as has been decreed in the E aforementioned judgement of the Hon’ble COMPAT and also upheld by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India stipulates a fair, just, equitable and reasonable award. The respondent has unscrupulously deprived the appellant of the due benefit of escalation in property prices since 1989 F till date and therefore, in to put the appellant in the same place and deny the benefit of his own illegality to the respondent this Hon’ble Court ought to compensate the appellant in terms of the prevailing market value of the property in question. In conclusion, the appellant seeks the return of the G instalments paid by her to the respondent plus compound interest @ 15% p.a. from the date of actual refund, in addition to damages quantified at Rs. 14,00,000/- for mental agony and expenses incurred in protracted litigation.” H 1112 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 6.3.1. We are constrained to observe, in regard to the above- quoted part of the of the State Commission that in the said paragraph 29, the State Commission purportedly extracted a few parts of paragraphs 36 and 37 of the decision of COMPAT in the case of Dr. Manjeet Kaur Monga but then, placed two more passages as if being the part of extractions, though the said two passages had obviously been B the part of submissions of the complainant where for the first time, the claim of compound interest @ 15% p.a. occurred in this case. Although, such a presentation in the dated 12.03.2020 of the State Commission (as appearing in the copy of placed before us – pp. 166-167 of the paper book) seems to be that of a typographical/ C clerical error but, we have reproduced the same verbatim, for being relevant for the present purpose. 6.4. After the observations foregoing, the State Commission found the case of the present complainant akin to that of Dr. Manjeet Kaur Monga; and when the units in question had already been sold, found it D just and proper to direct the present appellants to refund the deposited amount together with compound interest @ 14% from the date of deposit.