Different tests are laid down for interpretation of an entry in a taxing statute, namely, dictionary B meaning, technical meaning, user’s point of view, popular meaning, etc.” XXX XXX XXX “38. Whether a product would be a drug or a cosmetic sometimes C poses a difficult question and, thus, answer thereto may not be easy. For the said purpose, the court may not only be required to consider the contents thereof, but also the history of the entry, the purpose for which the product is used, the manner in which it has been dealt with under the relevant statute as also the interpretation thereof by the implementing authorities.” D 9.8 Thus, as per the settled position of law while considering a particular entry the principles of classification which are fundamental to any matter relating to classification under the taxing statute are: (a) plain meaning to be given to the taxing provision; E (b) burden to prove classification in a particular entry is always on the Revenue; (c) any ambiguity has to be resolved in favour of the assessee and in case of a reasonable doubt, the construction most beneficial to the assessee must be adopted; F (d) specific entry would override a residuary entry; and (e) resort to residuary entry is to be taken as a last measure, only when by liberal construction the specific entry cannot cover the goods in question. G 9.9 At this stage it is required to be noted that the Guwahati High Court and the Rajasthan High Court have held the Dettol to be a drug under the respective entries of Assam VAT Act and Rajasthan VAT Act and have rejected the submission of the Revenue that the Dettol falls under the residuary entry. It is to be noted against the decision of the H 78 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Rajasthan High Court, the Revenue had preferred the SLPs before this Court which are dismissed by this Court. 9.10 In view of the above and considering the dominant use of Dettol and the active ingredients of Dettol referred to hereinabove and that the Dettol is used as an antiseptic and is used in hospitals for surgical B use, medical use and midwifery due to therapeutic & prophylactic properties the same would fall under Entry 36(8) (h) (vi) as claimed by the appellant and would not fall under the residuary entry as claimed by the Revenue. To that extent the impugned and passed by the High Court deserves to be quashed and set aside. C 10. In view of the above and for the reason stated above, present appeal succeeds in part. The impugned and passed by the High Court in so far as the products Mosquito Mats, Coils and Vaporizers and Mortein Insect Killers; Harpic Toilet Cleaner and Lizol Floor Cleaners is hereby confirmed. So far as the impugned and passed by the High Court with respect to Dettol Antiseptic D Liquid is concerned, the impugned and passed by the High Court is set aside and it is held that the product Dettol would fall under Entry 36(8) (h)(vi) of Schedule III of the KVAT Act and shall be liable to be taxed at 4%.