Instead, the Constituent Assembly of India could with the “consent and concurrence” of the States frame Constitutions for all the States in consonance with the model State Constitution which was framed earlier and that these State Constitutions would be a Part of the Indian Constitution itself.211 Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel explained the shift from the theory of two Constitutions (at the level of the Union and the States) to a single Constitution (only at 209 ibid 210 See Report of the Committee for the Drafting of a Model Constitution for the Indian States (March 22 1949) 211 B Shiva Rao, The Framing of India’s Constitution: A Study, Pg. 552 IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 157 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] the level of the Union which would incorporate State Constitutions) in the following words: “When the covenants establishing the various Unions of States were entered into, it was contemplated that the constitutions of the various Unions would be formed by their respective Constituent Assemblies within the framework of the covenants and the Constitution of India. These provisions were made in the covenants at a time when we were still working under the shadow of the theory, that the assumption, by the Constituent Assembly of India, of the constitution-making authority in respect of the States would constitute an infringement of the autonomy of the States. As however, the States came closer to the Centre, it was realised that the idea of separate Constitutions being framed for the diff erent constituent unis of the Indian Union was a legacy from the Rulers’ polity and that in a people’s polity there was no scope for variegated constitutional patterns. We, therefore, discussed this matter with the Premiers of the various Unions and decided, with their concurrence, that the Constitution of the States should also form an integral part of the Constitution of India. The readiness with which the legislatures of the three States in which such bodies are functioning at present, namely, Mysore, Travancore and Cochin Union and Saurashtra, have accepted this procedure, bears testimony of the wish of the people of the States to eschew the separatist trends of the past.”212 (emphasis supplied) 251. The Constituent Assembly of India was unable to lay down the division of legislative competence between the State and the Union because the Indian States had earlier acceded legislative competence to the Dominion of India only over the subjects of Defence, Foreign Aff airs and Communications. The reason for the Indian States acceding legislative competence only with respect to these three specifi c subjects is traceable to the Cabinet Mission Plan. The Cabinet Mission examined whether a separate and fully independent sovereign State of Pakistan could be formed. It rejected the idea of a separate sovereign State of Pakistan and as 212 Constituent Assembly Debates (Volume 10; 12 Oct 1949) 158 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. a compromise recommended a three-tier basis for the Constitution. There was to be a Union of India, embracing both British India and Princely States.