725 of 1998 fi led by the appellant and upheld the vires of the Act of 1955 as amended from time to time, particularly by the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997. The pertinent fi ndings of the Division Bench of the High Court may be epitomized as under: i. The Court did not fi nd favour with the contention of the Petitioner that the impugned legislations had the eff ect of taxing the vehicles, carrying passengers or goods and, hence, the State Legislature does not have the competence to enact it. It was held that from a reading of the Preamble of the Act and also various provisions thereof, it was clear that the Act seeks to impose tax, not on motor vehicles, but on the passengers and goods carried therein. That the import of the Act could be gathered from the Preamble which provides that it has been enacted to provide for levying a tax on passengers and goods carried by road in motor vehicles. That simply for the reason that notices have been issued to the owners or assessment s have been passed against the owners of the vehicles, it could not be said that the tax is levied on the motor vehicles. NHPC LTD. v. STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH 13 SECRETARY & ORS.[B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] ii. That the Preamble of the Act of 1955 provided that the same was an Act to provide for levying tax on passengers and goods carried by road in ‘certain’ motor vehicles. The word ‘certain’ is omitted by the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997. That this change in no way suggests that the scope of the Act was amended to include taxation on vehicles, instead of on the passengers and goods carried therein. iii. That the defect in the Explanation to Section 3(1) of the Act of 1955, which was noted by the Division Bench of the High Court in passing the dated 27 March, 1997, had also been removed by omitting the said Explanation and inserting Section 3(1A) in the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997, which seeks to bring non-fare paying passengers at par with fare paying passengers. Further, the Competent Authority as well as Schedule I to the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997 prescribe the fare and freight for diff erent categories of motor vehicles and for diff erent roads and the higher of the two would apply. iv. That Section 3(1A) of the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997, when read with the amended defi nition of the term ‘business’ would leave no scope for doubt that all kinds of passengers and goods carried in private service vehicles are subject to taxation, under the Act, irrespective of whether such passengers or goods were being carried for hire or reward. Therefore, the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997, covers non-fare paying passengers (such as the appellant’s employees and their children) as also goods and material belonging to the appellant themselves. Aggrieved by the aforesaid of the High Court, which has been followed by the High Court in its subsequent dated 21 July, 2009 in CWP 79 of 2007, the present appeals have been fi led.