It has to apply the principle of nullus commodum capere potest de injuria sua propria (no man can take advantage of his own wrong) in to prevent any miscarriage of justice. When the court is satisfi ed that one party to the dispute is manipulating the process to perpetuate illegality and to the detriment of the other, it should go beyond the procedural entrapment by rendering correct justice. Ashok Kapil v. Sana Ullah, (1996) 6 SCC 342, “7. If the crucial date is the date of allotment , the structure was not a building as defi ned in the Act. But can the respondent 100 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. be assisted by a court of law to take advantage of the mischief committed by him? The maxim “Nullus commodum capere potest de injuria sua propria” (No man can take advantage of his own wrong) is one of the salient tenets of equity. Hence, in the normal course, the respondent cannot secure the assistance of a court of law for enjoying the fruit of his own wrong.” (emphasis supplied) 22. Eureka Forbes Ltd. v. Allahabad Bank, (2010) 6 SCC 193, “66. The maxim nullus commodum capere potest de injuria sua propria has a clear mandate of law that, a person who by manipulation of a process frustrates the legal rights of others, should not be permitted to take advantage of his wrong or manipulations. In the present case Respondents 2 and 3 and the appellant have acted together while disposing off the hypothecated goods, and now, they cannot be permitted to turn back to argue, that since the goods have been sold, liability cannot be fastened upon Respondents 2 and 3 and in any case on the appellant. The Bench of this Court in Ashok Kapil v. Sana Ullah [(1996) 6 SCC 342] referred to rule of mischief and while explaining the word “building”, held as under: (SCC p. 346, para 11) “11. Stroud’s Judicial Dictionary (Vol. I of the 5th Edn.) states that ‘what is a building must always be a question of degree and circumstances’. Quoting from Victoria City Corpn. v. Bishop of Vancouver Island [(1921) 2 AC 384 (PC)] (AC at p. 390), the celebrated lexicographer commented that ‘the ordinary and natural meaning of the word “building” includes the fabric and the ground on which it stands’. In Black’s Law Dictionary (5th Edn.) the meaning of ‘building’ is given as ‘A structure or edifice enclosing a space within its walls, and usually, but not necessarily, covered with a roof’. (emphasis in original). The said description is a recognition of the fact that roof is not a necessary and indispensable adjunct for a building because there can be roofless buildings. So a building, even after losing the roof, can continue to be a building in its general meaning. Taking MUMTAZ YARUD DOWLA WAKF v. M/S BADAM 1007 BALAKRISHNA HOTEL PVT. LTD. & ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] recourse to such general meaning in the present context would help to prevent a mischief.” (emphasis supplied) 23.