b) Domicile or registration of the company is not relevant. The making, maintaining, managing and working is insufficient. c) Directors authorised to manage the work and employees rendering service again are insufficient. H 472 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A d) The determinative test is where the sole right to manage and control every department of its affairs lies. Managers and directors whose services are merely remunerated is not a relevant criterion. The profits although received by the employees as remuneration, do not belong to them and are not in their disposal. Incurring of debts or payment to agents are of no consequence. B e) The test is, where the head and seat and directing power of the affairs of the company is, which works with some degree of permanence while the expression ‘wholly’ would seem to recognize the possibility of the seat of such power being divided between two distinct and separate places. C f) The question to be asked is from where the person or group of persons control or direct the business. g) Mere activity by the company does not create residence. h) In case of dual residence, it is necessary to show that the D company performs some of the vital organic functions incidental to its existence in both the places so that there are in fact two centres of management. i)Control and management which must be shown is not merely theoretical control and power, or de jure control and power but E the de facto control and power actually exercised in the course of the conduct and management of the affairs of the firm. Mere presence of directors or vesting of power in them is insufficient unless otherwise they had exercised the power elsewhere in the territory under question. F j)Even acting under a power of attorney is not sufficient as the same can be cancelled at any moment and as a power of attorney holder they must submit to the principal an explanation of what they have been doing and the principal has the right of keeping a vigilant eye over their work from the board room and the power G exercised by the power of attorney holder is only de jure control and not de facto control and management. k) The intrinsic test is where the central control and management actually abides. Mere presence of even the managing partner or mere delegation of power is insufficient. H MANSAROVAR COMMERCIAL PVT. LTD. v. COMMISSIONER 473 OF INCOME TAX, DELHI [M. R. SHAH, J.] l)The expression control and management of its affairs is much A wider than the expression used in some treatises ‘Control and Management of the business.’ 4.4 It is further submitted that in light of the principles laid down in the aforesaid decisions, it is well settled that a question, as to where the control and management lies is to be decided in light of the actual or the B factual exercise of control, inasmuch as the Courts consistently have taken the view that mere presence of a partner firm in India even when he happens to be the managing partner, is not conclusive of the issue.