Illustrations (a) A is accused of the murder of B by beating him. Whatever was said or done by A or B or the by-standers at the beating, G or so shortly before or after it as to form part of the transaction, is a relevant fact. (b) .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. (c) .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. H 722 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A (d) .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..” PW-5 and PW-13 have attributed the aforesaid statements mentioned in paragraph 16 above to the appellant and PW-12 Shashi Bala which were immediately made after the incident of firing. The alleged statements are certainly connected with the fact in issue, namely, B the alleged act of the appellant of killing the deceased. Therefore, assuming that the statements attributed to the appellant and PW-12 were in fact made, the conduct of the appellant of making the said statement becomes relevant in view of Section 6. Section 5 of the Evidence Act provides that evidence may be given in a proceeding of the existence or non-existence of every fact in issue and of such other facts which are C declared to be relevant under the provisions of Chapter II of the Evidence Act, 1872. Section 6 is applicable to facts which are not in issue. Such facts become relevant only when the same satisfy the tests laid down in Section 6. Hence, the statement of an accused to which Section 6 is applicable cannot be treated as a confession of guilt. The statement D becomes relevant which can be read in evidence as it shows the conduct of the appellant immediately after the incident. In any case, in the facts of the case, we have held that the version of the two witnesses who have deposed about the appellant making such statement does not inspire confidence. E 19. The prosecution has failed to prove that the appellant had either any intention of causing the death of the deceased or the intention of causing such bodily injury to the deceased which was likely to cause his death. Assuming that when the appellant approached the deceased to stop him from using the telephone, he was aware that the change lever was not in a safety position, it is not possible to attribute knowledge F to him that by his failure to keep SAF in the safety position, he was likely to cause the death of the deceased. The knowledge of the possibility of the deceased who was himself a policeman pulling SAF carbine cannot be attributed to the appellant. In fact, the appellant could not have imagined that the deceased would do anything like this. Thus, by no stretch of the G imagination, it is a case of culpable homicide as defined under Section 299 of IPC as the existence of none of the three ingredients incorporated therein was proved by the prosecution.