The only inhibition provided is that this marriage shall be subject to sub-section (3) of Section 7-A. We need not elaborately consider the scope of Section 7-A (3) as that is not relevant for our purpose.” 8. The view expressed by the Madras High Court in S. Balakrishnan Pandiyan (Supra), in the opinion of this Court is erroneous. It is premised on the assumption that every marriage requires a public solemnization or declaration. In the opinion of this Court, such a view is simplistic because often due to parental or pressure among kinship groups, or caste/ community institutions, couples intending to enter into matrimony, may not be able to, for the reasons of such opposition- hold or give such a public declaration. Doing so would imperil their lives or could in the very least likely result in danger to their bodily integrity or at worst, a forceable or coerced separation of one from the other. It is not hard to visualize other pressures being brought to bear upon two individuals, who are otherwise adults and have exercised their freewill. To superimpose the condition of 330 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. a public declaration, which is absent in section 7A1, in the opinion of this Court, it is not only narrowing the otherwise wide import of the statue but also would be violative of the rights under Article 21 of the Constitution of 1 7A. Special provision regarding suyamariyathai and seerthiruththa marriages. - (1) This section shall apply to any marriage between any two Hindus, whether called suyamariyathai marriage or seerthiruththa marriage or by any other name, solemnized in the presence of relatives, friends or other persons - (a) by each party to the marriage declaring in any language understood by the parties that each takes the other to be his wife or, as the case may be, her husband; or (b) by each party to the marriage garlanding the other or putting a ring upon any fi nger of the other; or (c) by the tying of the thali. (2) (a) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 7, but subject to the other provisions of this Act, all marriages to which this section applies solemnized after the commencement of the Hindu Marriage [Tamil Nadu] Amendment Act, 1967, shall be good and valid in law. (b) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 7 or in any text, rule or interpretation of Hindu law or any custom or usage as part of that law in force immediately before the commencement of the Hindu Marriage ([Tamil Nadu] Amendment) Act, 1967, or in any other law in force immediately before such commencement or in any , decree or of any Court, but subject to sub-section (3), all marriages to which this section applies solemnized at any time before such commencement shall be deemed to have been, with eff ect on and from the date of the solemnization of each such marriage, respectively, good and valid in law. (3) Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to- (a) render valid any marriage referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (2), if before the commencement of the Hindu Marriage [Tamil Nadu] Amendment) Act, 1967, - (i) such marriage has been dissolved under any custom or law; or (ii) the women who was a party to such marriage has, whether during or after the life of the other party thereto, lawfully married another; or (b) render invalid a marriage between any two Hindus solemnized at any time before such commencement, if such marriage was valid at that time; or (c) render valid a marriage between any two Hindus solemnized at any time before such commencement, if such marriage was invalid at that time on any ground other than that it was not solemnized in accordance with the customary rites and ceremonies of either party thereto: Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any person liable to any punishment whatsoever by reason of anything done or omitted to be done by him before such commencement.