The Court emphatically held that, “66. The result is that Kochi Cricket [BCCI v. Kochi Cricket (P) Ltd., (2018) 6 SCC] will therefore continue to apply so as to make applicable the salutary amendments made by the 2015 Amendment Act to all court proceedings initiated after 23-10- F 2015.” 3.11 It is further submitted that the in BCCI (supra), so far as it differentiated between arbitral proceedings and court proceedings, was followed in Government of India Vs. Vedanta Limited, (2020) 10 SCC 1 (Three Judge Bench), and the Court emphasized that the Amendment Act, 2015 would be applicable to court G proceedings arising out of arbitration proceedings, irrespective of whether such arbitration proceedings commenced prior to or after the Amendment Act, 2015. 3.12 It is further submitted that the in BCCI (supra) has also been followed in Patel Engineering Limited Vs. North H 338 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A Eastern Electric Power Corporation Limited, (2020) 7 SCC 167 (Para 15) (Three Judge Bench). 3.13 In light of this brief conspectus of the aforesaid decisions, it is submitted that, the decision in BCCI (supra), regarding judicial proceedings referred to in Section 26 not being controlled by Section 21 B of the principal Act, has been followed by a coordinate bench of this Hon’ble Court in Ssangyong Engineering and Construction Company Limited (supra) and the three-judge benches in Hindustan Construction Company Limited and Anr. (supra), Vedanta Limited (supra) and Patel Engineering Limited(supra). It is further submitted that on the other hand, the decision by the coordinate bench in Parmar C Construction Company (supra) was rendered in ignorance of the decision in BCCI (supra). Further, the coordinate bench in Parmar Construction Company (supra) placed reliance on the decisions in Aravali Power Company Private Limited(supra) and S.P. Singla Constructions Private Limited (supra), neither of which concerned D judicial proceedings as they were rendered on the issue of qualification or disqualification of the arbitrator. It is further submitted that the decision in the case of Parmar Construction Company (supra) was followed by the three-judge bench in Pradeep Vinod Construction Company (supra) without any reference to BCCI (supra). E 3.14 It is therefore, the submission on behalf of the appellant that the decision of this Court in the case of BCCI (supra) was binding on the coordinate bench which rendered the decision in the case of Parmar Construction Company (supra), this Court has not noticed the said decision and therefore, the decision in the case of Parmar Construction Company (supra) can be said to be per incuriam and/or sub silentio. F It is submitted that therefore, the decision in the case of Parmar Construction Company (supra) being per incuriam, the larger Bench, which rendered the decision in the case of Pradeep Vinod Construction Company (supra) ought not to have placed reliance on Parmar Construction Company (supra) . Therefore, relying upon the decision G of this Court in the case of BCCI (supra), which has been subsequently followed in other decisions referred to hereinabove, it is prayed to allow the present appeal.