(vi) Whether candidates holding qualifi cations other than the one prescribed by the 2014 Rules or the advertisement, though allegedly higher, could be considered eligible? (vii) Whether the State (i.e., the employer) could be forced to fi ll all vacancies advertised; and whether it could be restrained from carrying it forward for fi lling it as per the amended / new Rules. Issue No. (i) 24. It is well settled that eligibility criteria / conditions, unless provided otherwise in the extant rules or the advertisement, must be fulfi lled by ANKITA THAKUR & ORS. v. THE H.P. STAFF SELECTION 849 COMMISSION & ORS. [MANOJ MISRA, J.] the candidate by the last date for receipt of applications specifi ed in the advertisement [See: Rakesh Kumar Sharma (supra)]. 25. In Bedanga Talukdar (supra), this Court observed: “29. …………… In our opinion, it is too well settled to need any further reiteration that all appointments to public offi ce have to be made in conformity with Article 14 of the Constitution of India. In other words, there must be no arbitrariness resulting from any undue favour being shown to any candidate. Therefore, the selection process has to be conducted strictly in accordance with the stipulated selection procedure. Consequently, when a particular schedule is mentioned in an advertisement, the same has to be scrupulously maintained. There cannot be any relaxation in the terms and conditions of the advertisement unless such a power is specifi cally reserved. Such a power could be reserved in the relevant statutory rules. Even if power of relaxation is provided in the rules, it must still be mentioned in the advertisement. In the absence of such power in the rules, it could still be provided in the advertisement. However, the power of relaxation, if exercised, has to be given due publicity. This would be necessary to ensure that those candidates who become eligible due to the relaxation, are aff orded an equal opportunity to apply and compete. Relaxation of any condition in advertisement without due publication would be contrary to the mandate of equality contained in Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India. 30. A perusal of the advertisement in this case will clearly show that there was no power of relaxation. In our opinion, the High Court committed an error in directing that the condition with regard to the submission of the disability certifi cate either along with the application form or before appearing in the preliminary examination could be relaxed in the case of Respondent 1. Such a course would not be permissible as it would violate the mandate of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India. 32. ………. It is settled law that there can be no relaxation in the terms and conditions contained in the advertisement unless the 850 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. power of relaxation is duly reserved in the relevant rules and/ or in the advertisement. Even if there is a power of relaxation in the rules, the same would still have to be specifi cally indicated in the advertisement.