Significantly, Chapter VI did not D contain any express provision mandating an ‘employer’ or an ‘establishment’ as defined in clauses (j) and (k) of section 2, respectively, to reserve any percentage of posts for promotion to persons with disabilities serving in the feeder cadre. However, Chapter VIII titled ‘NON-DISCRIMINATION’ in sub-section (2) of section 47 ordained E that no promotion shall be denied to a person merely on the ground of his disability. Sections 44 to 47, under Chapter VIII, envisaged that persons with disabilities should not face any discrimination in any of the fields specified therein, with section 47 particularly dealing with non- discrimination in Government employment. It is true that sub-section (2) of section 47 does not contain any mandate requiring the employer or F establishment to make reservation in promotional posts; on the contrary, it is a command to the employer or establishment that merely because an employee is suffering from a disability, as defined in section 2(i) of the PwD Act, 1995, he is not to be denied promotion. 14. However, it is noticed that even before the PwD Act, 1995 G was enacted, OM dated 20th November, 1989 had been issued by the DoPT whereby, reservations promotions (i) within Group ‘D’, (ii) from Group ‘D’ to Group ‘C’ and (iii) within Group ‘C’ to the three categories of ‘physically handicapped persons’, viz. the visually handicapped, the hearing handicapped and the orthopedically handicapped, were H 792 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A permissible. It was, however, clarified that each of the three categories of physically handicapped persons would be allowed reservation at 1 (one) per cent each and that applicability of the reservation would be limited to promotions being made to those posts that are identified as being capable of being filled/held by the appropriate category of physically handicapped. B 15. During the period intervening the advent of the PwD Act, 1995 and issuance of OM dated 29th December, 2005, the DoPT went on to issue Office Memoranda dated 18th February, 1997, 16th January, 1998 and 25th October, 2022. We need not consider the said office memoranda in any great detail except referring to the common thread C running through them, i.e., the DoPT sought to carve out the benefit of reservation in promotion for persons with disabilities even though whether there was an explicit legislative mandate to that effect was indeed a grey area for some. Notwithstanding the same, having regard to the objects that the PwD Act, 1995 intended to achieve by providing equal D opportunity, protection of rights and full participation to the persons with disabilities and viewed in the light of difficulties and inconveniences faced by them, the initiative of the DoPT to provide for reservation in promotion for them on at least Group ‘C’ and Group ‘D’ posts was indeed a step in the right direction. E 16. Be that as it may, mere absence of an express mandate in Chapter VI of the PwD Act, 1995 requiring reservation in promotion for persons with disabilities could not have been construed as not obliging the appropriate Government not to keep reserved vacancies on promotional posts for those answering clauses (i) to (iii) of section 33.