Further, the presence of whisky bottle, snacks pouches, etc. at the spot suggested that the deceased had some person to give him company. However, the prosecution evidence could not disclose as to whose finger prints were found on those articles. Thus, C the prosecution evidence leaves a large gap in the chain of circumstances thereby failing to rule out third person’s hand in the crime. Hence, the benefit of doubt must enure to the appellant. 15. Lastly, according to him, the High Court erred in observing that Santosh by secreting himself since the date of occurrence i.e. 11/ D 12.09.2000 till 23.09.2000 reflected a guilty mind. It was submitted that the said observation has no basis, firstly, because the presence of appellant in the apartment or thereabout on 11.09.2000, or any time thereafter, till recovery of dead body is not proved and, secondly, there is an explanation of Santosh that when information about the crime was received at his E native place, his parents requested him to go to Delhi to confirm the information. This explanation fits in with the circumstance that he surrendered in Court on 23.09.2000. 16. Per contra, on behalf of the State, it was argued that it is proved beyond doubt that theapartment where the body was found was F in the tenancy of Santosh; that there was recovery of blood-stained clothes at the pointing out and on the basis of disclosure made by Santosh; the blood on the said clothes was of same group as on the clothes worn by the deceased at the time of his death; that Santosh, despite being tenant, gave no information to the police regarding the murder rather, remained absconding till 23.09.2000 even though the police had raided G his native place on 20.09.2000; and there is no explanation from Santosh as to how dead body of the deceased was present in his apartment. Rather, a false case of denial was set up which is reflective of his guilty mind. Hence, the chain of incriminating circumstances is complete, conclusively pointing towards the guilt of the accused. Therefore, the appeal of Santosh be dismissed. H 738 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Submissions in Criminal Appeal No.576 of 2011 17. On behalf of State it was submitted that the High Court committed manifest error in discarding the expert report on the ground that the specimen handwriting and signature of Neeraj were not admissible for comparison because they were forcibly obtained without any B of the Court as contemplated under section 73 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (for short “the IEA, 1872”). It was urged that the view taken by the High Court is in teeth of eleven-judge Constitution Bench decision of this Court in State of Bombay v. Kathi Kalu Oghad3. Otherwise also, neither Article 20(3) of the Constitution of India nor Section 73 of the IEA, 1872 fetters the investigating agency’s powers to obtain specimen C signature of an accused or a suspect during investigation. 18. In light of the above, on behalf of State, it was contended that since Neeraj had not disputed the specimen signature and writing obtained from him and utilised for comparison, the expert report could not have been discarded.