Chaturvedi vs. Union of India & Ors9 had also held that judicial review is not an appeal from a decision but a review of the manner in which the decision is made. Power of judicial review is meant to ensure that the individual receives fair treatment and B not to ensure that the conclusion which the authority reaches is necessarily correct in the eye of the Court. When an inquiry is conducted on the charges of misconduct by a public servant, the Court or Tribunal would be concerned only to the extent of determining whether the inquiry was held by a competent officer or whether the rules of natural justice and C statutory rules were complied with. 11. In Om Kumar & Others vs. Union of India10this Court had also after considering the Wednesbury Principles and the doctrine of proportionality held that the question of quantum of punishment in disciplinary matters is primarily for the disciplinary authority, and the jurisdiction of the High Courts under Article 226 of the Constitution or of D the Administrative Tribunals is limited and is confined to the applicability of one or the other of the well-known principles known as “Wednesbury Principles”11 namely whether the was contrary to law, or whether relevant factors were not considered, or whether irrelevant factors were considered or whether the decision was one which no reasonable person could have taken. E 12. Again, a three-judge Bench in case of Deputy General Manager (Appellate Authority) & Ors. vs. Ajai Kumar Srivastava12 circumscribing the power of judicial review by the constitutional courts held as under: “24. It is thus settled that the power of judicial review, of F the constitutional courts, is an evaluation of the decision- making process and not the merits of the decision itself. It is to ensure fairness in treatment and not to ensure fairness of conclusion. The court/tribunal may interfere in the proceedings held against the delinquent if it is, in any manner, inconsistent with the rules of natural justice or in G violation of the statutory rules prescribing the mode of 9 (1995) 6 SCC 749 10 (2001) 2 SCC 386 11 Associated Provincial Picture Houses Ltd. vs. Wednesbury Corporation [1948] 1 KB 223 12 (2021) 2 SCC 612 H 808 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A enquiry or where the conclusion or finding reached by the disciplinary authority is based on no evidence. If the conclusion or finding be such as no reasonable person would have ever reached or where the conclusions upon consideration of the evidence reached by the disciplinary authority are perverse or suffer from patent error on the B face of record or based on no evidence at all, a writ of certiorari could be issued. To sum up, the scope of judicial review cannot be extended to the examination of correctness or reasonableness of a decision of authority as a matter of fact. C 25. xxxxxxx 26. xxxxxxx 27. xxxxxxxx 28. The constitutional court while exercising its jurisdiction of judicial review under Article 226 or Article 136 of the D Constitution would not interfere with the findings of fact arrived at in the departmental enquiry proceedings except in a case of mala fides or perversity i.e.