The mix of judicial and technical members envisaged by the statute is for the reason that the Tribunal is called upon to consider questions which involve the application and assessment of science and its interface with the environment... B 134. NGT is an expert adjudicatory body on the environment.” 17. The NGT does not have a dearth of ‘expertise’ when it comes to the issues of environment. 18. Section 15 empowers the NGT to award compensation to the C victims of pollution and for environmental damage, to provide for restitution of property which has been damaged and for the restitution of the environment. The NGT cannot abdicate its jurisdiction by entrusting these core adjudicatory functions to administrative expert committees. Expert committees may be appointed to assist the NGT in the performance of its task and as D an adjunct to its fact-finding role. But adjudication under the statute is entrusted to the NGT and cannot be delegated to administrative authorities. Adjudicatory functions assigned to courts and tribunals cannot be hived off to administrative committees. 19. The NGT has in the present case abdicated its jurisdiction and E entrusted judicial functions to an administrative expert committee. An expert committee may be able to assist the NGT, for instance, by carrying out a fact-finding exercise, but the adjudication has to be by the NGT. This is not a delegable function. Thus, the impugned in the appeal cannot be sustained. The consequence of F the impugned is to efface the meticulous exercise which was carried out by the earlier Benches. Valuable time has been lost in the meantime and crucial issues pertaining to the environment in the present case have been placed on the back- burner.” G 14. In a recent landmark decision, Madhyamam Broadcasting Limited v. Union of India (2023) SCC Online 366, the principles of natural justice have been crystalized in the words of Hon’ble CJI-Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud as under: “53. …The facet of audi alterum partem encompasses the H components of notice, contents of the notice, reports of inquiry, SINGRAULI SUPER THERMAL POWER STATION v. 455 ASHWANI KUMAR DUBEY & ORS. [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] and materials that are available for perusal. While situational A modifications are permissible, the rules of natural justice cannot be modified to suit the needs of the situation to such an extent that the core of the principle is abrogated because it is the core that infuses procedural reasonableness….” 15. A reading of the above, clearly indicates that the NGT is a B judicial body and therefore exercises adjudicatory function. The very nature of an adjudicatory function would carry with it the requirement that principles of natural justice are complied with, particularly when there is an adversarial system of hearing of the cases before the Tribunal or for that matter before the Courts in India. The NGT though is a C special adjudicatory body constituted by an Act of Parliament, nevertheless, the discharge of its function must be in accordance with law which would also include compliance with the principles of natural justice as envisaged in Section 19(1) of the Act.