D 2.6 In the Second Appeal, the High Court, while admitting the appeal, framed the following substantial question of law: “Whether a sale deed executed by the attorney of the vendor can be challenged by a third party only on the ground that the attorney E executive in the deed was not duly authorised by a power of attorney.” Subsequently, the High Court reframed the following substantial questions of law: “1) Whether the endorsement made on the sale deed No.1-10394 F dated 3.9.1968 [Exbt.11] in respect of the power of attorney is substantive evidence in respect of the power of attorney authorising the plaintiff No.2 to sell the said land as demised in the sale deed dated 3.9.1968? 2. Whether the defendants had fundamental onus to discharge in G respect that the power of attorney was not in existence or forged and as such, the sale deed dated 3.9.68 cannot be treated as the instrument of a valid transfer?” 2.7 By the impugned and , the High Court has allowed the second appeal No. 01/2005 by setting aside the concurrent H 152 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A findings recorded by the courts below by drawing a statutory presumption in respect of existence of PoA by virtue of endorsement. While holding so, the High Court has considered Section 33(1)(c) of the Registration Act. Consequently, the High Court has decreed the suit and has directed the appellants – original defendants to handover the vacant possession of the suit land to the original plaintiffs. B 2.8 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned and passed by the High Court allowing the second appeal and quashing and setting aside the s and s of the courts below dismissing the suit and consequently decreeing the suit in favour of the original plaintiffs, the original defendants have preferred the present C appeal. 3. Shri Rana Mukherjee, learned Senior Advocate has appeared on behalf of the appellants – original defendants and Shri Hrishikesh Baruah, learned Advocate has appeared on behalf of the original plaintiffs. 3.1 Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants – original D defendants has vehemently submitted that the High Court has committed a serious error in law by setting aside the concurrent findings of the courts below in the second appeal. This is particularly when both the courts below concurrently found that plaintiff No.2 is alleged to have acquired title over the suit land on the basis of the sale deed dated 3.9.1968 E executed by him in his own favour on the basis of the PoA executed by its true owner Braja Mohan Dey, but failed to produce the same before the Court and as such in the absence of PoA, genuinity of the sale deed dated 3.9.1968 cannot be presumed to be correct. Further, on the basis of the sale deed dated 3.9.1968, subsequent sale deed dated 29.09.1968 in favour of plaintiff No.1 by plaintiff No.2 also cannot be treated as F genuine. Therefore, the very execution of the sale deed dated 3.9.1968 is doubtful and it cannot be said that the same has been executed validly.