Mandatory contents of the resolution plan.— xxx (2) A resolution plan shall provide: xxx (d) provides for the manner in which proceedings in respect of avoidance transactions, if any, under Chapter III or fraudulent or wrongful trading under Chapter VI of Part II of the Code, will be pursued after the approval of the resolution plan and the manner in which the proceeds, if any, from such proceedings shall be distributed: Provided that this clause shall not apply to any resolution plan that has been submitted to the Adjudicating Authority under sub-section (6) of Section 30 on or before the date of commencement of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency Resolution Process for Corporate Persons) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2022.’ RAMKRISHNA FORGINGS LTD v. RAVINDRA LOONKAR, 685 R. P. OF ACIL LTD.[AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] of benefi t is acquired from the adjudication on avoidance application and the Resolution Plan is silent on the treatment of such applications, such benefi t must be given to the creditors of the Corporate Debtor. 15. Learned senior counsel submitted that the commercial wisdom of the CoC has been held to be supreme in K Sashidhar v Indian Overseas Bank, (2019) 12 SCC 150, the relevant being at Paragraphs 52, 59 & 64 and Committee of Creditors of Essar Steel India Ltd. v Satish Kumar Gupta (2020) 8 SCC 531. Further, reliance was placed on the decision in Ebix Singapore (P) Ltd. v Committee of Creditors of Educomp Solutions Limited, 2021 SCC OnLine SC 707, holding that the Adjudicating Authority under Section 31(2) of the Code can only examine the validity of the Resolution Plan on the anvil of the stipulation in Section 30(2) of the Code and either approve or reject the Resolution Plan but cannot compel the CoC to negotiate further with a successful Resolution Applicant and also that the Adjudicating Authority is duty bound to ensure the completion of CIRP within the prescribed timeline of 330 days under the Code. 16. As far as the reference in the Impugned by the NCLAT, that interference was justifi ed since “fi gures of crores” are involved, learned senior counsel submitted that it has no basis in the Code or law, as it does not provide for diff erential treatment to a Resolution Plan, based on the quantum of the fi gure involved in the Corporate Debtor’s insolvency. 17. With regard to the OL being given the chance of coming up with re-valuation, the stand taken by learned senior counsel was that the OL is created by the Companies Act, 2013 and is not contemplated under the Code which provides a specifi c mechanism for valuation to be conducted in respect of the assets of a Corporate Debtor under the CIRP Regulations, specifi cally Regulations 27 and 35, as noted hereinabove. 18. Learned senior counsel submitted that even if for the sake of argument, it may be accepted that the NCLT can exercise discretion in rare cases and for re-valuation, in the present case, the same cannot be justifi ed as absolutely no reason has even been indicated by the NCLT or the NCLAT for undertaking such exercise in respect of the assets of the Corporate Debtor, which is arbitrary and unjustifi ed.