Therefore, in the case at hand, it was not necessary for the appellant to claim a declaration of ownership. There was no cloud on his title. Therefore, the suit, as originally fi led, was maintainable. 17. Only two questions were required to be dealt with. The fi rst was whether the appellant had established that he was in possession of the suit property on the date of the institution of the suit. If the appellant fails to prove this issue, the suit will be liable to be dismissed. The burden was on the respondents to prove their plea of adverse possession, as there was a counter- claim seeking a declaration of ownership based on adverse possession. The counter-claim is in the nature of a cross-suit. 18. The High Court has decided only one issue: whether the amendment was barred by limitation. Therefore, in view of the above conclusion, the High Court will have to decide the other issues. 19. There were two substantial questions of law framed by the High Court, which read thus:- SRI. K.M. KRISHNA REDDY v. SRI. VINOD REDDY & ANR. 219 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] “1. Whether the appellate court was justifi ed in reversing the and decree passed by the trial court without considering the aspect of limitation? 2. Whether in the facts and circumstances of the case of appellate court was justifi ed in reversing the and decree passed by the trial court based on Exbhit P-1?” We agree with the High Court that the amendment was barred by limitation, considering the date of the cause of action pleaded and the date of applying for amendment. It was not the case of the respondents that the suit as originally fi led was barred by limitation. Therefore, the fi rst question does not survive. The second question, as framed, is not a substantial question of law. 20. As the High Court has not considered the merits of the suit and counter-claim, we propose to remand the regular second appeal to the High Court. 21. Hence, appeal is partly allowed. The impugned dated 10th February 2010, is set aside, and Regular Second Appeal No. 1361 of 2007 is restored to the fi le of the High Court. Since the appeal is of 2007, which was admitted for fi nal hearing, we direct the High Court to frame additional substantial questions of law by exercising power under the proviso of sub- Section (5) of Section 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. The High Court shall proceed to decide the Regular Second Appeal in accordance with the law. Except for the issue of amendment of the plaint being barred by the limitation, all other issues are left open to be decided by the High Court. 22. Normally, this Court should never fi x a time-bound schedule for disposal of a case pending before High Courts, which are Constitutional Courts. But, in this case, the Regular Second Appeal is of 2007. Therefore, the High Court shall give necessary out-of-turn priority to the disposal of the Regular Second Appeal.