And 20 percent ground coverage will be admissible. (c) DPR of Theme ParkIAmusement Park. And the integrated layout plan will be approved by the concerned government agency. The internal and external development work of the project will be done by the developer himself. In view of E the above, development fee will not be payable by the developer to the government agency. 6. In the event of the implementation of the theme park project being done through the process of PPP/SPV, application for approval of the layout of the theme park project and building plan etc. For the construction and operation of the theme park, S.P.V. F or P.P.P. will be done with the prior permission of the government partner. 7. The said policy of theme park will be applicable in the entire state. Development Authorities have been established under the Uttar Pradesh Town Planning and Development Act-1973 and G Uttar Pradesh Industrial Area Development Act-1976. Therefore, instructions will be issued to the subordinate development authorities and public undertakings by the Housing and Urban Planning Department and the Department of Infrastructure and Industrial Development to implement the policy of the above theme H parkIamusement park. BHASIN INFOTECH AND INFRASTRUCTURE PRIVATE LTD. 1069 v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 8. Hon’ble Chief Minister has been authorized to take necessary A decisions to implement the above proposed policy.” 3.6. In view of the aforesaid policy dated 06.11.2013, petitioner made a request to respondent No. 2 to recognise the project land as tourist destination whereupon, the Managing Director of UPSIDC wrote a letter dated 31.01.2015 to Principal Secretary (Tourism), Government B of Uttar Pradesh, recommending that the said project of the petitioner be declared as tourist destination and be provided with necessary exemption. It was further stated that probably, the final decision on the subject shall be taken by the State Cabinet and hence, the necessary material for its consideration was also enclosed. The said letter dated C 31.01.2015 reads as follows: - “Investment of about Rs. 800 crores by Bhasin Infotech & Infrastructure Pvt Ltd on Plot No. SH-2 of Surajpur Site-4 Greater Noida, Industrial Area of Corporation while doing the construction of a multiplex commercial and hotel in the name of Grand Venice, D which has been greatly appreciated by the tourism point of view. On the request of the developer company, investment of more than Rs. 500 crores and employment availability and for the purpose of promoting tourism and in to make their project run smoothly, it is recommended to declare the place as a tourist destination, to give exemption to them. Possibly the level of the E above decision will be of the State Cabinet, so the necessary material is being enclosed for the cabinet note. Therefore, it is kindly requested to take necessary action on the above.” F 3.6.1. We may also take note of a document placed on record with IA No. 156279 of 2022, said to be the part of material sent with the aforesaid letter dated 31.01.2015.