Although the reason for re-defi ning “governmental authority” has not been made available by the appellants, we presume that unworkability of the scheme for grant of exemption because of the restricted defi nition of “governmental authority” was the trigger therefor and hence, the scope of the exemption was expanded to cover a larger section of entities answering the defi nition of “governmental authority”. An amendment by way of the Clarifi cation Notifi cation was, therefore, introduced which expanded the defi nition of “governmental authority” and widened the exemption base for service tax to be provided even to an authority or a board or any other body, set up by an Act of Parliament or a State Legislature without the condition of having been established with 90% or more participation by way of equity or control by Government to carry out any function entrusted to a municipality under Article 243W of the Constitution. 16. While the aforesaid interpretation of amended clause 2(s) has been upheld by the Patna High Court, the appellants have countered the same by submitting that the amended defi nition of “governmental authority” as in clause 2(s) should be interpreted in a manner so as to make the long line under clause 2(s) applicable to both sub-clause (i) and sub-clause (ii). In other words, as per the appellants, to qualify as a “governmental authority” under clause 2(s)(i), such authority, board or body must not only be a statutory authority set up by an Act of Parliament or a State Legislature but must also have 90% or more participation of the Government by way of equity or control to carry out any like function that a municipality under Article 243W of the Constitution is entrusted to discharge. 436 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 17. We have no hesitation to disagree with the latter interpretation sought to be placed by the appellants, for the reasons that follow. 18. In Superintendent & Legal Remembrancer, State of West Bengal vs. Corporation of Calcutta11, a nine-judge Bench of this Court, relying upon Craies’ On Statute Law (6th edn), stated that where the language of a statute is clear, the words are in themselves precise and unambiguous, and a literal reading does not lead to absurd construction, the necessity for employing rules of interpretation disappears and reaches its vanishing point. 19. This Court in Union of India & Ors. vs. Ind-Swift Laboratories Ltd.12, held that harmonious construction is required to be given to a provision only when it is shrouded in ambiguity and lacks clarity, rather than when it is unequivocally clear and unambiguous. 20. What is plain and ambiguous from a bare reading of a provision under consideration must be interpreted in the same way as it has been stipulated and not in a way that it presumes defi ciency and radically changes the meaning and context of the provision. This is the view expressed in the decision of a fi ve-judge Bench of this Court in Commissioner of Sales Tax, U.P.