All other leases, if created, necessarily fall within the ambit of the second para. Thus, dehors the instrument parties can create a lease as envisaged in the second para of Section 107 which reads thus: “All other leases of immovable property may be made either by a registered instrument or by oral agreement accompanied by delivery of possession.” 13. When lease is a transfer of a right to enjoy the property and such transfer can be made expressly or by implication, the mere fact that an unregistered instrument came into existence would not stand in the way of the court to determine whether there was in fact a lease otherwise than through such deed.” M/S PAUL RUBBER INDUSTRIES PVT. LTD. v. AMIT 41 CHAND MITRA [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] 10. The same view was broadly refl ected in the cases of Shri Janki Devi Bhagat Trust, Agra -vs- Ram Swarup Jain (Dead) by Lrs. [(1995) 5 SCC 314] and Satish Chand Makhan and Others-vs- Govardhan Das Byas and Others [(1984) 1 SCC 369].Section 107 of the 1882 Act which we have quoted above stipulates that a lease of immovable property from year to year or for any term exceeding one year can be made only by a registered instrument. So far as Section 106 of the said statute is concerned, in which distinction is made between lease of immovable property for agricultural or manufacturing purpose and lease of immovable property for any other purpose, the same provides that a lease of immovable property for agricultural or manufacturing purpose shall be deemed to be a lease from year-to-year terminable by six months’ notice. In other cases, termination would require fi fteen days’ notice. The subject agreement had a duration of fi ve years with a provision for renewal for a further period of fi ve years. Hence under the fi rst part of Section 107, for the said lease agreement to be admissible, registration of the same would have been necessary. The deeming provision of sub-section (1) of Section 106 so far the same related to lease for agriculture or manufacturing purpose would not be applicable as the deed was not registered. The appellant has argued that the Trial Court had admitted the lease agreement in evidence, and for determining the purpose of lease, we can examine the deed. But this argument is fl awed. This provision contemplates lease for manufacturing purpose, in absence of contract or local law to the contrary, shall be deemed to be year to year lease. In that case, it would require six months’ notice for termination. But here, the agreement itself provides a fi ve year duration, and hence ex-facie becomes a document that requires compulsory registration. That is the mandate of Section 107 of the 1882 Act and Sections 17 and 49 of the 1908 Act. The Court cannot admit it in evidence, as per the in the case of Anthony (supra). A coordinate Bench in the case of Shyam Narayan Prasad -vs- V. Krishna Prasad and Ors.