Sir, it is because we all believe,–and that is the implication of this chapter of fundamental Rights,–that man has certain rights that are inalienable, that cannot be questioned by any humanly constituted legislative authority, that these Fundamental Rights are framed in this manner and a sanction and a protection given to them by this provision D for appeal to the Supreme Court. As I said, Sir, the implication of this is that an individual must be protected even against the collective action of people who may not fully appreciate his needs, his rights, his claims. And the sacredness of the individual personality, the claims of his E conscience, are, I venture to say, based upon a philosophy, an outlook on life which are essentially spiritual. Sir, if all our people and their outlook were entirely materialistic, if right and wrong were to be judged by a majority vote, then there is no significance in fundamental rights and the placing F of them under the protection of the High Court. It is because we believe that the fullest and the most integral definition of democracy includes and is based upon this sacredness of the individual, of his personality and the claims of his conscience, that we have framed these rights. G I say, Sir, further that in the last analysis we have to make an appeal to a moral law and through the moral law to a Supreme Being, if the highest and the fullest authority is to be given and the most stable sanction to be secured for these fundamental rights. Sir, Mahatma Gandhi, in one of his unforgettable phrases, referring to the desire to have a secular H YAMAL MANOJBHAI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 923 [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] Constitution and to avoid the name of the Supreme Being in A it, cried out, “You may keep out the Name, but you will not keep out the Thing from that Constitution”. And, Sir, I believe that these fundamental rights and their implications are really tantamount to a confession that beyond human agencies and human legislatures there is a Power which has to be submitted B to, and there are rights which have to be respected. By this article we give to our Supreme Judicature a power, a status and a dignity which will call from them the highest qualities of integrity and uprightness. The full meaning of this article should be borne in mind when we come to that C Part of the Constitution beginning with article 103, when we shall have to scrutinize the steps by which an upright and absolutely fair judiciary will be established in this land. When we consider that Part, let us recall these Rights and make sure that all these various provisions will be enforced in a just and fearless manner.” D 20. It is in this background that Article 32 of the Constitution of India has been brought into force, to ensure that the Supreme Court is always equipped to tackle the other organs of the state, especially in circumstances wherein civil and individual liberties guaranteed by the fundamental rights are at risk.