Any mistake in the notice inviting tender shall not vitiate the sale.” It was on consideration of the express provisions of clause (2) of B the Terms and Conditions of Sale that the Apex Court proceeded to hold as under: “When the Official Liquidator sells the property and assets of a company in liquidation under the s of the Court he cannot and does not hold out any guarantee or warranty C in respect thereof. This is because he must proceed upon the basis of what the records of the company in liquidation show. It is for the intending purchaser to satisfy himself in all respects as to the title, encumbrances and so forth of the immovable property that he proposes to purchase. He D cannot after having purchased the property on such terms then claim diminution in the price on the ground of defect in title or description of the property. The case of the Official Liquidator selling the property of a company in liquidation under the s of the Court is altogether different from the case of an individual selling immovable E property belonging to himself. There is, therefore, no merit in the application made on behalf of Triputi that there should be a diminution in price or that it should not be made liable to pay interest on the sum of Rs 1 crore 98 lakhs”. F It is understandable that once an intending purchaser is warned to satisfy himself in all respects as regards the immovable assets as in the said case, it is for his own benefit that he satisfies himself in all respects including encumbrances of the immovable property that he proposes to purchase. It is also quite understandable that after having purchased the property on such terms any objection G that he was not aware of the encumbrances may not be entertained. However, it passes the comprehension of this Court as to why the sale notice in the present case was not couched in similar and H 1096 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A comprehensive language as the one which fell for consideration before the Apex Court. There being no occasion for the respondent no.3 to make himself aware regarding the encumbrances, if any, in respect of assets of the company in liquidation which he proposed to purchase, it is too late in the day for the Official Liquidator to contend that he ought to have participated in the bid upon being B fully satisfied and not having raised any objection at the relevant time it is he only who is liable to bear the property and other taxes. We are of the view that the liability on account of property and water taxes claimed by the Nigam, to the extent rejected by the C Official Liquidator is a post-liquidation liability which the Official Liquidator is obliged to discharge in the absence of a clear provision in the sale notice that the intending purchaser must satisfy himself as regards the assets of the company in liquidation in all respects including encumbrances.