He would submit that PRASANTA KUMAR SAHOO & ORS. v. CHARULATA SAHU 43 & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] the Plaintiff as well as the Defendant No. 2 being daughters and co- A parceners are entitled to equal share in the ancestral properties as along with their brother i.e., the Defendant No. 1 (Appellant). He would submit that the law in this regard is now well settled as explained by this Court in the case of Vineeta Sharma (supra). Relying on the decision of this Court, in the case of Ganduri Koteshwaramma (supra) he submitted B that even if no appeal has been filed by the Plaintiff and the Defendant, the shares will have to be determined in accordance with the amendment and the law as laid down in Vineeta Sharma (supra). Over and above the share reckoned in the alleged compromise in dispute, the Defendant No. 2 would be entitled to additional 1/6th share in the ancestral property. C 39. On the second issue referred to above, the learned Senior Counsel submitted that a cross-appeal is maintainable for the purpose of challenging the compromise. He submitted that a cross-appeal under XLI Rule 22 of the CPC is as good as a regular first appeal and the same would be maintainable, even if, the regular first appeal is dismissed or withdrawn. A cross-appeal is an exercise of substantive D right of appeal and only the procedure would vary. 40. The learned Senior Counsel also invited the attention of this Court to the provisions of XLIII Rule 1-A (2) of the CPC. He would submit that the cross-objector is entitled under XLI Rule 22 of the CPC read with XLIII Rule 1-A (2) of the CPC to E contend in his or her cross-appeal that the alleged settlement deed or agreement should not have been reckoned as a valid compromise and recorded under XXIII Rule 3 of the CPC. 41. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned Senior Counsel prays that there being no merit in the appeals the same may be F dismissed and the shares of the parties be determined in accordance with the 2005 Amendment. ANALYSIS 42. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the following questions G fall for our consideration: (i) In what manner, the rights of the parties would be governed keeping in mind the dictum as laid by this Court in its decision in the case of Vineeta Sharma (supra) H 44 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A (ii) Whether the High Court was justified in declaring the settlement between the appellants herein (Defendant No. 1) and Respondent No. 2 (Defendant No. 1) as invalid? In other words, whether the High Court was right in allowing the cross-appeal filed by the Original Defendant No. 2 (Respondent No. 2 herein). B 43. Before adverting to the rival submission canvassed on either side, we should give a fair idea as regards the history and development of Hindu Law as well as look at the Law Commission Report, Report of the Standing Committee of Parliament and the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Bill introduced in Parliament with the purpose of finding out the true intent of the Parliament in amending Section 6 of the C Act 1956 by the 2005 Amendment.