Therefore, the matter requires reconsideration and it is necessary to revisit and consider the correctness of the of this Court in Bangalore Club and hence, these appeals could be referred to a larger Bench. 6.9 Sri Andhyarjuna, learned senior counsel at the outset referred to Sub-Section 24 of Section 2 of the Act which defi nes Income Tax and particularly clause (vii) which speaks about the profi ts and gains of any business of insurance carried on by a mutual insurance company or by a co-operative society, computed in accordance with Section 44 or any surplus taken to be profi ts and gains by virtue of provisions contained in the First Schedule of the Act. That there is an express inclusion under the said provision income earned by any business of insurance carried on by a mutual insurance company or by a cooperative society but all other entities such as social clubs do not come within the scope of the said provision. The reason being that such entities do notearn any profi ts as such so as to be included within the defi nition of income. In this regard, reference was also made to Section 56 of the Actwhich speaks about income from other sources. The said provision states that income of every kind which is not to be excluded from the total income under the Act is chargeable to income tax under the head, “Income from other sources” if it is not chargeable to income tax under any of the heads specifi ed under items (a) to (e) of SECUNDRABAD CLUB ETC. v. C.I.T.-V ETC. 1001 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Section 14. Such income from other sources is in the nature of a revenue receipt. In so far as social clubs and mutual associations are concerned the character and nature of the receipt is immaterial. What is important is utilisation of the income earned by a club, which is only for the benefi t of its members. Therefore, interest earned on fi xed deposits made by the clubs being a source of income, it would not matter as to whether it is a capital or a revenue receipt. 6.10 It was next submitted that although the principle of mutuality is not defi ned under the Act, the judicial precedent has been that income from interest earned on fi xed deposits is not taxable. But the of this Court in Bangalore Club has not taken into consideration the defi nition of income, the facts as to utilisation of such income for the benefi t of its members of a club and the nuances of the principle of mutuality. Therefore, the said is not correct and is contrary to the previous of of this Court in Cawnpore Club. 6.11 It was next contended that although the decision in Cawnpore Club is termed as an “” it is nevertheless a reaffi rmation of the of the High Court, and therefore, the said “” would be a precedent for subsequent cases. But in Bangalore Club, a coordinate Bench of this Court has not considered the passed in Cawnpore Club and hence, there are now two s which are diametrically opposite on the question of the application of the principle of mutuality to interest income earned by clubs.