Director Enforcement D Directorate Vs. Dr. V.C. Mohan (2022 SCC OnLine SC 452) - (Criminal Appeal No. 21/2022), this Court has clarified that it is the wrong reading of the decision in the case of Nikesh Tarachand Shah (supra) that the provisions of Section 45 of the Act, 2002 shall not be applicable to the anticipatory bail proceedings. It is submitted that in the E case of Dr. V.C. Mohan (supra) it is specifically observed and held by this Court that Section 45 of the Act, 2002 shall be applicable with respect to the offences under the Act, 2002 and the rigour of Section 45 of the Act, 2002 shall get triggered – although the application is under Section 438 of Cr.PC. It is submitted that therefore, the impugned and passed by the High Court is just contrary to the decision of this F Court in the case of Dr. V.C. Mohan (supra). 3.2 It is further submitted by Shri K.M. Nataraj, learned ASG appearing on behalf of the ED that even otherwise while granting the anticipatory bail the High Court has not properly appreciated and/or considered the seriousness of the offences which are scheduled offences G under the Act, 2002. It is submitted that the High Court has considered the anticipatory bail application, as if, the High Court was dealing with the prayer for anticipatory bail in connection with the ordinary offences under IPC. 3.3 It is further vehemently submitted by learned ASG that during H investigation, the ED investigation has established that there is a nexus THE DIRECTORATE OF ENFORCEMENT v. M. GOPAL 85 REDDY & ANR. [M. R. SHAH, J.] between Srinivas Raju Mantena and respondent No. 1 herein and the A same needs to be investigated in detail. 3.4 It is submitted that the ED had gathered material which indicates nexus between respondent No. 1 and Srinivas Raju Mantena, who is found to have committed the offences of money laundering. It is submitted that respondent No. 1 was summoned by ED but instead of appearing B before the IO, he filed a criminal petition before the High Court and obtained the interim relief. It is submitted that he appeared before the ED and his statement was recorded under Section 50 of the Act, 2002. It is submitted that however on both the occasions he was totally evasive and non-cooperative and therefore, his custodial interrogation is required. C 3.5 It is further submitted by learned ASG that during the investigation the ED has found that respondent No. 1 had availed and enjoyed free trips in last one year alone on the luxury plane of Mantena on multiple occasions. It is submitted that during investigation it has been found that respondent No. 1 had also availed other patronages from D Srinivas Raju Mantena like sponsoring foreign exchange through Hawala Channels for his son. 3.6 It is submitted that while granting anticipatory bail to respondent No. 1 the High Court has not considered the nature of allegations and seriousness of offences alleged against respondent No.