No. 32/78 6 TNC A. 24/78 7 Revision No.7/79 KESHAV BHAURAO YEOLE (D) BY LRS. v. MURALIDHAR 941 (D) & ORS. [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] framing of an appropriate issue on the relevant notifi cation applicable. On behalf of the landlord8, it was urged that there was no justifi cation for remand since the question sought to be decided was a question of law and the revisional authority could, by itself, decide this issue. 9. Upon examination of the contentions urged by both the sides, the revisional authority allowed the application fi led on behalf of the tenant, dismissed the application of the landlord and accordingly, ed that the case be remanded to the original authority ‘for framing issues under the provisions of Section 31A to 31D of the Tenancy Act, 1948 in respect of Survey No. 291 only’. The original authority was directed to give its fi nding on the said issue. 10. The of the revisional authority was based on the following reasons. The revisional authority found that the notice was issued only in respect of Survey No. 291 and therefore, the application of the landlord for restoration of possession of lands bearing Survey No. 290/1&290/2 could not have been entertained by the original authority. In the absence of a valid notice, the original authority lacked jurisdiction to entertain the landlord’s application for resumption of land. It found that the landlord’s holding is more than one unit of economic holding and therefore, he is not entitled to application of benefi cial provisions as provided in the amended notifi cation dated 08/10/969. It was also noticed that the outcome of the dispute was directly linked to the question of the relevant notifi cation applicable, that is, whether the original notifi cation or the amended notifi cation governed the facts in issue, and therefore, a clear fi nding on that question was most expedient. 11. The landlord challenged the passed by the revisional authority in writ proceedings before the High Court of Judicature of Bombay. During the pendency of writ proceedings, both, the original landlord as well as original Respondent Nos.2 & 5 namely, Murlidhar Damodar Modhave & Bhausaheb Damodar Modhave,expired. Their legal heirs were brought on record through applications for substitution. The High Court set aside all s passed by the authorities below and ed for remand of the case before the original authority. However, the reasons which persuaded the 8 Revision No.3/79 942 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. High Court to remand were completely diff erent from that which motivated the revisional authority to do. So it was directed that the original authority shall consider the matter afresh and examine if the heirs of the landlord had any bonafi de requirement for personal cultivation in light of the changed circumstances (death of landlord). In ing so, the High Court relied on Maruti Namdeo Gade v. Dattatraya Maval9 and Hariba Keshav Barbole v. Motibhai Deepchand.10 It was held therein that if landlord had died pending eviction proceedings, the bonafi de requirement of lands for personal cultivation had to be demonstrated and proved afresh by the heirs of the landlord.