I did not depose during the investigation by G the police authorities about the phone call from Abdul Raheem at 7.00 A.M. on that day, and the details of conversation and also about my informing the same to my mother, as I had deposed in my chief examination…. After the marriage the accused and her husband did not have smooth relationship with my mother. In these H circumstances, if it is said that the accused had left her daughter VAHITHA v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU 957 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] for educating her in my mother’s house and on 20th she went to A Kolakkudi Village they are all false. The reason for the death of the child who had been left as such is me and my mother, they are all false.” 5.3. PW-3 Asha Begum, the other daughter-in-law of PW-1, also allegedly reached the scene of occurrence at the relevant point of time. B She allegedly asked the appellant as to why she killed the child but the appellant did not answer. During her cross-examination, this witness mentioned that she was not speaking to the appellant for four years prior to the occurrence. The relevant parts of her statement read as under: - “….The margin accused had a daughter by name Farhana. She C died on 21.6.2007. On the date of incident, the accused, her daughter were staying in the house, wherein Basheera was staying, along with P.W.1 Basheera. After my mother-in-law got the idli, when she shouted, I and my sister-in-law Mumtaz went to the house of my mother-in-law. My mother-in-law was residing in a D house 5 houses away from my house. When I went there and saw, the child of the accused was instable. One nurse came and saw the child and confirmed that the child was dead. My sister- in-law Mumtaz had said accused “Why did you do like this. If you do not like the child, you would have left her with me” and she was beating on her head. I also asked the accused “You are an E educated woman. Isn’t it? Why did you kill the child” and shouted at her. The accused did not speak anything. When the police authorities examined me, I deposed the above said particulars. If it is asked who is the cause for the death of Farhana, her mother is the sole reason. That is all. F Cross-examination: I had deposed the facts which had been said by me in the chief examination, during the police investigation also. On the date of incident, my husband came from abroad for his holidays. I and the margin accused are not speaking with each other for the past four years. Two days before the death of Farhana, the accused came with her child to our house. After she came, G she asked my husband that the husband of the margin accused Abdul Raheem is not sending money to her and that he is also not calling her over phone, and that she wanted to educate her child Farhana.