Same safeguards are provided under Section 102(3) of the CrPC 1898 and Section 100 of the CrPC 1973. 36. Considering the aforesaid provisions, the inference which can be drawn is that “to search any person” would mean only search of the body or wearing apparels of such person and in that case the procedure which is required to be followed would be the one prescribed under Section 50 of RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 311 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] the NDPS Act. In contrast, if search of any building, conveyance or place, including a public place, is to be carried out, then there is no question of following the procedure prescribed under Section 50. However, when a suspected or arrested person is to be searched, then the procedure prescribed under Section 50 comes into operation and the procedure thereunder is required to be followed. This can be seen by referring to Section 100(3) of the CrPC 1973 which provides that where any person is reasonably suspected of concealing about his person any article for which search should be made, such person may be searched and if such person is a woman, the search shall be made by another woman with strict regard to decency. The concealment which is suspected is on the person or about his person. 37. The provisions of Section 50 were exhaustively construed by this Court in the case of State of Punjab v. Balbir Singh, (1994) 3 SCC 299. We may refer to the relevant observations made in paragraph 21 of the aforesaid which deals with this aspect. It is as under:- “21. Both under Sections 41 and 42, the offi cers empowered can enter and search the place and also arrest the person suspected to have committed the off ence either on the basis of his own knowledge or on the basis of information reduced to writing. If an arrest is made and a person is to be searched, then as noted above Section 50 comes into operation and the search of the person has to be carried out in the manner provided thereunder. …” (Emphasis supplied) 38. The aforesaid observations make it clear that when search of an arrested person is to be carried out, then the procedure prescribed under Section 50 is to be followed and not in those cases where search is to be carried out of any building, a conveyance or any premises which may be public or private where bags and baggage containing narcotic drugs are lying. The object and purpose of such search is also discussed in the said and the relevant observations are as under:- “4. … This provision obviously is introduced to avoid any harm to the innocent persons and to avoid raising of allegation of planting or fabrication by the prosecuting authorities. It lays down that if the person to be searched so requires, the offi cer who is about to search 312 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. him under the provisions of Sections 41 to 43, shall take such person without any unnecessary delay to the nearest Gazetted Offi cer of any of the departments mentioned in Section 42 or to the nearest magistrate.