5 For short, ‘WBLR Act, 1955’.’ 6 4-C. Permission for change of area, character or use of land.—(1) A raiyat holding any land may apply to the Collector for change of area or character of such land or for conversion of the same for any purpose other than the purpose for which it was settled or was being previously used or for alteration in the mode of use of such land. (2) On receipt of such application, the Collector may, after making such inquiry as may be prescribed and after giving the applicant or the persons interested in such land or aff ected in any way an opportunity of being heard, by in writing either reject the application or direct such change, conversion or alteration, as the case may be, on such terms and conditions as may be prescribed. (3) Every under sub-section (2) directing change, conversion or alteration shall specify the date from which such change, conversion or alteration shall take eff ect. (4) A copy of the passed by the Collector directing change, conversion or alteration, if any, under sub-section (2), or in an appeal therefrom shall he forwarded to the Revenue Offi cer referred to in Section 50 or Section 51, as the case may be, and such Revenue Offi cer shall incorporate in the record-of-rights changes eff ected by such and revise the record-of-rights in accordance with such . (5) If the Collector is satisfi ed that any land is being convened for any purpose other than the purpose for which it was settled or was being previously held, or attempts are being made to eff ect alteration in the mode of use of such land or change of the area or character of such land, he may, by , restrain the raiyat from such Act. STATE OF WEST BENGAL v. M/S. CHIRANJILAL (MINERAL) 289 INDUSTRIES OF BAGANDIH [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] 21358 (W) of 2014. These contempt petitions were disposed of, inter alia, observing that the Respondent No. 1 - M/s. Chiranjilal (Mineral) Industries of Bagandih was required to fulfi l the conditions, including furnishing of the Conversion Certifi cate under Section 4-C of the WBLR Act, 1955 and No Objection Certifi cate from the Government of India. The court, therefore, found that there was no wilful, or contumacious violation of the dated 10.09.2014. However, liberty was granted to the Respondent No. 1 - M/s. Chiranjilal (Mineral) Industries of Bagandih to question the Grant dated 16.07.2015. 2.12. The Respondent No. 1 - M/s. Chiranjilal (Mineral) Industries of Bagandih thereupon preferred Writ Petition No. 20309 (W) of 2016 before the High Court of Calcutta. However, WBMDTCL was not a party to this writ petition. In the meanwhile, a clarifi cation was sought by the Deputy Secretary, Commerce and Industries Department, West Bengal and vide clarifi cation dated 26.08.2016 issued by the Government of India, Ministry of Mines, it was clarifi ed that even prior to 10.02.2015, Dolomite was a Non-Scheduled major mineral, for which prior approval of the Central Government was not required under sub-section (1) to Section 5 of the MMDR Act, 1957.