The term “any” as E appearing in sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act could not be interpreted to mean “all” as such an interpretation would vest unguided and expansive discretion with the Central Board of the RBI. iii) The Notification expressly states that it is issued F under sub- section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. Therefore Section 3 of the Ordinance and Act could not, in the non-obstante clause, state that sub--section (2) of Section 26 is not applicable to the Act. iv) Having observed that demonetisation could not have G been carried out by issuing a Notification as contemplated under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act and that the Parliament does indeed have the competence to carry out demonetisation, on the strength of Entry 36 of List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, the Central Government could H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 19 not have exercised the power by issuance of an A executive notification. [Paragraph 17.9] 1.2. As noted from the records submitted by the Central Government as well as the Reserve Bank of India in the instant case, the Central Government wrote to the Central Board of the th Reserve Bank of India on 7 of November, 2016 about its B proposal to demonetise all series of bank notes of denominations of Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/-, which were in circulation, and on the th very next day i.e., 8 November, 2016, a meeting of the Central Board of the Bank was held at New Delhi at 05:30 p.m. and shortly thereafter, the gazette notification was issued. Such a swift action C would indicate that the Central Board of the Bank had hardly twenty-four hours to consider the proposal of the Central Government and hence, hardly any time to apply its mind independently to the proposal. It is clear from the records submitted that the Central Government “assured” the Central Board of the Bank that sufficient safeguards would be taken while D embarking on the process of demonetisation and that it would also result in reducing bank notes in the economy and a switch over to the digitalisation of the economy. The Central Board of the Bank, in resolving to opine on the measure of demonetisation to the Central Government, acted only on such “assurances”. E [Para 19.2][221-H; 222-A-D] 1.3. The powers of the Central Board of RBI are restrictive in nature inasmuch as it can only recommend that a particular series of a particular denomination would cease to be legal tender. Hence, the Central Government cannot rely on the semblance of F a “recommendation made to it by the Central Board of the Bank under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act” when it initiates the process of demonetisation. The Central Government also cannot “obtain” any recommendation to that effect, and if it has done so, it would imply that the Central Board of the Bank is acting at the behest of the Central Government, only to concur G with what the Central Government intends to do.