A highly skilled professional may be possessed of better qualities, but that cannot be made the basis or the yardstick for judging the performance of the professional proceeded against on indictment of negligence.” 25. The next limb of allegation apropos negligence is that the deceased was not attended to by any doctor from neurosurgery team after he was 7 (2005) 6 SCC 1 106 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. shifted into the private room till 11.00 p.m. when he suff ered cardiac arrest. Material placed before this Court including the record maintained by the hospital would reveal that the patient was examined by Dr. Brahm Prakash, Dr. Ravi Bhatia and Dr. Tyagi after the patient was shifted to the private room. He had complained of pain in the neck region to Dr. Ravi Bhatia and the patient was told that it was on account of the operation. Pain in the neck region started increasing at 06:00 p.m. for which injection was given. When the doctor on duty contacted Dr. Tyagi, he was instructed to give tablet Nimulid. Except for the pain in neck region, the patient did not complain of pain in any other part of his body. The attending nurse called Dr. Tyagi at around 08:15 p.m. to inform him that the patient is complaining about the problem of sweating, pain and dizziness which, according to Dr. Tyagi, were normal post operative reactions. Dr. Tyagi spoke to the complainant and the patient on which the patient informed him that he was better. At 09:30 p.m. pain killer was given and around 11:00 p.m., the patient lost consciousness due to severe cardiac arrest. Dr. Ravi Bhatia was informed, and he immediately came to the hospital. Thereafter, all required steps were taken as revealed from the hospital record. There is no evidence put forth by the complainant to establish that heart attack suff ered by the patient had any connection with the operation in question or that it was on account of negligent post operative care. 26. The respondents have fi led affi davit of Prof. Gulshan Kumar Ahuja, professor of neurosurgery in AIIMS and Senior Consultant in Neurology at Respondent No.1-Hospital. After going through the record and CT Scan dated 04.11.1998, Dr. Ahuja opined that the record did not show any abnormality at the operated site and the complications suff ered by the patient were totally unrelated to the surgery conducted by Respondent No. 2. While answering the interrogatories, Dr. Ahuja stated that pain in the neck along with sweating and nausea are not the symptoms of cardiac respiratory arrest. 27. It is signifi cant to notice that the patient did not have any history of diabetes or hypertension or any cardiac problem. Therefore, it was diffi cult for treating doctors including the duty doctor or the hospital to assume that the patient may suff er cardiac arrest and moreover, the patient had also not complained of pain in any other part of the body except neck region. As per MRS. KALYANI RAJAN v. INDRAPRASTHA APOLLO 107 HOSPITAL & ORS.