The High Court of Karnataka has dismissed the appeals preferred by the Revenue by relying upon its earlier in the case of PCIT v. Softbrands India (P) Ltd., reported in (2018) 406 ITR 513 (Karnataka). 2. Shri Balbir Singh, learned Additional Solicitor General of India, D appearing on behalf of the Revenue has vehemently submitted that the Karnataka High Court in the case of Softbrands India (P) Ltd. (supra) has erroneously held that the Tribunal is the final fact finding authority on determining the arm’s length price and therefore once the Tribunal determines the arm’s length price the same cannot be subject to judicial E scrutiny/scrutiny in an appeal under Section 260A of the IT Act. 2.1 Shri Balbir Singh, learned ASG has submitted that there cannot be any absolute proposition of law that against the decision of the Tribunal determining the arm’s length price, there shall not be any interference by the High Court in an appeal under Section 260A of the IT Act. F 2.2 Shri Balbir Singh, learned ASG has taken us to the scheme of transfer pricing/arm’s length price to be determined under Chapter X of the IT Act, more particularly Sections 92, 92A to 92CA, 92D, 92E and 92F and Rules 10A to 10E of the Income Tax Rules, 1962 (for short, ‘IT Rules’). It is submitted that under the scheme of transfer pricing, the G arm’s length price is to be determined taking into consideration the guidelines stipulated under the aforesaid provisions of the IT Act and the Rules. It is submitted that therefore it is always open for the High Court to consider and/or examine, whether the guidelines stipulated under the Act and the Rules, while determining the arm’s length price have been followed by the Tribunal or not. H SAP LABS INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED v. INCOME TAX 435 OFFICER, CIRCLE 6, BANGALORE [M. R. SHAH, J.] 2.3 It is submitted that if the arm’s length price is determined by A the Tribunal de hors the guidelines stipulated under the Act and the Rules, more particularly Rules 10A to 10E of the Rules, the determination can be said to be perverse which is always subject to the scrutiny by the High Court in an appeal under Section 260A of the Act. 2.4 It is submitted that therefore the view taken by the High Court B of Karnataka in the case of Softbrands India (P) Ltd. (supra) is required to be corrected by this Court. 3. S/Shri Arvind P. Datar, Tarun Gulati, Percy Pardiwala, learned Senior Advocates and other learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective assessees have vehemently submitted that once the arm’s C length price is determined by the Tribunal taking into consideration the relevant guidelines, thereafter challenge to the same cannot be said to be a substantial question of law, to be considered in an appeal under Section 260A of the IT Act. 3.1 It is submitted on behalf of the assessees that Section 260A of D the IT Act provides that an appeal shall lie to the High Court from every of the Tribunal only if the High Court is satisfied that the case involves a substantial question of law.