The Resolution Professional then asked each member of CoC present in the meeting whether G the revised Resolution Plan have their approval or not and the result of physical voice voting is as follows: H 804 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A B C The revised Resolution Plan was approved with 87.39% of total D voting share of Financial Creditors present and voted in the meeting. Since there was dissent by some of the financial creditors, the Resolution Professional will send back the Resolution Plan to the Resolution Applicant for further revision, as Section 30 (2) of IBC 2016, provides that the amount paid to dissenting financial E creditors shall not be less than the amount paid to such creditors in accordance with Section 53 in the event of liquidation of the Corporate Debtor. Representative from Bank of India Tokyo emphasized that they have voted in favour considering the fact that they will be getting their full amount. Resolution Professional assured them and other F CoC members who have voted in favour of the Resolution Plan that there will not be any changes in the amount provided for assenting financial creditors. RP further apprised that the RA has given an undertaking that RA will comply with Section 30(2) of IBC and there will not be any change in the amount provided in G the Resolution Plan for assenting creditors.” 12.14. On 25.01.2021, the resolution applicant submitted the revised resolution plan incorporating the changes. He also submitted a bank guarantee to the tune of Rs. 25 crore to the resolution professional on 01.02.2021. Thereafter, on 03.02.2021, the resolution professional H M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 805 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] furnished Form H Compliance Certificate, containing the details of the A compliance of the resolution plan submitted by the resolution applicant. 12.15. Though, in the chronology of events, after the aforesaid proceedings of CoC and submission of Form H by the RP, the proceedings before the Adjudicating Authority are to be noticed but, there remains one significant feature of this case that in the ninth meeting dated B 22.01.2021, even while approving the resolution plan, the CoC asked the resolution applicant to further revise the resolution plan, particularly in relation to the dissenting financial creditors. The resolution applicant indeed revised the resolution plan but, such a revised plan was not placed in CoC before presenting the matter to the Adjudicating Authority for C approval. This aspect has formed a part of contentions in these appeals and, in this regard, it has been one of the contentions on the part of the resolution applicant that there had not been any material change in the plan and in any case, in the later meeting of CoC, there had been a deemed post facto approval of the revised resolution plan incorporating the changes earlier suggested by CoC. In view of the issues involved, D apt it would be that before adverting to the decision of the Adjudicating Authority, we refer to the tenth meeting of CoC, which was held on 15.06.2021, and where the RP’s updates on the latest developments were taken note of by CoC.