It is in that regard the surveyor has referred to the inquiries made by him from the Classifi cation Society and has indicated that the persons representing the Classifi cation Society had stated that the said defi ciencies had not been brought to their knowledge. Though the learned senior counsel would contend that such indication in the surveyor’s report being hearsay cannot be relied upon, we are of the opinion that in the absence of any material on behalf of the appellant to indicate that they had intimated the Classifi cation Society, there was no obligation in terms of the legal position for the insurance company to make such inquiry. Therefore, the inquiry made by the surveyor was an additional factor which has not been rebutted or controverted with any other evidence by the appellant. In that circumstance the decision in New India Assurance Company Limited vs. Protection Manufacturers Private Limited, (2010) 7 SSC 386 relied on by the learned Senior Counsel to comment on the conduct of the Surveyor is also of no relevance. 21. Insofar as the provisions relating to warranty, the manner in which the representation is required to be made has been considered in detail by this Court in the case of Rajankumar & Brothers (IMPEX) vs. Oriental Insurance Company Ltd., (2020) 4 SCC 364 relied upon by the learned senior counsel for the respondent insurance company. The referred paragraphs read as hereunder: “19. Subsequent common-law decisions, however, have held that the obligation of the assured to inform the correct details in respect of the vessel's classifi cation extends even where a policy is issued after the particulars of the vessel have been provided. 976 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 32. A warranty imposes certain obligations on the insured, and Section 35(3) makes it amply clear that a warranty needs to be complied with, regardless of whether or not its non-compliance materially aff ects the risk involved in carrying the shipment. As a corollary, when a warranty is not complied with i.e. there is a breach of warranty, the insurer is discharged from liability from the date of such breach, by virtue of Section 35(3). At the outset, therefore, it is important to note that the scheme of the 1963 Act is clear inasmuch as the automatic consequence of a breach of warranty is discharge of the insurer's liability. Such discharge of liability does not require any express conduct or representation from the insurer. 35. It is not the appellant's case that the respondent had chosen to issue the marine insurance policy despite being informed by the appellant that the vessel was non-classed. Rather the appellant had represented that the subject vessel was “IRS” classed. That being the case, as noted in Everbright Commercial Enterprises [Everbright Commercial Enterprises Pte Ltd. v. Axa Insurance Singapore Pte Ltd., 2001 SGCA 24] and Kam Hing Trading [Kam Hing Trading (Hong Kong) Ltd. v. The People's Insurance Co. of China (Hong Kong) Ltd., (2010) 4 HKLRD 630] , it was not the respondent's burden to have investigated the appellant's claim and informed the appellant that the subject vessel was non-classed.