C 50. On 17th January, 2006, in the very same case of Medha Kotwal Lele66, noting that there was no information available regarding implementation of the directions issued in Vishaka’s case (supra), this Court issued the following directions : “2. It is not known whether the committees as suggested in Vishaka case have been constituted in all the departments/ D institutions having members of staff of 50 and above and in most of the district-level offices in all the States, members of the staff working in some offices would be more than 50. It is not known whether the committees as envisaged in Vishaka case have been constituted in all these offices. The number of complaints received E and the steps taken in these complaints are also not available. We find it necessary to give some more directions in this regard: 2.1. We find that in to coordinate the steps taken in this regard, there should be a State-level officer i.e. either the Secretary of the Women and Child Welfare Department or any other suitable F officer who is in charge and concerned with the welfare of women and children in each State. The Chief Secretaries of each State shall see that an officer is appointed as a nodal agent to collect the details and to give suitable directions whenever necessary. 2.2. As regards factories, shops and commercial establishments G are concerned, the directions are not fully complied with. The Labour Commissioner of each State shall take steps in that direction. They shall work as nodal agency as regards shops, factories and commercial establishments are concerned. They 66 (2013) 1 SCC 312 H AURELIANO FERNANDES v. STATE OF GOA AND OTHERS 811 [HIMA KOHLI, J.] shall also collect the details regarding the complaints and also see A that the required committee is established in such institutions.” 51. Exercising its powers of a writ of continuing mandamus, the aforesaid petition was again taken up after the passage of over six years, on 19th October, 201267 when this Court examined the affidavits filed by each State Government to satisfy itself on the compliance of the B Guidelines laid down in Vishaka’s case (supra). On examining the position regarding amendments required to be carried out in the CCS(CCA) Rules and the Standing s as also the establishment and composition of the Complaints Committees, the Court noted with great dismay that several State Governments had failed to make C compliances. Extracted below are the observations made in this regard: “43. As the largest democracy in the world, we have to combat violence against women. We are of the considered view that the existing laws, if necessary, be revised and appropriate new laws be enacted by Parliament and the State Legislatures to protect D women from any form of indecency, indignity and disrespect at all places (in their homes as well as outside), prevent all forms of violence—domestic violence, sexual assault, sexual harassment at the workplace, etc.—and provide new initiatives for education and advancement of women and girls in all spheres of life.