(b) it must be for the purposes of the State.” B The same meaning as referred above has to be applied to the usage of the phrase “Subject to the provisions of this Constitution” in Article 239AA. 67. We therefore hold that the legislative power of NCTD under Article 239AA(3) is to be guidedby the broader principles and provisions C of the Constitution. The said phrase in Article 239AA(3) must be interpreted to give effect to the underlying principles in the Constitution. It is in this backdrop that we shall consider the next submission made by the Union. H. The Constitution is not Unitary D 68. The Union of India has argued that the Indian Constitution is often referred to as a federal Constitution with a strong unitary bias, and as far as Union Territories are concerned, the Constitution is unitary in form and in spirit. It is submitted that the generic concept of federalism, as applicable to States cannot apply to Union Territories. Thus, it is argued E that the phrases “Subject to the provisions of this Constitution” and “in so far as any such matter is applicable to Union territories” are to be interpreted accordingly. 69. To analyse the above argument, it is imperative to understand the concept of federalism as the members of the Constituent Assembly F envisioned. Dr. B.R. Ambedkar in one of his seminal speeches before the Constituent Assembly explained the dual polity federal model established under the Constitution22: “Dual Polity under the proposed Constitution will consist of the Union at the Centre and the States at the periphery each endowed G with sovereign powers to be exercised in the field assigned to them respectively by the Constitution… the Indian Constitution proposed in the Draft Constitution is not a league of States nor 22 Constituent Assembly Debates, Vol. 7 at p. 33 (4 November 1948) H 542 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A are the States administrative units or agencies of the Union Government.” (emphasis supplied) 70. Further, when Dr. Ambedkar was questioned in the Constituent Assembly on the centralizing tendency of the Constitution, he responded B by saying that:23 “The States, under our Constitution, are in no way dependent upon the Centre for their legislative or executive authority. The Centre and the States are co-equal in this matter... It may be that the Constitution assigns to the Centre too C large a field for the operation of its legislative and executive authority than is to be found in any other Federal Constitution. It may be that the residuary powers are given to the Centre and not to the States. But these features do not form the essence of federalism. The chief mark of federalism, as I said lies in the partition of the legislative and executive authority D between the Centre and the Units by the Constitution. This is the principle embodied in our Constitution.” (emphasis supplied) 71. It emerges from the speeches of Dr Ambedkar in the E Constituent Assembly that India adopted a federal model, in which the Union and the States were meant to operate within their assigned legislative domains.