SHREE VISHNU CONSTRUCTIONS v. THE ENGINEER IN 343 CHIEF MILITARY ENGINEERING SERVICE [M. R. SHAH, J.] 6.1 Section 11(6A) has been inserted by Amendment Act, 2015, A by which the powers of the Court dealing with an application under Section 11(6) of the Act are restricted and as per section 11(6A), the powers of the Court while deciding application under Section 11(6) of the Act are confined to the examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement, which powers were not restricted in the pre-amendment B Act, 2015. However, Section 26 of the Amendment Act, 2015 provides that nothing contained in this Act shall apply to the arbitral proceedings commenced, in accordance with the provisions of Section 21 of the principal Act, before the commencement of this Act unless the parties otherwise agree. At this stage, it is required to be noted that as per Section 21 of the principal Act, unless otherwise agreed by the parties, C the arbitral proceedings in respect of a particular dispute commence on the date on which a request for that dispute to be referred to the arbitration is received by the respondent. Therefore, as per section 21 of the principal Act, the arbitral proceedings can be said to have commenced on the date on which a request for the dispute to be referred to the arbitration D is received by the respondent. Therefore, as per section 21 of the principal Act the arbitral proceedings can be said to have commenced on the date on which a request for the dispute to be referred to the arbitration is received by the respondent. At this stage, it is required to be noted that by Amendment Act, 2015, Sections 34 and 36 of the Arbitration Act also came to be amended and the interference of the Court in challenge to E the award has been restricted and/or narrowed down. 7. The question of applicability of the Arbitration Amendment Act, 2015 fell for consideration before this Court in catena of decisions, few of them are as under: F i) In the case of Mayawati Trading v. Pradyut Debbarman, (2019) 8 SCC 714, it is observed and held that the position of law that prevails after insertion of section 11(6A) is that Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court, while considering any application under Sections 11(4) to 11(6) is to confine itself to examination of existence of arbitration agreement, nothing more, G nothing less, and leave all other preliminary issues to be decided by arbitrator; ii) In the case of BCCI (supra), while interpreting section 26 of the Amended Act, 2015, this Court has observed in paragraphs 37 to 39 as under: H 344 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A “37. What will be noticed, so far as the first part is concerned, which states— “26. Act not to apply to pending arbitral proceedings. — Nothing contained in this Act shall apply to the arbitral proceedings commenced, in accordance with the provisions B of Section 21 of the principal Act, before the commencement of this Act unless the parties otherwise agree.…” is that: (1) “the arbitral proceedings” and their commencement is mentioned in the context of Section 21 of the principal Act; (2) the expression used is “to” and not “in relation to”; and (3) C parties may otherwise agree.