Interestingly, the Trial Court after holding in paragraph 79 that the charges E against A-2 were not proved, again went back to the question of guilt of A-2, after holding A-3 and A-4 guilty, through a reversal of the logic. 17. Coming to the role played by A-7, the Trial Court held that it was he who purchased the demand drafts in the names of the bogus firms, with a view to cheat BHEL and that he obtained wrongful gain for himself as a partner of the firm Insecticides & Allied Chemicals. On the F basis of these findings, the Trial Court convicted the accused for the offences mentioned by us in the table under paragraph 4 and sentenced them to imprisonment and fine indicated in the table under paragraph 5. 18. While dealing with the appeals filed by A-1, A-3, A-4 and A- 7, the High Court divided the same into two categories, the first dealing G with the complicity of A-1, A-3 and A-4 and the second dealing with the complicity of A-7. This was perhaps for the reason that A-1, A-3 and A- 4 were Officers of BHEL, while A-7 was a private individual. 19. On the complicity of A-1, A-3 and A-4, the High Court primarily relied upon the evidence of PW-8, the Technical Examiner of the Central H A. SRINIVASULU v. THE STATE REP. BY THE INSPECTOR OF 31 POLICE [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] Vigilance Commission as well as the evidence of PW-16, the Approver. A On the basis of their evidence, supported by documents, the High Court held that the complicity of A-1, A-3 and A-4 was proved. On the question as to whether the action of the accused resulted in monetary loss to BHEL, the High Court held that the subsequent remedial measure taken by BHEL by invoking the bank guarantee and realizing the money, cannot B lead to the conclusion that there was no wrongful loss. 20. Insofar as the complicity of A-7 is concerned, the High Court held that the signatures contained in the applications presented to various banks for obtaining demand drafts for procuring the tender document, were obviously that of A-7. In fact, the applications for securing demand C drafts were marked as Exhibits P-66, P-76, P-90 and P-92 and these exhibits had been sent to a handwriting expert for his opinion. The handwriting expert was examined as PW-30. His report was marked as Exhibit P-68. The specimen writings and signatures of A-7 were marked as Exhibit P-75 through PW-30. D 21. But the High Court found in paragraph 44 of the impugned that the handwriting expert had not furnished any opinion in his report as to the comparison of the writings found in Exhibit P-75 with the demand draft application forms Exhibits P-66, P-76, P-90 and P-92. The High Court also found (in paragraph 49 of the impugned ) that the admitted handwritings and the signatures were not compared by E the handwriting expert. After recording such a finding, the High Court took upon itself the task of making a comparison by itself, by invoking Section 73 of the Evidence Act.