The language used in F the Section 10(1)(i) and the procedure to be followed under Sections 3 & 4 of the Act, before any association is declared as unlawful are very clear. There is no vagueness at all as sought to be contended by Shri Sanjay Parikh, learned Senior Counsel. Therefore, Section 10(a)(i) does not suffer from any vagueness and/or on the ground unreasonable and/ G or disproportionate. 17. Now so far as the submission made by Shri Parikh, learned Senior Counsel on chilling effect doctrine is concerned, it is required to be noted that a person knowing full well that an association of which he is the member is declared as unlawful association due to its unlawful activities and acting against the interests of sovereignty and integrity of H ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 557 [M. R. SHAH, J.] India and still he continues to be a member of such unlawful association A thereafter such person cannot be permitted to submit on chilling effect. The consequences are provided under the Act itself. Such a person is made to understand and/or known that to continue with the membership of such unlawful association itself is an offence. Despite such knowledge still he continues then is liable to be punished more particularly so long as B Section 10(a)(i) stands and is not declared unconstitutional. 17.1 At this stage it is required to be noted that as per Section 10(a)(i) a person cannot be punished merely because he was the member of such unlawful association. The language including Section 10 is very significant. It provides that “wherein an association is declared unlawful” C by notification under Section 3 which has become effective under sub- Section 3 of that Section. So, it is only after the Notification under Section 3 has become effective under sub-section 3, that the latter part of that Section applies. The language of Section 10(a)(i) is also very cautiously worded “who is and continues to be a member of such association”. Therefore, on true interpretation, if a person has been a member but D does not continue to be a member after declaration, that does not attract mischief of Section 10. The intention seems to be that not only was he a member on the day when the association is declared unlawful but he continues to be a member. The intention is very clear that not only on the given date but even after that you continue to be a member of that E association which is declared as unlawful association due to unlawful activities which is found to be against the interests of sovereignty and integrity of India. Therefore, once an association is declared unlawful of whom the concerned person was the member wishes to continue as a member despite the fact that he is well aware of the fact that such an association is declared unlawful and if he still wishes to continue being a F part of such unlawful association it shows a conscious decision on his part and therefore liable to be penalized for such an act of continuation of his membership with such unlawful association.