8. For an appeal to be maintainable under Section 100, Code of Civil Procedure(‘CPC’, for brevity) it must fulfi l certain well-established requirements. The primary and most important of them all is that the appeal should pose a substantial question of law. The sort of question that qualifi es this criterion has been time and again reiterated by this Court. We may only refer to Santosh Hazari v. Purushottam Tiwari3 (three-Judge Bench) wherein this Court observed as follows: 3 (2001) 3 SCC 179 GOVERNMENT OF KERALA & ANR. v. 271 JOSEPH AND OTHERS [SANJAY KAROL, J.] “12. The phrase “substantial question of law”, as occurring in the amended Section 100 is not defi ned in the Code. The word substantial, as qualifying “question of law”, means — of having substance, essential, real, of sound worth, important or considerable. It is to be understood as something in contradistinction with — technical, of no substance or consequence, or academic merely. However, it is clear that the legislature has chosen not to qualify the scope of “substantial question of law” by suffi xing the words “of general importance” as has been done in many other provisions such as Section 109 of the Code or Article 133(1)(a) of the Constitution. The substantial question of law on which a second appeal shall be heard need not necessarily be a substantial question of law of general importance. … 14. A point of law which admits of no two opinions may be a proposition of law but cannot be a substantial question of law. To be “substantial” a question of law must be debatable, not previously settled by law of the land or a binding precedent, and must have a material bearing on the decision of the case, if answered either way, insofar as the rights of the parties before it are concerned. To be a question of law “involving in the case” there must be fi rst a foundation for it laid in the pleadings and the question should emerge from the sustainable fi ndings of fact arrived at by court of facts and it must be necessary to decide that question of law for a just and proper decision of the case. An entirely new point raised for the fi rst time before the High Court is not a question involved in the case unless it goes to the root of the matter. It will, therefore, depend on the facts and circumstance of each case whether a question of law is a substantial one and involved in the case, or not; the paramount overall consideration being the need for striking a judicious balance between the indispensable obligation to do justice at all stages and impelling necessity of avoiding prolongation in the life of any lis.” (Emphasis supplied) The principles laid down herein stood recently reiterated in Chandrabhan v. Saraswati4 (two-Judge Bench). 4 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1273 272 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 9. A perusal of the judgement impugned does not refl ect any question of law, either substantial or “involving in the case” to have been framed by the Court in the Second Appeal.