The very fact that this power is conferred only upon this Court, and on no one else, is itself an assurance that it will be used with due restraint and circumspection, keeping in view the ultimate object of doing complete justice between the parties…” In Chenga Reddy v. State of A. P22, it was observed “56. A court of equity must so act, within the permissible limits so as to prevent injustice. “Equity is not past the age of child- bearing” and an eff ort to do justice between the parties is a compulsion of judicial conscience. Courts can and should strive to evolve an appropriate remedy, in the facts and circumstances of a given case, so as to further the cause of justice, within the available range and forging new tools for the said purpose, if necessary to chisel hard edges of the law. In our opinion in the established facts and circumstances of these cases, it would be appropriate with a view to do complete justice between the parties, in exercise of our jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution of India…” 18. The present case – as discussed earlier, has displayed persistent defi ant conduct by Varun Gopal, and the petitioner, Mohan Gopal, who have, through one pretext or another stalled compliance with the s of this court. It is the responsibility of Petitioner and Varun Gopal who are held liable to fulfi l the payment of entire sum. In these circumstances, it is hereby directed that: 22 (1996) 10 SCC 193 108 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. (1) Six contiguous shops bearing municipal numbers 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31 shall be put to sale by the Registrar of the Delhi High Court, who shall ensure that the best prices are realized. The amounts realized from the sale shall be deposited in a fi xed deposit receipt, initially for six months, and its interest, disbursed to the second respondent/applicant. In the event of no sale, the attachment of property shall continue in favour of the applicant. (2) The attachment of rents of M/s Fitness Factory Gym & Spa on the First Floor shall be continued, till the petitioner, and his son, Varun Gopal, pay the amount constituting the balance between the amount realized by direction (1) and Rs. 1.25 crores. (3) In the eventuality the directions in (2) are not complied within one year, the Registrar is directed to take steps, and within three months, and seek option from the applicant regarding whether she would wish the transfer of title to the said premises in her name, or its sale. In the event she opts for the transfer, the Registrar Delhi High Court, is directed to take all necessary steps to execute a conveyance deed (under the present directions) to that eff ect, the sale shall be registered by the concerned authorities, and the applicant shall be handed over symbolic possession. (4) In the event the applicant does not seek conveyance, the Registrar shall take all necessary steps to auction the said property (on the fi rst fl oor described in (2) above, within 18 months from today.