In the absence of such evidence on record, all the reports with regard to the DNA profi ling become highly vulnerable, more particularly when the collection and sealing of the samples sent for examination were also not free from suspicion.” (Emphasis supplied) 19. In the case of Manoj & Ors. Vs. State of M.P.8, it was held that if DNA evidence is not properly documented, collected, packaged, and preserved, it will not meet the legal and scientifi c requirements for admissibility in a court of law. Because extremely small samples of DNA can be used as evidence, greater attention to contamination issues is necessary while locating, collecting, and preserving DNA evidence as it can be contaminated when DNA from another source gets mixed with DNA relevant to the case. This can happen even when someone sneezes or coughs over the evidence or touches his/her mouth, nose, or other part of the face and then touches the area that may contain the DNA to be tested. The exhibits having biological specimen, which can establish link among victim(s), suspect(s), scene of crime for solving the case should be identifi ed, preserved, packed, and sent for DNA Profi ling. 20. In the case of Anil @ Anthony Arikswamy Joseph Vs. State of Maharashtra9, the following has been held in paragraph 18 as under:- “18. Deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA, is a molecule that encodes the genetic information in all living organisms. DNA genotype can be 8 (2023) 2 SCC 353 9 (2014) 4 SCC 69 NAVEEN @ AJAY v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 993 [PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, J.] obtained from any biological material such as bone, blood, semen, saliva, hair, skin, etc. Now, for several years, DNA profi le has also shown a tremendous impact on forensic investigation. Generally, when DNA profi le of a sample found at the scene of crime matches with the DNA profi le of the suspect, it can generally be concluded that both the samples have the same biological origin. DNA profi le is valid and reliable, but variance in a particular result depends on the quality control and quality procedure in the laboratory.” (Emphasis supplied) 21. In the case at hand, the prosecution is based on circumstantial evidence in which the prosecution has to prove each link in the chain of circumstantial evidence and the important chains in the link are DNA report, FSL report and Viscera report. When the reports were challenged by the accused before the High Court, it was brushed aside by observing that even if the authors of the reports were not called for evidence, in terms of Section 293 Cr.P.C., the reports are not open to question as the defence had an opportunity to cross-examine the authors of the reports during the trial. In our considered view, the High Court was not correct in saying that the defence had an opportunity to cross-examine the experts. The trial has been conducted on day-to-day basis wherein the accused, who was in jail and defended by a counsel from legal aid, was compelled by the Trial Court to produce defence witness of his own in one day.