45. In fine, we answer Question No.1 in the following manner: “The grounds lined up in Article 19(2) for restricting the right to free speech are exhaustive. Under the guise of invoking C other fundamental rights or under the guise of two fundamental rights staking a competing claim against each other, additional restrictions not found in Article 19(2), cannot be imposed on the exercise of the right conferred by Article 19(1)(a) upon any individual.” Question No.2 D 46. The second question referred to us is as to whether a fundamental right under Article 19 or 21 can be claimed against anyone other than the State or its instrumentalities. Actually, the question is not about “claim” but about “enforceability”. E 47. To use the phraseology adopted by the philosophers of Law, the question on hand is as to whether Part III of the Constitution has a “vertical” or “horizontal” effect. Wherever Constitutional rights regulate and impact only the conduct of the Government and Governmental actors, in their dealings with private individuals, they are said to have “a vertical effect”. But wherever Constitutional rights F impact even the relations between private individuals, they are said to have “a horizontal effect”. 48. In his scholarly article, “The ‘Horizontal Effect’ of Constitutional Rights”, published in Michigan Law Review (Volume 2. Issue 3, 2003) Stephen Gardbaum, states that the horizontal position has G been adopted to varying degrees in Ireland, Canada, Germany, South Africa and European Union. According to the learned author, this issue has also been the topic of sustained debate in the United Kingdom following the enactment of the Human Rights Act of 199855. 55 Interestingly The Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993 was enacted in India five H years before a similar Act came in United Kingdom. KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 653 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] 49. No jurisdiction in the world appears to be adopting, at least as A on date, a purely vertical approach or a wholly horizontal approach. A vertical approach provides weightage to individual autonomy, choice and privacy, while the horizontal approach seeks to imbibe Constitutional values in all individuals. These approaches which appear to be bipolar opposites, raise the age-old question of ‘individual vs. society’. B 50. Even in countries where the individual reigns supreme, as in the United States, the Thirteenth Amendment making slavery and involuntary servitude a punishable offence, has actually made inroads into individual autonomy. Therefore, some scholars think that the Thirteenth Amendment provided a shift from the ‘purely vertical’ C approach in a direct way. Subsequently, an indirect effect of the horizontality was found in certain decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court, two of which are of interest. 51. After the American Civil War (1861-1865), the Reconstruction Era began in the United States. During this period, the Fourteenth D Amendment came (1866-1868) followed by the Civil Rights Act, 1875 (also called Enforcement Act or Force Act). This Civil Rights Act, 1875 entitled everyone, to access accommodation, public transport and theaters regardless of race or color.