Though these s were delivered while testing similar rigorous provisions under the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987, the same principle would apply in respect of the 1967 Act as well. [Paras 34 and 35][907-G-H; 908-A-F] G 1.7 In the case of Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali, it has been held that the expression “prima facie true” would mean that the materials/evidence collated by the investigating agency in reference to the accusation against the accused concerned in the chargesheet must prevail, unless overcome or disproved by other H VERNON v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA & ANR. 875 evidence, and on the face of it, materials must show complicity of A such accused in the commission of the stated offences. What this ratio contemplates is that on the face of it, the accusation against the accused ought to prevail. In this Court’s opinion, however, it would not satisfy the prima facie “test” unless there is at least surface-analysis of probative value of the evidence, at the stage B of examining the question of granting bail and the quality or probative value satisfies the Court of its worth. In the case of the appellants, contents of the letters through which the appellants are sought to be implicated are in the nature of hearsay evidence, recovered from co-accused. Moreover, no covert or overt terrorist act has been attributed to the appellants in these letters, C or any other material forming part of records of these two appeals. Reference to the activities of the accused are in the nature of ideological propagation and allegations of recruitment. No evidence of any of the persons who are alleged to have been recruited or have joined this “struggle” inspired by the appellants D has been brought before us. Thus, NIA’s contention that the appellants have committed the offence relating to support given to a terrorist organisation is not accepted. The second set of materials include the witness statements. There also no covert or overt act of terrorism has been attributed to the appellants by the three witnesses. Mere possession of the literature, even if E the content thereof inspires or propagates violence, by itself cannot constitute any of the offences within Chapters IV and VI of the 1967 Act. [Paras 36 and 37][908-F-H; 909-A-D] National Investigation Agency v. Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali (2019) 5 SCC 1 : [2019] 5 SCR 1060 – referred F to. 1.8 Sections 38 and 39 of the 1967 Act have already been analysed. The interpretation given to the phrase “intention to further activities” of terrorist organisation could also apply in the same way in relation to Section 39 of the same statute. There G has been no credible evidence against the appellants of commission of any terrorist act or enter into conspiracy to do so to invoke the provisions of Section 43D (5) of the 1967 Act. As far as raising funds for a terrorist organisation is concerned, at H 876 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A this stage, in absence of better evidence, the account statement is not credible enough to justify invoking the bail-restricting clause by attracting Section 40 of the 1967 Act.