In the face of undeniable operation of the said Section 185 of the M.P. Act of 1956 over the property in question, we are clearly of the view that the bidder/ purchaser was entitled to proceed on the assumption that even if there D were any arrears of such taxes under the M.P. Act of 1956, the same would not be recoverable from him. Though, as aforesaid, the cryptic terms and conditions of sale in the present case, wanting in material stipulations, never obliged a purchaser to carry out a search as regards encumbrances but, even if such a requirement is taken into consideration on general principles of caveat emptor, the other assumptions available E with reference to the said Section 185 of the M.P. Act of 1956 cannot be ignored. 26. The submissions made on behalf of the appellant about the likely prejudice to the other pre-liquidation creditors if such post-liquidation liabilities are given preference over other liabilities; and reference to F Section 529A and 530 of the Companies Act do not carry any relevance and do not make out any case for interference. The provisions contained in Sections 529A and 530 essentially relate to overriding preferential payments as also preferential payments in relation to the classes of dues/ debts specified therein. However, the question of payment of the same G would arise after payment of costs and expenses of winding up that are properly incurred by the appellant OL and are to be paid in priority. As aforesaid, the taxes payable to the respondent No. 1 Nigam during the period in question would directly amount to the costs and expenses of liquidation. H OFFICIAL LIQUIDATOR v. UJJAIN NAGAR PALIKA NIGAM 1117 & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 27. This being the position, in our view, the Company Court and A then the Division Bench of the High Court have rightly underscored the faults on the part of the appellant OL and have rightly held that the liability on account of the property tax and water tax claimed by the respondent No. 1 to the extent rejected by the appellant OL has been a post-liquidation liability, which the OL was obliged to discharge, in view B of omission in the sale notice and then, in view of the operation of Rule 338 of the Rules of 1959. 28. Put in different words, as regards the operation of the said Rule 338 of the Rules of 1959, we are inclined to accept the reasoning of the High Court that on the facts and in the circumstances of the C present case, arrears of property tax and water tax until the date of confirmation of sale, i.e., 04.07.2003, would qualify as the expenses for “preserving, realising or getting in” the assets of the company and thus, shall have to be paid in priority by the appellant OL. 29. For what has been discussed hereinabove, we do not find it D necessary to dilate upon the other decisions cited by learned counsel for the parties.