(Vide Bhagaloo Lodhv. G State of U.P.) [(2011) 13 SCC 206]” (emphasis supplied) 12.6. In the case of Ramnaresh (supra), this Court has, though recognised the right of the accused to maintain silence during investigation H 978 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A as also before the Court in the examination under Section 313 CrPC but, at the same time, has also highlighted the consequences of maintaining silence and not availing opportunity to explain the circumstances appearing against him, including that of the permissibility to draw adverse inference in accordance with law. This Court observed and held as under:- B “49. In terms of Section 313 CrPC, the accused has the freedom to maintain silence during the investigation as well as before the court. The accused may choose to maintain silence or complete denial even when his statement under Section 313 CrPC is being recorded, of course, the court would be entitled to draw an inference, including adverse inference, C as may be permissible to it in accordance with law. **** **** ***** 52. It is a settled principle of law that the obligation to put material evidence to the accused under Section 313 CrPC is upon the court. One of the main objects of recording of a statement under D this provision of CrPC is to give an opportunity to the accused to explain the circumstances appearing against him as well as to put forward his defence, if the accused so desires. But once he does not avail this opportunity, then consequences in law must follow. Where the accused takes benefit of this opportunity, E then his statement made under Section 313 CrPC, insofar as it supports the case of the prosecution, can be used against him for rendering conviction. Even under the latter, he faces the consequences in law.” (emphasis supplied) F 12.7. The principles enunciated by this Court in regard to the obligation of explanation in terms of Section 106 of the Evidence Act and the consequences of want of explanation have been explained by this Court in the case of Satpal (supra) as follows: - “6. We have considered the respective submissions and the G evidence on record. There is no eyewitness to the occurrence but only circumstances coupled with the fact of the deceased having been last seen with the appellant. Criminal jurisprudence and the plethora of judicial precedents leave little room for reconsideration of the basic principles for invocation of the last seen theory as a H facet of circumstantial evidence. Succinctly stated, it may be a VAHITHA v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU 979 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] weak kind of evidence by itself to found conviction upon the same A singularly. But when it is coupled with other circumstances such as the time when the deceased was last seen with the accused, and the recovery of the corpse being in very close proximity of time, the accused owes an explanation under Section 106 of the Evidence Act with regard to the B circumstances under which death may have taken place.