Though, the friend of the deceased who was waiting outside came inside and asked him to come out the deceased remained there and thereupon his friend left the place. E Later, the first accused invited the deceased for drinks and all of them, including the deceased, left the house of Chintaman Giddu Gatey (PW- 8) on two motorcycles by about 6 p.m. After about an hour, the dead body of the deceased was found by one Manoj Goswami, a resident of Paladi. The case is that upon being informed by the villagers, Manoj F Goswami (PW1) went to the spot and on finding the dead body he went to Bhandara Police Station and lodged a report. As per the prosecution, the deceased was taken by the accused on one of the motorcycles through National Highway No.6 towards Lakhani town. To the north of the said National Highway and at a distance of about 10 kilometers from Bhandara there was another road leading to village Paladi and on the G side of the said Bhandara-Paladi road, at about by one kilometer from National Highway No.6, they stopped their motorcycles and started assaulting the deceased using sharp weapons. The deceased sustained 22 ante-mortem injuries, all over his body and met with instantaneous death. H SHANKAR v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA 667 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] 3. Admittedly, there was no eye-witness in this case. Based on A the circumstantial evidence, the Trial Court found the appellants guilty and convicted and sentenced them, as mentioned above. Aggrieved by the conviction and consequent sentence, the surviving accused viz., accused Nos. 1 to 3 in the said Sessions Trial preferred appeal before the High Court. After considering the circumstances relied on by the B Trial Court and despite its reservation against some of the procedures followed the High Court confirmed the conviction and sentence imposed on appellants by the Trial Court holding that certain proven circumstances are material circumstances and would complete the requisite chain. 4. The appellants in the captioned appeals challenge the findings C of conviction and consequential imposition of sentence raising various grounds. But, before considering the contentions against the concurrent findings raised by the appellants, we find it only appropriate to refer to the following decisions on the law relating circumstantial evidence. 5. In the decision in Sarbir Singh v. State of Punjab1, this Court D observed and held thus: - “5. …But in a case based on circumstantial evidence neither the accused nor the manner of occurrence is known to the persons connected with the victim. The first information report is lodged only disclosing the offence, leaving to the E investigating agency to find out the offender. 6. It is said that men lie but circumstances do not. Under the circumstances prevailing in the society today, it is not true in many cases. Sometimes the circumstances which are sought to be proved against the accused for purpose of establishing F the charge are planted by the elements hostile to the accused who find out witnesses to fill up the gaps in the chain of circumstances.