in the Schedule with a view to re-organising and reconstructing A such coal mines so as to ensure the rational, co-ordinated and scientific development and utilisation of coal resources consistent with the growing requirements of the country, in that the ownership and control of such resources are vested in the State and thereby so distributed as best to subserve the common good, B and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.” 33. Section 3(1) of the Nationalisation Act reads as follows: “3. Acquisition of rights of owners in respect of coal mines.—(1) On the appointed day, the right, title and interest of the owners in relation to the coal mines specified in the Schedule shall stand C transferred to, and shall vest absolutely in, the Central Government free from all incumbrances.” 34. It came to be amended by the Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Amendment Act, 67 of 1976. There was subsequent amendment, viz., Act 47 of 1993 dated 09.06.2003. After the amendment, Section 3(3) D reads: “3(3) On and from the commencement of section 3 of the Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Amendment Act, 1976 (67 of 1976),— (a) no person, other than— E (i) the Central Government or a Government, company or a corporation owned, managed or controlled by the Central Government, or (ii) a person to whom a sub-lease, referred to in the proviso to clause (c), has been granted by any such Government, company F or corporation, or (iii) a company engaged in— (1) the production of iron and steel, (2) generation of power, (3) washing of coal obtained from a mine, or (4) such other end use as the Central Government may, by notification, specify, shall carry on coal mining operation, in India, G in any form; (b) excepting the mining leases granted before such commencement in favour of the Government, company or corporation, referred to in clause (a), and any sub-lease granted by any such Government, company or corporation, all other mining H 850 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A leases and sub-leases in force immediately before such commencement, shall, in so far as they relate to the winning or mining of coal, stand terminated; (c) no lease for winning or mining coal shall be granted in favour of any person other than the Government, company or corporation, B referred to in clause (a): Provided that the Government, company or corporation to whom a lease for winning or mining coal has been granted may grant a sub-lease to any person in any area on such terms and conditions as may be specified in the instrument granting the sub-lease, if C the Government, company or corporation is satisfied that— (i) the reserves of coal in the area are in isolated small pockets or are not sufficient for scientific and economical development in a co-ordinated and integrated manner, and (ii) the coal produced by the sub-lessee will not be required to be D transported by rail.” 35. Under Section 4, the Central Government was to become the lessee of the State Government when vesting took place under Section 3.