It could be denied directly when the law prohibits such an association. The operation of Section 377 of the IPC criminalizing homosexual activity is a form of direct restriction on the freedom of association. 223. On the other hand, the State could indirectly infringe upon the freedom when it does not create suffi cient space to exercise that freedom. A formal associational status or recognition of the association is necessary 196 The right to form an intimate association has been expanded upon by the Supreme Court of US in Lawrence v. Texas, 539 U.S 558 (2003) by which the sodomy laws were held unconstitutional. 197 Kenneth L Karst, The freedom of intimate association, (1980) The Yale Law Journal, Vol. 89 (4) 624-692 198 ibid 135 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. for the free and unrestricted exercise of the freedom to form intimate associations. Needless to say, there may be reasonable restrictions on this right. However, other than legally valid and binding restrictions, the right to intimate associations must be unrestricted. The State by not endorsing a form of relationship encourages certain preferences over others.199 In a previous segment of this , we have discussed the tangible and intangible benefi ts of recognizing relationships in the form of marriage. While the tangible benefi ts of marriage are traceable to the content of law, the intangible benefi ts are secured merely because State recognises the relationship through the instrument of law. Intangible benefi ts in the form of expressive advantages exist irrespective of the content of the law. Even if the law does not grant any special material benefi ts to a relationship, the relationship would still be considered to be legitimate in the eyes of the society. The freedom to choose a partner and the freedom to enjoy their society which are essential components of the right to enter into a union (and the freedom of intimate association) would be rendered otiose if the relationship were to be discriminated against. For the right to have real meaning, the State must recognise a bouquet of entitlements which fl ow from an abiding relationship of this kind. A failure to recognise such entitlements would result in systemic discrimination against queer couples. Unlike heterosexual couples who may choose to marry, queer couples are not conferred with the right to marry by statute. To remedy this, during the course of the hearing, the Solicitor General of India made a statement that a Committee chaired by the Cabinet Secretary will be constituted to set out the rights which will be available to queer couples in unions. The Committee shall set out the scope of the benefi ts which accrue to such couples. II. The right to settle in any part of India 224. Article 19(1)(e) of the Constitution stipulates that all citizens shall have the right to reside and settle in any part of the territory of India. In exercise of this right, citizens may reside in any village, town, or city in any state or union territory irrespective of the state in which they were born or are domiciled.