This raised doubt on their legitimacy of being borne to legally wedded parents and such directions, if carried out, have the potential of exposing them to inheritance related B complication. Section 112 of the Evidence Act, also gives a protective cover from allegations of this nature. The said provision stipulates:- “Birth during marriage, conclusive proof of legitimacy.—The fact that any person was born C during the continuance of a valid marriage between his mother and any man, or within two hundred and eighty days after its dissolution, the mother remaining unmarried, shall be conclusive proof that he is the legitimate son of that man, unless it can be shown that the parties to the D marriage had no access to each other at any time when he could have been begotten.” 8. In our opinion, the Trial Court as also the Revisional Court had completely ignored the said factor and proceeded as if the children were E material objects who could be sent for forensic analysis. The other factor, in our opinion, which was ignored by the said two Courts is that the paternity of the children was not in question in the subject- proceeding. F 9. The substance of the complaint was not related to paternity of the children of the respondent no.2 but the question was whether the offences under the aforesaid provisions of the 1860 Code was committed against her or not. The paternity of the two daughters of the respondent no.2 is a collateral factor to the G allegations on which the criminal case is otherwise founded. On the basis of the available materials, in our opinion, the case out of which this proceeding arises could be decided without considering the DNA test report. This was the reasoning which was considered H 716 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A by the Coordinate Bench in the case of Ashok Kumar (supra), though that was a civil suit. Merely because something is permissible under the law cannot be directed as a matter of course to be performed particularly when a direction to that effect would be invasive to the physical autonomy of a person. B The consequence thereof would not be confined to the question as to whether such an would result in testimonial compulsion, but encompasses right to privacy as well. Such direction would violate the privacy right of the persons subjected to such tests and C could be prejudicial to the future of the two children who were also sought to be brought within the ambit of the Trial Court’s direction.” (Emphasis by us) 12. Having regard to the aforesaid discussion, the following D principles could be culled out as to the circumstances under which a DNA test of a minor child may be directed to be conducted: i. That a DNA test of a minor child is not to be ed routinely, in matrimonial disputes. Proof by way of DNA profiling is to be directed in matrimonial disputes involving E allegations of infidelity, only in matters where there is no other mode of proving such assertions.