Though s were cited by the ED which held to the eff ect that legality of the arrest would be rendered immaterial once the competent Court passes a remand , those cases primarily dealt with the issue of a writ of habeas corpus being sought after an of remand was passed by the jurisdictional Court and that ratio has no role to play here. The understanding of the ED and its misplaced reliance upon that case law begs the question as to whether there was proper compliance with Section 19(1) of the Act of 2002 and as to whether the learned Vacation Judge/Additional Sessions Judge, Panchkula, correctly considered that issue while passing the remand s. Therefore, as the very validity of the remand s is under challenge on that ground, the issue as to whether the arrest of the appellants was lawful in its inception may also be open for consideration. 14. At this stage, it would be apposite to consider the case law that does have relevance to these appeals and the issues under consideration. In Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra), a 3-Judge Bench of this Court observed that Section 65 of the Act of 2002 predicates that the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, shall apply insofar as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Act of 2002 in respect of arrest, search and seizure, attachment, confi scation, investigation, prosecution and all other proceedings thereunder. It was noted that Section 19 of the Act of 2002 prescribes the manner in which the arrest of a person involved in money laundering can be eff ected. It was observed that such power was vested in high-ranking offi cials and that apart, Section 19 of the Act of 2002 provided inbuilt safeguards to be adhered to by the authorized offi cers, such as, of recording reasons for the belief regarding involvement of the person in the off ence of money laundering and, further, such reasons have to be recorded in writing and while eff ecting arrest, the grounds of arrest are to be informed to that person. It was noted that the authorized offi cer has to forward a copy of the , along with the material in his possession, to the Adjudicating Authority and this safeguard is to ensure fairness, objectivity and accountability of the authorized offi cer in forming an opinion, as recorded in writing, regarding the necessity to arrest the person involved in the off ence of money laundering. The Bench also noted PANKAJ BANSAL v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 727 [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] that it is the obligation of the authorized offi cer to produce the person so arrested before the Special Court or Judicial Magistrate or a Metropolitan Magistrate, as the case may be, within 24 hours and such production is to comply with the requirement of Section 167 Cr.P.C. It was pointed out that there is nothing in Section 19 of the Act of 2002 which is contrary to the requirement of production under Section 167 Cr.P.C and being an express statutory requirement under Section 19(3) of the Act of 2002, it has to be complied by the authorized offi cer.