It is further contended that Section 56 does not bar the recovery of pending charges through other avenues of recovery in accordance with law. The licensees urge that civil remedies and statutory power to recover electricity can be utilised simultaneously. It was urged that Section 56 E does not restrict the right of the licensee to insist on payment of the arrears of charges incurred on the premises, from a subsequent applicant for a fresh connection to the same premises. 115. On the implication of the two-year limitation period under Section 56(2), it is submitted that (i) the limitation is with reference to F the bar on disconnection by the licensee; (ii) no limitation is provided under Section 56 after the electricity is discontinued for non-payment of dues; (iii) a valid and subsisting money decree in favour of the Electricity Board against the erstwhile owner of the premises would not be affected by the limitation period of two years; (iv) no time limit has been provided ÿþfor cessation of the right of the licensee to demand past dues for G giving a new connection to the premises; and (v) the right of the licensee not to give a connection till the outstanding dues are cleared is a continuing right and cannot be said to be extinguished. 54 (2020) 4 SCC 650 55 dt. 5.10.2021 in CA 7235 of 2009 H 702 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 116. On the other hand counsel representing the auction purchasers have urged that (i) the period of limitation under Section 56(2), which begins with a non obstante clause, bars the recovery of outstanding electricity dues from successful auction purchasers who apply for a new connection for the supply of electricity from the licensee; (ii) two conditions need to be fulfilled to get over the embargo on the recovery B of a sum due from any consumer, after a period of two years from the date when such sum became first due, namely (a) such sum has been shown continuously as recoverable as arrears of charges for electricity supplied, and (b) the licensee shall not cut off the supply of the electricity; (iii) the conditions of supply, being subordinate legislation, cannot override C the duty cast upon the licensee, and dues cannot be recoverable either in a manner or over and above what is provided for in the Section 56 (2); and (iv) any alternative interpretation would render the bar under Section 56(2) meaningless, and the conditions of supply could be used to resurrect time barred claims as held in State of Kerala v. VT Kallianikutty.56 D 117. The power to discontinue supply to a consumer is dealt with in Section 56 of the 2003 Act. The provision is extracted below: “Section 56: Disconnection of supply in default of payment (1) Where any person neglects to pay any charge for electricity or any sum other than a charge for electricity due from him to a E licensee or the generating company in respect of supply, transmission or distribution or wheeling of electricity to him, the licensee or the generating company may, after giving not less than fifteen clear days’ notice in writing, to such person and without prejudice to his rights to recover such charge or other sum by suit, cut off the supply of electricity and for that purpose cut F or disconnect any electric supply line or other works being the property of such licensee or the generating company through which electricity may have been supplied, transmitted, distributed or wheeled and may discontinue the supply until such charge or other sum, together with any expenses incurred by him in cutting off G and reconnecting the supply, are paid, but no longer: Provided that the supply of electricity shall not be cut off if such person deposits, under protest, - H 56 (1999) 3 SCC 657 K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 703 ORS.