She deposed that the dispute between the deceased and her husband was on account of ancestral properties coming from deceased’s mother side. She stated that she does not have any other information about the incident. At this stage, the E witness was declared hostile and was allowed to be cross- examined by the prosecution. During cross-examination, at the instance of prosecution, she stated that there was theft at Sundariya’s place therefore, for security reasons, Sundariya had kept her gold F and silver at her house which, a week before the incident, were sent by her to the house of Sundariya. She also stated that the accused had come to her house and had threatened to kill Sundariya and set the house on fire. During cross-examination at the instance of the accused, G upon a suggestion that a family dispute was going on, PW8 stated the accused was pressurising the deceased to take a share in her ancestral property from her brother and since she was not agreeing to it, the accused had a dispute with her. H 610 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A (ix) PW-9 – Rajiv Singh He was the Halqa Patwari (Revenue Circle Inspector/ Lekhpal) who inspected the crime scene under s of the Tehsildar and prepared the spot panchnama (Ex. P- 13) as also site plan (Ex. P-14) of the place from where the B deceased was taken in an injured condition to the hospital. (x) PW-10 – Ashok Kumar Rathore He is son of PW2 who brought his vehicle to take the deceased along with PW2 to the hospital. He corroborated the evidence that the deceased succumbed to her injuries C on way to the hospital. (xi) PW-11 – Satish Dwivedi - Investigating Officer He proved the various stages of investigation including registration of the FIR on 01.02.2010 at 2130 hours. Interestingly, as per his deposition, he visited the site on D 02.02.2010 and vide seizure memo (Ex.P-12) lifted blood- stained gravel, plain gravel, blood-stained saree and two slippers from the spot. He deposed about — arresting the accused vide memo Ex.P-11; recording his disclosure vide Ex.P-9; and effecting recovery vide memo (Ex.P-10). He E stated that sealed articles were sent for forensic examination. He also produced the recovered articles as material exhibits. During cross-examination, though PW11 admitted knowing PW2 (informant) from before but denied the F suggestion that he conspired with PW2 to falsely implicate the accused. In paragraph 25 he stated that saree was not found on the body of the deceased. He also admitted that a new railway track was being laid there and in that connection machines were there. However, he denied the suggestion that in connection with laying new track hundreds G of workers (labourers) were there. In paragraph 32 he denied the suggestion that the accused had reached the police station on 01.02.2010 itself. He also denied the suggestion that the alleged arrest, disclosure and recovery at the instance of the accused are bogus. H STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH v. PHOOLCHAND RATHORE 611 [MANOJ MISRA, J.]