It is true that proceedings are dragged on for a long time on one count or the other and, on occasion, become D highly technical accompanied by unending prolixity at every stage, providing a legal trap to the unwary. Because of the delay, unscrupulous parties to the proceedings take undue advantage, and the person who is in wrongful possession draws delight in delay in disposal of the cases by taking undue advantage of E procedural complications. It is also a known fact that after obtaining a decree for possession of the immovable property, its execution takes a long time. In such a situation, for protecting the interest of the -creditor, it is necessary to pass appropriate F s so that reasonable mesne profit which may be equivalent to the market rent is paid by a person who is holding over the property. In appropriate cases, the court may appoint a Receiver and direct the person who is holding over the property to act as an agent of G the [Receiver with a direction to deposit the royalty amount fixed by the] Receiver or pass such other which may meet the interest of justice. This may prevent further injury to the plaintiff in whose favour the decree is passed and to protect the property, including further alienation.” H 964 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 174. In Padmawati v. Harijan Sewak Sangh [Padmawati v. Harijan Sewak Sangh, 2008 SCC OnLine Del 1202 : (2008) 154 DLT 411] decided by the Delhi High Court on 6-11- 2008, the Court held as under : (SCC Online Del para 6) “6. The case at hand shows that frivolous defences B and frivolous litigation is a calculated venture involving no risks situation. You have only to engage professionals to prolong the litigation so as to deprive the rights of a person and enjoy the fruits of illegalities. I consider that in such cases where the court finds that using the courts as a tool, a litigant has perpetuated illegalities or has C perpetuated an illegal possession, the court must impose costs on such litigants which should be equal to the benefits derived by the litigant and harm and deprivation suffered by the rightful person so as to check the frivolous litigation and prevent the people from reaping D a rich harvest of illegal acts through the courts. One of the aims of every judicial system has to be to discourage unjust enrichment using courts as a tool. The costs imposed by the courts must in all cases should be the real costs equal to deprivation suffered by the rightful person.” E We approve the findings of the High Court of Delhi in the case mentioned above. 175. The High Court also stated : (Padmawati case [Padmawati v. Harijan Sewak Sangh, 2008 SCC OnLine F Del 1202 : (2008) 154 DLT 411] , SCC OnLine Del para 9) “9. Before parting with this case, we consider it necessary to observe that one of the [main] reasons for overflowing of court dockets is the frivolous litigation in which the courts are engaged by the litigants and which G is dragged on for as long as possible.