In this case, however, there was no element of coercion or compulsion and no objection had been raised by the accused persons at the time of taking the thumb impression. In Brij Bhusan v. The State, the Madhya Pradesh High Court held that Section 5 of the Madhya Bharat Identifi cation of Prisoners Act, in so far as it conferred powers on the Magistrate to direct an accused person to give his thumb impression, specimen writing and signature for comparison to be used against him in a trial, was repugnant to Article 20(3) of the Constitution and was, therefore, void. In Sailendra Nath v. The State 910 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. and Ram Swarup v. The State it was pointed out that taking specimen writing did not off end Article 20(3) of the Constitution, — a view that was dissented from in Farid Ahmed v. The State. 18. It will appear from People v. Swallow, 165 New York Supp. 915, that the rule against self-incrimination is not violated when the accused is compelled to exhibit himself or part of his body to the court or to allow a record of his fi nger prints to be taken. In State v. Ah Chuey, (1879) 33 Am Re 530, the Court held that an directing the accused to exhibit certain tattoo marks On his person would not amount to an infringement of the rule against self-incrimination. 19. Negativing the contention that taking of fi nger prints is a violation of the privilege against self-incrimination, Willis in Constitutional Law of the United States (1936 Edition, page 522) observed inter alia: “The accused does not exercise a volition or give oral testimony. He is passive. He is not giving testimony about his body, but is giving his body”. Speaking of inspection of bodily features by the Tribunal or by witnesses, Wigmore in Evidence, Vol. VIII, page 375, Section 2265 comments that what is obtained from the accused by such action is not testimony about his body but his body itself. This aspect, I cannot help repeating, was also stressed by Holmes, J. in the case of (1910) 218 US 245 by observing: “But the prohibition of compelling a man in a criminal court to be witness against himself is a prohibition of use of physical or moral compulsion to extort communications from him, not an exclusion of his body as evidence when it may be material”. 20. If, as we fi nd, taking of thumb impression is not violative of Article 20(3), with greater force the reasons set out above mutatis mutandis will be applicable to a case directing the production of the accused in a test identifi cation parade, apart from such consideration as interposition of a magisterial . It is not the accused who is called upon to testify against himself but somebody else on seeing him and others now in the parade may have something to say later on. The accused does not produce any evidence or perform any evidentiary act.