However, the provisions would necessarily be modifi ed to deal with the special circumstances of the States in Part III: “As will be seen, the underlying idea of this Part is that Part VI of this Constitution which deals with the Constitution of the States will now automatically apply under the provisions of article 211 - A to States in Part Ill. But it is realized that in applying Part VI to the Indian States which will be in Part III there are special circumstances for which it is necessary to make some provision and the purpose of this particular amendment is to indicate those particular articles in which these amendments are necessary to be made in to deal with the special circumstances of the States in Part III. Otherwise the States in Part III so far as their internal constitution is concerned will be on a par with the States in Part 1.” 254. In view of the peculiar position of the State of Jammu and Kashmir, the Ministry suggested that a special provision be made as a “transitional arrangement”. The Ministry suggested the following approach for the consideration of the Drafting Committee:217 a. Jammu and Kashmir will be placed in Part III States of Schedule I; and b. A special provision that the power of Parliament to enact laws with respect to the State of Jammu and Kashmir shall be limited to matters specifi ed in the IoA until Parliament by law provides that all provisions of the Constitution that apply to Part III States shall apply to Jammu and Kashmir will be incorporated. b) Procedure for Indian States to ratify the Constitution 217 Shiva Rao, pg. 991 162 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 255. The Constituent Assembly had to decide upon the procedure to be followed by the States for ratifi cation of the Constitution because the Draft Constitution did not contain any provision prescribing a procedure for the ratifi cation of the Constitution by the States. The Constituent Assembly was faced with the question of whether the Indian States would be bound by the Constitution framed because of the execution of the IoA or whether the Constituent Assembly would have to devise a separate procedure for ratifi cation of the Constitution. After a detailed discussion, it was decided that the Rajpramukh or Ruler must accept the entire Constitution of India which also includes the internal Constitution of States on the basis of a resolution adopted by the Constituent Assembly of the State or the Legislature, where such a body exists. The Constituent Assemblies in the States of Mysore, Travancore and Cochin Union, and Saurashtra which were functioning at that time accepted the Constitution on behalf of the States upon an examination of the provisions of the Constitution concerning the States. In States where a Constituent Assembly was not formed, the Constitution was to be operative on the basis of the Ruler or Rajpramukh’s acceptance, and the legislatures or the Constitution making bodies when constituted would have the opportunity to propose modifi cations to the provisions of the Constitution in so far as they applied to the States.