[2023] 14 S.C.R. 1083 : 2023 INSC 950 CASE DETAILS DR. BALRAM SINGH v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. (Writ Petition (Civil) No(s). 324 of 2020) OCTOBER 20, 2023 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT AND ARAVIND KUMAR, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Implementation of the provisions of Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and Their Rehabilitation Act, 2013 and the Employment of Manual Scavengers and Construction of Dry Latrines (Prohibition) Act, 1993. Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and Their Rehabilitation Act, 2013 – Employment of Manual Scavengers and Construction of Dry Latrines (Prohibition) Act, 1993 – Directions by Supreme Court – Eradication of manual scavenging in a phased manner – Rehabilitation measures – Compensation for sewer deaths etc. : Held: The Union should take appropriate measures and frame policies and issue directions, to all statutory bodies to ensure that manual sewer cleaning is completely eradicated in a phased manner, and also issue guidelines and directions that any sewer cleaning work outsourced, or required to be discharged, by or through contractors or agencies, do not require individuals to enter sewers, for any purpose whatsoever – States and Union Territories to ensure that all departments, agencies, corporations ensure that guidelines and directions framed by the Union are embodied in their own guidelines and directions – States to ensure that such directions are applicable to all municipalities, and local bodies functioning within their territories – The Union, State and Union Territories to ensure that full rehabilitation (including employment to the next of kin, education to the wards, and skill training) measures are taken in respect of sewage workers, and those who die – Compensation for sewer deaths shall be Rs.30 lakhs – Compensation stated in the case of sewer victims suff ering disabilities, depending upon the severity of disabilities – Mechanism be devised to 1083 108 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. ensure accountability, especially wherever sewer deaths occur in the course of contractual or outsourced work – A model contract to be deviced, to be used wherever contracts are to be awarded and in the event of any mishap, the agency would lose its contract, possibly blacklisting – Modalities be drawn for the conduct of a National Survey – NALSA shall be part of the consultations, toward framing the policies as directed – The Union, State and Union Territories to ensure coordination with all the commissions like National Commission for Safai Karamcharis (NCSK), State Commission for Safai Karamcharis (NCSC) for setting up of state level, district level committees and commissions, in a time bound manner – NCSK, NCSC, National Commission for Scheduled Tribes (NCST) and the Union government to coordinate and prepare training and education modules, for information and use by district and state level agencies, under the 2013 Act – A portal and a dashboard, containing all relevant information, including the information relating to sewer deaths, victims and the status of compensation disbursement, as well as rehabilitation measures taken, and existing and available rehabilitation policies be developed and launched – Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and Their Rehabilitation Rules, 2013– National Commission for Safai Karamchari Act, 1993– Constitution of India– Articles 15(2), 17, 23, 24– Civil Rights Act, 1955 – Contract Labour (Prohibition and Regulation Act), 1970.