[2023] 14 S.C.R. 1 : 2023 INSC 855 CASE DETAILS KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LIMITED v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX BANGALORE AND ANR. (Civil Appeal No. 9720 of 2014) SEPTEMBER 25, 2023 [B. V. NAGARATHNA AND UJJAL BHUYAN, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether the Division Bench of the High Court was right in affi rming the fi ndings of the Single Judge, to the eff ect that the Settlement Commission ought not to have exercised discretion u/s. 245H of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and granted immunity to the assessee de hors any material to demonstrate that there was no wilful concealment on the part of the assessee to evade tax and on that ground, remanding the matter to the Commission for fresh consideration. Income Tax Act, 1961 – s. 245H – Power of Settlement Commission to grant immunity from prosecution and penalty – Exercise of – Assessee placed material and particulars before the Commission as to the manner in which income pertaining to certain activities was derived and has sought to off er such additional income to tax – On basis thereof, the Settlement Commission proceeded to grant immunity from prosecution and penalty as contemplated u/s. 245H – Correctness: Held: Settlement Commission rightly considered the relevant facts and material and, decided to grant immunity to the assessee from prosecution and penalty – Settlement Commission applied its mind to the aspect of whether there was wilful concealment of income by the assessee – Having noted that non-disclosure was on account of RBI guidelines, the Commission decided to grant immunity to the assessee from prosecution and penalty – Single Judge of the High Court erred in holding that the reasoning of the Settlement Commission was vague, unsound and contrary to established principles – Division Bench also not justifi ed in affi rming the said view – Commission 1 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. adequately applied its mind to the circumstances of the case, as well as to the relevant law and accordingly exercised its discretion to proceed with the application for settlement and grant immunity to the assessee from penalty and prosecution – Thus, the of the Commission did not suff er from such infi rmity as would warrant interference by the High Court, by passing an of remand – passed by the High Court is set aside and that of the Settlement Commission is restored. [Paras 7.4, 7.5, 9, and 14] Income Tax Act, 1961 – s. 245H – Power of Settlement Commission to grant immunity from prosecution and penalty – Exercise of – Necessary ingredients: Held: Under s. 245H(1), if the Settlement Commission is satisfi ed that assessee has co-operated with the Settlement Commission in the proceedings before it and has made a full and true disclosure of its income and the manner in which such income has been derived, it may grant immunity from prosecution or from the imposition of penalty – Even if the pre-conditions prescribed u/s. 245C are to be read into s. 245H, it cannot be said that in every case, the material “disclosed” by the assessee before the Commission must be something apart from what was discovered by the Assessing Offi cer – What is relevant that the assessee off ered to tax, income, in addition to the income recorded in the return of income – s. 245C r/w s. 245H only contemplates full and true disclosure of income to be made before the Settlement Commission, regardless of the disclosures or discoveries made before/by the Assessing Offi cer.