It was held that the subsequent amendment made by Act 68 of 1984 inserting Section 11-A would have no eff ect on the acquisition made under NIT Act. 15. In view of the above, we are of the considered opinion that the provisions of Section 11-A of LA Act which provides for lapsing of the land acquisition proceedings, would not be applicable where acquisition was made under NIT Act. In view of the foregoing discussion and settled law, we are of the considered opinion that the High Court has not committed any error in negating the plea of lapsing of acquisition proceedings as raised by the appellant. IN REFERNECE TO QUESTION NO. 2 16. By the impugned dated 29.09.2009 passed by the High Court, directions were issued to NIT to consider the prayer for the grant of alternate land to the appellant. The said prayer was rejected by the Chairman, NIT on 31.12.2009, inter-alia stating that grant of alternate land in lieu of compensation is not possible in the absence of any provisions in the Act. The said rejection has not been separately challenged by the appellant and has attained fi nality. In our view also, the said plea does not have any statutory backing under NIT Act, therefore, refusal made by NIT does not LOONKARAN GANDHI (D) THR. LR. v. STATE OF 169 MAHARASHTRA AND ORS.[J. K. MAHESHWARI, J.] warrant any interference. Be that as it may, on 03.07.2013, counsel for the appellant without prejudice to his right made a statement that to amicably resolve the controversy, the appellant was willing to give up the claim of grant of alternate plot provided NIT is prepared to pay the current market price as on 03.07.2013. Thereafter, time was sought by counsel for NIT to seek instructions. After instructions, NIT fi led its response on 02.08.2013 wherein the grant of an alternative plot was denied. As discussed, after the rejection of the representation to grant alternate land particularly in absence of any statutory backing, we are not inclined to entertain the said plea. Nonetheless, the said prayer was not seriously pressed by the appellant and prayer was confi ned to grant of adequate compensation. Therefore, question no. 2 is answered accordingly. IN REFERNECE TO QUESTION NO. 3 17. In the case at hand, compulsory acquisition of the subject land was initiated issuing preliminary notifi cation in 1962 and fi nal notifi cation in January 1969 under the provisions of NIT Act with the aid of LA Act. As per Section 59 of NIT Act, for any scheme, the NIT may acquire the land with the previous sanction of the State Government under the LA Act as modifi ed by NIT Act. As per Section 61(b) of NIT Act, for the purpose of acquiring the land, the provisions of LA Act shall apply subject to further modifi cations as indicated in the Schedule. As per Section 67 of the NIT Act, the provisions of the LA Act are made applicable for determination of award for the land so acquired.