The phrase also highlights that the structures of governance which were being created by the Constitution were supposed to act towards the welfare of the people. The Preamble provides that the people of India have resolved to constitute India into a “SOVEREIGN SOCIALIST SECULAR DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC”. Each term in E this phrase defined the collective vision of not only the founders of the Indian Constitution but also the collective destiny of the people of India. These words also denote the kind of democratic structures that we were going to create. The word “DEMOCRATIC” in the Preamble is interlinked with the words preceding and succeeding it, that is F “SOVEREIGN”, “SOCIALIST”, “SECULAR”, “REPUBLIC”. The Preamble also provides that the people of India are securing for its citizens “JUSTICE social, economic and political”. The word “JUSTICE” manifests the vision of undoing hundreds of years of injustice that was prevalent on Indian soil. Justice was to be based on three components: social, economic, and political. G 21. Democracy was established in India to fulfill the goals which have been significantly encapsulated in the terms of the Preamble. The 2 Babasaheb Ambedkar: Writings and Speeches, Vol. 17 Part III, page 475 3 https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/dewey-political/ 4 His Holiness Kesavananda Bharati Sripadagalvaru v. State of Kerala and Another, H (1973) 4 SCC 225 ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 189 [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] institutions which were set up were given a role and duty to fulfill the A task as enshrined in the Preamble and the Constitution. While the three main pillars of the State rest on the legislature, executive, and judiciary have their designated roles, the Constitution framers were also visionary in the sense that they envisaged the creation of other institutions, which would be independent in nature and would facilitate the working of the B three pillars by either demanding accountability or by taking on roles which would maintain the faith of the people in the three pillars of democracy. The Election Commission of India is one such institution that has been created through the text of the Constitution. It is constitutionally an independent body. The role of the Election Commission of India is to ensure that the democratic process in India does not come C to a standstill. The task conferred on the Election Commission is enormous. It has to ensure that periodical elections keep on happening. 22. India has chosen a system of direct elections. This means that elections are supposed to happen at regular intervals where the people of India directly participate by exercising their right to vote. The D Constitution also provides for elections where the representatives of the people are chosen by an indirect method. These include the elections for the post of President and Vice-President and the members of State Legislative Councils. The task to maintain the sanctity of the elections is supposed to be carried out by the Election Commission in a fair, transparent and impartial manner, and without any bias or favour. The Election E Commission has been given a wide range of powers towards “superintendence, direction, and control” over the conduct of all elections to Parliament and the Legislature of every State and of elections to the offices of President and Vice-President held under this Constitution.