At the same time, this Court further observed that in absence of sanctioned post, the State cannot be compelled to create the post and D absorb the persons who are continuingin service of the State. 55. In Nihal Singh and Others (supra) on which heavy reliance has been placed, it was a case where appointments were made by the State Government under Section 17 of the Police Act, 1861. Since their appointments were under the Act, 1861 and were allowed to continue E for sufficient long time, which was not considered to be illegal or irregular appointment, this Court considered it appropriate to observe that as they are allowed to continue for such a long term, they deserve regularization of service. In the instant case, the respondents were never appointed in the establishment of the Government against a regular sanctioned post,in the absence whereof, may be of no assistance. F 56. The later in Malathi Das (Retired) Now P.B. Mahishy (supra) which has been relied upon, it was a case where the employees were working on daily wage basis serving in different departments which are indeed Government establishments. At one stage, the employees approached the High Court claiming regularization of G service and the High Court of Karnataka came to their rescue and directed the State Government to regularize service of such employees who are serving on a daily wage basis in Government departments and finally the SLP was dismissed by this Court. Thereafter, contempt petitions were filed before the High Court and in two phases, the H 410 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A employees were regularized, in the first and second phase of filing contempt petition by the incumbents concerned. But few of the incumbents filed contempt petition which appears to be the third phase, they were not considered for regularization despite the of the High Court being confirmed by this Court on dismissal of the special leave petition on the premise of the of this Court in Secretary, State B of Karnataka and Others Vs. Umadevi (3) and Others (supra). This Court was of the view that once the of the High Court has been affirmed and in two phases on filing contempt petitions, employees have been regularized, there appears no reason to deviate and takeaway the claim of rest of the employees who are covered by the of C the High Court, may be the reason that there was a change in law on the subject after passing of the of this Court in Secretary, State of Karnataka and Others Vs. Umadevi (3) and Others (supra) and this is not the factual matrix in the instant case. 57. We are of the considered view that the direction of the High D Court to reinstate after creating theposts and absorb the respondents based on their qualification is not sustainable in law and deserves outright rejection. 58. This Court, in a recent in State of Gujarat and Others (supra) has considered the view expressed by usin paras 10 and E 11 as follows:- “10.