D 6. I have heard learned counsel for the respective parties at length. At the outset, it is required to be noted that in all these cases, the respective Civil Appeals have been dismissed/disposed of, confirming the s passed by the respective High Courts, relying upon the decision of this Court in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra). E However, it is required to be noted that in Indore Development Authority v. Shailendra, (2018) 1 SCC 733, correctness of the decision in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) was doubted. The matter was placed before the three Judge Bench. By a majority decision, the decision in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) was held F to be per incuriam. While holding so and overruling the decision in Sree Balaji Nagar Residential Assn. (supra) and other decisions following the said decision to the extent they were in conflict with the three Judge Bench decision, this Court also observed that the decisions rendered on the basis of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) are open to be reviewed in appropriate cases on the basis of the said decision. G That is how, the applicants have preferred the present review applications in view of the observations and liberty reserved in para 217 in the case of Indore Development Authority v. Shailendra (dead) through Lrs. (supra). The matter does not rest there. Thereafter, a reference was made to the five Judge Bench of this Court. A Constitution Bench of this H GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI THR. THE SECRETARY, LAND AND BUILDING 223 DEPT. v. M/S. K.L. RATHI STEELS LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] Court in the case of Indore Development Authority v. Manohar Lal A (supra) thereafter has specifically overruled the decision in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra). In para 365, it is observed and held as under: “365. Resultantly, the decision rendered in Pune Municipal Corpn. [Pune Municipal Corpn. v. Harakchand Misirimal B Solanki, (2014) 3 SCC 183 is hereby overruled and all other decisions in which Pune Municipal Corpn. [Pune Municipal Corpn. v. Harakchand Misirimal Solanki, (2014) 3 SCC 183 has been followed, are also overruled. The decision in Sree Balaji Nagar Residential Assn. [Sree Balaji Nagar Residential Assn. C v. State of T.N., (2015) 3 SCC 353 cannot be said to be laying down good law, is overruled and other decisions following the same are also overruled. In Indore Development Authority v. Shailendra [Indore Development Authority v. Shailendra, (2018) 3 SCC 412, the aspect with respect to the proviso to Section 24(2) and whether “or” has to be read as “nor” or as “and” was D not placed for consideration. Therefore, that decision too cannot prevail, in the light of the discussion in the present .” Thus, the Constitution Bench of this Court in the aforesaid decision has not only observed that the decision rendered in Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) is overruled but has also specifically observed that E all other decisions in which Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) has been followed, are also overruled.