Once the policies for the period from 07.07.2009 onwards are not renewed, the claim for reimbursement of expenses incurred on treatment was also rejected while setting aside the s passed by the E lower authorities. 24. A certificate dated June 30, 2009, issued by Rajiv Gandhi Cancer Institute and Research Centre, New Delhi has been placed on record giving the details of the treatment given to the wife of the appellant, who was a registered patient with the hospital since 13.03.2008 and prior to F that she had undergone surgery on 31.01.2008 at AIIMS. The certificate further mentions that rheumatic heart disease and carcinoma ovary are not related to each other. 25. The main thrust of the argument of learned Counsel for the insurance company is that in terms of the guidelines issued by the G Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority on 31.03.2009 regarding renewal of health insurance policies, the renewal of policy to the appellant could be refused. The relevant clause is extracted below from the IRDA letter dated 31st March, 2009. “A health insurance policy shall be ordinarily renewable H except on grounds such as fraud, moral hazard, or OM PRAKASH AHUJA v. RELIANCE GENERAL INSURANCE 93 CO. LTD. ETC. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] misrepresentation and upon renewal being sought by the A insured, shall not be rejected on arbitrary grounds. Specifically, renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the insured had made a claim (or claims) in the previous or earlier years.” 26. The ground on which renewal of insurance policy to the B appellant is sought to be refused is that while taking the initial policy, the appellant had failed to disclose that his wife (now deceased) was suffering from rheumatic heart disease. Though she expired of cancer. The fact remains that the first policy was taken by the appellant for the period from07.07.2007 to 06.07.2008, which was renewed for another year. C The claims even for the period, wherein valid policy was available with the appellant, were repudiated. Renewal of policy beyond 07.07.2009 onwards was refused relying upon the guidelines issued by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority vide communication dated March 31, 2009. The claim of the appellant was repudiated on that very ground namely non-disclosure of the disease by which the wife of the appellant D (now deceased) suffered at the time of purchase of initial policy. The repudiation of claim by the insurance company was subject matter of consideration before the Fora at different levels under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986. The rejection of the claim on the ground that there was concealment of certain material facts by the appellant at the time of purchase of policy, was not found to be tenable and the insurance company E was directed to reimburse the expenses incurred for the period from 07.07.2007 to 06.07.2009.The aforesaid amount was paid by the insurance company. The passed by the National Commission was not challenged any further by the Insurance Company.From this, it is established that even the Insurance Company accepted the fact that F non-mentioning of the disease from which the deceased wife of the appellant suffered at the time of purchasing the policy was not material, as the death was caused from a different disease all together.