So My Lords the voting had taken place. The scrutinizer had withheld the result of resolution board subject to outcome whatever. We had taken some opinion of some judges. Therefore, he took the advice and said that I will withhold. The other side went up in contempt and moved an application before the Hon’ble Supreme Court saying that the scrutinizer should not have withheld result subject to outcome, whatever be the result, whether Mr. Chabaria was to continue or not, that should be declared but Your Lordships should not pronounce. The Hon’ble Supreme Court today now said that Your Lordships can pronounce the and I must apprise Your Lordships before Your Lordships pronounce. That’s all. 104 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Hon’ble Justice Nothing is before us on record…(not clear) Rakesh Kumar allow us to pronounce . Mr. Ramji Apprise Your Lordship. I will just read, nothing Srinivasan else. May I just show the passed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court. Hon’ble Justice Just a minute. There is no point… (not clear) Rakesh Kumar Mr. Krishnendu No no no… (cross talk, not clear)… Hon’ble Dutta Supreme Court says may be pronounced only after results are eclared, thats the of Hon’ble Supreme Court. Hon’ble Justice Neither any has been official Rakesh Kumar communicated to us. Mr. Krishnendu (interjecting) It was passed this morning. Dutta Hon’ble Justice (continuing) nor it has been passed, nor it has Rakesh Kumar been mentioned before us. We have reserved the , we are pronouncing it.. you can go to the Supreme Court. Mr. Ramji (Cross talk, not clear) my friend is misstating Srinivasan the . It only says that Lordships have to be apprised of the … that’s all. Hon’ble Justice We are not taking cognizance of anything. The Rakesh Kumar case is listed under the caption ‘for s’ we are pronouncing it… If you think that we are passing in violation of the Supreme Court , you go and complain (not clear)…. Allow us to pass the . Mr. Krishnendu No its not that. Hon’ble Supreme Court has Dutta passed an this morning, it is my duty to place it before you (he does not tender copy of the ) Justice Rakesh Whatever you want to bring on record, do so Kumar through affi davit. ORBIT ELECTRICALS PRIVATE LIMITED v. 1041 DEEPAK KISHAN CHHABRIA & ORS. Court Master Calls out Item 1, For – Company Appeal (AT) No. 64 of 2020. Dr Alok (pronounces the in CA (AT) 64 of 2020) Srivastava Senior Lawyers So deeply obliged….” Mr 17 The above transcript of the proceedings together with the video recording which has been produced before the Court leaves no manner of doubt that : (i) The Bench of the NCLAT was duly apprised of the fact that an had been passed by this Court in the morning session on 13 October 2023; (ii) The Scrutiniser had withheld the result of the AGM; and (iii) The purport of the of this Court dated 13 October 2023 was that the NCLAT shall pronounce in the pending appeal after the results of the AGM were declared.