For C which the High Court has relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of Nikesh Tarachand Shah (supra). In the case of Dr. V.C. Mohan (supra), this Court has specifically observed and held that it is the wrong understanding that in the case of Nikesh Tarachand Shah (supra) this Court has held that the rigour of Section 45 of the Act, 2002 shall not be applicable to the application under Section 438 Cr. PC. In D the case of Dr. V.C. Mohan (supra) in which the decision of this Court in the case of Nikesh Tarachand Shah (supra) was pressed into service, it is specifically observed by this Court that it is one thing to say that Section 45 of the Act, 2002 to offences under the ordinary law would not get attracted but once the prayer for anticipatory bail is made in E connection with offence under the Act, 2002, the underlying principles and rigours of Section 45 of the Act, must get triggered – although the application is under Section 438 Cr.PC. Therefore, the observations made by the High Court that the provisions of Section 45 of the Act, 2002 shall not be applicable in connection with an application under Section 438 Cr.PC is just contrary to the decision in the case of Dr. V.C. Mohan F (supra) and the same is on misunderstanding of the observations made in the case of Nikesh Tarachand Shah (supra). Once the rigour under Section 45 of the Act, 2002 shall be applicable the impugned and passed by the High Court granting anticipatory bail to respondent No. 1 is unsustainable. G 6. Even otherwise on merits also, the impugned and passed by the High Court granting anticipatory bail to respondent No. 1 is erroneous and unsustainable. While granting the anticipatory bail to respondent No. 1 the High Court has not at all considered the nature of allegations and seriousness of the offences alleged of money laundering and the offence(s) under the Act, 2002. Looking to the nature H THE DIRECTORATE OF ENFORCEMENT v. M. GOPAL 89 REDDY & ANR. [M. R. SHAH, J.] of allegations, it can be said that the same can be said to be very serious A allegations of money laundering which are required to be investigated thoroughly. As per the investigating agency, they have collected some material connecting respondent No. 1 having taken undue advantage from Srinivas Raju Mantena. From the impugned and passed by the High Court, it appears that the High Court has considered B the matter, as if, it was dealing with the prayer for anticipatory bail in connection with the ordinary offence under IPC. 6.1 Now so far as the submissions on behalf of respondent No. 1 that respondent No. 1 was not named in the FIR with respect to the scheduled offence and that the other accused are discharged/acquitted C is concerned, merely because other accused are acquitted, it cannot be a ground not to continue the investigation against respondent No.