140. Apart from that, it appears that various DISCOMS are taking self-contradictory stands. In Petition No. 97 of 2017 between M/s Adani Power Limited v. Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Ltd. & Anr., the DISCOMS have filed an affidavit stating thus: G “a. While deciding the relief on account of Change in Law under Article 13 of the PPA may be pleased to consider improved efficiency parameters in line with CERC Tariff Regulations such that the impact on consumers of the Respondents in minimal in nature. H 146 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A b. Any relief (if granted), may be passed after considering the following significant observations: (i) The actual impact of the said period should be calculated on the basis of various factors namely the quantum of requirement on normative procedures B such as the following: i. Station Heat Rate shall be considered after ascertaining actual design heat rate and margin as per CERC regulations from time to time. C ii. Similarly, Auxiliary Consumption shall be considered as per CERC regulations. iii. GCV of alternate coal shall be as certified by Third Party Sampling Agency for which the Hon’ble Commission should provide D appropriate the guideline. iv. The targeted PLF; v. The accurate date of actual coal utilized by the Petitioner on a monthly and yearly basis; E vi. The quantity of coal offered by the MCL which was rejected or not taken by the Petitioner; vii. The quantum of actual of electricity generated by the Petitioner Thus, it is submitted that the Petitioner’s claim F for relief in this regard requires to be computed in a categorical and systematic manner taking the above parameters into consideration. The Petitioner’s computation as stated in its petition is therefore liable to be rejected as it is general G and vague in nature. (ii) Further, the Petitioner has indicated the impact limited to the past period only. However, the Respondents humbly request the Hon’ble Commission to only approve such claims for the past period, after H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 147 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] considering the above along with a formula for the A future period.” [emphasis supplied] 141. It can thus be seen that the DISCOM-UHBVNL has itself stated that improved efficiency parameters in line with CERC Tariff B Regulations should be considered for deciding the relief on account of Change in Law, such that the impact on consumers of the respondents is minimal in nature. It has also requested for any relief, if granted, to take into consideration the SHR after ascertaining actual design heat rate and margin as per CERC regulations from time to time. Similarly, it has also requested that Auxiliary Consumption be considered as per the CERC C Regulations. Insofar as the GCV of alternate coal is concerned, it has further stated that it has to be certified by Third Party Sampling Agency. 142. It is not in dispute that the SHR is required to be audited continuously and the GCV has to be certified by a Third Party Sampling Agency.