Having regard to the larger ramifi cations and consequences of the view of the majority in N N Global Mercantile Private Limited vs Indo Unique Flame Limited and Others, we are of the considered view that the proceedings should be placed before a seven-Judge Bench to reconsider the correctness of the view of the fi ve-Judge Bench.” 10. It is in this context that the proceedings were listed before this Bench of seven Judges on 11 October 2023, when this Court directed the cause title to be changed to: “In Re: Interplay between the arbitration agreements under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 and the Indian Stamp Act 1899.” We are not reproducing the factual matrix of the case(s) 12 Curative Petition (Civil) No. 44 of 2023 in Review Petition (Civil) No. 704 of 2021 in Civil Appeal No. 1599 of 2020. 110 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. in question as we have been called upon to determine the question of law. In the process, we will consider the correctness of the view adopted in N N Global 2 (supra) as well as other ancillary issues. B*. Submissions 11. The petitioners broadly contend that N N Global 2 (supra) does not lay down the correct position of law. The submissions of the learned counsel on behalf of the petitioners and the intervenors are summarized below. 12. Mr Arvind Datar, learned senior counsel, made the following submissions: a. Section 11(6A) of the Arbitration Act expressly confi nes the referral court’s power to the examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement. Such examination does not extend to the adequacy of the stamping under Section 33 of the Stamp Act; b. The majority in N N Global 2 (supra) has eff ectively nullifi ed Section 11(6A) which confi ned the jurisdiction of this Court and High Court to the examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement; c. Mandating the courts at the referral stage to follow the prescriptions contained under Section 33 of the Stamp Act would amount to exceeding the remit of examination. The Arbitration Act confi nes the authority of referral court to the examination of an arbitration agreement and not the instrument; d. The arbitral tribunal has the competence to rule on its own jurisdiction, including on issues pertaining to stamping; e. The inclusion of the non-obstante clause in Section 5 of the Arbitration Act limits the judicial intervention of courts in the arbitral process and must be read harmoniously with the provisions of the Stamp Act; and f. The requirement of stamping does not render an instrument void. It only makes the instrument inadmissible in evidence until the defect is cured in accordance with the provisions of the Stamp Act. * Ed. Note: PART B IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1103 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] 13. Mr Nikhil Sakhardande, learned senior counsel, made the following submissions: a. The defi ciency in stamping is a curable defect, the eff ect of which ceases to operate as soon as the revenue interest of the state is secured; b.