[B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] (ii) any society existing in the State on the date of the commencement of this Act which has been registered or deemed to be registered under any of the aforesaid repealed Acts shall be deemed to be registered under this Act, and the bye-laws of such society shall, so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, continue in force until altered or rescinded.” vi) The Kerala State Co-Operative Agricultural Development Banks Act, 1984 (State Act, 1984): The relevant provisions of the State Act, 1984 are extracted as under for immediate reference: “(2) Defi nitions.- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,- (a) “Agricultural and Rural Development Bank” means the Kerala Co-operative Central Land Mortgage Bank Limited, registered under section 10 of the Travancore-Cochin Co-operative Societies Act, 1951 (X of 1952), which shall hereafter be known as the “Kerala State Co-operative Agricultural and Rural Development Bank Limited”; X X X (ka) “Kerala State Co-operative Bank” means an apex society having Primary Agricultural Credit Societies and Urban Co-operative Banks as its members including nominal or associate members of the District Co-operative Banks who shall continue as nominal or associate members of the Kerala State Co-operative Bank; X X X (iA) “Rural Development” means any activity intended to promote the development in rural area and intends the following developmental activities- (1) Development of handicrafts and other crafts; (2) Small Industries; (3) Cottage and Village industries; 348 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. (4) Industries in tiny and decentralized section; (5) Rural housing needs of the rural-population. Judicial Precedent: 13. The relevant s of this Court as well as the Kerala High Court, having a bearing on the issues raised in these appeals could be adverted to at this stage: a) In Thalappalam Service Coop. Bank Ltd. vs. State of Kerala, (2013) 16 SCC 82, this Court has referred to Entry 32 of List II of Seventh schedule of the Constitution in paragraph 26 which reads as under: 26. The cooperative society is a State subject under Schedule VII List II Entry 32 to the Constitution of India. Most of the States in India enacted their own Cooperative Societies Act with a view to provide for the ly development of the cooperative sector in the State to achieve the objects of equity, social justice and economic development, as envisaged in the directive principles of State policy, enunciated in the Constitution of India. For cooperative societies working in more than one State, the Multi-State Cooperative Societies Act, 1984 was enacted by Parliament under Schedule VII List I Entry 44 of the Constitution. The cooperative society is essentially an association of persons who have come together for a common purpose of economic development or for mutual help. (Emphasis by us) Entry 32 of List II of Seventh Schedule of the Constitution reads as under: “32. Incorporation, regulation and winding up of corporations, other than those specifi ed in List I, and universities; unincorporated trading, literary, scientifi c, religious and other societies and associations; co- operative societies.” b) This Court in Union of India vs. Rajendra N. Shah, 2021 SCC OnLine SC 474 while considering the vires of the constitution (Ninety Seventh Amendment) Act, 2011 has reiterated the aforesaid position of law.