If for any reason the post of the Co-Ordinator and Joint D Co-ordinator becomes vacant before the expiry of the tenure the office bearers who were nominated by the previous Co-Ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator will hold office and continue to function till the new The Co-Ordinator and JointCo-ordinator are elected and assume office. E viii) The Co-Ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator of the Party shall have the powers and responsibilities to convene the Executive and the General Council Meetings, to implement policies and programmes of the Party as decided by the General and Executive Councils, to conduct elections and F bye elections for Party Organisations, to examine the accounts of all the Party units through the Audit Committee, to manage by self and through the Treasurer the income and expenditure of the Party organizations at all levels, to manage the Party Office, movable and immovable properties of the Party, to represent the Party in the legal G proceedings that may arise in respect of Party properties and to take necessary legal steps on behalf of the Party to protect them. The Co-Ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator will preside over the Party conferences take all kinds of disciplinary H 1184 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A proceedings in accordance with the Party rules against the Party units and its office bearers who violate the Party rules, regulations or act against the Party interest, party discipline, policies and programmes, including immediate suspension of any Party unit or office bearer. The Co-Ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator shall be the supreme authority to take a B final decision on the disciplinary proceedings recommended by the Party units and shall have over all powers to take all steps to promote and preserve the Party policies and programmes and to develop and protect the Party organizations. C ix) The Co-Ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator are empowered to take such actions as he may deem fit on important political events, policies and programmes of urgent nature which cannot brook delay/and await the meeting of either Executive Committee or General Council of the Party. Such D decisions and actions have to be ratified by the General Council in its next meeting. However, it is open to the Co- Ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator to obtain the views of the General Council Members on such urgent matters by post when the Council is not in session. E x) The Co-Ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator are empowered to deposit the funds of the AIADMK in any of the legally constituted Banks or Financial Institutions either in Current Accounts or Fixed Deposits; to withdraw such funds and to operate the accounts on behalf of the Party. The Co- Ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator are also empowered to F obtain loans for the Party purposes from the above mentioned institutions on the security of the assets of the Party and to do all that is necessary in this regard for and on behalf of the Party. xi) The Co-Ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator are vested with G powers to authorize the Treasure of the Party to operate on his behalf the Bank Accounts namely to deposit or to withdraw funds, and also in respect of duties mentioned in sub-rule (x) of this Rule.