The reasons for delay are set out hereinabove. The explanation which was given by the plaintiff, narrated hereinabove, can hardly be D said to be a sufficient explanation as to why the plaintiff did not pay the balance sale consideration as per the and decree or even did not make an application within a reasonable time under Section 148 CPC and Section 28 of the Specific Relief Act seeking extension of time for making payment. If the plaintiff 9 E was ready with the money payable towards the balance sale consideration, he could have got the sale deed executed through power of attorney after effecting deposit/payment. In absence of any sufficient explanation, such a huge delay of 853 days ought not to have been condoned by the trial Court. [Para 5][42-E-H; 43-A-B] F 1.2. The Court is of the opinion that the trial Court erred in exercising the discretion in favour of the plaintiff and erred in extending the time in favour of the plaintiff to deposit the balance sale consideration of Rs. 15,00,000/- by condoning the huge delay of 853 days, which as observed hereinabove has not been G explained sufficiently at all. After the plaintiff was directed to deposit the balance sale consideration of Rs. 15,00,000/- within a period of two weeks from the date of ex-parte and decree dated 12.10.2013, which the plaintiff failed to deposit/pay, even no application for extension of time under Section 148 CPC and Section 28 of the Specific Relief Act was made thereafter within a H P. SHYAMALA v. GUNDLUR MASTHAN 37 reasonable time and was made after a period of 853 days. Nothing A is on record that in between any notice was given to the defendant to execute the sale deed as per the and decree on deposit of the balance sale consideration. The application filed by the plaintiff under Section 148 CPC and Section 28 of the Specific Relief Act seeking extension of time to deposit the B balance sale consideration was hopelessly delayed. Section 28 of the Specific Relief Act seeks to provide complete relief to both the parties in terms of a decree of specific performance. Therefore, the trial Court failed to exercise the discretion judiciously in favour of the defendant and erred in exercising the discretionary power in favour of the plaintiff, that too with a delay C of 853 days. The High Court has erred in confirming the same and dismissing the revision applications. Under the circumstances, the passed by the trial Court allowing the application of the plaintiff being I.A. No. 732/2016 seeking extension of time to deposit the balance sale consideration deserves to be dismissed and I.A. No. 914/2017 filed by the D defendant – appellant under Section 28 of the Specific Relief Act to rescind the agreement to sell dated 9.5.2012 deserves to be allowed. However, at the same time, to strike the balance between the parties the amount of Rs. 8,00,000/- paid by the plaintiff as an advance is to be returned to the plaintiff with 12% interest per E annum from 13 9.5.2012 till the actual payment, within a period of six weeks from today, failing which it shall carry interest @ 18% per annum.