It is also well settled that the formation of opinion for compulsory retirement is based on the subjective 18 (2001) 3 SCC 314 19 (2012) 3 SCC 580 H 48 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A satisfaction of the authority concerned but such satisfaction must be based on a valid material. It is permissible for the Courts to ascertain whether a valid material exists or otherwise, on which the subjective satisfaction of the administrative authority is based. In the present matter, what we see is that the High Court, while holding that the track record B and service record of the appellant was unsatisfactory, has selectively taken into consideration the service record for certain years only while making extracts of those contents of the ACRs. There appears to be some discrepancy.“ [emphasis added] C 25. In a recent in the case of Nisha Priya Bhatia v. Union of India20, confronted with the question as to whether action taken under Rule 135 of the Research and Analysis Wing (Recruitment Cadre and Service) Rules, 1975 is in the nature of “a penalty or a dismissal clothed as compulsory retirement” so as to attract Article 311 of the D Constitution of India, this Court has held that “the real test for this examination is to see whether the of compulsory retirement is occasioned by the concern of unsuitability or as a punishment for misconduct”. For drawing this distinction, reliance has been placed on the in State of Bombay v. Saubhag Chand M. Doshi21, E where a distinction was made between an of dismissal and of compulsory retirement in the following words : “9 … Under the rules, an of dismissal is a punishment laid on a government servant, when it is found that he has been guilty of misconduct or inefficiency or the like, and it is penal in character, be- cause it involves loss of pension which under the rules would F have accrued in respect of the service already put in. An of removal also stands on the same footing as an of dismissal, and involves the same consequences, the only difference between them being that while a servant who is dismissed is not eli- gible for re-appointment, one who is removed G is. An of retire- ment differs both from an of dismissal and an of re- moval, in that it is not a form of punishment prescribed by the rules, and involves no 20 (2020) 13 SCC 56 H 21 AIR 1957 SC 892 CAPTAIN PRAMOD KUMAR BAJAJ v. UNION OF INDIA 49 AND ANOTHER [HIMA KOHLI, J.] penal consequences, inasmuch as the person retired is A entitled to pension proportionate to the period of service standing to his credit.” [emphasis added] EXAMINATION AND ANALYSIS OF THE CASE ON HAND B 26. We may now proceed to examine the facts of the case in hand in the light of the case laws discussed above in to find out as to whether the of compulsory retirement passed by the respondents in respect of the appellant was based on valid material and was in public interest.