7. It was submitted that Clauses 3 & 4 of the ATS dated 31.07.1975 would indicate that the time for moving the court for specifi c performance started upon expiry of the 8th day from 31.07.1975 and thus, fi ling of the suit on 01.01.1981 was clearly beyond the period specifi ed to institute such case. SUBMISSIONS BY THE RESPONDENTS: 8. Learned counsel for the respondents submitted that the Trial Court had rightly held that the appellants had to apply for permission and upon getting the same had to intimate to the respondents and within fi fteen days of such intimation, the respondents were to get the Sale Deed executed. As the appellants had not even applied and thus, no permission was ever obtained, they had not informed the respondents and therefore, the suit would not be hit by limitation. It was his submission that the suit was fi led within the limitation period. 9. It was further contended that the respondents had orally shown their willingness to the appellants to pay the balance amount and get the Sale Deed executed in terms of the time-frame as per the ATS but the appellants stoutly refused to act as per the terms of the ATS. It was submitted that the respondents, who were the tenants, had even got the property reconstructed in the year 1978 by investing Rs.5,000/- after getting the maps approved by the concerned Municipal Corporation through the appellants. ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 10. Having considered the matter, the Court fi nds that the Impugned cannot be sustained. The true typed copy of the ATS dated 31.07.1975 has been brought on record by the learned counsel for the SABBIR (DEAD) THROUGH LRS. v. ANJUMAN (SINCE 1131 DECEASED) THROUGH LRS. [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] appellants. Clause 3 thereof stipulates that the appellants within 8 days from that date, for sale of the property, would apply for permission before the District Magistrate, Saharanpur, Uttar Pradesh and upon the same being granted shall communicate it to the respondents through registered post. Thereafter, it was stipulated that within 15 days from such intimation, the respondents shall get the Sale Deed executed either in their favour or in favour of a person of their choice and the expenses would be borne by the respondents. Further, Clause 4 stipulated that in case the appellants did not apply for permission within the stipulated time ‘or’ after getting permission, did not inform the respondents and get the deed executed in favour of either the respondents or anyone of their choice then the respondents would have the right to get the sale of the property in question executed in their favour through the Court, and also take possession through the Court. A conjoint and harmonious reading of the relevant Clauses clearly indicates that the onus was on the appellants to apply within 8 days for permission and upon the permission being received, to intimate to the respondents, whereafter the respondents had to get the Sale Deed executed within 15 days.