The Note for the Cabinet contains details about the relevant data available as per Economic Survey for 2014-15 and 2015-16 and the report of the Intelligence Bureau with regard to infusion of FICN and generation of black money. It also contains the details with regard to the 2012 White G Paper on Black Money. It contains the details with regard to the report of the SIT headed by two former Judges of this Court and their recommendations. It considers the recommendation of the RBI. 234. Upon perusal of the material on record, we are of the considered view that the Central Board had taken into consideration the H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 117 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] relevant factors while recommending withdrawal of legal tender of bank A notes in the denomination of Rs.500/- and Rs.1000/- of existing and any older series in circulation. Similarly, all the relevant factors were placed for consideration before the Cabinet when it took the decision to demonetize. It is to be noted that a draft scheme to implement the proposal for demonetization in a non-disruptive manner with as little inconvenience B to the public and business entities as possible was also prepared by the RBI along with the recommendation for demonetization. The same was also taken into consideration by the Cabinet. As such, we are of the considered view that the contention that the decision-making process suffers from non-consideration of relevant factors and eschewing of the irrelevant factors, is without substance. C 235. Insofar as the contention of the petitioners that there was no quorum as required under the 1949 Regulations is concerned, in both the affidavits of the RBI dated 15th November 2022 and 19th December 2018, a categorical statement has been made that the requisite procedure as laid down under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act read D with Regulations 8 and 10 of the 1949 Regulations was duly followed. 236. A perusal of the Minutes of the Meeting of the Central Board would also show that eight Directors were present in the Meeting whereas the quorum for the meeting is four Directors of whom not less than three shall be Directors nominated under Section 8(1)(b) or Section E 8(1)(c) or Section 12 (4) of the RBI Act. In the affidavit filed before this Court on 6th December 2022, it is specifically averred as under: “6. That the 561st meeting of the Central Board of the answering respondent was held on 08.11.2016 at New Delhi and business was transacted therein with the requisite quorum. During the said F meeting, apart from the then Governor and two Deputy Governors, one director nominated under Section 8(1)(b) of RBI Act, two directors nominated under section 8(1)(c) of RBI Act and two directors nominated under section 8(1)(d) of RBI Act were present. Thus, the requisite quorum of four directors of whom not less than three directors nominated under Section 8(1)(b) or 8(1)(c) G were present for the meeting.” 237. In that view of the matter, the contention that the Meeting of the Central Board dated 8th November 2016 is not validly held for want of quorum is concerned, is without substance.