agent, whereas under Section 54 of the Transfer of Property Act, “Sale” is a transfer of ownership in exchange for a price paid or promised or part-paid and part-promised. This payment of price, in full or in part or promised is by the purchaser to the seller. The sale of a property of a value of more than Rs. 100/- has to be compulsorily registered, whereas, an actionable claim of any amount can be had only by execution of an instrument. Thus, the sale of a property and sale of an actionable claim are two diff erent things and one has no relation with the other. As the transfer of an actionable claim is not done by a registered deed…” 36. This court has ruled, in Sunrise Associates vs Govt. Of NCTof Delhi14 that: “Distinct elements are deducible from the defi nition of ‘actionable claim’ in Section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act. An actionable claim is of course as its nomenclature suggests, only a claim. A claim might connote a demand, but in the context of the defi nition it is a right, albeit an incorporeal one. Every claim is not an actionable claim. It must be a claim either to a debt or to a benefi cial interest in movable property. The benefi cial interest is not the movable property itself, and may be existent, accruing, conditional or contingent. The movable property in which such benefi cial interest is claimed, must not be in the possession of the claimant. An actionable claim is therefore an incorporeal right. ****** An actionable claim would include a right to recover insurance money or a partner’s right to sue for an account of a dissolved partnership or the right to claim the benefi t of a contract not coupled with any liability (see Union of India v. Sarada Mills (1973 SCR (2) 484).. A claim for arrears of rent has also been held to be an actionable claim State of Bihar v Maharajadhiraja Sir Kameshwar Singh 1952 SCR 889, 910). A right to the credit in a provident fund account has also been held to an actionable claim (Offi cial Trustee, Bengal v L. Chippendale AIR 1944 14 2006 Supp(2) SCR 421 INFRASTRUCTURE LEASING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES LTD 1055 v. HDFC BANK LTD. & ANR. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (Cal.) 335; Bhupathi Mohan Das v Phanindra Chandra Chakravarthy & Anr. AIR 1935 (Cal.) 756).” The issue involved in that case was whether the sale of lottery tickets, amounted to the sale of goods, attracting a sales tax levy. The court held that the sale did not involve goods, but the sale of actionable claim: “The question is, what is this right which the ticket represents? There can be no doubt that on purchasing a lottery ticket, the purchaser would have a claim to a conditional interest in the prize money which is not in the purchaser’s possession. The right would fall squarely within the defi nition of an actionable claim and would therefore be excluded from the defi nition of ‘goods’ under the Sale of Goods Act and the sales tax statute [..]” The court characterised the rights contained in a lottery ticket, and that they represented a right in futuro, the sale of which amounted to the sale of an actionable claim: “The right to participate being an inseparable part of the chance to win is therefore part of an actionable claim.