It is further contended that while resisting delivery the -debtor clearly stated that demolition of the school building for eff ecting delivery of possession would aff ect around 400 students and that it is taking steps to acquire the suit land and this fact would itself demonstrate that the - debtor is in possession of the suit land. Even if the suit land is subsequently SMT. VED KUMARI (DEAD THR. HER LEGAL REPRESENTATIVE) DR. VIJAY 607 AGARWAL v. MCD THR. ITS COMMISSIONER [PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, J.] encroached by a third party, the -debtor cannot escape the liability of satisfying the decree. It is next contended that any encroachment on the suit land when it was possessed by the -debtor would not nullify the execution proceedings and it is the duty of the respondent-Corporation, as a local authority, to identify the encroacher, if any, so that eff ective steps are taken by the Executing Court to deliver physical vacant possession to the decree- holder. Learned senior counsel would further contend that XXI of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (CPC) is a complete code for resolving all disputes, including against strangers to the decree. Therefore, the execution proceedings could not have been dropped by the Executing Court. 6. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent-Corporation would submit that the suit land is not under the possession of the respondent- Corporation rather it is in possession of the encroachers who should have been identifi ed by the decree-holder. It is the specifi c case of the respondent- Corporation that as per the demarcation report dated 24.07.2002 the land has been identifi ed and the suit land is found situated in the North, 36’ away/outside the boundary wall of the school, where some houses have been constructed by unknown persons and the same is not in possession of the respondent-Corporation and for this reason, the acquisition proceedings were dropped. Supporting the impugned , it is lastly contended, by way of an alternative submission in para 9 of the written submissions, that though the Executing Court has powers of execution under XXI Rules 97 to 101 of the CPC, it can, if permissible in law, take action against the persons who are in possession of the disputed land, or, the decree-holder may fi le a fresh suit against the encroachers. DISCUSSION 7. In the and decree dated 23.03.1990, the Trial Court categorically held that the respondent-Corporation is the lessee and since the lease has already been determined upon expiry of lease period of 10 years, the respondent-Corporation/defendant is bound to deliver physical vacant 608 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. possession of the suit land and also to pay the rent and that the appellant/ plaintiff is entitled to a decree of ejectment and delivery of vacant possession by the respondent-Corporation/defendant in respect of the suit land as shown red in the site plan in Exhibit P4. The respondent-Corporation/defendant was also directed to hand over the possession of the suit land after removing the construction.