The manager, PW-3, of course, suggested the opinion that the appellant ought to have undergone the course for a period of 7-9 E months and that the family members got him discharged against advice but, this statement cannot be read to mean that the appellant was to be treated as a person of unsound mind. In fact, the appellant remained admitted to the rehabilitation centre from 20.11.2008 to 29.04.2009, i.e., for a period of over 5 months and, as noticed above, he was never found suffering from any mental F illness so as to be regarded as a person of unsound mind. [Para 23][856-F-H; 857-A-C] 3.3. Also the plea of unsoundness of mind and, therefore, the benefit of Section 84 IPC, was never taken in the trial nor any evidence was led in this regard. Significantly, not even a G remote suggestion was made to any witness examined for the prosecution about the alleged mental incapacity of the appellant. In his examination under Section 313 CrPC, the response of the appellant to the questions relating to his admission to the rehabilitation centre and the related facts had been that those H aspects were ‘a matter of record’. In the given set of facts and PREM SINGH v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 805 circumstances, one is unable to find anything on record for which A the benefit of Section 84 IPC could even be remotely extended to the appellant. [Para 24][857-D-E] 3.4. There was no fault on the part of the Trial Court or the investigating agency. Also, contrary to even a trace of want of mental capacity of the appellant at the time of commission of the B crimes in question, the manner of commission, with strangulation of the children one by one; throwing of their dead bodies into the canal; appellant himself swimming in the canal and coming out; and immediately thereafter, stating before several persons that the children had accidentally slipped into the canal so as to project C it as a case of accidental drowning, if at all, show an alert and calculative mind, which had worked with specific intent to cause the death of the children and to cause disappearance of evidence by throwing dead bodies into the canal and thereafter, to mislead by giving a false narrative. By no logic and by no measure of assessment, the appellant, who is found to have carried all the D aforesaid misdeeds, could be said to be a person of unsound mind. [Para 26][859-D-E] 3.5. The appellant was neither suffering from any medically determined mental illness nor could be said to be a person under a legal disability of unsound mind. Hence, neither Section 84 IPC E applies to the present case nor Section 329 CrPC would come to the rescue of the appellant. [Para 27][859-F] 3.6. The suggestions about treatment of the appellant for his abnormal behaviour in jail also does not take his case any further. There is nothing on record to find that the appellant was F a person of unsound mind at the time of commission of crime or was a person of unsound mind when tried in this case.