3. The appellant deals with manufacturing and sale of sheet glass, tinted glass, coloured glass, fi gured glass, void glass, wired glass, fl oat glass and neutral glass. After taking note of the books of accounts tendered during the course of the assessment proceedings the assessing offi cer opined after enquiry that tinted glass has been manufactured by assessee in a separate unit and the process adopted for its manufacture is diff erent from manufacture of sheet glass. Assessing Offi cer has further opined in his that raw materials used in manufacture of tinted coloured glass are cobalt oxide, carbon oxide, iron oxide etc. besides those used in the manufacture of sheet glass. Assessing Offi cer has further held that the transparency and density of tinted coloured glass is diff erent from the simple glass surface as also solar radiation on the absorption capacity of tinted coloured glass being more than that of the simple sheet glass. He further concludes in his assessment s that in the ordinary and common parlance the tinted glass is not recognised or understood as sheet glass. 4. Hence, the assessing offi cer imposed tax @15% on the sale of the goods by holding that said goods cannot be included in the category of plain glass but under the category of “all goods and wares made of glass” as refl ected in the Notifi cation No.5784 dated 07.09.1981. The appeals fi led against the said assessment s came to be dismissed and the imposition of tax @15% came to be upheld. The appellate authority also relied on the meaning of the word “goods” as refl ected in circular dated 28.09.1993 for arriving at a conclusion that only plain glass sheet has been taken as unclassifi ed item and not the goods in question. The assessee was unsuccessful before the Trade Tax Tribunal. The contentions raised and grounds urged contrary to the fi ndings recorded by the assessing offi cer and the appellate authority also did not fi nd favour by the tribunal. In other words, the s of the authorities came to be affi rmed by the tribunal. The assessee pursued its grievance before the High Court by fi ling a revision petition contending that plain glass panes which are commercially known as sheet glass includes sheet glass both in tinted and non-tinted forms and M/S TRIVENI GLASS LIMITED REP. BY ITS DEPUTY 1099 GENERAL MANAGER (SALES AND P.R.) SHRI R.K. SINHA v. COMMISSIONER OF TRADE TAX, U.P. [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] the entry “plain glass panes” cannot be interpreted to exclude the tinted glass from its purview. The contention of the appellant that manufacturing of tinted/coloured glass is the same as that of uncoloured glass also did not fi nd waiver by the tribunal. Hence, the revision application/petition came to be dismissed. 5. The assessment s which related to the tax assessment years 1996-97, 1998-99 and 2003-04 were the subject matter of the appeals and revision as noticed hereinabove. However, for the tax assessment years 1992-93 to 1996-97 notices under Section 21(2) came to be issued stating thereunder that said goods were liable to be taxed @15% while tax @10% inclusive of surcharge had been deposited.