for the Appellants. M/s. Bannidinni and Co., Mallikarjun S. Mylar, Manjunath, Ashok Bannidinni, Sujeet Kumar, Advs. for the Respondents. H THE DIRECTOR (ADMN. AND HR) KPTCL & ORS. v. C.P. 335 MUNDINAMANI & ORS. The of the Court was delivered by A M. R. SHAH, J. 1. Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned and passed by the High Court of Karnataka at Bengaluru in Writ Appeal No. 4193/2017, by which, the Division Bench of the High Court B has allowed the said appeal preferred by the employees - respondents herein by quashing and setting aside the and passed by the learned Single Judge and directing the appellants to grant one annual increment which the respondents had earned one day prior to they retired on attaining the age of superannuation, the management – KPTCL has preferred the present appeal. C 2. The undisputed facts are that one day earlier than the retirement and on completion of one year service preceding the date of retirement all the employees earned one annual increment. However, taking into consideration Regulation 40(1) of the Karnataka Electricity Board Employees Service Regulations, 1997 (hereinafter referred to as the D Regulations), which provides that an increment accrues from the day following that on which it is earned, the appellants denied the annual increment on the ground that the day on which the increment accrued the respective employees – original writ petitioners were not in service. The writ petition(s) filed by the original writ petitioners claiming the annual E increment came to be dismissed by the learned Single Judge. By the impugned and and following the decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the case of Union of India and Ors. Vs. R. Malakondaiah and ors. reported in 2002(4) ALT 550 (D.B.) and relying upon the decisions of other High Courts, the Division Bench of the Karnataka High Court has allowed the appeal and has directed that F the appellants to grant one annual increment to the respective employees- respondents by observing that the respective employees as such earned the increment for rendering their one-year service prior to their retirement. 2.1 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned and passed by the Division Bench of the High Court, the G management – KPTCL has preferred the present appeal. 3. Shri Huzefa Ahmadi, learned Senior Advocate has appeared on behalf of the appellants and Shri Mallikarjun S. Mylar, learned counsel has appeared on behalf of the respective employees – respondents. H 336 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 3.1 Shri Ahmadi, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the appellants has vehemently submitted that the decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the case of R. Malakondaiah (supra) which has been relied upon by the Division Bench of the High Court while passing the impugned and has been subsequently overruled by the Full Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the case of B Principal Accountant-General, Andhra Pradesh and Anr. Vs. C. Subba Rao reported in 2005 (2) LLN 592.