The relevant extract is as follows: “[…] the State Government has decided that to give remission to the accused who has been sentenced to life imprisonment and subsequently to release him from prison, life imprisonment should be considered as imprisonment for 20 years and the following procedure should be adopted in the matter of releasing the prisoners sentenced for life imprisonment – 1. Under Section 429 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 Act No. 2 of 1974, the prisoner who gets life imprisonment will not get the benefi t of presumptive report (ambiguous) i.e. in the case in which he has been sentenced to life imprisonment, the period spent in jail during the period of enquiry, investigation and disposal of the case and before the date of conviction may be deducted from the imprisonment of 20 years. 2. Upon conviction, if any person has been sentenced to imprisonment for life for an off ense for which one of the punishments is death or if the death sentence has been commuted to life imprisonment under Section 433 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, and where such sentence of imprisonment for life has been awarded on or after 18.12.1978, such prisoner shall be released from prison only if- a. He has spent a period of 14 years in prison from the date of conviction. b. The total of the period of remission and imprisonment is 20 years. […. ]” It is pertinent to point out that in the old pre-2002 policy, there is no mention of any ineligibility criteria, much less one that is analogous to Rule 529(iv)(b) of the 2002 policy, which was cited by the Remission Board in its rejection of the petitioner’s application on 20.04.2023. 21 No. A/P.M-03/91-550 dated 21.01.1984. 506 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 25. In light of these fi ndings and the precedents discussed above, it would be appropriate if the Remission Board reconsidered the petitioner’s application for remission afresh, considering the reports of the police and other authorities, the post-prison record of the petitioner, the remissions earned (including that which is earned for good conduct) his age, health condition, family circumstances, and his potential for social engagement, in a positive manner. The concerned presiding judge is hereby directed to provide an opinion on the petitioner’s application for premature release, by examining the judicial record, and provide adequate reasoning, taking into account the factors laid down in Laxman Naskar (supra), within one month from the date of this . With the benefi t of this new report, the Remission Board may reconsider the application – without entirely or solely relying on it, but treating it as valuable (maybe weighty) advice that is based on the judicial record. Given the long period of incarceration already suff ered by the writ petitioner and his age, the Remission Board should endeavour to consider the application at the earliest and render its decision, preferably within three months from the date of this . A copy of this shall be marked by the Registry of this Court, to the Home Secretary, Government of Bihar, who is the chairperson of the Remission Board, as well as the concerned Presiding Judge, through the Registrar, High Court of Judicature at Patna High Court.