It is submitted that the Dettol is manufactured under a drug licence issued under the Drugs & Cosmetics Rules and its price has been regulated by the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority under Drug Price Control s issued from time to time including D DPCO, 2013. 4.15 It is submitted that Rule 123 of the Drugs & Cosmetics Rules provides for certain exceptions to the drugs falling under Schedule K to the extent provided therein. Entry 39 deals with Liquid Antiseptics for household use. The appellant submits that Dettol being an antiseptic E falls under Entry 39 of Schedule K provided under Rule 123 of the Drugs & Cosmetics Rules. It is submitted that this Court in the case of Ponds India Ltd. (supra) has considered the aforesaid aspect and had held that Vaseline White Petroleum Jelly to be a drug as it falls under Entry 28 of Schedule K provided under Rule 123 of the Drugs & Cosmetics Act/Rules. F 4.16 It is further submitted that the impugned fails to consider the well settled principles of classification which are fundamental to any matter relating to classification under a taxing statute namely viz. (a) plain meaning to be given to the taxing provision; (b) burden to prove classification in a particular entry is always on the G Revenue; (c) any ambiguity has to be resolved in favour of the assessee and in case of a reasonable doubt, the construction most beneficial to the assessee must be adopted; (d) specific entry would override a residuary entry; and (e) resort to residuary entry is to be taken as a last measure, only when by liberal construction the specific entry cannot cover the goods in question. H M/S RECKITT BENCKISER (INDIA) LTD. v. COMMISSIONER 73 COMMERCIAL TAXES & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] 4.17 It is further submitted that the Gawahati High Court as well A as the Rajasthan High Court in the case of Reckitt Benckiser India Ltd. vs. Assistant Commercial Taxes Officer & Ors., STR-11/ 2012 have held Dettol to be a drug under the respective entries of Assam VAT Act and Rajasthan VAT Act and have rejected the submission of the Revenue in those States that the Dettol falls under the residuary B entry. It is submitted that the SLPs against the decision of the Rajasthan High Court by the Revenue have been dismissed by this Court. 5. Making above submissions and relying upon the above decisions, it is prayed to allow the present appeal. 6. While opposing the present appeal Shri Sasi, learned counsel C appearing on behalf of the Revenue has vehemently submitted that the product Mortein range and Mortein Spray would not be classifiable under Entry No. 44(5) as insecticides as contended on behalf of the appellant. It is submitted that “Mortein Mosquito coil, mat and liquid vaporizer” cannot be classifiable as an insecticide and the same is unsustainable in D view of the decision of this Court in the case of Sonic Electrochem vs. STO, (1998) 6 SCC 397 wherein this Court has held that the product ‘Jet Mat’ which is a trade name containing ‘d-Allethrin 4%’ and is commercially known as “Mosquito Repellent Mat” is a mosquito repellent notwithstanding the fact that it not only repels the mosquitoes but also is capable of killing the mosquitoes and it is difficult to hold that E it is an insecticide.