*** 33.2. The High Court should be satisfi ed that the case involves a substantial question of law, and not a mere question of law. A question of law having a material bearing on the decision of the case (that is, a question, answer to which aff ects the rights of parties to the suit) will be a substantial question of law, if it is not covered by any specifi c provisions of law or settled legal principle emerging from binding precedents, and, involves a debatable legal issue. 1 (2020) 19 SCC 57 806 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 33.3. A substantial question of law will also arise in a contrary situation, where the legal position is clear, either on account of express provisions of law or binding precedents, but the court below has decided the matter, either ignoring or acting contrary to such legal principle. In the second type of cases, the substantial question of law arises not because the law is still debatable, but because the decision rendered on a material question, violates the settled position of law.” 6. Although it is true that Nazir Mohamed (supra) is a decision of recent origin and the High Court cannot be said to have the benefi t of perusal thereof, there can be little doubt that the law on what would constitute a ‘substantial question of law’ within the meaning of section 100, CPC has not changed over the years and the jurisdiction continues to be limited in the sense that interference ought not to be made unless the appeal involves a substantial question of law as distinguished from a mere question of law. 7. We have held earlier that much would depend on the Commissioner’s , the true interpretation of which was fi ercely contested by senior counsel on either side. However, before embarking on the process of determining if the question of ownership of the suit property was rightly decided by the High Court, an examination of sections 9 and 9A of the Act is considered imperative. “9. Lands and buildings to vest in the Inamdar :- (1) Every Inamdar shall, with eff ect on and from the date of vesting, be entitled to be registered as an occupant of all lands other than:- (i) communal lands, waste lands, gomal lands, forest lands, tank beds, mines, quarries rivers, streams, tanks and irrigation works; (ii) lands in respect of which any person is entitled to be registered under Sections 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8; and (iii) lands upon which have been erected buildings owned by any person other than the Inamdar. (2) Every building situated within the limits of the inam which was owned immediately before the date of vesting by the Inamdar shall, with eff ect on and from such date, vest in the Inamdar. Explanation: In this section ‘inamdar’ means an Inamdar other than a holder of a minor inam referred to in Section 7. P. KISHORE KUMAR v. VITTAL K. PATKAR 807 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.]