Explanation- It is clarified that the conversion of individual or partnership membership card of the exchange into corporate entity F shall be deemed to be in continuation of the old entity and no fee shall be collected again from the converted entity for the period for which the erstwhile entity has paid the fee as per the regulations.” 18. The Board, in the first instance, after appraisal of the evidence G placed on record under its dated 7th May, 2007, and taking into consideration para 4 of Schedule III of the Regulations, 1992 returned its finding as follows:- “3.11 Exemption from payment of fees confers a benefit to the corporate entity. For granting such benefit, the conditions subject H to which such benefit is available need to be established beyond GPSK CAPITAL PVT. LTD. (FORMERLY KNOWN AS MANTRI FIN. LTD.) v. 743 THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] doubt. From the true copy of Annual Returns for the relevant A period provided by MFL, it appears that Shri Shrikant Mantri was a director, but, not a whole time director during the relevant period. This fact has also been established from the copy retrieved from ROC’s office in respect of AGM dates April 28, 1997 and May 19, 1999. MFL was granted registration after the issue of B notification dated January 21, 1998 i.e. after the conditions subject to which exemption can be granted to a converted corporate entity were in place. It is clear from the above that MFL did not satisfy at least one of the conditions of clause I (4) of Schedule III of the Regulations. Hence, MFL cannot become eligible for exemption from payment of fees for the period for which the erstwhile C individual Shri Shrikant Mantri has already paid the fees.” 19. On appeal being preferred by the appellant Company, the Board, on reappreciating the evidence on record confirmed the finding under its impugned dated 9th August, 2007 as follows:- D “…. The Board adopted a policy to encourage the brokers to corporatize themselves so that their working becomes more transparent as corporate entities have more and better regulatory controls as compared to individuals and partnerships. With this object in view, the Board introduced paragraph 4 in Schedule III to the Regulations with effect from 21.1.1998 and it decided to E give the benefit of the fee already paid by the individual or partnership prior to its becoming a corporate entity. In the case before us the Board has found that when Srikant Mantri transferred his membership card of CSE to the company, he was not a whole time director therein but was only a director. This fact is being F disputed by the appellant before us. It is not necessary for us to record a finding in this regard because we are of the view that the company is not entitled to the benefit under paragraph 4 of the Schedule because there is no continuity. As already noticed, the corporate entity is not entitled to claim exemption from the payment of registration fee only if the individual or partnership had been G converted into a corporate entity.