……” 15. Another Constitution Bench in Chandra Prakash and Others vs. State of U.P. and Another7 highlighting the utmost importance of the doctrine of binding precedent in the administration of judicial system and following the decision in Raghubir Singh’s case (supra) observed as under: - “22. A careful perusal of the above s shows that this Court took note of the hierarchical character of the judicial system in India. It also held that it is of paramount importance that the law declared by this Court should be certain, clear and consistent. As stated in the above s, it is of common knowledge that most of the decisions of this Court are of signifi cance not merely because they constitute an adjudication on the rights of the parties and resolve the disputes between them but also because in doing so they embody a declaration of law operating as a binding principle in future cases. The doctrine of binding precedent is of utmost importance in the administration of our judicial system. It promotes certainty and consistency in judicial decisions. Judicial consistency promotes confi dence in the system, 7 (2002) 4 SCC 234 RAM KISHOR ARORA v. DIRECTORATE OF 759 ENFORCEMENT [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] therefore, there is this need for consistency in the enunciation of legal principles in the decisions of this Court. It is in the above context, this Court in the case of Raghubir Singh [(1989) 2 SCC 754] held that a pronouncement of law by a Division Bench of this Court is binding on a Division Bench of the same or smaller number of Judges. It is in furtherance of this enunciation of law, this Court in the latter of Parija [(2002) 1 SCC 1] held that : (SCC p. 4, para 6) “But if a Bench of two learned Judges concludes that an earlier of three learned Judges is so very incorrect that in no circumstances can it be followed, the proper course for it to adopt is to refer the matter before it to a Bench of three learned Judges setting out, as has been done here, the reasons why it could not agree with the earlier . If, then, the Bench of three learned Judges also comes to the conclusion that the earlier of a Bench of three learned Judges is incorrect, reference to a Bench of fi ve learned Judges is justifi ed. (emphasis supplied)” 16. In Sundeep Kumar Bafna vs. State of Maharashtra (supra) also the above stated jurisprudence has been followed: - “19. It cannot be overemphasised that the discipline demanded by a precedent or the disqualifi cation or diminution of a decision on the application of the per incuriam rule is of great importance, since without it, certainty of law, consistency of rulings and comity of courts would become a costly casualty. A decision or can be per incuriam any provision in a statute, rule or regulation, which was not brought to the notice of the court. A decision or can also be per incuriam if it is not possible to reconcile its ratio with that of a previously pronounced of a co-equal or larger Bench; or if the decision of a High Court is not in consonance with the views of this Court.