B 29.In 2018, the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom, in Owens v. Owens47, had the occasion to analyse and evaluate the fault theory as a ground for divorce, which requires one spouse to make allegations on the conduct of the other. The notes that the courts invariably face a daunting task in finding the truth of why the marriage has collapsed. C Apportioning blame is an inherently difficult task, given the fact that the court has to find faults in the conduct of the spouses, expecting them to have neither heroic virtues nor selfless abnegation. As subjectivity is involved, the courts find it difficult to evaluate the gravity or otherwise of the conduct complained of and find the truth. Lord Wilson, with whom D Lord Hodge and Lady Black agreed, had referred to the three-fold test to interpret Section 1(2)(b) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1973 (of England and Wales) to establish whether the marriage had been irretrievably broken down in such a way that the petitioner cannot reasonably be expected to live with the respondent; (i) by reference to the allegations of behaviour in the petition, to determine what the E respondent did or did not do; (ii) to assess the effect which the behaviour had upon the particular petitioner in the light of the latter’s personality and disposition and of all circumstances in which it occurred; and (iii) to make an evaluation whether as a result of the respondent’s behaviour and in the light of its effect on the petitioner, an expectation that the F petitioner should continue to live with the respondent would be unreasonable48. Lady Hale, in her , observed that searching and assigning blame is not vital, as the ground of divorce is based on conduct, and not fault or fact finding to ascertain the party to be blamed. On the other hand, cumulative effect of a great number of small incidents indicative of authoritarian, demeaning and humiliating conduct over a G period of time would constitute a good ground for divorce. Such conduct can destroy the trust and confidence required to sustain a marriage. Further, the effect of the spouse’s behaviour, rather than the behaviour 47 (2018) UKSC 41. 48 These tests, with suitable modification, can well be applied in cases under Section H 13(1)(i-a) of the Hindu Marriage Act. SHILPA SAILESH v. VARUN SREENIVASAN 205 [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] itself, should make it unreasonable to expect the other spouse to cohabit; A this is the question to be answered. 30. We have referred to the in Owens (supra), which applies the then law in England and Wales, not as a precedent, but to highlight that even two perfectly gentle and pleasant individuals having incompatible and clashing personalities can have a miserable and morose B married life. In such cases, fault theory in the pure form requiring apportionment of guilt and blame, is a difficult, if not an impossible task, whereas in practical reality the situation is appalling and unnerving. The marriage is irretrievably broken down and dead.