[2023] 13 S.C.R. 658 : 2023 INSC 745 CASE DETAILS BACHPAN BACHAO ANDOLAN v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. (Writ Petition (Civil) No. 427 of 2022) AUGUST 18, 2023 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT AND ARAVIND KUMAR, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: The role of a ‘support person’ as envisaged in the Protection of Children from Sexual Off ences Rules, 2020. Protection of Children from Sexual Off ences Act, 2012 – Protection of Children from Sexual Off ences Rules, 2020 – Role of the support person: HELD: A support person is to provide information, emotional and psychological support, and practical assistance which are often crucial to the recovery of the child – This can go a long way in helping them cope with the aftermath of the crime and with the strain of any criminal proceedings – in many ways a support person, acts as guardian ad litem for the child – A support person-whether involved from the early stages of lodging a report or brought on board shortly thereafter-can play a tremendous role in off ering encouragement, reassurance, and guidance, merely from their knowledge of the legalese, armed with a compassionate child-friendly approach – Their potential in providing moral support and guidance, which directly translates to better and more just outcomes both in terms of prosecution, and rehabilitation, cannot be overstated – To fulfi l their role as envisaged, their primary focus, must be the child’s immediate care and protection, and to play the role of a helpful intermediary between the child, its family/guardian, and the various institutional stakeholders and authorities. [Paras 4 and 6] Protection of Children from Sexual Off ences Act, 2012 – Protection of Children from Sexual Off ences Rules, 2020 – Responsibility of the support person: 658 BACHPAN BACHAO ANDOLAN v. 659 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. HELD: The support person is responsible for accompanying the child during recording of statement, medical examination, depositions, and to assist in all other interactions at the investigation, pre-trial, and trial stage – The support person is to make available public or private emergency and crisis services; ensure availability of free legal aid; provide assistance with navigating the victim compensation scheme; track the status of investigation, arrest, and fi ling of charges of the accused person; follow the dates of the court proceedings to enable the victim or family to attend as required; and be abreast of any other developments such as grant of bail, detention status, etc. of the accused. [Para 5] Protection of Children from Sexual Off ences Rules, 2020 – Form A – Importance of: HELD: The POCSO Rules, also contain ‘Form-A’ which as per Rule 4(14) is to be handed over to the child victim, parents/guardian, or any other person in whom the child trusts, to inform them of the entitlements the child victim must receive as information and services – This form re-emphasises the importance of a support person in each case, and is also indicative of the stages at which such a support person can play a role in.