Act. The learned Chief Justice of the Allahabad High Court expressed the opinion that a memorandum of appeal barred by time stood on a footing different from the one in which there was deficiency in the court fee paid. According to him under Section 3 of the Limitation Act it is an appeal that is dismissed and not a memorandum of appeal. When G therefore Section 4 of the Court Fees Act deals with a memorandum of appeal the consideration of the laws of limitation bears no analogy to a deficiency in court-fees. With due respect we are not impressed by the above reasoning. As already noted, H 3 AIR 1951 All 64 AJAY DABRA v. PYARE RAM & ORS. 457 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] although there is no definition of the word “appeal” in the Code of A Civil Procedure, it can only be instituted by filing a memorandum of appeal. The filing of a memorandum of appeal therefore brings an appeal into existence; if the memorandum is deficient in court- fee, it may be rejected and if rejected, the appeal comes to an end. But if it is not rejected and time is given to the appellant to B make up the deficiency and this opportunity is availed of, Section 149 of the Code expressly provides that the document is to have validity with retrospective effect as if the deficiency had been made good in the first instance. By reason of the deeming provision in Section 149 the memorandum of appeal is to have full force and effect and the appeal has to be treated as one pending C from the date when it was before the Stamp Reporter and the deficiency noted therein.” This position has been reiterated by this Court in several of its later decisions such as P.K. Palanisamy v. N. Arumugham & Anr.4, Ganapathy Hegde v. Krishnakudva & Anr.5 and K.C. Skaria v. D Govt. of State of Kerala & Anr.6 9. We do not have a case at hand where the appellant is not capable of purchasing the court fee. He did pay the court fee ultimately, though belatedly. But then, under the facts and circumstances of the case, the reasons assigned for the delay in filing the appeal cannot be a E valid reason for condonation of the delay, since the appellant could have filed the appeal deficient in court fee under the provisions of law, referred above. Therefore, we find that the High Court was right in dismissing Section 5 application of the appellant as insufficient funds could not have been a sufficient ground for condonation of delay, under the facts and circumstance of the case. It would have been entirely a different matter F had the appellant filed an appeal in terms of Section 149 CPC and thereafter removed the defects by paying deficit court fees. This has evidently not been done. 10. This Court, while emphasizing the scope of Section 5 of the Limitation Act, in the case of Mahant Bikram Dass Chela versus G Financial Commissioner, Revenue, Punjab, Chandigarh And Others7has held: 4 (2009) 9 SCC 173 5 (2005) 13 SCC 539 6 (2006) 2 SCC 285 7 (1977) 4 SCC 69 H 458 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R.