Therefore, the dealer (promisee) agrees to replace a defective part which is a consideration for the promise and in turn, receives a recompense in the form of a credit note from the manufacturer. Thus, there is an agreement between the manufacturer and the dealer, and it D would be in an instance of there being reciprocal promises. [Para 68][1344-D-G] 20. In view of the above, the transaction between the manufacturer and dealer while acting pursuant to a warranty in the circumstances explained above has to be construed as sale E within the meaning and definition of sale under the Sales Tax Acts under consideration. [Para 69][1344-H] 21. In the circumstances, the reference is answered in the following terms: i) The of this Court in Mohd. Ekram Khan is F applicable to a situation where a manufacturer issues a credit note to a dealer acting under a warranty given by the manufacturer pursuant to a sale of an automobile in the following situations. The dealer replaces a defective part of the automobile by a spare part maintained in the stock of the dealer or when the same is G purchased by the dealer from the open market. In such situations, the credit note issued in the name of the dealer is a valuable consideration for a transfer of property in the spare part made by the dealer to the customer and hence a sale within the meaning of the sales tax legislations of the respective States under H 1280 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A consideration. The value in the credit note is thus exigible to sales tax under the respective sales tax enactments under consideration. ii) The in Mohd. Ekram Khan does not apply to a case where the dealer has simply received a spare part from the B manufacturer of the automobile so as to replace a defective part therein under a warranty collateral to the sale of the automobile. In such a situation also, the dealer may receive a consideration for the purpose of the service rendered by him as a dealer under a dealership agreement or any other agreement akin to an agent of the manufacturer which is not a sale transaction. On the above C understanding of the of this Court in Mohd. Ekram Khan, the same does not call for any interference. In light of the above, overruling of the s in the case of Prem Motors and Geo Motors in Mohd. Ekram Khan, is just and proper. (iii) A credit note issued by a manufacturer to the dealer, in D the situations explained above, is a valuable consideration within the meaning of the definition of sale and hence, exigible to sales tax under the respective State enactments of the States under consideration. In the result, appellants-dealer/assessee are liable to pay sales tax under the respective State enactments under E consideration. [Para 70][1345-A-H; 1346-A] Devi Dass Gopal Krishnan v. State of Punjab (1967) 3 SCR 557; CIT v. Motor & General Stores Pvt. Ltd. AIR 1968 SC 200 : [1967] 3 SCR 876 – held inapplicable.