(5): Subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament, the conditions of service and tenure of office of the Regional Commissioners shall be such as the President may by rule C determine; Provided that the Chief Election Commissioner and any other Election Commissioner shall not be removed from his office except in like manner and on the like grounds as a Judge of the Supreme Court andthe conditions of service of the Chief Election D Commissioner and any other Election Commissioner shall not be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment: Provided further that a Regional Commissioner shall not be removed from office except on the recommendation of the Chief Election Commissioner. E (6) The President, or the Governor of a State, shall, when so requested by the Election Commission, make available to the Election Commission or to a Regional Commissioner such staff as may be necessary for the discharge of the functions conferred on the Election Commission by clause (1).” F 76. There is a newspaper Report of The Hindu dated 04.06.2012, which appears to project the demand of Shri L.K. Advani, that a Collegium be put in place for appointment to the Constitutional Body and taking the stand that the present system of appointment did not inspire confidence among the people. There is also a reference to the Report of the Citizens G Commission of Elections. It appears to be prepared by the former Judge of this Court Shri Madan B. Lokur and Shri Wajahat Habibullah, a former Chief Information Commissioner. In the said Report, we find the Article ‘Are Elections in India Free and Fair’ by Shri M.G. Devasahayan. Under the head ‘ECI – functioning an autonomy’, we find the following criticism: H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 87 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] “ A (cid:1) ECI has plenipotentiary powers drawn from Article 324 of the Constitution of India to conduct free and fair election. (cid:1) In addition, Supreme Court has ruled: “when Parliament or any State Legislature made valid law relating to, or in connection to elections, the Commission, shall act in B conformity with, not in violation of such provisions, but where such law is silent, Article 324 is a reservoir of power to act for the avowed purpose of pushing forward a free and fair election with expedition…”. (cid:1) But ECI is just not using such powers, because ECs are C the appointees of the Government of the day and not through an independent process of collegium. The case of one dissenting EC, who was side-lined and then eased out has caused irretrievable damage to ECI’s independence and integrity! (cid:1) This compromises the autonomy of the ECI and creates D doubts about the neutrality of the CEC and the ECs, and consequently, the neutrality of the Commission itself. This poses serious danger to the fairness and integrity of not only the elections, but democracy itself…” (Emphasis supplied) E 77. In the year 2016, we find the following proposed electoral reforms essentially related to Article 324(5), being proposals made by the Election Commission itself.