3.3. Having regard to the fact that the Jorhat Medical Institute was created as envisaged under the State Act, and about four-hundred students had been admitted to the diploma course and awarded D certificates on having passed the Course, State of Assam made a plea for impleadment of the Regulatory Authority, the Jorhat Medical Institute and the persons who had obtained diploma certificates and had been engaged as Rural Health Practitioners on the basis of such qualification. 3.4. By the impugned dated 19.09.2014, the High Court E rejected the State’s plea for impleadment of the Regulatory Authority, the Jorhat Medical Institute and the persons who had obtained diploma certificates from the said Institute during the pendency of the Writ Petition before the High Court. 3.5. The pertinent findings of the High Court, in the impugned F dated 19.09.2014 may be summarized as under: i) That the State had voluntarily assumed the risk of proceeding with the admission process under the State Act, even after a challenge was made to the vires of said Act before the High Court. G ii) The fact that there was no stay on the operation of the State Act would not be a valid justification for the State to proceed with the admissions to the course, more so, when the legality of the said Act was challenged. That the admissions, issue of diploma certificates to the persons who H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 929 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] completed the course, and appointment of such persons as A Rural Health Practitioners, were all developments that took place subsequent to the writ petition being filed. iii) That no question arose in the writ petition as to the consideration of individual interests of the parties sought to be impleaded. The question and issue that would arise was B only as to the vires of the State Act. Hence, there would be no reason to implead the Regulatory Authority, the Jorhat Medical Institute and the persons who had obtained diploma certificates and had been engaged as Rural Health Practitioners on the basis of such qualification, as necessary C parties in the writ petition. 3.6. Further, vide the impugned dated 30.10.2014, the High Court allowed W.P. (C) No. 5789 of 2005 by holding that the Assam Act, is unconstitutional and accordingly, the said Act was struck down. The relevant findings of the High Court in the impugned dated D 30.10.2014, have been culled out as follows: i) That the State Act is in conflict with the Central Act i.e. Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (hereinafter referred to as ‘IMC Act, 1956’ or ‘Central Act’ for the sake of convenience) inasmuch as Section 10A of the Central Act E categorically declares that no medical college shall “open a new or higher course of study or training” which would enable a student of such course or training to qualify himself for the award of any recognised medical qualification. ii) That the restrictions under Section 10A(b)(i) of the Central Act envisage injunction against medical colleges to open “a F new or higher course.” The words “new or higher course” would definitely take in its sweep the diploma course contemplated under the State Act.