C 4.1 It is submitted that therefore present case is one where set off is claimed of the value of the 146 silver slabs as loss on account of absolute confiscation rather than claim of expenditure of any penalty and/or fine imposed for infraction of law. 4.2 It is submitted that as such the issue in the present appeals is D fairly covered in favour of the assessee in view of the decision of this Court in the case of TA Quereshi (Dr.) (supra). In the said decision, it is held that the of the High Court applying Section 37 of the Act to the case of business loss on account of absolute confiscation of the goods was erroneous. It is submitted that the submission of the E assessee therein that Section 37 of the Act related to business expenditure whereas case of absolute confiscation was one of business loss has been accepted. 4.3 It is submitted that in the present case, upon search, 146 silver slabs were found to be in possession of the assessee. The value of the said silver slabs was determined to be Rs. 3,06,036,909/- and the same F was added to the computation of income of the assessee under Section 69A of the Act as undisclosed valuable article which was not recorded in the books of account of the assessee. 4.4 It is submitted that however as the respondent – assessee was engaged in the business of trading of silver and the said silver slabs G were in possession of the assessee for the purpose of trading, absolute confiscation of the said silver slabs would result in loss of stock in trade and the value thereof would be available as deduction as business/trading loss. It is submitted that therefore the decision of this Court in the case of T.A. Quereshi (Supra) shall be clearly applicable. H THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX JAIPUR v. PRAKASH 97 CHAND LUNIA (D) THR. LRS. & ANR. [M. R. SHAH, J.] 4.5 It is submitted that in the case of T.A. Quereshi (Supra) this A Court has drawn a distinction between claim of deduction as expenditure of penalty/fine as against claim of business loss on account of confiscation of goods which are unaccounted stock in trade. It is submitted that in case of claim of deduction as expenditure of any fine and/or penalty, the Courts have held that such deduction would not be available to the B assessee as it would defeat the very purpose behind such penal action. Whereas, in case of claim of set off as business loss, the unaccounted goods though added to the income of assessee but is not available to the assessee for his trade. It is submitted that while extending the benefit of such set off, this Court in the case of Piara Singh (supra) and T.A. Quereshi (Supra) have held that the assessee shall be entitled to the C set off as business loss. 4.6 It is submitted that unlike a case of imposition of redemption fine where the confiscated goods are released on payment of such amount, absolute confiscation of the goods results in the said goods vesting with the Central Government.