A perusal of the above extracted section of the Jogighopa Act makes suffi ciently clear the commissioner “for the purpose of making and investigation under this act” shall have the powers vested in “a civil court” under the Code to the limited extent as mentioned in (a), (b), (c), (d). 16. The intent of the Assam State Legislature is quite clear. Not only under Section 22 (6) is the application of the code limited but further under Section 22 (7)27. The application thereof is also equally well circumscribed therein, the Commissioner has been deemed to be a Civil Court for the purposes of Section 195 and Chapter XXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. Section 195 provides for Prosecution for contempt of lawful authority of public servants, for off ences against public justice and for off ences relating to documents given in evidence. Chapter XXVI relates to Provisions as to Off ences Aff ecting the Administration of Justice. 17. The above description of the powers of either the Code or Cr.P.C. clearly testifi es to the intent of the state legislature to specifi cally restrict the application of both the said codes, to only the extent provided. The principle of statutory interpretation: expression unius est exclusion alterius (the expression of one thing is the exclusion of the other) supports such a view. We also notice this Court holding International Asset 27 “7.Any investigation before the Commissioner shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning of Section 193 and 228 of the Indian Penal Code, and the Commissioner shall be deemed to be a Civil Court for the purposes of Section 195 and Chapter XXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.” M/S NORTH EASTERN CHEMICALS INDUSTRIES (P) LTD. 835 v. M/S ASHOK PAPER MILL (ASSAM) LTD. [SANJAY KAROL, J.] Reconstruction Company of India vs Offi cial Liquidator28 as extracted below: “9. The fact that the Tribunal may be vested with some of the powers as a civil court under the Code of Civil Procedure, regarding summoning and enforcing attendance of witnesses, discovery and production of the documents, receiving evidence on affi davits, issuing commission for the examination of witnesses or documents, reviewing its decisions, etc. does not vest in it the status of a court. Section 22(1), in fact, provides that the Tribunal shall not be bound by the procedures under CPC, and can regulate its own procedures in accordance with natural justice.” (Emphasis supplied) 18. Therefore, it is clear from the above extracted decision that the vesting of select few powers upon a Tribunal, or as in the present case, a statutory authority, does not equate the same to be a Court within the meaning of the code. It is also noteworthy that Section 22 (6) states “the Commissioner shall have the power to regulation his own procedure in all matters arising out of the discharge of his functions including the place or places at which he will hold his sittings”; This also supports the proposition that the Code does not apply to the proceedings of the Commissioner.