More or less the same submissions have been made by the respective parties in this appeal but, with a little elaboration on their respective stands. While leaving the irrelevant aspects aside, the neat question is as to whether the claims so made by the respondent No. 1 Nigam towards property tax and water C tax pertaining to the post-liquidation period, from the date of of winding up and until the date of confirmation of sale of assets to the auction purchaser, are admissible against the appellant OL. 15. For dealing with the question at hand, we may usefully take note of the statutory provisions relevant to the present case. D 15.1. Section 529A and the relevant parts of Section 530 of the Companies Act, 1956 read as under: - “529A. Overriding preferential payment. - Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provisions of this Act or any other law for the time being in force, in the winding up of a company- E (a) workmen’s dues; and (b) debts due to secured creditors to the extent such debts rank under clause (c) of the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 529 pari passu with such dues, F shall be paid in priority to all other debts. (2) The debts payable under clause (a) and clause (b) of sub- section (1) shall be paid in full, unless the assets are insufficient to meet them, in which case they shall abate in equal proportions. 530. Preferential payments. - (1) In a winding up subject to the G provisions of section 529A, there shall be paid in priority to all other debts- (a) all revenues taxes, cesses and rates due from the company to the Central or a State Government or to a local authority at the relevant date as defined in clause (c) of sub-section (8), H OFFICIAL LIQUIDATOR v. UJJAIN NAGAR PALIKA NIGAM 1103 & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] and having become due and payable within the twelve months A next before that date; *** *** *** (8) For the purpose of this section - (a) ..... B (b) .... (bb) .... (c) the expression “the relevant date” means- (i) in the case of a company ed to be wound up C compulsorily, the date of the appointment (or first appointment) of a provisional liquidator, or if no such appointment was made, the date of the winding up , unless in either case the company had commenced to be wound up voluntarily before that date; and D (ii) in any case where sub-clause (i) does not apply, the date of the passing of the resolution for the voluntary winding up of the company. *** *** *** ’’ E 15.2. Rules 154,163 and 338 of the Companies (Court) Rules, 1959 are as under: - “R.154. Value of debts - The value of all debts and claims against the company shall, as far as is possible, be estimated according to the value thereof at the date of the of the winding-up of the company or where before the presentation of the petition for F winding up, a resolution has been passed by the company for voluntary winding-up, at the date of the passing of such resolution.