C 45. In addition to the aforesaid submissions, the respondent in Civil Appeal No.6927 of 2021 i.e. GMR, the following submissions have been made. (i) That Schedule 10 of the PPA executed between GMR and MSEDCL clearly mentions that the levelized tariff will be as per CERC Regulations. D (ii) It is submitted that the normative SHR as mentioned in the bid is computed assuming power plant is operating at 85% of the Plant Load Factor (“PLF” for short). It is, however, submitted that the PLF is at the sole discretion of the procurer-DISCOMS as they decide the quantum of power E to off-take. (iii) It is submitted that the SHR is a real-time operating parameter which varies from time to time, and it is computed by working out the total electricity generated from the amount of coal consumed in heat value (kCal) terms. F (iv) It is further submitted that the GCV of coal actually delivered at site and fed to the boiler varies from wagon to wagon. It cannot be a homogeneous value. (v) It is further submitted that the details given in the bid with G regard to SHR and GCV were only indicative of the coal linkage to show that GMR had the necessary means to supply power on sustained basis and was a serious bidder, and to further demonstrate its meeting of the eligibility requirement prescribed under the RFP. H 5 (2019) 5 SCC 325 MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 109 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] (vi) It is submitted that the supporting documents/information A regarding fuel only provides the quantity of coal required for the project at Normative PLF and SHR computed as per CERC norms, which is 2355 kCal/kWh. It is submitted that MSEDCL is now insisting on Design Gross Heat Rate of 2211 kCal/kWh, which was not considered even for B computation of quantum of coal at the time of bid submission. (vii) It is further submitted that the Central Electricity Authority, vide Notifications dated 17th October 2017 and 18th October 2017, has even allowed for loss in GCV from ‘as received C basis’ to ‘as fired basis’ and as such, there is no reason as to why GCV could not be computed on ‘as received basis’. (viii) It is further submitted that the MSEDCL cannot be permitted to equate GMR’s case with APML and Rattan India Power Limited inasmuch as GMR falls under the jurisdiction of CERC, whereas the other two fall under the jurisdiction of D MERC. (ix) Insofar as late payment charges are concerned, it is submitted that MSEDCL had unilaterally deducted the amount, which is contrary to the provisions of the PPA and as such, both CERC and learned APTEL have rightly held E that GMR was entitled to late payment surcharge in terms of Article 8.3.5. Reliance in this respect is placed on the of this Court in the case of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited v. Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission and others6and Tamil Nadu Generation & Distribution F Corporation Limited v. PPN Power Generating Company Private Limited7 RELEVANT DOCUMENTS 46.