We are inclined to accept the suggestion in principle that appropriate rules can be framed laying down that an G enrolled advocate who takes up an employment in a non-legal context for a substantial length of time (say for five years) would be deemed to be a new enrolee and in to regain the qualification, that person would be required to take the All India Bar Examination once more. We believe that the requirements of an active legal practice and that of an unconnected job are different. Even if a person has a law degree or H BAR COUNCIL OF INDIA v. BONNIE FOI LAW COLLEGE 367 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] enrolment, it does not mean that his ability to assist the court would A continue with him if there are long hiatus period of time in some unconnected job. He would have to hone and test his skills afresh. Thus, if there is a substantial break, norms should be specified by the Bar Council of India that to regain that qualification, the person would be subject to re-examination and would be required to take the All India B Bar Examination once more. 43. The other two suggestions made by the learned Amicus are that the validity of the result obtained by any candidate in any pre- enrolment or a post-enrolment bar examination must be limited by time which would be a policy matter for the Bar Council of India to consider, C and the Bar Council of India can exercise its power to issue directions under Section 48B of the said Act to ensure uniformity and fairness of the procedure followed by each of the State Bar Councils. We agree with these suggestions. 44. We also have one caveat arising from the plea that different D State Bar Councils are charging different fees for enrolment. This is something which needs the attention of the Bar Council of India, which is not devoid of the powers to see that a uniform pattern is observed and the fee does not become oppressive at the threshold of young students joining the Bar. E 45. While we agree in principle with the suggestions of the learned Amicus, these should receive the attention of the Bar Council of India urgently in the process of steps taken by the Bar Council of India in view of this . 46. We may note that the contra viewpoints sought to be suggested F before us predicated on the of this Court in V. Sudeer28 case and in view of our opining that the same would not be good law, they really do not survive for consideration. 47. Our hope is that the aforesaid observations while conferring a greater role on the Bar Council of India, would make the Bar Council of G India more conscious of the importance of the role it has to perform, including ensuring that the only persons who are well equipped with the tools of law pass the All India Bar Examination. Further, in view of periodic changes in the legal position and the consequent nature of All 28 (supra) H 368 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R.