38. Our enactment is in a sense, an improvement. Parliament’s conscious eff ort in amending the Act, because of the inclusion of the fi fth schedule, as a disclosure requirement, as an eligibility condition [Section 12 (1)] and a continuing eligibility condition, for functioning [Section 12 (2)] and later, through Section 12 (5), the absolute ineligibility conditions that render the appointment, and participation illegal, going to the root of the jurisdiction, divesting the authority of the tribunal, thus terminating the mandate of the arbitrator, as a consequence of the existence of any condition enumerated in the seventh schedule, are to clear the air of any ambiguities. The only manner of escaping the wrath, so to say of Section 12 (5) is the waiver- in writing by the party likely to be aggrieved. 39. The attempt by Chennai Metro to say that the concept of de jure ineligibility because of existence of justifi able doubts about impartiality or independence of the tribunal on unenumerated grounds [or other than those outlined as statutory ineligibility conditions in terms of Sections 12 (5)], therefore cannot be sustained. We can hardly conceive of grounds other than those mentioned in the said schedule, occasioning an application in terms of Section 12 (3). In case, this court were in fact make an exception to uphold Chennai Metro’s plea, the consequences could well be an explosion in the court docket and other unforeseen results. Skipping the statutory route carefully devised by Parliament can cast yet more spells of uncertainty upon the arbitration process. In other words, the de jure condition is not the key which unlocks the doors that bar challenges, mid- stream, and should “not to unlock the gates which shuts the court out”23 23 Union of India v Hindustan Development Corporation 1993 (3) SCR 108- so said in a diff erent context, about the applicability of the doctrine of legitimate expectation. 102 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. from what could potentially become causes of arbitrator challenge, during the course of arbitration proceedings, other than what the Act specifi cally provides for. 40. For the foregoing reasons, this court holds that Chennai Metro’s application cannot succeed. The Arbitrators are directed to resume the proceedings and decide the case in accordance with law. The impugned is upheld. The application is accordingly dismissed and the appeal is disposed of in above terms. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal disposed of and application dismissed. Nidhi Jain