××× ××× ××× 128. To sum up, Section 4 is comprehensive and that Section 5 is not in derogation of Section 4(2) and it only relates to the extent of application of the Code in the matter of territorial and other jurisdiction but does not nullify the eff ect of Section 4(2). In short, the provisions of this Code would be applicable to the extent in the absence of any contrary provision in the Special Act or any special provision excluding the jurisdiction or applicability of the Code. In fact, the second limb of Section 4(2) itself limits the application of the provisions of the Code reading, “… but subject to any enactment for the time being in force regulating the manner or place of investigating, inquiring into, trying or otherwise dealing with such off ences.” ××× ××× ××× 131. The submission that as there is no investigation within the terms of the Code in the fi eld of FERA or Customs Act, Section 4(2) of the Code can have no part to play, has to be rejected for the reasons given by us while disposing of the contention “What investigation means and is” in the preceding part of this . 132.For the aforementioned reasons, we hold that the operation of Section 4(2) of the Code is straightaway attracted to the area 918 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. of investigation, inquiry and trial of the off ences under the special laws including the FERA and Customs Act and consequently Section 167 of the Code can be made applicable during the investigation or inquiry of an off ence under the special Acts also inasmuch as there is no specifi c provision contrary to that excluding the operation of Section 167. ××× ××× ××× 134. There are a series of decisions of various High Courts, of course with some exception, taking the view that a Magistrate before whom a person arrested by the competent authority under the FERA or Customs Act is produced, can authorise detention in exercise of his powers under Section 167. Otherwise the mandatory direction under the provision of Section 35(2) of FERA or Section 104(2) of the Customs Act, to take every person arrested before the Magistrate without unnecessary delay when the arrestee was not released on bail under sub-section (3) of those special Acts, will become purposeless and meaningless and to say that the courts even in the event of refusal of bail have no choice but to set the person arrested at liberty by folding their hands as a helpless spectator in the face of what is termed as “legislative casus omissus” or legal fl aw or lacuna, it will become utterly illogical and absurd.” (emphasis supplied) 72. Ashok Munilal Jain (supra): “3. We have gone through the s passed by the trial court as well as by the High Court. We may state at the outset that insofar as the High Court is concerned, it has not given any reasons in support of its aforesaid view except endorsing the view of the trial court to the eff ect that the provisions of Section 167(2) CrPC are not applicable to the cases under the PMLA Act.