This loophole has also been plugged by way of the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997, inasmuch as the defi nition of ‘business’ has been enlarged and it now includes, besides the business of carrying passengers and goods by motor vehicles, any trade, commerce or manufacture, or any adventure or concern whether or not the same is carried on with a profi t motive; and any transaction in connection with, incidental or ancillary to such trade, commerce or manufacture. ‘Business’ now means any business, carried on with or without a profi t motive, or any ancillary transactions in connection with such business. iii. The High Court had further held that the intention of the State legislature was to make the Act of 1955 applicable only to persons who carried on the business of transport. That the defi nition of ‘owner’ would fortify such fi nding, as ‘owner’ was defi ned to be a person holding a permit under the Motor Vehicles Act. However, the scope of term ‘owner’ has been enlarged by way of the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997, to mean the owner of the motor vehicle used for carrying passengers or transporting goods in or through the territory of the State of Himachal Pradesh. Therefore, this defect has also been cured. 16.4. In light of the aforesaid discussion, we hold that by enacting the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997, the Himachal Pradesh State Legislature has validly removed the basis of the of the Division Bench of the High Court dated 27 March, 1997. 17. Sri Yashraj Singh Deora, learned counsel for the appellants in Civil Appeal Nos. 4738-4743 of 2009 and Civil Appeal No. 6931 of 2009 NHPC LTD. v. STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH 49 SECRETARY & ORS.[B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] submitted that in to fall within the meaning of the term ‘business’ as defi ned under Section 2 (aa) of the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997, the trade, commerce, or manufacture of the assessee, or, the transactions connected therewith or incidental thereto must have some connection with the business of carrying passengers and goods by road. The main activity of the assessees would not amount to carrying on business, as the same does not relate to the activity of carrying passengers and goods by road. In a case where the main activity does not amount to ‘business’, then the connected, incidental or ancillary activities would also not amount to ‘business’ unless an independent intention to conduct business in these connected, incidental or ancillary activities is established by the revenue. In the present case, there is no material to establish that the ancillary activity of providing transport facilities to the employees and the children of the assessees-appellants herein is conducted with an independent intention to conduct business through such activity. Therefore, in the present case, neither the main activity of the appellants, nor the ancillary activity of providing transport facilities to their employees and their children, would amount to ‘business’ as defi ned under the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997.