(2) The Central Government may appoint an individual or a Government company as the Custodian of a coal mine in relation to which no direction has been made by it under sub-section (1) of section 5.” G 37. Suffice it for the purpose of this case that we notice next Section 28: “28. Effect of this Act on other laws.- The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force or in any H 852 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A instrument having effect by virtue of any law other than this Act, or in any decree or of any court, tribunal or other authority.” 38. Finally, we notice Section 32. It read as follows: “32. No proceeding for the winding up of a mining company, the right title and interest in relation to the coal mine owned by which B have vested with Central Government called a government company under this Act or for the appointment of a receiver in respect of the business of the company, shall lie in any Court except with the consent of the Central Government.” 39. The Nationalisation Act came to be inserted in the Ninth C Schedule to the Constitution. It remained in the Ninth Schedule till it is removed therefrom in the year 2017. 40. Article 31B of the Constitution of India reads as under: “31B. Validation of certain Acts and Regulations Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions contained in Article 31A, none D of the Acts and Regulations specified in the Ninth Schedule nor any of the provisions thereof shall be deemed to be void, or ever to have become void, on the ground that such Act, Regulation or provision is inconsistent with, or takes away or abridges any of the rights conferred by, any provisions of this Part, and E notwithstanding any , decree or of any court or tribunal to the contrary, each of the said Acts and Regulations shall, subject to the power of any competent Legislature to repeal or amend it, continue in force.” 41. Article 31C of the Constitution of India reads: F “31C. Saving of laws giving effect to certain directive principles Notwithstanding anything contained in Article 13, no law giving effect to the policy of the State towards securing all or any of the principles laid down in Part IV shall be deemed to be void on the ground that it is inconsistent with, or takes away or abridges any G of the rights conferred by Article 14 or Article 19 and no law containing a declaration that it is for giving effect to such policy shall be called in question in any court on the ground that it does not give effect to such policy: Provided that where such law is made by the Legislature of a State, the provisions of this Article shall not apply thereto unless such law, having been reserved for H COAL INDIA LIMITED v. COMPETITION COMMISSION 853 OF INDIA [K. M. JOSEPH, J.]