B. PARDIWALA, J.] he pre-judged the complaint. He was also put fi fteen questions by the CCC, which was styled as “examination-in-chief” 10. That, the Hon’ble High Court at para 46 of its ( Page 74 of the SLP) rightly held that the prosecution witnesses were also put questions by the CCC, which is evident from the report of the CCC under the heading “V. Examination of witnesses”, wherein the CCC itself recorded that CCC had conducted the examination-in-chief whenever it felt necessary. Thus, it is evident that the CCC also played the role of prosecutor, which vitiates the proceeding. 11. That the Hon’ble High Court at para 47 of its (Page 75-76 of the SLP) rightly held that the CCC had recorded that it had noted that no witness examined by it had specifi c knowledge of the events listed in. The Hon’ble High Court observed that events alleged pertain to allegation of making unsolicited phone calls at unearthly hours and, that too, for long duration. No call records were produced. However, CCC accepted the allegations by merely holding that the committee saw no reason what gain the complainant would have in fabricating the allegations and that it is understandable that no woman would be expected to confi de matters of sexual nature even to her female colleagues. In this regard, the Hon’ble High Court correctly held that the Central Complaint Committee (CCC) ought to have recorded its fi nding based on evidence on record and not on surmises and conjectures. 12. That, it may be mentioned here that the sole respondent was most decorated offi cer in his cadre in SSB. He was awarded by the President of India for his exemplary services. He was a recipient of Indian Police Medal, DG’s Disc with Commendation (2 times), Best Performing Offi cer in SSB (Best Area) for 04 consecutive years from 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, recipient of various appreciations in each month from all senior controlling offi cers including DG of SSB. Now after putting in 35 glorious years of service in SSB, he has been victimized and forced to proceed on superannuation without a single penny from the department. Even his personal accumulation under diff erent heads has also not been sanctioned to him. The sole respondent is still deprived of his retiral benefi t like gratuity and others as the gratuity due to 512 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. him cannot be withheld as the nature of allegation is not related any fi nancial issues and there was no by any quarter about any such withholding of his retiral benefi t. Moreso, the Punishment dated 05.01.2016 (@ page 447-453 of Vol-II of present SLP) passed by the Authority concerned clearly directed that the gratuity amount shall be released to the sole respondent and the said of release of gratuity by the respondent authority is not opposed or assailed by the petitioner authority. However, till date no Gratuity amount was released to the sole respondent. Due to such , commutation value of pension has also not been paid till date.