Explanation.— For the purposes of this section, the expression “micro, small and medium enterprises” means any class or classes of enterprises classifi ed as such under sub-section (1) of section 7 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 (27 of 2006).] 14. The aforesaid provision also was introduced as an Amendment in 2018 eff ective from 06.06.2018. It begins with a “notwithstanding clause”. Clauses (c) and (h) of Section 29-A which apply to the promoters and exempts them to apply for a plan is not applicable qua any micro, small and medium enterprises. The objective obviously was to due to the nature of business carried out by such entities. 15. Learned counsel has referred to the in Swiss Ribbons Private Limited and Anr. v. Union of India & Ors.3 The relevant paras are as reproduced under: Exemption of micro, small, and medium enterprises from Section 29A 111. The ILC Report of March 2018 found that micro, small, and medium enterprises form the foundation of the economy and are key drivers of employment, production, economic growth, entrepreneurship, and fi nancial inclusion. 112. S ection 7 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 classifi es enterprises depending upon whether they manufacture or produce goods, or are engaged in providing and rendering services as micro, small, or medium, depending upon certain investments made, as follows: “7.Classifi cation of enterprises. —(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 11-B of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951), the Central Government may, for the purposes of this Act, by notifi cation and having regard to the provisions of sub-sections (4) and (5), classify any class or classes of enterprises, whether proprietorship, Hindu undivided family, 3 (2019) 4 SCC 17 HARI BABU THOTA 927 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] associations of persons, cooperative society, partnership fi rm, company or undertaking, by whatever name called,— (a) in the case of the enterprises engaged in the manufacture or production of goods pertaining to any industry specifi ed in the First Schedule to the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951), as— (i) a micro enterprise, where the investment in plant and machinery does not exceed twenty-fi ve lakh rupees; (ii) a small enterprise, where the investment in plant and machinery is more than twenty- fi ve lakh rupees but does not exceed fi ve crore rupees; or (iii) a medium enterprise, where the investment in plant and machinery is more than fi ve crore rupees but does not exceed ten crore rupees; (b) in the case of the enterprises engaged in providing or rendering of services, as— (i) a micro enterprise, where the investment in equipment does not exceed ten lakh rupees; (ii) a small enterprise, where the investment in equipment is more than ten lakh rupees but does not exceed two crore rupees; or (iii) a medium enterprise, where the investment in equipment is more than two crore rupees but does not exceed fi ve crore rupees. 113. The ILC Report of 2018 exempted these industries from Section 29A(c) and 29A(h) of the Code, their rationale for doing so being contained in paragraph 27.4 of the Report, which reads as follows: “27.4 Regarding the fi rst issue, the Code is clear that default of INR one lakh or above triggers the right of a fi nancial creditor or an operational creditor to fi le for insolvency.