The court must make D every effort to salvage this cardinal rule to the maximum extent possible, with situational modifications. But, to recall the words of Bhagwati, J., the core of it must, however, remain, namely, that the person affected must have reasonable opportunity of being heard and the hearing must be a genuine hearing and not E an empty public relations exercise. (emphasis supplied) 55. The main point for consideration before this Court in Swadeshi Cotton Mills (supra) was whether the use of the phrase “immediate action is necessary” under Section 18-AA(1)(a) of the IDR Act impliedly F excluded the application of the audi alteram partem rule. Sarkaria, J held that the expression “immediate action”, construed in light of the overall context, object and reasons of the legislation,did not necessarily indicate an intention to exclude the requirement of prior hearing. The Court held that the use of the phrase does not exclude the duty to comply with the G audi alteram partem rule: “77. The second reason — which is more or less a facet of the first — for holding that the mere use of the word “immediate” in the phrase “immediate action is necessary”, does not necessarily and absolutely exclude the prior application of the audi alteram partem rule, is that immediacy H STATE BANK OF INDIA & ORS v. RAJESH AGARWAL & ORS 515 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] or urgency requiring swift action is a situational fact having A a direct nexus with the likelihood of adverse effect on fall in production. And, such likelihood and the urgency of action to prevent it, may vary greatly in degree. The words “likely to affect. . .production” used in Section 18-AA(1)(a) are flexible enough to comprehend a wide spectrum of situations B ranging from the one where the likelihood of the happening of the apprehended event is imminent to that where it may be reasonably anticipated to happen sometime in the near future. Cases of extreme urgency where action under Section 18-AA(1)(a) to prevent fall in production and consequent injury to public interest, brooks absolutely no delay, would be rare. In C most cases, where the urgency is not so extreme, it is practicable to adjust and strike a balance between the competing claims of hurry and hearing.” (emphasis supplied) D Sarkaria, J observed that that the owner of an undertaking is entitled to a fair hearing at the pre-decisional stage because the power of the Central government under Section 18AA-(1)(a) to take over is far- reaching and adversely affects the rights and interests of owners. 56. In Mangilal v. State of Madhya Pradesh42, a two-judge E bench of this Court held that the principles of natural justice need to be observed even if the statute is silent in that regard. In other words, a statutory silence should be taken to imply the need to observe the principles of natural justice where substantial rights of parties are affected: 10.Even if a statute is silent and there are no positive words in the Act or the Rules made thereunder, there could be F nothing wrong in spelling out the need to hear the parties whose rights and interest are likely to be affected by the s that may be passed, and making it a requirement to follow a fair procedure before taking a decision, unless the statute provides otherwise.