An ‘undertaking given to the Court’ should be distinguished from a consent , or what is known as an passed on a compromise petition fi led by the parties in a civil proceedings. A consent is a mere agreement between the parties, even though the Court might record it and append its thereto and in case of the failure of a party to comply with the terms of a consent , the injured party cannot apply for committing the defaulter for contempt; his remedy is by way of specifi c performance or injunction. However, when a party secures an from the court on giving an undertaking to the Court that he will take a particular course of action or inaction, such undertaking itself operates as an injunction made by the Court because the Court has made its on the faith of the undertaking, e.g., stay of execution of the decree or .” (Emphasis supplied) 1110 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 68. The Court then expressed that they were defi nitely of the opinion that it was an unconditional and unqualifi ed undertaking to the court even though the words to that eff ect were not used either in the statement or of the Court. 69. Thus, the expression a party “undertakes” or “gives a solemn promise” or “it is stated at the Bar on instructions from clients that the property shall not be sold”used in the statements of the parties or their counsel or in the s and decrees of the court, unless the context otherwise suggests, means an implied undertaking to the court. The undertaking is always understood to be an undertaking to the court, which undertaking could be enforced by committal proceedings. 70. We go back to the passed by the learned Single Judge of the High Court dated 14.10.2015 in the Civil Application No. 11412 of 2015 in Special Civil Application No. 16266 of 2013, recording the assurance/ undertaking given by the learned counsel on instructions from his clients that the property with respect to the subject matter of the disputed entry would not be sold till the disposal of the main petition. The reads thus: “It is stated at the Bar by Mr. Sanjanwala learned senior advocate, on instructions from his clients, that the property qua the subject matter of this entry and the petition, shall not be sold out till the main petition is heard and decided, which satisfi es the conscious of Mr. Mihir Thakor learned senior advocate appearing with Mr. Prabhav Mehta learned advocate and he states that he may not press the Letters Patent Appeal, on instructions. Hence, this Civil Application stands disposed of accordingly. It goes without saying that the was passed adinvitum/by consent of the learned advocates.” (Emphasis supplied) 71. Having regard to the principles of law as aforestated, it will be too much for this Court to say that the statement made by the learned Senior Counsel before the High Court was just an assurance given to a party to the lis and was not an undertaking given to the court so as to entail the consequences of “civil contempt”.