Explanation.—In computing the period of detention under this section for granting bail, the period of detention passed due to delay in proceeding caused by the accused shall be excluded.” 57 (2021) 2 SCC 427. MANISH SISODIA v. CENTRAL BUREAU OF 511 INVESTIGATION [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] 28. Detention or jail before being pronounced guilty of an off ence should not become punishment without trial. If the trial gets protracted despite assurances of the prosecution, and it is clear that case will not be decided within a foreseeable time, the prayer for bail may be meritorious. While the prosecution may pertain to an economic off ence, yet it may not be proper to equate these cases with those punishable with death, imprisonment for life, ten years or more like off ences under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, murder, cases of rape, dacoity, kidnaping for ransom, mass violence, etc. Neither is this a case where 100/1000s of depositors have been defrauded. The allegations have to be established and proven. The right to bail in cases of delay, coupled with incarceration for a long period, depending on the nature of the allegations, should be read into Section 439 of the Code and Section 45 of the PML Act. The reason is that the constitutional mandate is the higher law, and it is the basic right of the person charged of an off ence and not convicted, that he be ensured and given a speedy trial. When the trial is not proceeding for reasons not attributable to the accused, the court, unless there are good reasons, may well be guided to exercise the power to grant bail. This would be truer where the trial would take years. 29. In view of the assurance given at the Bar on behalf of the prosecution that they shall conclude the trial by taking appropriate steps within next six to eight months, we give liberty to the appellant – Manish Sisodia to move a fresh application for bail in case of change in circumstances, or in case the trial is protracted and proceeds at a snail’s pace in next three months. If any application for bail is fi led in the above circumstances, the same would be considered by the trial court on merits without being infl uenced by the dismissal of the earlier bail application, including the present . Observations made above, re. : right to speedy trial, will, however, be taken into consideration. The appellant – Manish Sisodia may also fi le an application for interim bail in case of ill-health and medical emergency due to illness of his wife. Such application would be also examined on its own merits. 30. Recording the aforesaid, the appeals are dismissed. However, we clarify that the observations made in this , either way, are only 512 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. for disposal of the present appeals, and these would not infl uence the trial court on the merits of the case, which would proceed in accordance with law, and decided on the basis of the evidence led.