798 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 4P OS.RCT.RS. 798 [2023] 4 S.C.R. A KANIMOZHI KARUNANIDHI v. A. SANTHANA KUMAR & ORS (Civil Appeal No. 3411 of 2023) B MAY 04, 2023 [AJAY RASTOGI AND BELA M. TRIVEDI, JJ.] Representation of the People’s Act, 1951 – s.83(1)(a) – Non- compliance of – Consequences of – Held: s.83(1)(a) mandates that an Election petition shall contain a concise statement of material C facts on which the petitioner relies – If material facts are not stated in an Election petition, the same is liable to be dismissed on that ground alone, as the case would be covered by Clause (a) of r.11 of Or.7 of the CPC – Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – Or.7, r.11(a). Representation of the People’s Act, 1951 – ss.100(1)(d)(iv), D 83(i)(a) – Respondent no.1 filed Election Petition seeking declaration that the election of the appellant-returned candidate from No. 36, Thoothukudy Lok Sabha Constituency, in the Lok Sabha election was void and liable to be set aside – The ground urged was that the appellant did not provide information w.r.t the payment of E income tax of her spouse (a foreign citizen as per the appellant) in the affidavit in Form no.26 – Appellant sought rejection of the election petition, applications dismissed – Held: Appellant filled in all the columns of Form No.26 by furnishing the information with regard to her Permanent Account Number (PAN) and status of filing of income tax return etc. and of her husband wherever applicable – F If according to the respondent, the appellant had suppressed the PAN of her spouse and also about the non-payment of income tax of her spouse in the foreign country, it was obligatory on the part of the respondent to state in the Election petition as to what was the PAN of the spouse of the appellant in India which was suppressed G by her and how the other details furnished about her husband in the said Form No. 26 were incomplete or false – Mere bald and vague allegations without any basis would not be sufficient compliance of the requirement of stating material facts in the Election Petition – There are no material facts stated in the petition constituting cause of action u/s.100(1)(d)(iv)– Election petition dismissed u/ H 798 KANIMOZHI KARUNANIDHI v. A. SANTHANA KUMAR 799 Or.VII, r.11(a), CPC r/w s.83(i)(a) – Impugned of the High A Court set aside – Conduct of Election Rules 1961 – rr. 4, 4A – Constitution of India – Article 324 – Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – Or.7, r.11(a). Representation of the People’s Act, 1951 – Right to elect, right to be elected and the right to dispute an election – Nature of – B Held: A right to elect is neither a fundamental right nor a common law right – It is purely a statutory right – Similarly, right to be elected and the right to dispute an election are also statutory rights subject to statutory limitations – An Election petition is not an action at common law, nor in equity – It is a special jurisdiction to be exercised C in accordance with the statute creating it – The Election petition is a serious matter, it cannot be treated lightly or in a fanciful manner nor is it given to a person who uses it as a handle for vexatious purpose – Constitution of India – Part-XV.