At this stage, such decision is required to be treated as the “decree”. The consequential action of preparing the instrument of partition as contemplated in Section 121 of B the Land Revenue Act would be only ministerial or administrative act to be carried out to completely dispose of the partition case instituted before the Revenue Officer. Hence, once the decision on the property to be divided and on the mode of partition is taken by the Revenue Officer under Section 118, the joint status of the parties would stand severed on the date of such decision, subject to the decision in appeal if any preferred C by the party. The consequential action of drawing an instrument of partition would follow thereafter. Hence, merely because the instrument of partition was not drawn, it could not be said that the partition was not completed or that the joint status of the parties was not severed. 31. The first part of Section 121 of the Land Revenue Act states D that “when a partition is completed”. Meaning thereby, when the issue with regard to the properties to be divided and the mode of making partition stand decided and rights of the parties stand determined by the Revenue Officer, the latter part of Section 121 for preparing the instrument of partition and recording the date of partition would come E into play. Such actions required to be taken as contained in the latter part of Section 121, would be only an executory work or administrative act to be carried out for completely disposing of the partition case instituted by the party before the Revenue Officer. Just as in case of a decree in civil suit, the adjudication conclusively decides the rights of the parties with regard to the matter in controversy, however the decree would be F preliminary when further proceedings have to be taken before the suit can be completely disposed of. In the same way, when the decision is taken by the Revenue Officer under Section 118, the partition would stand completed, the joint status of the parties would stand severed and would remain no more joint, after the period of limitation prescribed G under the Act. The further proceeding to draw an instrument of partition would be only an executory or ministerial work to be carried out to completely dispose of the partition case. 32. So far as the facts of the present case are concerned, the Assistant Collector i.e., concerned Revenue Officer vide the dated H 586 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 25.05.1982 had rejected the objections raised by the plaintiff Jagtar Singh and others with regard to the mode of partition and had confirmed the mode of partition accordingly. On that day, the “Naksha Be” was already annexed to the file and the case was listed on 31.05.1982 for hearing the objections as to the “Naksha Be”. On 31.07.1982, the Assistant Collector passed the stating inter alia that the Patwari and Kanungo were B present, and they had explained the parties about the passage and the boundaries of the plots, and that as per “Naksha Be”, the partition was accepted.