By the impugned Amendments, the said period is not tinkered with. What has been done is only a power is given to extend their period for a period of one year at E a time, subject to a maximum number of three such extensions. However, this has to be done only when the Committee which is constituted to recommend their appointment finds it necessary, in public interest, to grant such extension. It is further required to record the reasons in writing for the said purpose. F 93. As already discussed herein above, the aforesaid provisions with regard to appointment have been enacted in pursuance to the directions given by this Court in the case of Vineet Narain (supra). When a committee can be trusted with regard to recommending their initial appointment, we see no reason as to why such committees cannot G be trusted to consider as to whether the extension is required to be given in public interest or not. At the cost of repetition, such Committee is also required to record reasons in writing in support of such recommendations. 94. We are, therefore, unable to accept the arguments that the impugned Amendments grant arbitrary power to the Government to H DR. JAYA THAKUR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 577 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] extend the tenure of the Director of ED/CBI and has the effect of wiping A out the insulation of these offices from extraneous pressures. 95. Insofar as challenge to the amendment to the fifth proviso to clause (d) of Rule 56 of the Fundamental Rules, 1922 is concerned, it will be relevant to refer to the fifth proviso to clause (d) of Rule 56, which existed prior to the Amendment. It reads thus: B “Provided also that the Central Government may, if it considers necessary in public interest so to do, give extension in service to the Defence Secretary, Home Secretary, Director, Intelligence Bureau, Secretary, Research and Analysis Wing and Director, Central Bureau of Investigation in the Central Government for C such period or periods as it may deem proper on a case-to-case basis, subject to the condition the total term of such Secretaries or Directors, as the case may be, who are given such extension in service under this rule, does not exceed two years. Provided also that notwithstanding anything contained in the fifth proviso, the Central Government may, if considers it necessary, in public interest, D so to do, give an extension in service for a further period not exceeding three months beyond the said period of two years to the Home Secretary and the Defence Secretary.” 96. The amended fifth proviso to clause (d) of Rule 56 of the Fundamental Rules, 1922 has already been reproduced by us in paragraph E 62. 97. It can thus be seen that by virtue of the Amendment the power which was available with the Central Government to grant extension, if it considers necessary in public interest so to do, in case of certain officers, has now been also extended to the Director of CBI appointed F under the DSPE Act and Director of Enforcement in the ED appointed under the CVC Act.