B. PARDIWALA, J.] the reason that cross-examination on the date i.e. 21.06.2016 was deferred. This refl ects regarding the agony suff ered by the mother of the victim. In paragraph 8 of her cross-examination, she stated that Priya (P.W.3) had informed on telephone that the victim was traceless. She further deposed in paragraph - 8 of her cross-examination that family members of the informant were in visiting term with Munna Pandey and he was also visiting to the house of the informant. In paragraph -10 of her cross-examination, she stated that she was not knowing anything about the criminal nature of the appellant. She stated that the appellant was her neighbour and this was the reason regarding their conversance. In paragraph - 11 of her cross-examination, she stated that the room, in which, Pritam was present was opened. The lock of room of Munna Pandey (appellant) was opened. Munna Pandey (appellant) and Fuchan Pandey were residing separately. One room was of Fuchan and one room was of Munna Pandey (appellant). She clarifi ed in paragraph - 12 that 10-15 days prior to the occurrence, Fuchan had already gone to his in-laws’ house situated at village Shobhapur. In paragraph – 17 of her cross-examination, she reiterated that dead body of her victim daughter was found in the room of Munna Pandey, whereas, Pritam Tiwary had concealed himself in the room of Fuchan. In paragraph 19 and 20 of her cross-examination, P.W.2 denied the suggestion that lock of two rooms were opened by Fuchan Pandey and denied the suggestion that lock of the room of the Munna Pandey (appellant) was also opened by Fuchan Pandey. In paragraph - 23 of her cross-examination, she said that she may not say exact date of recording fardbeyan, however; she said that she can say the day on which it was recorded. She stated that Rita Madam i.e. P.W.5 had recorded fardbeyan and it was read over to her, however; she was not recollecting exactly what was the time. In paragraph 26 and 27 of her cross-examination, she stated that after arrival of Fuchan, when he denied regarding possession of the key, then the villagers started assaulting Munna Pandey (appellant). She stated that Pritam was apprehended by Vijay (P.W.6) Babloo (P.W.1) and other villagers and they also slapped Pritam. Again in paragraph - 28 of her cross- examination, she stated that the dead body of her daughter was found in the house of Munna Pandey (appellant). On examination of her 1028 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. entire evidence, including cross-examination, it is evident that every fact relating to the occurrence was reiterated in the cross examination, but nothing could be doubted on her evidence. ××× ××× ××× 16. On examination of entire evidence, it is established that the learned Trial Judge has rightly held the appellant guilty for commission of off ence under Sections 302 and 376 of the Indian Penal Code. The learned Trial Judge, after convicting the appellant by its dated 02.02.2017, deferred the date of sentence and after reasonable time, on 23.02.2017, the learned Trial Judge, after hearing both the parties and balancing the aggravating and mitigating circumstances, had come to the conclusion that it was a fi t case for imposing death sentence and thereafter, death sentence was imposed and it was referred to this Court under Section 366 of the Cr.P.C.