He further pointed out that even the V.P. Patel Group and also the Sheth 1 AIR 1950 SC 172 H 252 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Group had evinced and manifested their dispute in a formal manner with the Registrar of Companies. On account of the dealings of the appellants, the parties were at loggerheads. Though, the contents of the notice sent, was disputed, however, the matter was not pressed. It is further contended that the NCLT has found the allotment flawed. This is for the reason that under law, when allotment of further shares is made by the Board B of Directors, the question of allotment of shares, which are not taken up by the shareholders, must be taken up only after the shareholders, in the first place, decline the allotment. In other words, in this case, the appellants have rolled-up the initial allotment, as also the issue relating to further allotment of shares in a single decision and notice. The NCLT has C frowned upon the matter and rightly so. No prejudice will be caused, if impugned direction is upheld. He did take up the contention that the shares of the company were not got valued and it was issued on par, viz., at face value of Rs.10/-. The value did not do justice to the actual valuation of the company, which would have been on the higher side. But fairly, Shri Nitin Rai acknowledged that this aspect was not, as such, D canvassed before the Tribunal. There is no offer made after 27.01.2010 he points out. He next complained that even proceeding on the basis that the decision to increase the authorised capital was well advised, it is noteworthy that only Rs.21 lakhs came in by way of the allotment of the additional capital. In other words, though the authorised capital was E increased from Rs.1 crore to Rs.2 crores and the whole effort was purportedly to infuse fresh capital, in substance, only Rs.21 lakhs came into the coffers of the first respondent company. The additional capital offered was subscribed only in a sum of Rs.90 lakhs. Besides Rs.21 lakhs, which was brought in, the balance of Rs.69 lakhs was shown accounted by way of cancelling the loan due from the first respondent F company to the appellants. This would nail the lie of the appellants that they had acted bonafide and in the best interest of the company. It is contended that the object of the appellants was to wrest control of a closely held company and it is this impermissible object, which alone will be frustrated by this Court upholding the concurrent directions of the G NCLT and NCLAT. 7. Shri Malak Manish Bhat would echo the contentions addressed by Shri Nitin Rai. The fact that the company is closely held family and Group Unit, is stressed. H HASMUKHLAL MADHAVLAL PATEL v. AMBIKA FOOD 253 PRODUCTS PVT. LTD. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] ANALYSIS A 8. On 24.11.2009, in response to the proposal for a term-loan made by the appellants, the Bank of Baroda, undoubtedly, communicated the following: “1.