63. However, we propose to put an end to all speculations and debate on this issue of the suspect being apprised by the empowered offi cer of his right under Section 50 of the NDPS Act to be searched before a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate. We are of the view that even in cases wherein the suspect waives such right by electing to be searched by the empowered offi cer, such waiver on the part of the suspect should be reduced into writing by the empowered offi cer. To put it in other words, even if the suspect says that he would not like to be searched before a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate and he would be fi ne if his search is undertaken by the empowered offi cer, the matter should not rest with just an oral statement of the suspect. The suspect should be asked to give it in writing duly signed by him in presence of the empowered offi cer as well as the other offi cials of the squad that “I was apprised of my right to be searched before a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate in accordance with Section 50 of the NDPS Act, however, I declare on my own free will and volition that I would not like to exercise my right of being searched before a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate and I may be searched by the empowered offi cer.” This would lend more credence to the compliance of Section 50 of the NDPS Act. In other words, it would impart authenticity, transparency and credit worthiness to the entire proceedings. We clarify that this compliance shall henceforth apply prospectively. 64. From the aforesaid discussion, the requirements envisaged by Section 50 can be summarised as follows:- (i) Section 50 provides both a right as well as an obligation. The person about to be searched has the right to have his search conducted in the presence of a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 333 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] if he so desires, and it is the obligation of the police offi cer to inform such person of this right before proceeding to search the person of the suspect. (ii) Where, the person to be searched declines to exercise this right, the police offi cer shall be free to proceed with the search. However, if the suspect declines to exercise his right of being searched before a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate, the empowered offi cer should take it in writing from the suspect that he would not like to exercise his right of being searched before a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate and he may be searched by the empowered offi cer. (iii) Before conducting a search, it must be communicated in clear terms though it need not be in writing and is permissible to convey orally, that the suspect has a right of being searched by a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate. (iv) While informing the right, only two options of either being searched in presence of a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate must be given, who also must be independent and in no way connected to the raiding party.