As to the nature and extent of the liability, much would depend on the B terms of the guarantee itself. However, this Court has indicated, time and again, that an involuntary act of the principal debtor leading to loss of security, would not absolve a guarantor of its liability…..” (Emphasis supplied) C 80. In JIK Industries Limited and Others v. Amarlal V. Jumani and Another reported in (2012) 3 SCC 255, this Court held that: “19. In the instant appeal in most of the cases the offence under the NI Act has been committed prior to the scheme. Therefore, the offence which has already been committed prior D to the scheme does not get automatically compounded only as a result of the said scheme. Therefore, even by relying on the ratio of the aforesaid in J.K. (Bombay) (P) Ltd. [J.K. (Bombay) (P) Ltd. v. New Kaiser-I-Hind Spg. And Wvg. Co. Ltd., AIR 1970 SC 1041], this Court cannot accept the appellant’s contention that the scheme under Section 391 E of the Companies Act will have the effect of automatically compounding the offence under the NI Act. Xxx xxx xxx 27. The compounding of an offence is always controlled by F statutory provision. There are various features in the compounding of an offence and those features must be satisfied before it can be claimed by the offender that the offence has been compounded. Thus, compounding of an offence cannot be achieved indirectly by the sanctioning of a scheme by the Company Court. G Xxx xxx xxx 70. In the instant case no special procedure has been prescribed under the NI Act relating to compounding of an offence. In the absence of special procedure relating to H compounding, the procedure relating to compounding under AJAY KUMAR RADHEYSHYAM GOENKA v. TOURISM 1045 FINANCE CORP. OF INDIA LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] Section 320 shall automatically apply in view of clear A mandate of sub-section (2) of Section 4 of the Code. Xxx xxx xxx 83. For the reasons aforesaid, this Court is unable to accept the contentions of the learned counsel for the appellant(s) B that as a result of sanction of a scheme under Section 391 of the Companies Act there is an automatic compounding of offences under Section 138 of the NI Act even without the consent of the complainant.” (Emphasis supplied) C 81. In Indorama Synthetics (I) Ltd., Nagpur v. State of Maharashtra and others reported in 2016 SCC OnLine Bom 2611, the question that arose before the Bombay High Court was whether the expression “suit or other proceedings” mentioned in Section 446(1) of the Companies Act, 1956 would include criminal proceedings under Section 138 NI Act. It was held that:- D “17. Thus, the main object of section 138 of N.I. Act, which can be inferred, is to safeguard the credibility of commercial transactions and to prevent bouncing of cheques by providing a personal criminal liability against the drawer of the cheque in public interest. No civil liability or any liability against the E assets of the drawer of the cheque is contemplated under section 138 of the N.I.