MADAN v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 785 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 22. Shri Grover fairly submitted that though there are certain criminal antecedents against the appellant, the same cannot be a ground to deny his commutation. The learned Senior Counsel submitted that in the event this Court does not interfere with the of conviction, the capital punishment deserves to be commuted to life imprisonment. 23. Shri Manish Kumar Vikkey, learned counsel appearing for appellant Sudesh Pal has adopted the arguments as advanced by Shri Grover. 24. Shri Chahar, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the State submitted that no interference would be warranted with the concurrent s of trial court and the High Court. 25. Shri Chahar submitted that the appellants have brutally killed six innocent persons only on account of political rivalry. It is submitted that the appellants who have committed such a heinous and gruesome crime, are not entitled to any leniency. It is submitted that appellant Madan was already a hardened criminal. He submitted that he was also awarded life imprisonment in another case and under his leadership, the accused persons killed six persons. It is submitted that the incident was such which caused terror in the society and the High Court and the trial court have rightly held the present case to be the rarest of rare cases so as to award death penalty to the accused. He therefore submitted that no interference would be warranted in the present case. 26. With the assistance of the learned counsel for both the parties, we have examined the entire evidence and perused the material placed on record. 27. The incident has taken place in two parts as under: (i) The fi rst place is near the house of Rashid son of Mustafa. Appellant Madan along with Rajveer, Ram Bhajan, Ramveer, Kanwar Pal and Ishwar armed with licensed guns, rifl es and country-made pistols came from behind and started firing indiscriminately. As a result of which, Satendra and Sunil fell down on the Khadanja and died on the spot. When Masooq Ali, after hearing the sound of gunfi re, came out of his house, the accused persons also fi red shots at him. As a result of which, he also fell down. 786 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. (ii) The second place is the house of Up-Pradhan Rizwan. After indiscriminate fi ring by the accused persons, Ram Kishan and Sukhpal Singh (PW-2) ran away to save their lives and Ram Kishan entered the house of Rizwan. The accused persons followed them and entered into the house of Rizwan and fi red shots at Ram Kishan, Rizwan and Rihan. As a result of which, Ram Kishan died on the spot. Masooq Ali, Rizwan and Rihan were taken to the hospital by the villagers. However, on the way to hospital, they succumbed to their injuries. 28. Though the prosecution has examined 11 witnesses, only 4 of them supported the prosecution case. PW-1 is Lokendra. He has deposed in his evidence that, on 14th October 2003 at around 05.30 in the evening, he and his brother Satendra, Sukhpal Singh (PW-2), Ram Kishan, his father Jai Singh (PW-8) and Sunil were going to the Deputy Pradhan Rizwan’s house for discussing the problems of the village.