In the event, you pay me the sale consideration of Rs.5,000/-, I will reconvey the schedule property in your favour. This agreement shall cease on the next day of the expiry of 5 years. At the time of repurchase you must bear the registration charges.” 28. In the case in hand, the specifi c term used in the document is “reconveyance agreement” executed by Rudramma in favour of Gangaramaiah. It is clearly mentioned therein that the property in-question had already been sold and registered in the name of Rudramma. On a request made by Gangaramaiah, the right to purchase the property was given within a period of fi ve years on payment of sale consideration of ₹ 5,000/- (Rupees Five Thousand). The agreement states that it shall cease to have eff ect on expiry of a period of fi ve years. PRAKASH (DEAD) BY LR. v. G. ARADHYA AND ORS. 1051 [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] 29. A perusal of the contents of the Sale Deed shows that it is clearly mentioned therein that the same was an absolute sale for a total sale consideration of ₹ 5,000/- (Rupees Five Thousand) required by the vendor to meet domestic expenses and to meet education expenses of his minor son and to discharge some debts. Total sale consideration was ₹ 5,000/- (Rupees Five Thousand). Out of this amount, a sum of ₹ 3,000/- (Rupees Three Thousand) was received earlier and ₹ 2,000/- (Rupees Two Thousand) was to be received in the presence of the Sub-Registrar at the time of the registration of the Sale Deed. Possession of the property was to be delivered on registration of the Sale Deed. The vendee was entitled to get the mutation entered in her name and enjoy the property by paying the taxes, if any. She would become an absolute owner thereof from generation to generation. There were no encumbrances attached to the property. 30. The agreement of buy back dated 24.12.1973 mentioned, that after registration of the Sale Deed, the vendor had requested the vendee to resell the property within the time given. The vendee granted him fi ve years’ time to repurchase the property in case sale consideration of ₹ 5000/- (Rupees Five Thousand) is paid. It was agreed that the agreement shall cease immediately after expiry of 5 years. It further mentions that at the time of repurchase, registration expenses are to be borne by the father of the appellant, who had to get the Sale Deed registered back. 31.In terms of the Sale Deed and the Reconveyance Deed, reconsidered in the light of the enunciation of law, as referred to above, in our opinion, the same cannot be held to be a transaction of mortgage of property. Sale of property initially, was absolute. By way of execution of Reconveyance Deed, namely, on the same day, the only right given to the appellants was to repurchase the property. 32. For the aforementioned reasons, we do not fi nd any error in the and of the High Court.