(emphasis supplied) H 1026 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 3. A recent study by Project 39A examined all the s involving a sentence of death delivered by the Supreme Court between 2007 and 2021 as part of which it analysed the exercise of the review jurisdiction in capital cases.2 It noted that, during the period covered by the study, before the decision in Mohd. Arif, 14 review petitions were dismissed by circulation and the capital punishment was confirmed in all B of them. Out of these, 13 were re-opened in view of the which resulted in only 4 re-confirmations of the death penalty. On the other hand, 7 s resulted in commutation of death sentences, 1 in acquittal and 1 case being abated due to the death of the prisoner. In view of the above data, the impact of the oral hearing of review petitions, C due to the in Mohd. Arif leading to a change in the outcome of a death penalty confirmation is evident. 4. The Court in Mohd. Arif, however, was not persuaded by the argument of involving two additional judges beyond the judges who had heard the original appeal during the hearing of the review petition. It also D held that a review must be ordinarily heard by the same bench which originally heard the criminal appeal. It had noted that: 39. Henceforth, in all cases in which death sentence has been awarded by the High Court in appeals pending before the Supreme Court, only a bench of three Hon’ble Judges will hear the same. E This is for the reason that at least three judicially trained minds need to apply their minds at the final stage of the journey of a convict on death row, given the vagaries of the sentencing procedure outlined above. At present, we are not persuaded to have a minimum of 5 learned Judges hear all death sentence cases. Further, […] a review is ordinarily to be F heard only by the same bench which originally heard the criminal appeal. This is obviously for the reason that in that a review succeeds, errors apparent on the record have to be found. It is axiomatic that the same learned Judges alleged to have committed the error be called upon now to G rectify such error. We, therefore, turn down [the…] plea that two additional Judges be added at the review stage in death sentence cases. (emphasis supplied) 2Exercise of Review Jurisdiction in Capital Cases in DEATH PENALTYAND THE INDIAN H SUPREME COURT (2007-2021), Project 39A, National Law University Delhi (2022). SUNDAR @ SUNDARRAJAN v. STATE BY INSPECTOR OF 1027 POLICE [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 5. The data analysed by Project 39A indicates that it is not merely A the oral hearing of review petitions that has changed the outcomes. There may also be a correlation between the ultimate outcome changing and different judges being involved as part of the review process instead of the same judges who had originally decided the appeal.