As held by this Court in the case of Munna (supra), that in a case where an accused himself refused to participate in the TIP, it is not open to him to contend that the statement of the eye witnesses made for the fi rst time in Court, wherein they specifi cally point towards him as a person who had taken part in the commission of the crime, should not be relied upon. Such a plea is available provided the prosecution is itself responsible for not holding a TIP. However, in a case where the accused himself declines to participate in a TIP, the prosecution has no option but to proceed in a normal manner like all other cases and rely upon the testimony of the witnesses, which is recorded in Court during the course of the trial of the case. It will be too much for us to say that the PW 1 was able to identify the accused convict for the fi rst time before the Trial Court only because the PW 1 had an opportunity to have a look at him on 15.09.2008 at the Rohini Court Complex. As observed above, the PW 1 could be said to have had MUKESH SINGH v. THE STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 931 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] more than a fair glimpse of the assailants at the time of the incident and on the strength of the same, the PW 1 identifi ed the appellant convict as one of the assailants. 71. We deem it appropriate to refer to the factors which are to be considered for in-Court identifi cation and were relied by the American Supreme Court in John R. MANSON, Commissioner of Correction of Connecticut v. Nowell A. BRATHWAITE reported in 432 U.S. 98 (1977), where while referring to its earlier decision in William S. NEIL, Warden v. Archie Nathaniel BIGGERS, reported in 409 U.S. 188 (1972), it held that reliability is the linchpin in determining the admissibility of identifi cation testimony and the factors to be considered are: the opportunity of the witness to view the criminal at the time of the crime; the witness’ degree of attention; the accuracy of his prior description of the criminal; the level of certainty demonstrated at the confrontation, and the time between the crime and the confrontation. 72. In the aforesaid context, we should also look at the line of reasoning assigned by the High Court. In para 37 of the impugned , the High Court took into consideration the site plan Ex. PW-8/A. The site plan was looked into to ascertain whether there was suffi cient light at the place of the occurrence or not. In this regard, the High Court held as under:- “37. One of the contentions raised by counsel for the appellant Vijay was that there were no suffi cient lights at the place of incident and this is apparent from the fact that in the site plan proved on record as Ex. PW8/A, existence of any such lights have not been shown.