Under this view terms of marriage are set, to a large extent, independently of the state. Its source is external to the state. That source defi nes the boundaries of marriage. This implies that state power to regulate marriage does not sit easy with the idea of marriage as a fundamental right. In attempting to analyse the claim to a fundamental right to marry, there are primarily two competing claims about 44 2018 (11) SCR 765 45 Sivasankaran v. Santhimeenal [2021] 6 SCR 169:“The norms of a marriage and the varying degrees of legitimacy it may acquire are dictated by factors such as marriage and divorce laws, prevailing social norms, and religious dictates. Functionally, marriages are seen as a site for the propagation of social and cultural capital as they help in identifying kinship ties, regulating sexual behaviour, and consolidating property and social prestige.” Likewise, in Indra Sarma v. V.K.V. Sarma [(2013) 14 SCR 1019] this court said that “The institutions of marriage and the family are important social institutions.” The same decision also recognized the centrality of tradition, and custom, while emphasizing that “Marriages in India take place either following the personal Law of the Religion to which a party is belonged or following the provisions of the Special Marriage Act.” SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1455 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] the nature of marriage: one being that the state should exercise more control over marriage to support and protect “traditional purposes and perceptions” and the other, that each individual should have the right to defi ne marriage for themselves and state involvement in marriage should be minimal. 46. If indeed there is a right to marry unless it is elevated to a right akin to Articles 17, 23, and 24, [which apply to both state and nonstate agencies and actors], it cannot be operationalized. These provisions, most emphatically create positive obligations; likewise Articles 15 (3), 15 (4) – and 15 (6), as well as Articles 16 (4), 16 (6) highlight state interest in creating conditions to further the goal of non-discrimination. Yet, the previous decisions of this court have carefully held such provisions to enable the state, and in a sense oblige it to take measures; but ruled out court mandated policies and laws.46 In our considered opinion, this is not however, one such case where the court can make a departure from such rule, and require the state to create social or legal status. 47. What is being asked for by the petitioners is state intervention in enabling marriage between queer or non-heterosexual couples. Civil marriage or recognition of any such relationship, with such status, cannot exist in the absence of statute. The demand, hence, is that of a right of access to a publicly created and administered institution. There is a paradox here or a contradiction, which runs to the root of the issue and weighs on this court’s mind, heavily - in that the creation of the institution, here depends on state action, which is sought to be compelled through the agency of this court.