7. In pressurized dispensation, all dispensing units shall be installed with shear valves to cut the fuel flow from pipe B line immediately upon accidental knocking of dispensing units from its position. 8. In pressurized system all Submersible Turbine Pumps (STPs) are to installed with line leak detectors and in the event of pipeline leaks STPs shall stop pumping fuel from C underground tanks. 9. Emergency stop button switch shall be provided on the Multi- Product Dispenser (MPD) to stop the dispensation in case of emergency. 10. Automation system shall be installed at all new retail outlets D to alert in case of tank leak by way of auto gauging system approved by PESO. 11. All Retail Outlets shall provide overfill alarm through automation. 12. Measures for spill containment in fill point chambers and E forecourt area shall be implemented as prescribed by PESO. B. Check on leakages (Leakage Detection System) from underground storage tanks so as to prevent groundwater and soil contamination: F 1. All new retail outlets will have automation system installed which will provide reports on volume balance after every day operation and records shall be maintained. 2. Manual gauging shall be done once in a month and compare the same with Automatic Tank Gauging for accuracy. G 3. Daily MS and HSD loss shall not exceed MoPNG prescribed limits. In case of leakage beyond such limits, matter shall be got analyzed by OMCs and further action shall be taken for ascertaining the reasons of losses. In case of leakage resulting in soil/groundwater contamination: H M/S INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED v. V. B. R. MENON 237 & OTHERS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] a. Concerned OMC shall report to State Pollution Control A Board, PESO and District Administration under intimation to CPCB within 24 hours of occurrence. Operation of such underground storage tank (UST) and its ancillary components shall be stopped immediately. b. Fuel shall be removed immediately from underground storage B tank to prevent further release to environment. Measures to prevent explosion due to vapors released due to leakage as recommended by PESO shall be implemented immediately. c. OMCs will be held liable for Environmental compensation C (imposed by SPCBs/PCCS) and assessment of environmental damage (depending on extent of contamination in soil and groundwater) and site remediation. Consultant/ Expert agency appointed by OMCs for damage assessment and site remediation shall have minimum D national/ international experience of 05 years in this field. Various approved methods shall be considered for cleaning underground contaminants. d. Operation of Underground tank and its ancillary components shall not be resumed till corrective measures to contain and E stop leakages are implemented to the satisfaction of PESO and concerned SPCB. 4. All underground tanks and pipelines shall be subjected to test for leaks every 7 years. C. Policy towards Treatment and disposal of sludge removed F from underground tanks during cleaning: D. Installation, Operation and maintenance of Vapour Recovery System: 1. All new retail outlets set up with sale potential of 300KL G MS per month and setting up in cities with population more than 1 lakh will be provided with YRS.