828 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 11. Having heard learned counsel for the parties and looking to the nature of the passed against the respondent as quoted above, it is apparent that the respondent was discharged from service under Rule 12.21 of PPR as the appellants were of the opinion that the probationer constable was not likely to become an effi cient police offi cer. In the said context, to appreciate the issue in detail, reference to Rule 12.21 of PPR is relevant and the same is reproduced hereinbelow: “12.21 – A constable who is found unlikely to prove an effi cient police offi cer may be discharged by the Superintendent at any time within three years of enrolment. There shall be no appeal against an of discharge under this Rule.” 12. The Full Bench of the Punjab & Haryana High Court in the case of “Sher Singh, Ex-Constable Vs. State of Haryana & Ors., 1994 SCC OnLine P&H 166” has examined the content and scope of Rules 12.21, 19.3 and 19.5 of PPR in detail. In the said case, the High Court held that during the period of probation the constable remains under surveillance and is kept in close supervision. The probationer has no right to the post and the services are terminable at any time during the said period. The probationer can secure his position in service only if he convinces the Superintendent of Police that he is likely to prove as an effi cient police offi cer. It was further stated that, if on a consideration of the relevant material, the Superintendent of Police fi nds that a particular constable is not active, disciplined, self-reliant, punctual, sober, courteous, straightforward or that he does not possess the knowledge of the technical details of the work required to be performed by him, he can reasonably form an opinion that he is not likely to prove an effi cient police offi cer. The Full Bench further held that in such a situation, the Superintendent of Police can invoke his power under Rule 12.21 of PPR and can discharge the constable from the force. The observations as made by Full Bench of the High Court have been approved by this Court in the case of Sukhwinder Singh (supra) wherein it was observed that this Court is in agreement with the view taken by the Full Bench of the High Court. In the said case, this Court relied upon the of “Superintendent of Police Vs. Dwarka Das, (1979) 3 SCC 789”, in which also Rule 12.21 and Rule 12.21(3) of PPR were dealt with, and THE STATE OF PUNJAB AND OTHERS v. 829 JASWANT SINGH [J. K. MAHESHWARI, J.] it was held that the Superintendent of Police has the power to discharge the probationer within the period of probation. 13. In the case of “State of Punjab and Others Vs. Balbir Singh, (2004) 11 SCC 743”, this Court had an occasion to consider Rule 12.21 of PPR and in paragraphs 5, 7 and 11, this Court observed as thus – “5.