305. Having answered the Reference, we direct the Registry of F this Court to place the matter before Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India for placing it before the appropriate Bench(es). Needless to state that all other contentions are kept open to be considered by the Bench(es) before which the matters would be placed. 306. Before parting with the , we place on record our G deep appreciation for the valuable assistance rendered by Shri R. Venkataramani, learned Attorney General, Shri P. Chidambaram, Shri Shyam Divan and Shri Jaideep Gupta, learned Senior Counsel and all other counsel appearing for the parties. H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 145 NAGARATHNA, J. A I N D E X* B C D E 1. I have had the benefit of reading the proposed by His F Lordship, B.R.Gavai, J. 2. However, I wish to differ on the reasoning and conclusions arrived at in his judgement with regard to exercise of power by the Central Government under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (hereinafter referred to as “the Act” for the G sake of brevity) by issuance of the impugned notification dated 8th November, 2016. Hence, my separate . *The Index is as per the Original . H 146 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Preface: 3. By way of a preface, I state that the proposed by His Lordship, Gavai, J. does not recognise the essential fact that the Act does not envisage initiation of demonetisation of bank notes by the Central Government. Sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act, contemplates B demonetisation of bank notes at the instance of the Central Board of the Reserve Bank of India (hereinafter referred to as “the Bank”). Hence, if demonetisation is to be initiated by the Central Government, such power is derived from Entry 36 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution which speaks of currency, coinage and legal tender; foreign C exchange. In view of the interpretation given by me to sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act in the context of the powers of the Central Board of the Bank and the Central Government vis-à-vis demonetisation of bank notes, my answer is only with regard to question No.1 of the D reference . Incidentally, while considering the same, I would touch upon questionNo. 7 of the reference . 4. The questions for consideration of this Constitution Bench framed by the Predecessor Bench on 16th December, 2016 are extracted as under: E (i) “Whether the notification dated 8th November 2016 is ultra vires Section 26(2) and Sections 7,17,23,24,29 and 42 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934; (ii) Does the notification contravene the provisions of Article F 300(A) of the Constitution; (iii) Assuming that the notification has been validly issued under the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 whether it is ultra vires Articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution; G (iv) Whether the limit on withdrawal of cash from the funds deposited in bank accounts has no basis in law and violates Articles 14,19 and 21; (v) Whether the implementation of the impugned notification(s) suffers from procedural and/or substantive unreasonableness H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 147 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.]