process having reached the penultimate stage, unfortunately, has also to be noted to be rejected. Having chosen, with eyes open, to not comply with successive s of the learned Single Judge and the learned Division Bench, both of which were passed well in time, such as not to stall/delay the notifi ed election schedule, the Appellants cannot be permitted to plead that interference by us at this late juncture should not be forthcoming. 32. The Court would categorically emphasize that no litigant should have even an iota of doubt or an impression (rather, a misimpression) that just because of systemic delay or the matter not being taken up by the Courts resulting in effl ux of time the cause would be defeated, and the Court would be rendered helpless to ensure justice to the party concerned. It would not be out of place to mention that this Court can even turn the clock back, if the situation warrants such dire measures. The powers of this Court, if need be, to even restore status quo ante are not in the realm of any doubt. The relief(s) granted in the lead opinion by Hon. Khehar, J. (as the learned Chief Justice then was), concurred with by the other 4 learned Judges, in Nabam Rebia and Bamang Felix v Deputy Speaker, Arunachal Pradesh Legislative Assembly,(2016) 8 SCC 1 is enough on this aspect. We know full well that a 5-Judge Bench in Subhash Desai v Principal Secretary, Governor of Maharashtra,2023 SCC OnLine SC 607 has referred Nabam Rebia (supra) to a Larger Bench. However, the questions referred to the Larger Bench do not detract from the power to bring back status quo ante. That apart, it is settled that mere reference to a larger Bench does not unsettle declared law. In Harbhajan Singh v State of Punjab,(2009) 13 SCC 608, a 2-Judge Bench said: “15.Even if what is contended by the learned counsel is correct, it is not for us to go into the said question at this stage; herein cross- examination of the witnesses had taken place. The Court had taken into consideration the materials available to it for the purpose of arriving at a satisfaction that a case for exercise of jurisdiction under Section 319 of the Code was made out. Only because the correctness of a portion of the in Mohd. Shafi [(2007) 14 SCC 544 : (2009) 1 SCC (Cri) 889 : (2007) 4 SCR 1023 : (2007) 5 Scale 611] has been doubted by another Bench, the same would not mean that we should wait for the decision of the larger Bench, particularly UNION TERRITORY OF LADAKH v. JAMMU AND KASHMIR 95 NATIONAL CONFERENCE [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] when the same instead of assisting the appellants runs counter to their contention.” (emphasis supplied) 33. In Ashok Sadarangani v Union of India,(2012) 11 SCC 321, another 2-Judge Bench indicated: “29. As was indicated in Harbhajan Singh case [Harbhajan Singh v. State of Punjab, (2009) 13 SCC 608: (2010) 1 SCC (Cri) 1135], the pendency of a reference to a larger Bench, does not mean that all other proceedings involving the same issue would remain stayed till a decision was rendered in the reference.