Adding to the misery is the delay in disposal of cases relating to specific performance, as suits and appeals therefrom routinely C take two to three decades to attain finality. As a result, an owner agreeing to sell a property for rupees one lakh and received rupees ten thousand as advance may be required to execute a sale deed a quarter century later by receiving the remaining rupees ninety thousand, when the property value has risen to a crore of rupees.” D (emphasis by me) 32. Further, regarding the factors that ought to guide the Court’s decision in decreeing a suit for specific performance, particularly when the agreement of sale has not been given effect to within the time stipulated therein, the following directions issued in an earlier decision in E K.S. Vidyanadam vs. Vairavan (1997) 3 SCC 1, were reiterated: (i) The courts, while exercising discretion in suits for specific performance, should bear in mind that when the parties prescribe a time/period, for taking certain steps or for completion of the transaction, that must have some significance and therefore time/period prescribed cannot F be ignored. (ii) The courts will apply greater scrutiny and strictness when considering whether the purchaser was “ready and willing” to perform his part of the contract. G (iii) Every suit for specific performance need not be decreed merely because it is filed within the period of limitation by ignoring the time- limits stipulated in the agreement. The courts will also “frown” upon suits which are not filed immediately after the breach/refusal. The fact that limitation is three years does not mean that a purchaser can wait for H C. HARIDASAN v. ANAPPATH PARAKKATTU VASUDEVA 279 KURUP [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 1 or 2 years to file a suit and obtain specific performance. A The three-year period is intended to assist the purchasers in special cases, as for example, where the major part of the consideration has been paid to the vendor and possession has been delivered in part- performance, where equity shifts in favour of the purchaser. B (emphasis by me) In light of the said directions, the period of six months which was stipulated in the agreement of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights, in the present case, has to be accorded its due significance while deciding the suit for specific performance. Having regard to the urgency of the C financial need of the defendants, which need had prompted them to sell their Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights over the suit property, it must be held that time stipulated in the agreement was the essence of the contract. 33. Further, the direction of this Court in the aforecited case regarding the onus on the party claiming specific performance to initiate D action immediately after the breach or refusal by the other party to the contract, is also relevant to the facts of the present case. The plaintiff in the present case served a legal notice only on 02nd November, 2006 while the six month period stipulated in the agreement had elapsed on 07thFebruary, 2006.