He has stated about the Merg Report dated 20.07.2008 registered as Merg No.82 of 2008 which he proved as Ex-P2. He further proves B the FIR as Ex.-P1, the site plan, the inquest, and its intimation as Ex-P3 and Ex-P4. Further, he proves Ex-P13 is the request for Post Mortem and the recovery memo of the Tabbal (Ex-P14) also contains his signatures. He also proves the other Police papers and further proves the recoveries made during the investigation. He tried to explain the delay in registering the FIR and, according to him, the Merg report having C been registered, the criminal machinery had been put into motion. He has denied the suggestion that in fact in the initial Merg report, the name of the appellant was not there and it was only later on that his name had been added. He further states that he could not find any reason as to what was the motive for committing the D crime. All other suggestions have been denied by him. 30. In the examination under section 313 Code of Criminal Procedure3, the entire evidence against the appellant was put to him which he has denied. He however, stated that he was doing his duty as Chowkidar in the Forest Department and on account of personal E enmity he had been falsely implicated. He also states that he wants to examine Forest Range Officer Mr. Sinha and one Mr. Rajendra Thakur. However, no evidence was led on behalf of the defence. 31. The first question to be considered is as to whether any of the eye-witnesses had actually seen the occurrence of the appellant assaulting the deceased. The answer is ‘no’. F 32. Following are the reasons for the above conclusion: a) According to the informant (PW-1), he was the first person to arrive at the site along with his wife upon hearing the cry for help from the deceased that Shatrughan was assaulting G him with a tabbal. When he reached the site he saw that the deceased was lying on the road and the appellant was moving towards his house on a cycle along with tabbal. This is the FIR version. H 3 CrPC SHATRUGHAN v. THE STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 771 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] b) In his deposition PW 1 states that when he rushed to the A place of occurrence, he saw the accused running away and the tabbal was lying there. The deceased had fallen unconscious and there was deep cut on his neck with blood flowing from the injury. Upon his call, the other neighbours and his daughter all came out from their houses. B c) PW-14 who has stated that PW-1 only informed him that Jagat (deceased) had been assaulted and had been taken to the hospital. PW-1 did not inform PW-14 that it was the appellant who had assaulted. PW-14 states that it was later on that Lakhan and Laxman who informed about the C appellant assaulting the deceased. The other eye-witnesses whose testimonies have already been narrated above have not stated that they saw the appellant assaulting the deceased.