A Committee was put in place for giving recommendations for permissions G in the matters related with theme-based mall. Significantly, clause 4 of the original policy was modified in the manner that for theme-based mall, the limit of partnership of public enterprise/company of the State Government was changed from 20% of the maximum cost of land to minimum 20% of cost of land; and it was provided that the working agency will provide freehold to the SPV after acquiring the land as per H BHASIN INFOTECH AND INFRASTRUCTURE PRIVATE LTD. 1091 v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] the rules, for which freehold charge will be payable. These stipulations A occurring in the said Office Memo dated 03.05.2016 make it more than clear that as regards theme-based mall a minimum of 20% of the partnership of the State Government or its instrumentality was stipulated; and such instrumentality of the State Government was also referred to as the working agency, which was to provide freehold land to the SPV B to be created for the purpose. The petitioner seems to have developed a mall on the subject land and, as per the suggestions made in the referred communications, seems to have provided certain facilities to make it attractive but fact of the matter remains that the project has been implemented by the petitioner through private investment and there is no participation of the State Government or any public sector undertaking C or any instrumentality of the State therein. That being the position, claim of the petitioner to seek benefits flowing from the Office Memo dated 03.05.2016 falls flat and is knocked to the ground. 15.4.1. It is also noteworthy that no SPV has been created in relation to the project of the petitioner with involvement of the State D Government or any of its agencies/instrumentalities. Which particular agency is, then, to be termed as “working agency” for the purpose of the Office Memo dated 03.05.2016 remains a question inexplicable. If the stretch of arguments of the petitioner seeking freehold land is taken into consideration, only UPSIDC could be termed as “working agency” E for the present purpose but then, there is no partnership of UPSIDC in this project. 15.5. Apart from the above, it is also noteworthy that the subject land was specifically leased to the petitioner for a period of 90 years in terms of the allotment letter dated 05.08.2006 and then lease deeds were F executed on 23.08.2006 and 30.03.2009. The construction was undertaken by the petitioner over part of the land in question where partial completion certificate was issued on 07.05.2011 and second completion certificate was issued on 16.04.2015. Several significant consequences follow from this status of record. In the first place, when the land had already been leased to the petitioner and the petitioner is G also holding the same as lessee under the lease deeds executed for the purpose, there does not appear any reason, justification, logic or rationale that such leasehold rights be converted into freehold rights.