No such deposit shall be accepted unless it is accompanied by an application for determination of the rent payable. On receipt of the application, the Controller shall, having regard to the rate at which rent was last paid and the period for which default may have been made by the tenant, make, as soon as possible within a period not exceeding one year, an specifying the amount, if any, due from the tenant and, thereupon, the tenant shall, within one month of the date of such , pay to the landlord the amount so specifi ed in the : Provided that having regard to the circumstances of the case, an extension of time may be granted by the Controller only once and the period of such extension shall not exceed two months.” 516 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. Arguments of learned counsel for the parties and our conclusion: 8. The default of the respondent in payment of the rent is not in dispute. The application, which was fi led under Sections 7(1) and 7(2) of the said Act, was not within the window of the statutory period. The only reason stated was that there was lack of proper advice from the advocate and the proceedings before the Trial Court and subsequently he sought to make amends by fi ling the written statement. The arguments had, thus, revolved around the issue whether the High Court could have invoked the provisions of Section 5 of the Limitation Act, 1963 to give benefi t to the respondent for such a claim to be considered by the Trial Court. 9. On perusal of the provisions of Section 7 of the said Act, it is apparent that the tenant can get protection under the said Act only in compliance of what has been set out therein. Clause (a) of Sub-Section 1 of Section 7 provides for payment of arrears by the tenant to the landlord where there neither exist a dispute qua quantum of rent nor the time period involved. In the factual matrix of the present case, there is really no dispute either qua the quantum or the time period. In terms of Clause (b), the payment has to be made within one month of the service of summons on the tenant or where he appears in the proceedings without the summons being served on him within one month of his appearance and in terms of Clause (c), the tenant thereafter to pay the landlord or deposit with the controller month-by-month a sum equivalent to the rent by the 15th of each succeeding month. 10. Sub-Section (2) of Section 7 refers to a scenario where there is dispute about the rent payment and even then, there is a bounden duty of the tenant to deposit with the Controller the amount admitted by him due from him together with the application of determination of rent payable. As per the Proviso under Section 7, an extension of time can be granted by the Controller only once and the period of such extension cannot exceed two months.