A raw materials for manufacturing PVC. Under the terms of the 1991 notification, certain activities were prohibited under paragraph-2. They included manufacturing or handling or storage or disposal of hazardous substances as provided therein except transfer of hazardous substances from ships to ports, terminals and refineries and vice versa ‘in the port areas’. B 38. The question fell for consideration as to the interpretation to be placed on the words ‘in the port areas’. We feel advised to refer to the following portions of the reported in M. Nizamudeen (supra): C “36. It was contended by the Senior Counsel for the appellant- petitioner that transfer of VCM in CRZ area is completely prohibited and VCM cannot be carried through the CRZ except in the port area. Their argument is that VCM can be brought onshore by pipeline to the port area but not in the CRZ area. The arguments of learned Senior Counsel have put in issue the scope D of expression, “except transfer of hazardous substances from ships to ports, terminals and refineries and vice versa in the port areas” which was added in Para 2(ii) on 9-7-1997. We are called upon to ascertain the true meaning and intention of the executive in bringing this exception. E 37. In the original 1991 Notification there was no exception clause. It appears to have been added for the purpose of enabling transfer of hazardous substances from ships to ports, ships to terminals and ships to refineries and vice versa. Is such transfer of hazardous substances confined to terminals and refineries located in the port F areas? The answer in the affirmative may make the said provision unworkable and would also result in absurdity inasmuch as the hazardous substance would be brought into the port, refinery or terminal in the port area from the ship and would remain there and could not be taken beyond the port area because of the prohibition. This surely could not have been the intention of the G executive in adding the exception clause. 38. It is well settled that if exception has been added to remedy the mischief or defect, it should be so construed that it remedies the mischief and not in a manner which frustrates the very purpose. Purposive construction has often been employed to avoid a lacuna H K.T.V. HEALTH FOOD PVT. LTD. v. UNION OF INDIA AND 273 ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] and to suppress the mischief and advance the remedy. It is again A a settled rule that if the language used is capable of bearing more than one construction and if construction is employed that results in absurdity or anomaly, such construction has to be rejected and preference should be given to such a construction that brings it into harmony with its purpose and avoids absurdity or anomaly as B it may always be presumed that while employing a particular language in the provision absurdity or anomaly was never intended. 39. Notwithstanding imperfection of expression and that exception clause is not happily worded, we are of the view that by applying purposive construction, the expression, “in the port areas” should C be read as “in or through the port areas”.