Rather, the High Court’s jurisdiction was revived; g. The decision-making process of the Union and State D Governments was not arbitrary, irrational, or unreasonable, and it did not violate Article 14 of the Constitution; h. There is no factual foundation for the allegation that the decision to abolish the OAT was motivated by government servants seeking to avoid contempt proceedings before the OAT. In E any event, all cases including contempt proceedings would be heard by the Orissa High Court; and i. The notification dated 2 August 2019 was not vitiated for the reason that it did not state that it had been issued in the name of the President of India. F The High Court also observed that the procedure adopted by the Union Government may have been rendered arbitrary if it had failed to ensure that the High Court was consulted prior to abolishing the OAT because such a decision would directly impact the functioning of the High Court. G B. Submissions 14. Mr. Ashok Panigrahi and Dr. Aman Hingorani, learned coun- sel led arguments on behalf of the appellants. They were joined by Mr. C Ravichandran Iyer, Advocate-on-Record, who is an intervenor in this appeal. H ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 757 UNION OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 15. Their submissions were: A a. Article 323-A of the Constitution is in the nature of a mandate. It requires the Union Government to establish SATs and does not empower the Union Government to abolish a SAT, once established; B b. Section 21 of the General Clauses Act cannot be invoked to abolish the OAT. The power to abolish a SAT must flow from the same legislation that vests the Union Government with the power to establish SATs. The Administrative Tribunals Act does not vest either the Union Government or the State Government with the power to abolish SATs. In any event, C the conditions for the invocation of Section 21 of the General Clauses Act are not satisfied. The abolition of the OAT was therefore without legal basis; c. The Administrative Tribunal (Amendment) Bill 2006 was introduced to provide an enabling provision for the abolition of D SATs and for the transfer of pending cases from the abolished SAT to the relevant High Court. This bill was not enacted into law and therefore the Union Government and the State Governments do not have the power to abolish SATs; d. The State Government’s interpretation of the decision in L. E Chandra Kumar (supra) as reducing the efficiency of the adjudication process for service matters is incorrect and unreasonable; e. The OAT has two regular benches and two circuit benches but the High Court has a single bench in Cuttack. The abolition F of the OAT makes the court system less accessible to litigants and violates the fundamental right of access to justice; f. The Union and State Governments have violated the principles of natural justice by failing to provide the OAT Bar Association and the litigants before the OAT with an opportunity to be G heard before abolishing the OAT.