As provided in Section 6 of CrPC, there CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. NAROTTAM 309 DHAKAD & ANR. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] are various Courts in a State. The said Courts are the Courts of the Session, Judicial Magistrates of the First Class, Metropolitan Magistrates, Judicial Magistrates of the Second Class, and Executive Magistrates. 3. In these two appeals, we are dealing with charge sheets fi led by the appellant - Central Bureau of Investigation, in relation to off ences arising out of the VYAPAM Scam in the State of Madhya Pradesh. Charge sheets have been fi led for various off ences under Sections 419, 420, 468, 467 and 471 of IPC and under Sections 3 and 4 of the Madhya Pradesh Examinations Act, 1937. The fi rst respondent in Criminal Appeal arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 5525 of 2018 fi led an application before the learned Judicial Magistrate seeking a direction to supply a Hindi translation of the charge sheet fi led by the appellant in English language. The contention of the fi rst respondent accused was that he was unable to understand the charge sheet fi led in English language. The learned Judicial Magistrate held that the fi rst respondent was an educated person, having knowledge of English. Learned Judge pointed out that the off ence related to fraud in the examination. The allegation is that after the fi rst respondent received admit card, some other person took the examination by impersonating him. The learned Magistrate observed that the vakalatnama fi led by the fi rst respondent was in English and the fi rst respondent has also signed in English. It was further held that the Advocate representing the fi rst respondent had sound knowledge of the English language. Therefore, the learned Magistrate proceeded to reject the prayer made by the fi rst respondent. The of the learned Magistrate has been confi rmed by the Sessions Court in revision. However, the High Court interfered by holding that Hindi was the only language of the Criminal Courts in the State and therefore, the fi rst respondent was entitled to seek a translation of the charge sheet into the language of the Court. 4. The fi rst respondent in Criminal Appeal, arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 10680 of 2022, is also an accused in the same case. He also made a similar application before the learned Magistrate which was rejected. The fi rst respondent challenged the said before the High Court. A Division Bench of the High Court by the impugned held that when a charge sheet was fi led in the language unknown to the accused, he was entitled to translation of the charge sheet in the language which he understands. 310 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 5. The appellant - the Central Bureau of Investigation has challenged both the impugned s. SUBMISSIONS 6. The submission of the appellant in both cases is that the accused were highly educated and had knowledge of the English language.