5 of the Act 1986 for the purpose of protecting environment and it was well C within its jurisdiction Disposing of the appeals, the Court HELD: 1. It is noticed that all the appellants have installed VRS and VRD at their sites and retail outlets. It is also noticed that the respondent No. 2 (original applicant) had not prayed before D the NGT, Chennai to make CTE and CTO mandatory. The prayers in O.A. No. 138 of 2020 (SZ) were limited to the State of Tamil Nadu only. However, the NGT, Chennai by its impugned has directed all the petroleum ROs in cities having more than 10 lakh population to install VRS mechanism which are having E turnover of more than 300 KL/Month. This Court also takes notice of the fact that the CPCB in consultation with the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas has issued circulars/guidelines from time to time for installation of VRS (also known as Vapour Recovery Device circular). This Court is not inclined to disturb the impugned directions issued by the NGT, Chennai in regard F to installation of the VRS. The CPCB shall ensure that these directions are scrupulously followed and complied with. [Para 45][240-F-H; 241-A] 2. What is important to note is that in the directions/ guidelines issued by the CPCB dated 30.04.2020 and 07.03.2016 G resply the automobile fuel outlets have been classified as “green” which may be exempted from consent management. The Solicitor General submitted that it is only after due consideration and deliberations that the CPCB issued the said directions. The NGT itself in para 66 of its impugned has noted that the oil industry is characterized as “green category” and the CTE and H M/S INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED v. V. B. R. MENON 217 & OTHERS CTO was not required. It appears that the apprehension on the A part of the NGT that the installation of VRS may not be strictly monitored by the State Pollution Control Boards, led the NGT to issue directions to the CPCB & State Pollution Control Boards to issue a circular making it mandatory for obtaining the CTE and CTO as a condition precedent for establishing new petroleum B outlets. The Court is convinced that it is not necessary to make obtaining of CTE and CTO mandatory. It is also impressed upon the CPCB to ensure that its guidelines referred to above are scrupulously followed and once the guidelines are scrupulously adhered to, no direction to obtain CTE and CTO for starting/ operating a RO is warranted. [Para 46][241-B-D] C 3. In such circumstances, while holding that the National Green Tribunal has the power to direct the CPCB that it should exercise its powers under Section 5 of the Act 1986 for the purpose of protecting the environment, this Court is inclined to modify the impugned directions issued by the NGT, Chennai as D contained in para 69(iii) and 69(iv) resply of the impugned regarding making it mandatory to obtain Consent to Establish and Consent to Operate for new petroleum outlets to be established in future and even to those which are under the preparation of establishment and directions that all the existing E Retail Petroleum Outlets irrespective of its turnover to obtain Consent to Operate for the existing outlets within a period of 6 (Six) Months.