We have therefore excluded from our consideration the dying declaration, Ex. P-2, recorded in the hospital.” E This Court in State of Jharkhand v. Shailendra Kumar Rai 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1494 “45. There is no rule to the effect that a dying declaration is inadmissible when it is recorded by a police officer instead of a Magistrate. Although a dying declaration ought to ideally be recorded by a Magistrate if possible, it cannot be said that dying F declarations recorded by police personnel are inadmissible for that reason alone. The issue of whether a dying declaration recorded by the police is admissible must be decided after considering the facts and circumstances of each case.” Test Identification Parade: G 34. Having found that Ex. P-28 cannot be believed, we are inclined to hold that the evidence adduced by the prosecution through the eye witnesses also is not trustworthy. The witnesses are not able to name the accused over which we do not wish to say anything. However, they have identified the accused, only after 2 to 3 years for the first time in H RANVIR SINGH ETC. ETC. v. THE STATE OF MADHYA 859 PRADESH [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] the Court. We are quite conscious about the evidentiary value of a test A identification parade. Certainly, in a case of this nature, it ought to have been done. Though a test identification parade is not a substantive piece of evidence, at times, it adds strength to the case of the prosecution by giving more credibility to the statements of the eye witnesses which we find as grossly lacking. This Court in Gireesan Nair and Others v. B State of Kerala, (2023) 1 SCC 180, held: “28. We may, at the outset, note that the eyewitnesses questioned by the prosecution did not give out the names or identities of the accused participating in the riot and involved in the destruction of public property. Therefore, the IO (PW 84) had to necessarily C conduct a TIP. The object of conducting a TIP is threefold. First, to enable the witnesses to satisfy themselves that the accused whom they suspect is really the one who was seen by them in connection with the crime. Second, to satisfy the investigating authorities that the suspect is the real person whom the witnesses had seen in connection with the said occurrence. Third, to test D the witnesses’ memory based on first impression and enable the prosecution to decide whether all or any of them could be cited as eyewitnesses to the crime (Mulla v. State of U.P. [Mulla v. State of U.P., (2010) 3 SCC 508, paras 44, 45 & 55 : (2010) 2 SCC (Cri) 1150] ). E 29. TIPs belong to the stage of investigation by the police. It assures that investigation is proceeding in the right direction. It is a rule of prudence which is required to be followed in cases where the accused is not known to the witness or the complainant (Matru v. State of U.P.