Appointment by nomination was on probation for two years (extendable) from among candidates who successfully completed the course of training after G selection. Thus, training and probation were different terminologies and training was not considered as appointment to the post. However, this was stated to change with the adoption of the 1998 Rules coming into existence. In terms of Rules 3 and 6 of the 1998 Rules, the period of training is now considered as period of probation and Rule 6 opens with the expression “a person appointed to the post by nomination”, which is H 910 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A described under Rule 3(b). The appointment by nomination precedes the training and the expression “and have” under Rule 3(b) must not be read as “after” to interpret Rule 3(b) as laying down an eligibility qualification for appointment, or else the opening part of Rule 6 would be rendered otiose. It was thus submitted that the High Court fell into an error in coming to the conclusion that the appointment has to be made B only after completion of training course, as this expression was not found in Rule 3(b). Reliance was placed on the of this Court in Commandant, 11th Battalion, A.P. Special Police (IR) v. B. Shankar Naik5 to contend that training which was given cannot be rendered purposeless. C 19. It was next contended that the Government Resolution dated 17.02.1997 was issued by the General Administrative Department, Maharashtra “by and in the name of the Governor of Maharashtra”, which is a deemed rule under Article 309 of the Constitution. The said Resolution provides that service during probation should be considered D as experience for promotion. It is submitted that an incongruous situation has arisen in view of the impugned , where for the purposes of salary, the appellants will be considered to be appointed as from date of commencement of their training on 01.12.2014, but for selection, the date of appointment is to be considered after appointment issued on successful completion of training. E 20. The in Prafulla Kumar Swain6 case was sought to be distinguished on facts as Regulation 12(c) of the Orissa Forest Services Class II Recruitment Rules, 1959 in the said contemplated that such service will count only from the date of appointment to the service after successful completion of the course of training. F 21. Reliance was also sought to be placed on 1981 Rules, more specifically Rule 9(14) defining “duty” to include service as probationer and a course of instructions or training authorized by or under the s of the Government. It was further submitted that the 2004 Rules did not determine the date of appointment by nomination to the post of ACF, G and the 1998 Rules also did not offer any guidance to determine the inter se seniority between the promotees and direct recruits. It was stated that for determination of seniority, Rule 4 of the Maharashtra Civil Services (Regulation of Seniority) Rules, 1982 would be applicable.