A intervention which would enable them to realise long-term assets, manage problems of liquidity, asset liability mismatches and improve recovery. The proceedings under the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (hereinafter referred to as “the DRT Act”) with passage of time, had become synonymous with B those before regular courts affecting expeditious adjudication. All these aspects have not been kept in mind and considered before passing the impugned . 9. Even prior to the SARFAESI Act, considering the alternate remedy available under the DRT Act it was held C in Punjab National Bank v. O.C. Krishnan [(2001) 6 SCC 569] that: (SCC p. 570, para 6) “6. The Act has been enacted with a view to provide a special procedure for recovery of debts due to the banks and the financial institutions. There is a hierarchy D of appeal provided in the Act, namely, filing of an appeal under Section 20 and this fast-track procedure cannot be allowed to be derailed either by taking recourse to proceedings under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution or by filing a civil suit, which is expressly E barred. Even though a provision under an Act cannot expressly oust the jurisdiction of the court under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution, nevertheless, when there is an alternative remedy available, judicial prudence demands that the Court refrains from exercising its jurisdiction under the said constitutional provisions. This F was a case where the High Court should not have entertained the petition under Article 227 of the Constitution and should have directed the respondent to take recourse to the appeal mechanism provided by the Act.” G xxx xxx xxx 15. It is the solemn duty of the court to apply the correct law without waiting for an objection to be raised by a party, especially when the law stands well settled. Any departure, if permissible, has to be for reasons discussed, of the case H M/S SOUTH INDIAN BANK LTD. & ORS. v. NAVEEN 37 MATHEW PHILIP & ANR. ETC. ETC. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] falling under a defined exception, duly discussed after A noticing the relevant law. In financial matters grant of ex parte interim s can have a deleterious effect and it is not sufficient to say that the aggrieved has the remedy to move for vacating the interim . Loans by financial institutions are granted from public money generated at the B taxpayer’s expense. Such loan does not become the property of the person taking the loan, but retains its character of public money given in a fiduciary capacity as entrustment by the public. Timely repayment also ensures liquidity to facilitate loan to another in need, by circulation of the money and cannot be permitted to be blocked by frivolous litigation C by those who can afford the luxury of the same. The caution required, as expressed in United Bank of India v. Satyawati Tondon [(2010) 8 SCC 110: (2010) 3 SCC (Civ) 260], has also not been kept in mind before passing the impugned interim : (SCC pp.