c. Men and women are diff erentiated for the purpose of adoption, assisted reproduction, and surrogate reproduction. For example, the law does not permit a man to adopt a girl child. The scheme of the laws relating to adoption and surrogacy must be revamped for the inclusion of any of the excluded categories of intending parents; and d. The law protects a child by assuming that they are incapable of entering in contracts, of committing an off ence, and of consenting to a sexual relationship. Thus, children cannot be imposed upon with emerging and evolving notions of gender fl uidity. Children cannot be made guinea pigs of an evolving social experiment. The state is justifi ed in prescribing reasonable restrictions for adoption, assisted reproductive technology, and surrogacy based on the welfare of children. 46. Mr. Rakesh Dwivedi, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the State of Madhya Pradesh made the following submissions: a. Only thirty-four of the one hundred and ninety-four countries have recognised marriage between non-heterosexual individuals. Out of the thirty-four countries, the legislature has recognized it in twenty-four of them. At least twenty of the twenty-four countries enacted a framework for registered partnerships or civil unions for granting legal recognition to non-heterosexual unions. In ten countries, the courts have directed the State to recognise non-heterosexual marriages. The approach taken by the courts in these ten countries is not uniform. The approach is specifi c to social complexities and legal arrangements in each of the countries; b. The laws relating to marriage, and the benefi ts (and rights) which accrue because of marriage are not uniform. The laws take into account religious and regional differences. The principle of non-discrimination in Article 14 and 15(1) does not mandate that marriage must be organised and recognised in a uniform manner. The principle of equality does not postulate uniformity; SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1279 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] c. The principle of non-discrimination in Article 14 is not violated if the law is not “all-embracing.” The legislature can choose to remedy certain degrees of harm; d. It is for the legislature to decide if non-heterosexual unions must be legally recognised, and what benefi ts and entitlements must be conferred to the union; e. Legislations governing unions and the benefi ts which accrue because of unions do not become unconstitutional after the decriminalisation of homosexuality in Navtej (supra). Decriminalisation of a sexual off ence does not automatically confer legal recognition to a union; f. The opinion of the majority in Navtej (supra) held that homosexuals have a right to form a union under Article 21. This Court specifi cally observed that a union does not mean marriage. Thus, Navtej (supra) has ruled out the possibility of non-heterosexual marriages; and g. The observation in Puttaswamy (9J) (supra) that the State has a positive obligation to provide legal protection to enable the exercise of choice was limited to the specifi c context of data protection. Such an obligation can be imposed on the State only when a right is infringed because of actions of the State.