As a result of this, the Union cannot alter the division of powers between the Union and the States absent a constitutional amendment which would require ratifi cation by a majority of the States.362 In State of Himachal Pradesh (supra), the Division Bench highlights an important corollary of this logic. If Parliament cannot alter the division of powers between the Union and all States absent a constitutional 361 2011 (13) SCC 344. 362 Constitution of India (1950), Article 368(2). 286 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. amendment, can it logically alter the division of powers between the Union and one State by extinguishing its territory (and hence existence) under Article 3? The Division Bench held it cannot. 503. The Solicitor General (for the Union of India) submitted that statehood will be restored to Jammu and Kashmir and that its status as a Union territory is temporary. The Solicitor General submitted that the status of the Union Territory of Ladakh will not be aff ected by the restoration of statehood to Jammu and Kashmir. In view of the submission made by the Solicitor General that statehood would be restored of Jammu and Kashmir, we do not fi nd it necessary to determine whether the reorganisation of the State of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union Territories of Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir is permissible under Article 3. The status of Ladakh as a Union Territory is upheld because Article 3(a) read with Explanation I permits forming a Union Territory by separation of a territory from any State. This Court is alive to the security concerns in the territory. Direct elections to the Legislative Assemblies which is one of the paramount features of representative democracy in India cannot be put on hold until statehood is restored. We direct that steps shall be taken by the Election Commission of India to conduct elections to the Legislative Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir constituted under Section 14 of the Reorganisation Act by 30 September 2024. Restoration of statehood shall take place at the earliest and as soon as possible. 504. The question of whether Parliament can extinguish the character of statehood by converting a State into one or more Union Territories in exercise of power under Article 3 is left open. In an appropriate case, this Court must construe the scope of powers under Article 3 in light of the consequences highlighted above, the historical context for the creation of federating units, and its impact on the principles of federalism and representative democracy. x. The Challenge to the Reorganization Act on procedural grounds a. P arliament’s exercise of power under the first proviso to |Article 3 505. The Proclamation issued by the President under Article 356 on 19 December 2018 states that the President had received a report from the Governor of the State of Jammu and Kashmir and after considering the report and other information received , the President is satisfi ed that a situation has arisen in IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 287 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] which the government of the State cannot be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of India as applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir and the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir.