Hence, while it is extremely important to protect the personal liberty of a person, it is equally incumbent upon us to analyze the seriousness of the offence and determine if there is a need for custodial F interrogation. 17. In Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre v. State of Maharashtra1, this Court carefully considered the principles established by the Constitution Bench in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia v. State of Punjab2 case. After a thorough deliberation, this court arrived at the following G conclusion: “112. The following factors and parameters can be taken into consideration while dealing with anticipatory bail: 1 (2011) 1 SCC 694. 2 (1980) 2 SCC 565. H PRATIBHA MANCHANDA & ANR. v. STATE OF HARYANA & 421 ANR. [SURYA KANT, J.] (i) The nature and gravity of the accusation and the exact A role of the accused must be properly comprehended before arrest is made; (ii) The antecedents of the applicant including the fact as to whether the accused has previously undergone imprisonment on conviction by a court in respect of any cognizable offence; B (iii) The possibility of the applicant to flee from justice; (iv) The possibility of the accused’s likelihood to repeat similar or other offences; (v) Where the accusations have been made only with the object C of injuring or humiliating the applicant by arresting him or her; (vi) Impact of grant of anticipatory bail, particularly in cases of large magnitude affecting a very large number of people. xxx xxx xxx” D 18. In Sushila Aggarwal v. State (NCT of Delhi)3, the Constitution Bench reaffirmed that when considering applications for anticipatory bail, courts should consider factors such as the nature and gravity of the offences, the role attributed to the applicant, and the specific facts of the case. E 19. The relief of Anticipatory Bail is aimed at safeguarding individual rights. While it serves as a crucial tool to prevent the misuse of the power of arrest and protects innocent individuals from harassment, it also presents challenges in maintaining a delicate balance between individual rights and the interests of justice.The tight rope we must walk F lies in striking a balance between safeguarding individual rights and protecting public interest. While the right to liberty and presumption of innocence are vital, the court must also consider the gravity of the offence, the impact on society, and the need for a fair and free investigation. The court’s discretion in weighing these interests in the facts and G circumstances of each individual case becomes crucial to ensure a just outcome. 20. Adverting to some of the undisputed facts in this case, it is clear that the 1996 GPA has not yet seen the light of the day. No indication 3 (2018) 7 SCC 731. H 422 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A regarding the location of the original document has been placed before us. In light of Respondent No. 2’s own contention, what transpired in 1996 was the sale of the Subject Land through the GPA. Upon reviewing a copy of the alleged 1996 GPA presented to the court, the Appellants relinquished all crucial rights pertaining to the Subject Land.