534-35, paras 64-66). 5……………….. 6. The s relied upon by Shri Ghose do not have any bearing on the issue raised in this appeal. In neither of those cases, has this Court interpreted the provisions of the 1996 Act in the light of the provisions contained in the 1986 Act. Therefore, the propositions laid down in those s that Section 8 of the 1996 Act is mandatory cannot lead to an inference that the consumer forum is bound to make a reference to the Arbitral Tribunal. 7. In view of the abovestated legal position, the National Commission did not commit any error by holding that the remedy of arbitration available to the complainant does not bar the jurisdiction of the consumer forums and the consumer forums are not under an obligation to refer the matter to the Arbitral Tribunal. With the above observation, the appeal is dismissed.” 16. This Court in a series of decisions, while considering both the provisions in the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 and the Arbitration Act, 1996, has held that the Consumer Protection Act being a special and benefi cial legislation, the remedies provided therein are special remedies SMT. M. HEMALATHA DEVI & ORS. v. B. UDAYASRI 281 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] and a consumer cannot be deprived of them should he choose to avail such a remedy, in spite of an arbitration agreement between the parties. It is a remedy provided to the consumer where the consumer fi nds a defect in either goods or services provided to him and therefore seeks a redressal of his grievances before the consumer forum provided to him by the legislature. While referring to a plethora of precedents in the matter, this Court had held in Emaar III (supra) that not only the proceedings under the 1986 Act are special proceedings which will continue under the Act in spite of the arbitration agreement, but there would also be a large number of other proceedings as well which ought to continue in spite of an arbitration agreement such as proceedings in Criminal Court, a Commercial dispute of a particular nature or any other non-arbitrable dispute. In Para 30 of Emaar III (supra), it was stated as under: “30. Not only the proceedings of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 are special proceedings which were required to be continued under the Act despite an arbitration agreement, there are large number of other fi elds where an arbitration agreement can neither stop nor stultify the proceedings. For example, any action of a party, omission or commission of a person which amounts to an off ence has to be examined by a criminal court and no amount of agreement between the parties shall be relevant for the said case. For example, there may be a commercial agreement between two parties that all issues pertaining to transaction are to be decided by arbitration as per arbitration clause in the agreement. In case where a cheque is dishonoured by one party in transaction, despite the arbitration agreement party aggrieved has to approach the criminal court.