The affi davit was fi led by the Union of India in February, 2013. The provisions of Section 6A of the DSPE Act was continuing on the statute book till 06.05.2014 when the in the case of Subramanian Swamy (supra) was delivered. On the basis of above facts, it was submitted that the appeal was liable to be dismissed as being meritless. 12.4. It was next submitted that at the time when the appeal is being heard, there is already in existence a similar provision protecting the interest of the respondent by way of Section 17(A) of the PC Act, 1988. 12.5. An argument relating to discrimination has also been raised by the respondent to the eff ect that in case if the contention of the appellant is accepted, the respondent would be discriminated from those set of government servants who have availed the protection of Section 6A of the DSPE Act and the proceedings against them have come to a closure in cases where the competent authority declined to grant sanction and also to another set of cases where the Courts have quashed the proceedings in the absence of sanction under Section 6A of the DSPE Act. 12.6. The next argument relates to Section 6 of the General Causes Act, 189742 dealing with eff ect of Repeal in view of its applicability under Article 367 of the Constitution. 12.7. It is also submitted that where a law has been in force for a long time and is subsequently repealed, the same would not aff ect the rights which had accrued during the existence of such law. 42 In short ‘the Act, 1897’ 22 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 12.8. It is also his submission that if, while declaring the statute to be invalid, the Court does not expressly incorporate for its retrospective application, it shall be deemed to apply prospectively. Reliance was placed upon the following s: (1) Keshavan Madhava Menon (supra); (2) Ashok Kumar Gupta and Another Vs. State of U.P. and others43; (3) Kaiser Aluminium and Chemical Corporation Vs. Bonjorno44; (4) Assistant Excise Commissioner, Kottayam and Others Vs. Esthappan Cherian and another45 12.9. It was next submitted that appeal of the CBI has been fi led primarily on two grounds; that Section 6A(1) of the DSPE Act is not mandatory; and that Section 6A(2) would apply. He also submitted that no ground has been taken that Section 6A(1) is unconstitutional or invalid, as such, CBI cannot argue this point. 12.10. Lastly, it is submitted that not only Article 20, but also Article 21 of the Constitution, should be read in favour of the respondent and also in favour of the law existing at the time when the off ence is said to have taken place, benefi t should be extended of any protection available at that time. D: Shri Arvind Datar, Senior Advocate for appellant-Manjit Singh Bali in Crl.Appeal @ SLP (Crl.) No. 4364 of 2011: 13. Shri Arvind Datar, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant- Manjit Singh Bali in Criminal Appeal arising out of SLP (Crl.)