Now I come to consider the second point. On a plain D reading of Section 17,Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, the applicant for the setting aside of a hasto do these things: To start with, he ought to apply to the Court to which he proposes to make an application, to tell him what kind of security, in the circumstances detailed in the E applicant’s application, the Court would require of him to furnish. Usually the Court would ask for a cash security, but it may be satisfied on the applicant’s representation that a cash security may be dispensed with. In rare cases, as in theillustration given by me in my in JhabbooMisir’s case, cited below, the Courtmay refuse to take a cash F security and may insist on other kind of security being takenand may insist on the move-able property in dispute being itself produced. When the Court gives its direction, namely, whether the applicant is to furnish cash security or is to give some other kind of security, the applicant should G present his application for setting aside the decree, together with the security demanded. Then his duties are over. The security filed will then be scrutinized by the Court, and the Court shall see whether the security is to its satisfaction. 3AIR 1931 Allahabad 727 H 744 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A Then ‘presumably a notice would go to the plaintiff toshow cause why the decree should not be set aside. This was also the view which I tookin the case of JhabbooMisir v. Howladar Tewari. 18. Although the rule (Section 17, Small Cause Court Act), B requires that the security is to be furnished at the time of presenting an application for setting an ex parte decree, it has been held in this Court in Moti Lal Ram Chandar Das. v. Durga Prasad MANU/UP/0193/1930 : AIR1930All830 that the security may be furnished even after the application has been made provided the security is forthcoming within C the period of 30 days of limitation. To this decision I was a party. This view was taken by other HighCourts also : see V. M. Assan Mohamad Sahib v. M.E. Rahim Sahib [1920] 43 Mad. 579,JenuMuchi v. BudhiramMuchi [1905] 32 Cal. 339 and Narain v. PudanMANU/OU/0001/1929. The D reason of this decision is that the previously madeapplication may be taken as made on the date on which the security was furnished, asthe period of limitation has not yet expired, and it would be a mere formality (whichmay be safely dispensed with) to direct the applicant to file a fresh application on theday when he furnishes the security. E xxx xxx xxx 20. Where an applicant, without formally applying for the Court’s direction, makes anapplication for setting aside an ex parte decree and furnishes security with it, and theCourt directs a notice to issue to the other side, it must be taken F that the Court iscognizant of the fact that the applicant has furnished security as required by Section 17,Small Cause Courts Act.