It was reasoned that the involvement of the accused-husband and his family members, being accused Nos. 2, 3 and 4, was yet to be proved. The learned Judge further reasoned that since the alleged off ences were not punishable with death or imprisonment for life and are to be tried before the Magistrate, there was absolutely no reason to deny the benefi t of anticipatory bail. 4.3. When the police of Chirawa called upon the accused-husband and his family members, accused Nos. 2, 3 & 4, it was realised that the learned Sessions Judge, Bengaluru, had granted them anticipatory bail. This was confi rmed by the complainant-wife when she checked the Court’s website. 4.4. On 09.12.2022, this Court allowed complainant-wife’s Transfer Petition No.590/22 and transferred the M.C. No. 5786/2021 from the Principal Judge, Family Court, Bengaluru, to the Court of Additional District Judge, Chirawa, Jhunjhunu, Rajasthan. 5. Being aggrieved by the grant of anticipatory bail to the accused- husband and accused Nos. 2, 3 and 4, the complainant-wife fi led W.P. No.48/2023 before this Court, which came to be dismissed as withdrawn on 17.02.2023 with liberty to pursue her legal remedies. 6. Thereafter, the present Special Leave to Appeal came to be fi led and notice was issued by this Court on 17.03.2023. On 07.07.2023, this Court requested learned Additional Solicitor General Sri Vikramjit Banerjee to assist the Court as an amicus curiae, having regard to the ramifi cations that would arise in the context of Section 438 of CrPC and the jurisdiction of the concerned Sessions Court or High Court to grant pre-arrest bail, when 536 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. the FIR is not registered within the territorial jurisdiction of a particular district or State but in a diff erent State. Submissions: 7. We have heard Sri Vikramjeet Banerjee, Additional Solicitor General and learned amicus, Sri Kaustav Paul, learned senior counsel for the complainant-wife, Dr. Manish Singhvi, learned Additional Advocate General for the State of Rajasthan, Sri V.N. Raghupathy, learned counsel for the State of Karnataka and Smt. Anjana Sharma, learned counsel for the accused-husband. We have also perused the material on record. 7.1. Learned senior counsel Sri Banerjee, while assisting this Court as an amicus, submitted as under: i. Section 438 of CrPC has only used the term ‘High Court or the Court of Session’, as the case may be’ but has not specifi ed whether such a ‘High Court or the Court of Session’ has to be the same Court which can take cognizance of the matter or can be any ‘High Court or Court of Session’ across the country. Therefore, there exists limited legislative guidance about the power of a Court to grant anticipatory bail for an off ence that is registered outside its territorial jurisdiction, in other words, whether ‘extra-territorial anticipatory bail’ can be granted by a High Court or Court of Session to a person apprehending arrest. ii. Elaborating on the divergent approaches of various High Courts in the country regarding the grant of ‘extra-territorial anticipatory bail’, learned amicus submitted that the Courts have evolved the ‘transit anticipatory bail’ approach to provide an equitable and interim relief enabling an accused travelling a residing in a diff erent State to seek anticipatory bail.