We do not want to be verbose in reproducing the H 946 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A relevant paragraphs but deem it proper to indicate some authorities on this point – Sreenivasa General Traders v State of Andhra Pradesh, (1983) 4 SCC 353 and M/s Amar Nath Om Prakash v State of Punjab, (1985) 1 SCC 345 – which have been reiterated, inter alia, in BGS SGS Soma JV v NHPC Limited, (2020) 4 SCC 234, and Chin- tels India Limited v Bhayana Builders Private Limited, (2021) 4 SCC B 602. 19. In the present case, the impugned was passed before the final disposal of the bail application by the High Court. On a closer scrutiny of the impugned, it is clear that the Superintendent of Police, Katni, while appearing in person on 21.09.2022 had submitted C that he had already line-attached the appellant vide an dated 20.09.2022 and was initiating enquiry for imposition of major penalty. The High Court was informed that the Superintendent of Police, Katni would “get conducted preliminary enquiry in the hands of the Additional S.P. and forward the report to the disciplinary authority D of the T.I.to initiate inquiry for major penalty.” 20. The aforenoted was only reiterated by the High Court in the latter portion of the impugned, in the following terms: “Let DNA report be now produced within a period of three weeks by the concerned Officer for which Superintendent of E Po- lice, Katni shall personally monitor that sample is sent in time to the concerned DNA Testing Laboratory and report is ob- tained besides taking appropriate action against the concerned T.I. Shri Sanjay Dubey for dereliction of duty, insubordi- nation and causing undue disruption in the proceedings of the High Court.” (sic) F (emphasis supplied) 21. A combined reading of the afore-extracted snippets makes it crystal clear that the Superintendent of Police, Katni, who was the officer superior to the appellant, himself had stated that he would take action G against the appellant and was initiating enquiry for imposition of major penalty, which statement was a suo motu act and not upon or flowing from any direction of the Court. Therefore, there was no occasion for the High Court to further observe for action against the appellant to be taken, as already, the Superintendent of Police, Katni had taken a decision to initiate enquiry against the appellant for imposition of major penalty. H SANJAY DUBEY v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH AND 947 ANOTHER [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] 22. Be that as it may, the facts of the case prima facie disclose A that in such an important and sensitive case, there had been, at least prima facie, callousness on the part of the police officer(s) concerned, including the appellant, in conducting a proper investigation to bring on record all relevant materials in support of the truth. Amidst such backdrop, the chances of undue benefit accruing to the accused, leading to B miscarriage of justice, cannot be ruled out, and may, in fact, have increased.