420, 465, 466, 467, 468, 471 are not at all made out – Under the circumstances, the entire criminal proceedings D including the summoning passed by the trial Court are quashed. Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1. Looking to the averments and allegations in the complaint, it is not appreciable at all, how the appellants are E alleged to have committed the offence of cheating. The ingredients for the offence of cheating are not at all satisfied. There is no question of deceiving any person, fraudulently or dishonestly to deliver any property to any person. Therefore, even on bare reading of the averments and allegations in the complaint, no case even remotely for the offence under Section 420 IPC is F made out. [Para 5.6][932-D-E] 2. As per Section 463, “whoever makes any false documents, with intent to cause damage or injury, to the public or to any person, or to support any claim or title, or to cause any person to part with property, or to enter into any express or G implied contract, or with intent to commit fraud or that fraud may be committed”, he is said to have committed the offence of forgery. Making a false document is defined under Section 464 IPC. Therefore, for the offence of forgery, there must be making of a false document with intent to cause damage or injury to the public H SHRI SUKHBIR SINGH BADAL v. BALWANT SINGH KHERA 919 AND ORS. or to any person. Therefore, making the false documents is sine A qua non. In the present case, no false document has been produced. What was produced was the Memorandum and no other documents were produced. Even according to the original complainant, the Memorandum and the claim made at the time of registration of the Party that it has adopted a Memorandum B accepting the secularism, the same was contrary to the Constitution of the Party produced before the Gurudwara Election Commission. Making a false claim and creating and producing the false document both are different and distinct. [Paras 5.8, 5.9][932-H; 933-A-B; 934-B-C] C 3. Looking to the averments and allegations in the complaint and even the material/evidence collected/recorded during the course of the inquiry and even assuming the complaint’s averments to be true, the ingredients of the offence punishable under Sections 420, 465, 466, 467, 468, 471 are not at all made out. Under the circumstances to continue the criminal proceedings D against the appellants – accused arising out of the complaint and to face the trial by the accused as per the summoning is nothing but an abuse of process of law and court and this is a fit case to quash the entire criminal proceedings arising out of the complaint filed by the respondent including the summoning E passed by the learned Trial Court. [Paras 5.11, 6][934-E-F; 935- A-B] Sardar Sarup Singh and Ors. v. State of Punjab and Ors. AIR 1959 SC 860; S. R. Bommai and Ors. v. Union of India and Ors.