Thus, whatever amount is allotted to the creditor under the plan, the same will have to be accepted without any option. (l) The new avatar of the corporate debtor does not have to deal B with the various “hydra heads”, i.e. multiple new claims popping up after the approval of the plan (para 107 of the Essar Steel (supra) (m) The aforesaid has been accepted as a “Clean Slate Theory”. (See paras 93-94 of Ghanashyam Mishra & Sons (P) Ltd. v. Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Co. Ltd., (2021) 9 SCC 657). C (n) This Court in Ebix Singapore Private Limited v. Committee of Creditors of Educomp Solutions Limited and Another reported in (2022) 2 SCC 401, has held that the resolution plan binds even the persons who have not consented. Paras 115 & 117 resply read thus:- D “115. While the above observations were made in the context of a scheme that has been sanctioned by the court, the resolution plan even prior to the approval of the adjudicating authority is binding inter se the CoC and the successful resolution applicant. The resolution plan cannot be construed E purely as a “contract” governed by the Contract Act, in the period intervening its acceptance by the CoC and the approval of the adjudicating authority. Even at that stage, its binding effects are produced by IBC framework. The BLRC Report mentions that “[w]hen 75% of the creditors agree on a revival plan, this plan would be binding on all the remaining F creditors” [ 3.3.1, The Report of the Bankruptcy Law Reforms Committee, Vol. I : Rationale and Design (November 2015), p. 13, available at <https://ibbi.gov.in/BLRCReportVol1_ 04112015.pdf> last accessed 20-8-2021.]. The BLRC Report also mentions that, “the RP submits a binding agreement to G the adjudicator before the default maximum date” [Id, p. 92.]. We have further discussed the statutory scheme of IBC in Sections I and J of this to establish that a resolution plan is binding inter se the CoC and the successful resolution applicant. Thus, the ability of the resolution plan to bind those H 1020 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A who have not consented to it, by way of a statutory procedure, indicates that it is not a typical contract. Xxx xxx xxx 117. ….. The terms of the resolution plan contain a commercial bargain between the CoC and resolution applicant. There is B also an intention to create legal relations with binding effect. However, it is the structure of IBC which confers legal force on the CoC-approved resolution plan. The validity of the resolution plan is not premised upon the agreement or consent of those bound (although as a procedural step IBC requires C sixty-six per cent votes of creditors), but upon its compliance with the procedure stipulated under IBC.” (Emphasis supplied) 41. Thus, from the aforesaid, it is evident that the creditor has no option but to join the process under the IBC. Once the plan is approved, D it would bind everyone under the sun.