There exists fault, shortcoming or inadequacy in the nature and manner of the action which has been undertaken to be executed in the implementation of the contract with regard to the service to be provided by the opposite parties. The terms of the agreement of sale have been drafted keeping in mind the interest of the developer (opposite party no. 3). The trade practice which tends to bring about restrictive trade practice, manipulation of price or its conditions of delivery or to aff ect now of supplies in the market relating to goods or services in such a manner as to impose on the consumers unjustifi ed costs or restrictions and shall include delay beyond the period agreed to by a trader in supply of such goods or in providing the services which has led or as is likely to lead to rise in the price is nothing but restrictive practice by the opposite parties. Further, the act of the opposite parties amounts to defi ciency of service and unfair trade practice. Hence, point no. a is answered in favour of the complainant. 10. Point No. b: Homebuyers put their hard-earned savings into the real estate projects with a hope that they will own their dream house one day. However, 264 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. their dreams get shattered when the builders fail to deliver the possession of their houses even after a prolonged delay. In the present case, the obligation of the opposite party no. 3 (who is the land owner and developer) to deliver the Villa on the time mentioned in the agreement of sale was not fulfi lled despite receipt of payment of amount as per the said agreement. The receipt of part payment towards transfer of the plot by the opposite parties without discharging their obligations for the construction of the Villa and fi nally cancelling the agreement of sale unilaterally on the pretext that the prices have gone up for the subject property is nothing but commission of defi ciency of service and adoption of unfair trade practice on the part of the opposite parties.” The builders, who are the appellants before this Court, have already filed their statutory appeal before the State Consumer Commission which is presently pending and the of the District Forum has been stayed. 4. The essential argument of the appellants before this Court is that the High Court committed a gross error in dismissing the application of the appellants under Section 11 (sub-sections 5 & 6) of the Arbitration Act, 1996 for the reasons that under the amended provision of Section 11 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 i.e., after insertion of sub-section 6A to Section 11, by way of an amendment in 20161, the High Court had no choice but to refer the matter for arbitration. The provision which has been pressed into service reads as under: “11. Appointment of arbitrators: - XXX XXX XXX 6A) The Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court, while considering any application under sub-section (4) or sub-section (5) or sub-section (6), shall, notwithstanding any , decree or 1 It may be necessary to note that the aforesaid provision was inserted by an Act No.3 of 2016 and though by an Act No.33 of 2019, Sub Section 6A has been omitted but as the relevant provisions of the amending Act (No.33 of 2019) has not been notifi ed as yet, Sub Section 6A continues to be in operation.