She further submits that in any case the interference in a finding of acquittal would not be warranted unless the finding is found to be perverse or illegal/impossible. She therefore submits that the impugned D and is liable to be set aside. 6. Ms. Sharma, on the contrary, submits that the High Court has rightly found that the extra-judicial confession made before PWs 10 to 12 is trustworthy, reliable and cogent. She therefore submits that the High Court has rightly reversed the and of acquittal which E was recorded disbelieving the cogent and reliable testimonies of these three witnesses. She further submits that, apart from the extra-judicial confession, the prosecution has also established the recovery of the blood- stained clothes and the weapon used by the appellant in commission of the crime. This circumstance corroborates the testimonies of PWs 10 to 12. F 7. With the assistance of the learned counsel for the parties, we have scrutinized the entire evidence. 8. Undisputedly, the present case rests on circumstantial evidence. The law with regard to conviction in the case of circumstance evidence G is very well crystalised in the of this Court in the case of Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra1. 9. We may gainfully refer to the following observations of this Court in the case of Sharad Birdhichand Sarda (supra): H 1 (1984) 4 SCC 116 NIKHIL CHANDRA MONDAL v. STATE OF WEST BENGAL 25 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] “153. A close analysis of this decision would show that the A following conditions must be fulfilled before a case against an accused can be said to be fully established: (1) the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established. B It may be noted here that this Court indicated that the circumstances concerned “must or should” and not “may be” established. There is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between “may be proved” and “must be or should be proved” as was held by this Court in Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade v. State of Maharashtra [(1973) 2 SCC 793 : 1973 SCC (Cri) 1033 : 1973 C Crl LJ 1783] where the observations were made: [SCC para 19, p. 807: SCC (Cri) p. 1047] “Certainly, it is a primary principle that the accused must be and not merely may be guilty before a court can convict and the mental distance between ‘may be’ and ‘must be’ is long D and divides vague conjectures from sure conclusions.” (2) the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty, E (3) the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency, (4) they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved, and F (5) there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.