It is however, to be noted that, in for a Certificate of Naturalisation to be granted under the aforesaid clauses, the following conditions must be fulfilled: (i) F renouncing their Nationality and (ii) changing their allegiance to the erstwhile Kingdom of Sikkim. The result of this pre-condition was that an eligible male British Indian Subject or male Indian National and his wife and minor children had to give up their Indian Nationality (of which country Sikkim was a G protectorate since 1950), for the purpose of converting themselves into Naturalized Sikkim Subjects. Although, these Regulations were promulgated, according to the petitioners no differential treatment was meted out to the Indians as their rights were protected under the Indo-Sikkim Treaty of 1950. H 322 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A (d) In 1965, the Chogyal of Sikkim notified the Sikkim Work Permit Rules, 1965, by which all foreigners required a Work Permit to enter, work and stay in Sikkim. Significantly, the term “Foreigner” under the Sikkim Work Permit Rules, 1965, was defined as meaning a “foreigner not being Indian national”. Persons of Indian origin were therefore not B considered as foreigners in Sikkim and were not required to obtain a work permit irrespective of the fact that they were not Sikkim Subjects. Many of the Indians were also on the voters list of Sikkim. (e) In 1973, an agreement was entered into between India, the C Chogyal and the political parties of Sikkim for the establishment of a democratic Government in Sikkim. In pursuance of the same, India was to assist in the conduct of free and fair elections in Sikkim. (f) Thereafter, on 26th April, 1975, by way of the Constitution D Thirty-sixth Amendment Act, 1975, Sikkim became a State in India and was included in Entry 22 of Schedule I to the Constitution of India. (g) Article 371-F was also inserted into the Constitution of India under which it was, inter alia, open to the President of E India (within two years from the date of the Amendment) or the Parliament to extend any law to the State of Sikkim, or repeal any existing law of Sikkim. 9. Subsequent to the merger of Sikkim as a State of the India, the following developments relevant to these cases could be traced as under: F (a) By way of a statutory , the Citizenship Act, 1955 was extended to the State of Sikkim. On 21st June, 1975, the Home Department of Government of India issued a notification titled “Sikkim (Citizenship) 1975” stating that ‘all Sikkim Subjects under the 1961 Regulation before 26th April, 1975 were G to be deemed Indian citizens’. Therefore, this effaced the distinction between persons of Indian origin residing in Sikkim (without giving up Indian Citizenship) and others who had earlier taken up Sikkimese Citizenship by entry of their names in the Sikkim Subjects Register. According to the petitioners, as on 26th April, 1975, there was no distinction between Sikkim H ASSOCIATION OF OLD SETTLERS OF SIKKIM AND ORS.