It was noted that this is the mandate of Section 68 of the Evidence Act and the position would remain the same even when the opposite party does not deny the execution of the Will. 22. Long ago, in H. Venkatachala Iyengar vs. B.N. Thimmajamma and others4, a 3-Judge Bench of this Court noted that there is an important feature which distinguishes Wills from other documents as, unlike other documents, a Will speaks from the death of the testator and, therefore, when it is propounded or produced before a Court, the testator who has already departed from the world cannot say whether it is his Will or not. 2 (2008) 15 SCC 365 3 (2017) 1 SCC 257 4 AIR 1959 SC 443 MOTURU NALINI KANTH v. GAINEDI KALIPRASAD (DEAD, 657 THROUGH LRS.) [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] It was held that the onus on the propounder to prove the Will can be taken to be discharged on proof of the essential facts, such as, that the Will was signed by the testator; that the testator at the relevant time was in a sound and disposing state of mind; that he understood the nature and eff ect of the dispositions; and that he put his signature to the document of his own free will. It was, however, noted by the Bench that there may be cases in which the execution of the Will is surrounded by suspicious circumstances and the same would naturally tend to make the initial onus very heavy and unless it is satisfactorily discharged, Courts would be reluctant to treat the document as the last Will of the testator. 23. Again, in Jagdish Chand Sharma vs. Narain Singh Saini (Dead) through LRs. and others5, this Court held as under: ‘57. A will as an instrument of testamentary disposition of property being a legally acknowledged mode of bequeathing a testator’s acquisitions during his lifetime, to be acted upon only on his/her demise, it is no longer res integra, that it carries with it an overwhelming element of sanctity. As understandably, the testator/testatrix, as the case may be, at the time of testing the document for its validity, would not be available, stringent requisites for the proof thereof have been statutorily enjoined to rule out the possibility of any manipulation. This is more so, as many a times, the manner of dispensation is in stark departure from the prescribed canons of devolution of property to the heirs and legal representatives of the deceased. The rigour of Section 63(c) of the Act and Section 68 of the 1872 Act is thus befi tting the underlying exigency to secure against any self-serving intervention contrary to the last wishes of the executor. 57.1. Viewed in premise, Section 71 of the 1872 Act has to be necessarily accorded a strict interpretation. The two contingencies permitting the play of this provision, namely, denial or failure to recollect the execution by the attesting witness produced, thus a fortiori has to be extended a meaning to ensure that the limited liberty granted by Section 71 of the 1872 Act does not in any manner eff ace or emasculate the essence and effi cacy of Section 63 of the Act and 5 (2015) 8 SCC 615 658 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.