Such a report does not have a binding character on the adjudicating authority. Absolute compliance of the principles of natural justice is implicated at the stage when the adjudicating authority exercises its jurisdiction under Section 100 for the purpose of determining whether to admit or reject the application. A hearing is contemplated at that stage when (a) an adjudication takes place; and (b) adverse consequences ensue. 31. In other words, it has been submitted by the Solicitor General that: (i) The requirement of observing the principles of natural justice arises at the adjudicatory stage under Section 100; (ii) The process which is followed by the resolution professional is only for the purpose of collating facts and submitting a report together with recommendations to the adjudicating authority which does not possess the character of a submission which binds the adjudicating authority; (cid:2) DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI (cid:3) 588 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. (iii) Even during the course of the process which is followed by the resolution professional, the statute has indicated suffi cient engagement for the debtor with the resolution professional; (iv) The imposition of a moratorium under Section 96 is intended to insulate the debtor and, unlike the moratorium under Section 14 or 101, is of no prejudice to the debtor; and (v) Consistent with the time lines which are provided by the IBC, it would be inappropriate to read compliance with the principles of natural justice at a stage anterior to Section 100 since it would dislocate the entire scheme of the IBC. 32. Mr Rakesh Dwivedi, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the State Bank of India, has urged that: (i) The concept of natural justice is fl exible in nature which has to be tailored to the needs of a given situation; (ii) The object of CIRP in Part II and in Chapter III of Part III is entirely distinct: (a) Part II envisages the exclusion of the existing management from the aff airs of the corporate debtor; (b) A drastic moratorium comes into place; and (c) Following an unsuccessful resolution plan, liquidation follows; (iii) In contrast, in terms of Chapter III of Part III, what is sought in the fi rst instance is a repayment plan which is preceded, therefore, by an examination by the resolution professional as to whether: (a) there is a loan; (b) there is a repayment; and (c) the nature of the repayment plan, if there is a continuing default; (iv) Bearing in mind the distinct statutory features of Part II, on one hand, and Part III, on the other, Chapter III of Part III has contemplated appointment of a resolution professional DILIP B JIWRAJKA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS 589 straightaway preceding the performance of an adjudicatory function by an adjudicatory body; (v) If, as submitted by the petitioners, an adjudicating authority was required to make a threshold determination at the stage when it appoints the resolution professional under Section 97(5), the subsequent stage of Section 99 would be rendered otiose.