Therefore, the value fetched by such property is less than the market value of a F comparable property which is in possession of the owners. He urged that the sale, in this case, was of an encumbered property which was on “as is where is” basis. 10.The learned senior counsel submitted that the market value of a property is ascertained by applying the test of what a willing buyer G would pay. He submitted that while determining the market value of a property in possession of a tenant, when the property is sold to the tenant, the market value has to be apportioned as per the principles laid down in several decisions of this Court in connection with fixation of the market value of the acquired land under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894. He H SHANTI BHUSHAN (D) THR. LR. & ORS. v. STATE OF U.P. 521 AND ORS. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] relied upon decisions of this Court in the case of Special Land A Acquisition & Rehabilitation Officer, Sagar v. M.S. Seshagiri Rao & Another1and Mangat Ram and Others v. State of Haryana and others2. He submitted that the market value is liable to be reduced if there are encumbrances on the property. The market value will be the real market value minus the value of encumbrances or liabilities. He B relied upon a decision of the Delhi High Court in the case of O.N. Talwar v. The Collector of Stamps3. 11. He submitted that the market value of the property further diminishes due to the fact that there was already an agreement of sale in favour of the appellants under which the vendor had agreed to sell the C property for a price of Rs. 1 lakh. 12. He submitted that though an application for adjudication of the stamp duty payable on the proposed sale deed was submitted, there was no response to the said application, and on that ground, the of penalty imposed by the Assistant Collector has been set aside by the D High Court. 13.He submitted that as per the compromise between the vendor and the appellants, the consideration agreed to be paid by the appellants was of Rs.1 lakh plus the release of 1/3rd of the property. He submitted that the actual conveyed property to the appellants was 2/3rd of the land E in respect of which they were tenants. Therefore, the value of 2/3rd land would be 2/3rd x (1/3rd of the value of the entire land plus Rs.1 lakh). He submitted that the market value will have to be calculated accordingly. 14. The learned senior counsel also pointed out that even the direction to pay interest @ 1.5% per month under Section 47-A (4A) of the Stamp Act was not justified as even before the execution of the sale F deed, the appellants had voluntarily sought adjudication of the amount payable by way of stamp duty on the draft sale deed. Moreover, he pointed out that by interim dated 23rd September 2013, the High Court had stayed the recovery proceedings.