Two set of Rules were notifi ed on 17.02.2014, namely, Assistant Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) Rules 2014 and Senior Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) Rules, 2014. There is nothing provided in the Assistant Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) Rules, 2014, notifi ed on 17.02.2014 to show that till the framing of the aforesaid Rules, any earlier Rules governing the post had been repealed. Rule 2 thereof provided for the number of posts with classifi cation as per Schedule attached therewith. In the Schedule, the name of the post was mentioned as Assistant Scientifi c Offi cer25. The only diff erence between the 1980 Rules and Assistant Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) Rules, 2014 was that in the earlier Rules, in the column of post, subjects such as Biochemistry, Biotechnology and Microbiology and the words ‘or any other subject as per the requirement’ were not there. The classifi cation of the post was same. The method of recruitment was provided as direct recruitment. Only the subject of Medicine was deleted but the title of the Rule was Assistant Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) Rules, 2014. 25 Assistant Scientifi c Offi cer (Agriculture, Anthropology, Archaeology, Biochemistry, Biotechnology, Botany, Chemistry, Commerce, Drawing and Painting, Economics, Education, Engineering (Civil, Electrical, Computer Science, Mechanical, Electronics, Textile, Mineral, Leather Technology), Geography, Geology, Home Science, Journalism, Library Science, Linguistics, Management, Mathematics, Philosophy, Physics, Political Science, Psychology, Public Administration, Sociology, Zoology or any other subject as per the requirement. 914 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 52. As far as Senior Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) Rules, 2014 are concerned, the same were notifi ed only for one post with higher pay scale as compared to the Assistant Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) Rules, 2014. The qualifi cation prescribed therein for the post was the same, as was provided for in the 1980 Rules that governed the post of Assistant Scientifi c Offi cer, which included the subject Medicine also. The method of recruitment provided in the above Rules was by way of direct recruitment. 53. Notifi cation of Senior Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) Rules, 2014 dated 17.02.2014 issued only to deal with a single post of Senior Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) amply demonstrates that the preparation for granting undue benefi t to the respondent No. 4 had started well in advance. Firstly, the post of Assistant Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) was re-designated as Senior Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) and thereafter, separate Rules were notifi ed for that post. 54. As has already been noticed in the preceding paragraphs, immediately after joining as a Research Assistant (later on re-designated as Assistant Scientific Officer), the respondent No. 4 started making representations for granting him higher pay scale. However, when his request was not accepted, he went on deputation thrice to diff erent places in the higher pay scale. Finally, his request for grant of higher pay scale was accepted. How a single person in the same cadre on the same post governed by the same set of Rules was granted a higher pay scale solely by relying upon the recommendations made by the Commission, which were not applicable.