It is contended that nothing is alleged towards loss in the chargesheet. 13. In the counter affi davit to this appeal, it is stated that the Report (Annexure P-1) was not part of the record of the writ petition before the High Court and without an application to take the additional evidence on record, it cannot be read by this Court. On perusal of the averments of the counter 206 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. affi davit, the existence of the report (Annexure P-1) has not been denied by the respondents. In the fi nding of the enquiry report, quantifi cation of the loss caused is not recorded. The resolution of the Board of Directors dated 20/12/2010 is subsequent to the of penalty of compulsory retirement. Thus, prior to the chargesheet as per report of the internal auditor, loss has not been reported to the Bank. Presumably, it appears to us, for the said reasons in the chargesheet, allegations causing loss and quantifying the amount of loss have not been specifi ed. The Board of Directors on the basis of information unilaterally passed the resolution alleging loss of Rs. 77.59 lakhs. Prior to passing the resolution, notice asking response and opportunity was not aff orded to the appellant. In the facts as discussed, the unilateral report cannot be relied upon by the Board of Directors to deny the benefi t of payment of employer’s contribution of provident fund. In this view of the matter, learned Single Judge was right in observing that the Board of Directors has not aff orded an opportunity to the appellant on the issue of causing loss or damage to the Bank, prior to the passing of the resolution of appropriation of the contribution of the Bank from the provident fund account of the appellant. Moreover, in the absence of any allegation in the chargesheet about the quantifi able amount of loss, the argument as advanced by respondents is bereft of any merit. In view of the above discussions, the fi ndings recorded by learned Single Judge with regard to payment of Bank’s contribution of provident fund is equitable, just and is liable to be upheld, setting aside the fi ndings of the Division Bench. PAYMENT OF GRATUITY AND WHEN IT CAN BE WITHHELD: 14. Regulation 46 of Chapter IX of 1979 Regulations deals with gratuity. The relevant extract of the said Regulation is reproduced as thus: “46. Gratuity: 46. (1) Every offi cer shall be eligible for gratuity on: a) retirement b) death c) disablement rendering him unfi t for further service as certifi ed by a medical offi cer approved by the Bank d) resignation after completing ten years of continuous service; or JYOTIRMAY RAY V. THE FIELD GENERAL MANAGER, 207 PUNJAB NATIONAL BANK [J. K. MAHESHWARI, J.] e) termination of service in any other way except by way of punishment after completion of 10 years of service. 15. In view of the above, an offi cer of the Bank shall be eligible for gratuity on retirement; death; disablement rendering him unfi t as certifi ed by an approved medical offi cer; resignation after completion of 10 years of continuous service or termination of service after completion of 10 years except in a case if such termination is by way of punishment.