Sub-section (1) of Section 245C enables the Commission to call for a report from the Commissioner. On the basis of the Commissioner’s report and having regard to the nature and circumstances of the case or the complexity of the investigation involved therein, the Settlement Commission may 18 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. either allow the application to be proceeded with or reject the same. Sub- section (4) of Section 245D empowers the Settlement Commission to pass an after examination of the records and the report submitted by the Commissioner, after hearing the applicant and the Commissioner, or their authorized representatives and examining any further evidence before it. 5.3. Section 245H of the Act bestows upon the Settlement Commission, discretion to grant immunity to an applicant from prosecution for any off ence under the Act or under the Indian Penal Code, or from the imposition of any penalty under the Act, with respect to the case covered by the settlement. The grant of such immunity is subject to such conditions which the Commission may think it fi t to impose. The precondition for granting immunity is that the applicant must have co-operated in the proceedings before the Commission and made a ‘full and true disclosure’ of his income and the manner in which such income has been derived. 5.4. For ready reference, the relevant provisions of Chapter XIX-A of the Act are extracted as under: “245H. Power of Settlement Commission to grant immunity from prosecution and penalty.—(1) The Settlement Commission may, if it is satisfi ed that any person who made the application for settlement under section 245C has co-operated with the Settlement Commission in the proceedings before it and has made a full and true disclosure of his income and the manner in which such income has been derived, grant to such person, subject to such conditions as it may think fi t to impose for the reasons to be recorded in writing, immunity from prosecution for any off ence under this Act or under the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) or under any other Central Act for the time being in force 2 and also (either wholly or in part) from the imposition of any penalty under this Act, with respect to the case covered by the settlement: Provided that no such immunity shall be granted by the Settlement Commission in cases where the proceedings for the prosecution for any such off ence have been instituted before the date of receipt of the application under section 245C: Provided further that the Settlement Commission shall not grant immunity from prosecution for any off ence under the Indian Penal KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. v. COMMISSIONER OF 19 INCOME TAX BANGALORE [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Code (45 of 1860) or under any Central Act other than this Act and the Wealth-tax Act, 1957 (27 of 1957) to a person who makes an application under section 245C on or after the 1st day of June, 2007. (1A) An immunity granted to a person under sub-section (1) shall stand withdrawn if such person fails to pay any sum specifi ed in the of settlement passed under sub-section (4) of section 245D within the time specifi ed in such or within such further time as may be allowed by the Settlement Commission, or fails to comply with any other condition subject to which the immunity was granted and thereupon the provisions of this Act shall apply as if such immunity had not been granted.