Moreover, this Court has already directed inquiry and we do not think the applicant’s plea can be rejected on the ground of being belated claim in the present case. H 1092 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 25.Next comes the question as to whether the course adopted by the Inquiring Judge was in terms of the provisions of the 2015 Act or not. Mr. Patil, relying on Section 103 of the 2015 Act submitted that the inquiry had to be in terms of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. Section 103 of the 2015 Act reads:- B “103. Procedure in inquiries, appeals and revision proceedings.—(1) Save as otherwise expressly provided by this Act, a Committee or a Board while holding any inquiry under any of the provisions of this Act, shall follow such procedure as may be prescribed and subject thereto, shall follow, as far as may be, the procedure laid down in the Code C of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) for trial of summons cases. (2) Save as otherwise expressly provided by or under this Act, the procedure to be followed in hearing appeals or revision proceedings under this Act shall be, as far as D practicable, in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974)”. So far as the question of determination of age through inquiry by the Court, no specific statutory procedure has been brought to our notice. The statutory provision contained in Section 94 of the Act is relevant in E this regard and the said Section stipulates:- “94. Presumption and determination of age.—(1) Where, it is obvious to the Committee or the Board, based on the appearance of the person brought before it under any of the provisions of this Act (other than for the purpose of giving F evidence) that the said person is a child, the Committee or the Board shall record such observation stating the age of the child as nearly as may be and proceed with the inquiry under section 14 or section 36, as the case may be, without waiting for further confirmation of the age. G (2) In case, the Committee or the Board has reasonable grounds for doubt regarding whether the person brought before it is a child or not, the Committee or the Board, as the case may be, shall undertake the process of age determination, by seeking evidence by obtaining— H NARAYAN CHETANRAM CHAUDHARY v. THE STATE OF 1093 MAHARASHTRA [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] (i) the date of birth certificate from the school, or the A matriculation or equivalent certificate from the concerned examination Board, if available; and in the absence thereof; (ii) the birth certificate given by a corporation or a municipal authority or a panchayat; B (iii) and only in the absence of (i) and (ii) above, age shall be determined by an ossification test or any other latest medical age determination test conducted on the s of the Committee or the Board: Provided such age determination test conducted on the C of the Committee or the Board shall be completed within fifteen days from the date of such .