10020 of 1991. The fact is that the defendants had pleaded G that the ownership of the suit property was with the said third parties and did not claim possession specifically and it is thereafter that they sought to bring in a plea that pursuant to an agreement for sale entered into between those parties viz., the first defendant/the first appellant herein viz., Exhibit D-1 dated 01.03.1993 possession of the suit schedule property was delivered to the first appellant. But the crucial reason H SHIVSHANKARA & ANR. v. H.P. VEDAVYASA CHAR 379 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] assigned by the High Court to dispel them is that the first defendant/the A first appellant herein did not enter the box and the deceased second defendant/the second defendant while being examined as DW-1, during his chief examination itself admitted that the respondent herein/the plaintiff was then in possession of the suit schedule ‘A’ property (which also includes ‘B’ schedule) viz., in and vide paragraph 8 of his affidavit filed B in lieu of chief examination. That apart, it was noted that during the cross-examination DW-1 admitted that as on the date of Exhibit D-1, possession of the property was not taken as Sriman Madhwa Sangha assured to secure possession and hand it over to the first defendant. In the circumstances thus revealed from the materials on record and when such aspects and evidence were taken into account by the High Court to C decline permission to amend the written statement, we do not find any reason or justification to interfere with it. 16.To fortify our view, we will consider certain other aspects as well. In the wake of the above-mentioned admission by DW-1, the attempt to bring in new plea by amending the written statement that the second D defendant (the deceased second appellant) had purchased the suit schedule property as per Exhibit D-2, sale deed dated 05.10.2000 has to be seen. Since admittedly and indisputably the suit from which the appeal arises was one based on possessory title, the legality of Exhibit D-2 sale deed need not be gone into in this appeal and rightly has not been gone E into by the High Court. Evidently, the High Court declined to act upon the same, in the light of the doctrine of lis pendens. Even if it is taken for granted that the provisions under Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act are not applicable as such in the case on hand it cannot be disputed that the principle contained in the provision is applicable in the case on hand. It is a well-nigh settled position that wherever TP Act is F not applicable, such principle in the said provision of the said Act, which is based on justice, equity and good conscience is applicable in a given similar circumstance, like Court sale etc. Transfer of possession pendente lite will also be transfer of property within the meaning of Section 52 and, therefore, the import of Section 52 of the TP Act is that if there is G any transfer of right in immovable property during the pendency of a suit such transfer will be non est in the eye of law if it will adversely affect the interest of the other party to the suit in the property concerned.