An analysis of the Nilamat Purana, the oldest scripture of Aryan Saraswat Brahmins of Kashmir (can put Kas’mira) indicates that the fi rst set of settlers in Kashmir were the Nagas – snake worshippers and animists. A batch of Aryans, originally settled on the banks of the mighty Vedic River Saraswati, moved to the Valley when the Saraswati river dried up. This was about 5,000 years ago.2 The origin of the people of the Valley has had varied versions, including that they were descendants of one of the lost tribes of Israel.3 The Valley has heritage and culture as a place of learning. One of the most respected places of learning is the Sharda Peeth, now in the Pakistan Occupied Kashmir area, where education was gender neutral and based on excellence.4 3. In 326 BC, Alexander the Great is said to have invaded the Jammu and Kashmir area. Thereafter, from 206 BC, Kashmir was part of the Silk Route, connecting China with southern Europe.5 A land which has witnessed diff erent faiths, the Valley carries the history of giving passage to Christ, and root to Buddhism, from where it spread to Tibet, China and Central Asia.6 4. In much later periods of time, Thomas Moore (18th Century AD) introduced Kashmir to the Western world in his famous poem ‘Lalla Rookh’ (1817)7 with these words: 1 As per the Rajatarangini (The River of Kings) of Kalhana and Nilamatpurana, believed to be composed by Candra Deva. 2 P.N.K Bamzai, Culture and Political History of Kashmir: Ancient Kashmir, vol. 1 (M.D. Publications Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi 1994) 16. 3 P.N.K Bamzai, Culture and Political History of Kashmir: Ancient Kashmir, vol. 1 (M.D. Publications Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi 1994) 16. 4 A.R. Nazki, ‘In Search of Roots’ in S.S. Toshkhani & K. Warikwoo (eds. ), Cultural Heritage of Kashmiri Pandits (Pentagon Press 2009) 145. 5 Iqbal Chand Malhotra & Maroof Raza, Kashmir’s Untold Story, (Bloomsbury India 2019) 1-2. 6 Ibid at 3. 7 P.N.K Bamzai, Culture and Political History of Kashmir: Ancient Kashmir, IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 297 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] “Who has not heard of the Vale of Cashmere, With its roses the brightest that earth ever gave, Its temples, and grottos, and fountains as clear As the love-lighted eyes that hung over their wave?” 5. The State of Jammu & Kashmir, prior to the independence of our country, consisted of the Kashmir Valley, Jammu, Ladakh, Baltistan, Gilgit, Hunza and Nagar. It stands on the old Central Asian trade route, and the Kashmir Valley, since ancient times, has been the halting place for caravans travelling between the plains of India and the high reaches of Central Asia.8 The mountains provide a wall of protection to the Valley and Kalhana speaks of Kashmir as unconquerable by the force of soldiers.9 The Chinese travelers (Hiuen Tsang and Ou-Kong), thus, refer to the diffi culty of coming through the mountain passes.10 To the south of the Valley is the area now known as Jammu, which is the home of the Dogras and several other castes and sects, both Hindus and Muslims.