22. It is under Clause (d) of Sub-Section (3) of Section 24 of the said Act that the Bar Council of India sought to introduce the All India G Bar Examination, which would be uniformly applicable irrespective of the recognised educational institutions from which a person would complete law before he was enrolled at the Bar. It is this endeavour of the Bar Council of India, which came to be assailed in the of 18 See O.N. Mohindroo v. Bar council of Delhi and Ors. (1968) 2 SCR 709; Bar Council H of India v. Board of Management, Dayanand College of Law and Ors. (2007) 2 SCC 202 BAR COUNCIL OF INDIA v. BONNIE FOI LAW COLLEGE 361 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] this Court in V. Sudeer19and that challenge succeeded. We would have A to look carefully at this in V. Sudeer20 as in the reference to the Constitution Bench, the first two questions referred to us really emanate from this i.e. the authority of the Bar Council of India to provide for pre-enrolment training in terms of the 1995 Rules and whether pre-enrolment examination can be prescribed by the Bar B Council of India under the said Act. In terms of the 1995 Rules, trainee advocates are entitled to appear in court for seeking adjournments and to make mentioning on instruction of their guides, after their provisional enrolment. 23. The in V. Sudeer21, though operative prospectively, C opined that such rule making power of the Bar Council of India was ultra vires the parent Act as it stood amended after the 1973 Amendment. In so far as the exercise of power under Clause (d) of Sub-Section (3) of Section 24 of the said Act was concerned, it was opined that a person, who is otherwise eligible for enrolment having qualified the law degree, could not be denied enrolment by prescribing additional qualifications of D pre-enrolment training and an examination of enrolment as an Advocate. 24. The decision of this Court in Indian Council of Legal Aid and Advice (supra) was also discussed though that was a matter dealing only with the aspect of prescribing the age bar to be eligible to be enrolled E at the Bar. 25. The discussion notes that between 1961 and 1964, the State Bar Councils required an applicant to undergo a course of training in law and pass the examination after such a training as conditions of enrolment. But after 1964 till 1973, it was permissible for the State Bar Councils to F prescribe a course of training in law as a pre-condition of enrolment of a candidate and he was also required to pass the requisite examination during the training or even after completing the training course and such examination could be prescribed by the State Bar Council concerned only. The object and reasons of the 1973 Amendment provided that it was felt necessary to give powers to the Bar Council of India to enable G it to add to the categories of the eligible candidates who were otherwise not eligible to be enrolled under Section 17 read with Section 24(1) of the said Act before the said amendment.