For the purpose of the distribution of the property of the deceased, Class-I uses the expression ‘son’ and ‘daughter’. The property which falls for distribution is the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property on the basis of a notional partition having taken place immediately prior to the death. The property to be distributed is that of the deceased. The Explanation to sub-Section (3) of Section 6 postulates that a notional partition has taken place immediately prior to the death of the coparcener and his interest is deemed to be the share that would have been allotted to him in such a partition. The legislature, in other words, has provided for the ascertainment of the share of the deceased on a notional basis. The expression ‘share in the REVANASIDDAPPA & ANR. v. MALLIKARJUN & ORS. 357 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] property that would have been allotted to him if a partition of the property had taken place’ indicates that this share represents the property of the deceased. Where the deceased dies intestate, the property would devolve in terms of Section 8 and the distribution would be governed by the Rules specifi ed in Section 10. H. Property of the Parents 42. When a Hindu dies after the commencement of the Amending Act of 2005, his interest in the property of a Joint Hindu family governed by Mitakshara law has to devolve by testamentary or intestate succession and not by survivorship, as stipulated in sub-Section (3) of Section 6. The interest of a Hindu Mitakshara coparcener, for the purpose of sub-Section (3) has to be ascertained on the basis that a notional partition has taken place immediately before his death. The share in the property that would have been allotted to the intestate on the basis of sucha notional partition is governed by the General Rules of Succession specifi ed in Section 8, HSA 1956. The distribution of the property among the Class-I heirs is governed by the Rules specifi ed in Section 10. In the distribution inter alia the surviving sons, daughters and mother of the intestate take one share each and likewise the widow (and all the widows together if there was more than one) take one share. In the distribution of the property of the deceased who has died intestate, a child who is recognised as legitimate under sub-Section (1) of Section 6 of the HMA 1955 or under sub-Section (2) of Section 16 would be entitled to a share. Since this is the property that would fall to the share of the intestate after notional partition, it belongs to the intestate. Under Section 16(3), a child conferred with legitimacy is entitled to the property of their parents only, and does not have any rights to or in the property of a person other than the parents. Hence, where the deceased has died intestate, the devolution of this property must be among the children - legitimate as well as those conferred with legitimacy by the legislature under Section 16(1) and 16(2) of the HMA 1955.