E ARGUMENTS ADVANCED BY THE PETITIONER 7.The learned counsel for the petitioner contended that: I. The Respondent has admitted in writing in the supplementary chargesheet that the investigation is still pending, and in light F of the same the trial court ought not to have issued process and remanded the petitioner’s husband under Section 309 Cr.PC. II. The accused’s fundamental rights are in prejudice due to continued custody on grounds of investigation not being G completed. It was argued that the provisions of the CrPC do not empower continued remand to custody beyond 60 days if the investigation is still in progress. For this, the learned counsel relied on the in the case of M. Ravindran Vs. The Intelligence Officer, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence.1 H 1 (2021) 2 SCC 485 RITU CHHABARIA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 831 [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] ARGUMENTS ADVANCED BY THE RESPONDENT A 8. The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent contended that: I. The present writ is not maintainable, and for the grant of bail, the accused herein should have either approached the B High Court against the of the Magistrate refusing default bail or filed a Special Leave Petition against the said invoking provisions of Article 136 of the Constitution of India. II. The contention of the petitioner that the accused is not C named in the FIR is not a relevant submission, as the FIR is not a complete document, and is only the first step to set the criminal procedure in motion. To support the contention, learned counsel relied on the case of State Of Bihar & Others Vs. J.A.C Saldanha & Ors.2 III. The supplementary chargesheet filed on 25.06.2022 is a D complete document in respect to the offence committed by the persons arraigned in the said supplementary chargesheet, therefore no right to default bail has been accrued in favor of the petitioner’s husband. ISSUES E 9.In light of the abovementioned arguments raised by the learned counsel for the parties, the following three issues arise for our consideration:- I. Can a chargesheet or a prosecution complaint be filed in F piecemeal without first completing the investigation of the case? II. Whether the filing of such a chargesheet without completing the investigation will extinguish the right of an accused for grant of default bail? G III. Whether the remand of an accused can be continued by the trial court during the pendency of investigation beyond the stipulated time as prescribed by the CrPC? 2 (1980) 1 SCC 554. H 832 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A PRELIMINARY OBJECTION 10. A preliminary objection has been raised by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent stating that the present writ is not maintainable before this court on grounds that no relief at such an early stage of the investigation can be granted. B 11.We have considered the preliminary objection, however, we are not inclined to concur with the same. It must be remembered that our Constitution has entrusted the Supreme Court with the most important task of protecting civil liberties of individuals, and the society at large.