v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 1007 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] education vide State of Tamil Nadu vs. Adhiyaman A Educational and Research Institute; Modern Dental College and Research Centre vs. State of Madhya Pradesh; Chintpurni Medical College and Hospital vs. State of Punjab. iii) Calibre of teaching staff, syllabus to be taught, student- B teacher ratio, ratio between the students and the hospital beds available to each student, laboratory facilities, standard of examination, vide Preeti Srivastava vs. State of Madhya Pradesh. The Assam Act, which is enacted by the State Legislature on the C strength of Entry 25 of List III, not only seeks to introduce a new course in the field of medical education, but also seeks to regulate the profession of the candidates successfully completing the said course. The Assam Act vests with the Regulatory Authority constituted thereunder, the power to prescribe the minimum standards of the course, duration of the course in allopathic medicine the curriculum, the examination etc. Further, it D authorises the State Government to grant permission for the opening of amedical institute.Prescription of minimum standards for medical education, authority to recognise or de-recognise an institution etc., are areas over which exclusive legislative competence lies with the Parliament, under Entry 66 of List I.The State Legislatures, on the other E hand, under Entry 25 of List III, possess legislative competence to legislate with respect to all other aspects of education, except the determination of minimum standards and co-ordination.With a view to provide a benchmark quality of medical education, it is essential that uniform standards be laid down by the Parliament, which are to be adhered to by institutions and medical colleges across the country. To this end, Entry F 66 of List I has been formulated with the objective of maintaining uniform standards of education in fields of research, higher education and technical education. Hence, State Legislatures lack legislative competence in the areas of prescription of minimum standards for medical education, authority to recognise or de-recognise an institution, etc. The Assam G Act which seeks to regulate such aspects of medical education is therefore liable to be set aside on the ground that the State Legislature lacks competence to legislate with regard to the aspects enumerated hereinabove. 22. Another aspect of the matter that remains to be considered is with regard to the vires of the Assam Community Professional H 1008 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A (Registration and Competency) Act, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as ‘Assam Act of 2015’ for the sake of convenience), which was enacted by the State of Assam with a view to remove the basis of the impugned and in an attempt to restore the position of the diploma holders in medicine and to give them continuity in service. The relevant provision of the said Act read as under: B “An Act to provide for registration norms and competency of the Community Health, Professionals, after passing B.Sc. (Community Health) Course and to give same status to the students who have completed or have been undergoing the Diploma in Medicine and Rural Health Care (DMRHC) course in Medical Institute, Jorhat C with that of B.Sc (Community Health) course, to enable them to serve as Paramedical personnel in the State of Assam.