The decision of the Administrative Committee was approved by the Full Bench of the High Court. 49. The Constitution vests the High Courts with the authority to select judicial offi cers in their jurisdictions. The High Court, being a constitutional and public authority, has to bear in the mind the principles of good administration while performing its administrative duties. The principles of good administration require that the public authorities should act in a fair, consistent, and predictable manner. 50. The High Court submitted that frustration of the petitioner’s substantive legitimate expectation was in larger public interest – selecting suitable candidates with practical wisdom for the post of District Judges. Indeed, it is in the public interest that we have suitable candidates serving in the Indian judiciary. However, the criteria for selecting suitable candidates are laid down in the statutory rules. As noted above, the High Court did amend the 1961 Rules in 2017 to introduce a minimum cut-off mark for the viva voce. The amended Rule 2(c) is extracted below: “2. Method of appointment – (1) Appointment to the service shall be made as follows: […] (c) Twenty fi ve percent of the posts in the service shall be fi lled up by direct recruitment from the members of the Bar. The recruitment shall be on the basis of a competitive examination consisting of a written examination and a viva voce. […] Maximum marks for viva voce shall be 50. The General and Other Backward Classes candidates shall 702 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. secure a minimum of 40% marks and Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe candidate shall secure a minimum of 35% marks for passing the viva voce. The merit list of the selected candidates shall be prepared on the basis of the aggregate marks secured by the candidate in the written examination and viva voce.” (emphasis supplied) 51. Under the unamended 1961 Rules, the High Court was expected to draw up the merit list of selected candidates based on the aggregate marks secured by the candidates in the written examination and the viva voce, without any requirement of a minimum cut-off for the viva voce. Thus, the decision of the Administrative Committee to depart from the expected course of preparing the merit list of the selected candidates is contrary to the unamended 1961 Rules. It is also important to highlight that the requirement of a minimum cut-off for the viva voce was introduced after the viva voce was conducted. It is manifest that the petitioners had no notice that such a requirement would be introduced for the viva voce examination. We are of the opinion that the decision of High Court is unfair to the petitioners and amounts to an arbitrary exercise of power. 52. The High Court’s decision also fails to satisfy the test of consistency and predictability as it contravenes the established practice. The High Court did not impose the requirement of a minimum cut-off for the viva voce for the selections to the post of District and Sessions Judges for 2013 and 2014.