It is in the absence of the first category of documents being not available that the birth certificate from the municipal corporation is to be considered; and d) Lastly, if under the first and second columns, documents are F not available, then reference to medical board and holding of an ossification test comes into play. 12. In the present case, there being birth certificate from the school available and that too a government primary school, we do not find any reason to doubt its correctness and all the more when it has been duly G proved in the inquiry before the Trial Court. Thus, the objections raised by the learned counsel for the State are liable to be rejected. 13. The next question is as to what relief the appellant can be granted in view of the fact that he has been held to be a child and that too below 16 years of age under the 2015 Act. In this context H 598 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Section 9 of the 2015 Act would be relevant. The same is reproduced hereunder: “9. Procedure to be followed by a Magistrate who has not been empowered under this Act.— (1) When a Magistrate, not empowered to exercise the powers B of the Board under this Act is of the opinion that the person alleged to have committed the offence and brought before him is a child, he shall, without any delay, record such opinion and forward the child immediately along with the record of such proceedings to the Board having jurisdiction. C (2) In case a person alleged to have committed an offence claims before a court other than a Board, that the person is a child or was a child on the date of commission of the offence, or if the court itself is of the opinion that the person was a child on the date of commission of the offence, the said court shall make an inquiry, take such evidence as may be necessary (but not an affidavit) to D determine the age of such person, and shall record a finding on the matter, stating the age of the person as nearly as may be: Provided that such a claim may be raised before any court and it shall be recognised at any stage,even after final disposal of the case, and such a claim shall be determined in accordance with E theprovisions contained in this Act and the rules made thereunder even if the person has ceased to be a childon or before the date of commencement of this Act. (3) If the court finds that a person has committed an offence and was a child on the date ofcommission of such offence, it shall F forward the child to the Board for passing appropriate s and thesentence, if any, passed by the court shall be deemed to have no effect. (4) In case a person under this section is required to be kept in protective custody, while the person’sclaimof being a child is being G inquired into, such person may be placed, in the intervening period in aplace of safety.” 14.