If the Screening Committee which E is constituted to carry out the object of the comprehensive policy to ensure that people with doubtful background do not enter the police force, deviates from the policy, makes exception and allows entry of undesirable persons, it is undoubtedly guilty of committing an act of grave disservice to the police force but we cannot allow F that illegality to be perpetuated by allowing the respondents to rely on such cases. It is for the Commissioner of Police, Delhi to examine whether the Screening Committee has compromised the interest of the police force in any case and to take remedial action if he finds that it has done so. Public interest demands an in-depth examination of this allegation at the highest level. Perhaps, such G deviations from the policy are responsible for the spurt in police excesses. We expect the Commissioner of Police, Delhi to look into the matter and if there is substance in the allegations to take necessary steps forthwith so that policy incorporated in the Standing is strictly implemented.” H 172 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 11. The expression “honourable acquittal” had also come up for consideration in other cases namely, Management of Reserve Bank of India, New Delhi Vs. Bhopal Singh Panchal3; and in R.P. Kapur Vs. Union of India and Another4 whereby it was held interalia that the mere acquittal does not entitle an employee to the reinstatement in service.The acquittal, it was held, has to be honourable. As such, the B expressions “honourable acquittal”,”acquitted of blame”, “fully exonerated” are unknown to the Code of Criminal Procedure or the Penal Code, and it is difficult to define precisely what is meant by expressions “honourable acquittal”. 12. In PradeepKumar’s case (supra) also it was reiterated that C if a person is acquitted or discharged, it cannot obviously be inferred that he was falsely involved, or he had no criminal antecedents. The precise observations made therein are re-produced hereunder: “10. The acquittal in a criminal case is not conclusive of the suitability of the candidates in the post concerned. If a person is D acquitted or discharged, it cannot always be inferred that he was falsely involved or he had no criminal antecedents. Unless it is an honourable acquittal, the candidate cannot claim the benefit of the case. What is honourable acquittal, was considered by this Court in Inspector General of Police v. S. Samuthiram E [Inspector General of Police v. S. Samuthiram, (2013) 1 SCC 598 : (2013) 1 SCC (Cri) 566 : (2013) 1 SCC (L&S) 229] , in which this Court held as under: (SCC p. 609, para 24) “24. The meaning of the expression “honourable acquittal” came up for consideration before this Court in RBI v. BhopalSingh Panchal [RBI v. Bhopal Singh Panchal, (1994) 1 SCC 541 : F 1994 SCC (L&S) 594] . In that case, this Court has considered the impact of Regulation 46(4) dealing with honourable acquittal by a criminal court on the disciplinary proceedings.