The Regulations of 1960 were framed accordingly. Therein, even while otherwise applying a substantial part of the Rules in the Orissa Service Code mutatis mutandis to the employees of the Board, Regulation 40 itself starts with a E clause of exception, making that provision subject to the other provisions of the Regulations. Then, in Regulation 52 it has specifically been provided that the employees of the Board shall not be entitled to any pension except gratuity and CPF benefits; and further provisions have been made for the purpose of F subscription/contribution to CPF. Thus, even when the State has established the Board to carry out its obligations in terms of Article 43 of the Constitution of India, it cannot follow as a corollary that the employees of this body corporate have to be treated as State Government employees in all respects. Such a corollary proposition would practically amount to merging of the G Board with the State Government; rather making it as one of the Departments of the Government. This, in the face of existing statute, cannot be done. That being the position and when Regulations in question specifically make a distinct provision as regards retiral benefits, the same cannot be ignored by any stretch H of arguments. [Para 16.1][1076-C-H; 1077-A-B] STATE OF ORISSA v. ORISSA KHADI AND VILLAGE INDUSTRIES 1051 BOARD KARAMCHARI SANGH 2. Putting it differently, even if development of khadi and A cottage industry is a Directive Principle of State Policy, it does not follow as a corollary that if the State establishes a Board or any organisation to carry out the obligations under such Directive Principles, it cannot make separate arrangements as regards the service conditions of the employees of such a Board or B organisation. Significantly, Regulation 40 of the Regulations of 1960 starts with an exception clause and while general conditions of service of the Board’s employees have been provided in terms of the service conditions of the employees of the State Government, the provision is subject to the other provisions of the Regulations. Hence, the other provision, that is the one C contained in Regulation 52, cannot be ignored. [Para 16.1.1] [1077-B-D] 2. In regard to the submissions made on behalf of the State that the aforesaid existing Regulation 52 had neither been challenged nor declared invalid, it has been suggested on behalf D of the respondents that when the employees had regularly been raising the demand for pension by way of representations and had taken up litigation too, challenge to the contrary provisions is inherent in their demands/prayers. These submissions have only been noted to be rejected for more than one reason. First, E that merely making a prayer contrary to the existing provision in the statute does not carry in itself a challenge to the provision. Secondly, for challenging a particular provision, specific case is required to be made out of either want of statutory powers or of violation of any constitutional mandate. Neither any such ground of challenge had been urged nor could be assumed.