Intention of the legislature could be gathered from the various defi nitions contained in Section 2 of the Act, and the same was to make the Act applicable only to persons who carried on the business of transport. The defi nition of ‘owner’ would fortify such fi nding, as ‘owner’ was defi ned to mean a person holding a permit under the Motor Vehicles Act. ii. That the liability of the assessee was to be determined for the years 1984-1985 to 1986-1987 and 1987-1988 to 1990-1991. Prior to 31 May, 1988, ‘motor vehicle’ was defi ned to mean “a public service vehicle or public carrier, or private carrier or a trailer attached to any such vehicle.” Further, the defi nition of ‘passenger’ excluded from its scope the driver, conductor and employee of the owner of the motor vehicle. Therefore, the appellant’s buses would not be covered under the defi nition of ‘motor vehicle’, as defi ned 10 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. at the relevant point of time. That on applying the defi nition of the expressions, ‘motor vehicle’ and ‘passenger’ to the charging provision, the appellant would not be liable for tax under the Act of 1955. iii. That as regards the period between 31 May, 1988 and 30 September, 1990, the scope of the definition was expanded only to include any vehicle used in contravention of the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act for carriage of passengers or goods or both, for hire and reward. Since the appellant’s buses were not used for carriage of passengers for hire or reward, appellant would not be liable to discharge tax under the Act. iv. That from 01 October, 1990, the defi nition of ‘motor vehicle’ was enlarged to include any ‘transport vehicle,’ which, as defi ned under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (hereinafter, “MV Act, 1988” for the sake of convenience) means “a public service vehicle, a goods carriage, an educational institution bus or a private service vehicle.” That although the said defi nition of ‘motor vehicle’ would cover the buses of the appellant, the Explanation to Section 3 (1) of the Act of 1955 would not permit such an application. v. That the Explanation to Section 3 (1) of the Act of 1955 introduced a legal fi ction requiring assessments to be made on the assumption that even passengers who did not actually pay a fare, were being carried at the normal rate chargeable on the concerned route. That there was no defi nition of ‘route’ for the purposes of the Act and the defi nition of ‘route’ under the MV Act could not be referred to as the routes on which the appellant’s buses plied were not ‘routes’ in the sense defi ned under the MV Act. Hence, ‘route’ could not be equated to any ‘road’ so as to hold the appellant- assessee liable to pay tax under the Act of 1955. That for charging tax, by invoking the Explanation to Section 3(1), routes were required to be prescribed, but since no routes had been prescribed, the Explanation could not come to the rescue of the respondent Authorities.