[2023] 10 S.C.R. 1001 : 2023 INSC 600 1001 HARI PRAKASH SHUKLA & ORS. A v. THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ANR. (Civil Appeal No(s). 9697-9698 of 2014) JULY 05, 2023 B [KRISHNA MURARI AND AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, JJ.] Forest Act, 1927: s. 4 – Declaration of reserved forest – Forest inhabitants – Right to be heard by Forest Officer – On facts, land C in possession of the appellants-bhoomidars, declared as reserved forest – Initiation of eviction drive against the appellants – Forest Settlement Officer held that the appellant had a rightful claim over the said land – Writ petition by the Forest Department – Allowed by the High Court and directed eviction of the appellants – Review petition there against also dismissed – On appeal, held: Right of D forest inhabitants to be heard on the claims by the Forest Officer is not restricted only to certain forest communities – Right to be heard, must be granted to all claiming possession of the subject land, and the substantial right of possession can be granted or denied during the said hearing, by the competent authority – Right to enjoy E possession of any land notified u/s. 4 is not only limited to Adivasi communities and other forest dwelling communities, but is also based on proof of residence, date of original possession, etc – Right to inhabit the said lands is not restricted only to certain communities – Appellants are not from a backward community and nor do they claim to be so, thus, have right to be heard by the Forest Officer – F Furthermore, the concurrent findings of the lower courts neither perverse, nor the said courts have over stepped their jurisdiction – Re-appreciation of evidence done by the High Court while exercising its inherent powers u/Art. 226, bad in law and is liable to be struck down – Thus, the impugned and not liable to be G sustained and is set aside – Constitution of India, 1950 – Art. 226 . Allowing the appeals and dismissing the contempt petitions, the Court HELD: 1.1 It must be noted that forest communities do not only consist of people from recognized Adivasi and other H 1001 1002 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A backward communities, but also other groups residing in the said land. These other groups, who do not get recognition under the law as a forest dwelling community due to several socio-political and economic reasons, are also an integral part of the said forest communities and are essential to their functioning. Further, there can also be several instances of people ancestrally being forest B dwellers, however, due to lack of documentation, are not able to prove the same. [Para 20][1006-G; 1007-A] 1.2 The appellants are not from a backward community and nor do they claim to be so, however, the Banwasi , if interpreted in a narrow manner only to benefit certain recognized C forest communities, would cause a great deal of harm to multiple other communities.