25/2012, G.S.R 467(E) dated 20th June, 2012. [Paras 23, 24, 28]. Circular/Government /Notifi cation – Mega Service Tax Exemption Notifi cation – Clause 2(s)(as amended by clarifi cation Notifi cation) – Punctuation in clause 2(s) of the Clarifi cation Notifi cation defi ning ‘Government Authority’ – Interpretation of: COMMISSIONER, CUSTOMS CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 423 PATNA v. M/S SHAPOORJI PALLONJI AND COMPANY PVT. LTD. & ORS. Held: Punctuation, though a minor element, may be resorted to for the purpose of construction – Use of a semicolon is not a trivial matter but a deliberate inclusion with a clear intention to diff erentiate it from sub-clause (ii) – Upon a plain and literal reading of clause 2(s) that while there is a semicolon after sub-clause (i), sub-clause (ii) closes with a comma, this essentially supports the only possible construction that the use of a comma after sub-clause (ii) relates it with the long line provided after that and, by no stretch of imagination, the application of the long line can be extended to sub-clause (i), the scope of which ends with the semicolon – Thus, the long line of clause 2(s) governs only sub-clause (ii) and not sub-clause (i) because the introduction of semicolon after sub- clause (i), followed by the word “or”, has established it as an independent category, thereby making it distinct from sub-clause (ii) – If the author wanted both these parts to be read together, there is no plausible reason as to why it did not use the word “and” and without the punctuation semicolon – Clarifi cation Notifi cation amended clause 2(s), and redefi ned “governmental authority” with a purpose to make the clause workable in contra-distinction to the earlier defi nition – Interpretation of statutes – Notifi cation No. 25/2012, G.S.R 467(E) dt 20.06.2012. [Paras 26, 27] Interpretation of statutes – Interpretation of the relevant provision – Rules of interpretation: Held: Plain and ambiguous provision must be interpreted in the same way as it has been stipulated and not in a way that it presumes defi ciency and radically changes the meaning and context of the provision – Interpretation of the relevant provision resulting in the expanded scope of its operation cannot in itself be suffi cient to attribute ambiguity to the provision – To make a statute workable by employing interpretative tools and to venture into a kind of judicial legislation are two diff erent things – Merely because the statute does not yield intended or desired results, that cannot be reason to overstep and cross the line by employing tools of interpretation to interpret a provision keeping in mind its outcome – Interpretative tools should be employed to make a statute workable and not to reach to a particular outcome. [Paras 20, 32, 33] Maxims - Quoties in verbis nulla est ambiguitas, ibi nulla expositio contra verba expressa fi enda est – Meaning of: 424 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Held: When there is no ambiguity in the words, then no exposition contrary to the words is to be made.