The disclaimer, if at all applicable, will only apply to such instances where the bidders E were able to identify any issues or liability with reasonable diligence. Based on the information and material provided, there was no indication that the water intake system proposed in the WAPCOS Report was unfeasible. Therefore, the disclaimer does not absolve the Procurers of their liability to compensate the Appellant for the increase in cost. It is submitted that due to the F error in WAPCOS’s report, the Appellant is faced with an additional burden of Rs.176 Crore which has adversely impacted the project economics. It is submitted that the disclaimers contained in Para 2.7.2.1 and Para 4 of the RFQ ought not to be considered absolute in nature so as to prevent loading of costs which are incurred by G the Appellant as a direct result of omission or error on part of the Procurers in providing information during the pre-bid stage. This approach is counter-intuitive to ensuring that the Appellants Project is able to supply cheap and affordable power to over 42 million consumers in the Procurer States. It is further submitted that the disclaimers cannot act as an absolute bar to the liability of the H 28 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Procurers. Any duty to independently verify inputs, information factors etc. require only a reasonable duty of care. The grave technical deficiencies and huge differences between actual cost and estimates provided to the bidders defeat the fundamental objective of providing information to the bidders especially when the nature of expense in this case was of buying a report from a B Government Company which had carried out a detailed study. The Appellant had no other option but to rely on the information provided by the authorized representative of the Procurers. Therefore, Ld. Commission’s reliance on the disclaimers contained in the bid documents to reject the claim of the Appellant is not C sustainable.” (16) In regard to the complaint about the notification issued by the Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Power having brought about a change in law, we find the following complaint, inter alia: “9.20. It is submitted that as per Notification 21 of 2022- Customs D dated 01.03.2002 issued by the Ministry of Finance, Government of India, the customs duty on goods required for setting up mega projects has been prescribed as nil meaning thereby that no customs duty will be levied on goods imported for setting up a mega power project. Notification 21/2022- Customs which provides as under: “ E F G 9.22 It is submitted that captive Coal Blocks being an integral part of the Project, the mining equipment would be covered under this provision as well. It is submitted that RFP clearly stated that Procurers through the Appellant (which was a wholly-owned H HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 29 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] subsidiary of PFC at that time) will procure a certificate from the A Ministry of Power that the benefits of the Mega Power Policy would be extended to the Project till scheduled Commercial Operations Date of the Power Station.