According to the Uplinking and Downlinking Guidelines, the application would be sent for security clearance if the applicant is eligible according to the information provided.68 MBL’s application was sent for security clearance. Central Bureau of Investigation69 remarked that there was nothing adverse that was found on the record against MBL. However, D the Intelligence Bureau70 made the following adverse remarks against MBL: (i) MBL is closely associated with ‘Madhyamam Daily’ which has links to Jamaat-e-Islami71; E (ii) The tenor of articles carried out by ‘Madhyamam Daily’ was of an adverse nature from the security perspective; (iii) A few of the key executives of the applicant had associated with JEI-H; and (iv) The proposed TV channel may espouse the ideology of F JEI/H if permitted to operate. 87. IB also submitted a note on the alleged role and activities of JEI-H. The note stated that: (i) JEI-H was formed in 1941 with the objective of securing G the rule of Allah. After the partition of the Indian sub- 68 Paragraph 9.2 of the Uplinking Guidelines and Paragraph 8.2 of the Downlinking Guidelines 69“CBI” 70“IB” H 71 “JEL/H” MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 663 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] continent, JEI formed units in India, Pakistan, and Kashmir. A JEI-H is opposed to secularism, democracy, and socialism; (ii) JEI-H was banned: (i) In 1955 for anti-national activities in Kashmir. The ban was lifted in 1955; (ii) In 1975 under the Defence and Internal Security Rules 1971. The ban was lifted in 1977; and (iii) In 1992, under the Unlawful Activities B (Prevention) Act 196772. The Supreme Court nullified the ban in 1994; (iii) JEI-H plays a crucial role in attracting and channelizing foreign funds to Islamic institutions in the country through official and clandestine channels; and C (iv) JEI-H through its publication, Madhyamam Daily has been “critical of India’s foreign policy, besides indulging in anti- US propaganda. It has also been critical of security agencies/judiciary and often presents news from a communal perspective. Senior functionaries of JEI, Kerala D are learnt to be mobilizing funds through hawala channels from the Gulf for launching a TV Channel.” 88. The MHA considered the report and noted that these remarks were not so strongly adverse in nature to deny permission on the grounds of security, especially when the applicants were operating a newspaper E with twelve editions. The IB report on Madhyamam Daily on the ‘tenor’ of the articles is extracted below: “Madhyamam Daily brings out 12 editions (published from 6 places in Kerala, 2 in Karnataka and 4 places abroad in Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Bahrain, and Dubai), which are published by JEI/H run F Islamic Publishing House, Kozhikode, Kerala. The newspapers which have a combined circulation are of 1.75 lakhs approximately being used by JEI/H to air its views on various issues affecting the Muslim community. It has been highlighting the alleged discrimination against Muslims in India. Recently it had alleged targeted attack on [..] who is the prime accused in the G Bangalore bomb blast, and his family members and vehemently criticised police action against […] for her alleged role in the Kalamassery bus burning case and has contrasted it with the alleged soft attitude taken against Hindu fundamentalists 72“UAPA” H 664 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R.