Learned counsel for the appellant has argued that there had been several shortcomings in the prosecution case and that the relied G upon factors, including the medical evidence and the so-called falsity of explanation of the appellant, are not sufficient to arrive at a finding of guilt against the appellant, particularly when the allegations relating to motive have not been established. While dealing with such submissions, we may usefully take note of the basic principles applicable to the case. H PREM SINGH v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 843 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 13.1. The principles explained and enunciated in the case of A Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra: (1984) 4 SCC 116 remain a guiding light for the Courts in regard to the proof of a case based on circumstantial evidence. Therein, this Court referred to the celebrated decision in Hanumant v. State of Madhya Pradesh: AIR 1952 SC 343 and deduced five golden principles of proving a case B based on circumstantial evidence in the following terms:- “152........................ It may be useful to extract what Mahajan, J. has laid down in Hanumantcase: “It is well to remember that in cases where the evidence is of a circumstantial nature, the circumstances from which the C conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should in the first instance be fully established, and all the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused. Again, the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency and they should be such as to exclude every D hypothesis but the one proposed to be proved. In other words, there must be a chain of evidence so far complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and it must besuch as to show that within all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.” E 153. A close analysis of this decision would show that the following conditions must be fulfilled before a case against an accused can be said to be fully established: (1) the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established. F It may be noted here that this Court indicated that the circumstances concerned”must or should”and not “may be”established. There is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between “may be proved” and “must be or should be proved” as was held by this Court in Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade G v. State of Maharashtra6 where the observations were made: “Certainly,it is a primary principle that the accused must be and not merely may be guilty before a court can convict and the mental 6 (1973) 2 SCC 793. H 844 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A distance between ‘may be’and‘must be’is long and divides vague conjectures from sure conclusions.” (2) the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused B is guilty, (3) the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency, (4) they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved, and C (5) there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.