In any event, revenue entries for few Khataunis are not proof of title; but are mere statements for revenue purpose. They cannot confer any right or title on the party relying on them for proving their title.” 6 (2014) 2 SCC 269 7 (2019) 6 SCC 82 P. KISHORE KUMAR v. VITTAL K. PATKAR 811 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 25. Mr. S.N. Bhat placed reliance on the decision of this Court in R.V.E. Venkatachala Gounder vs. Arulmigu Viswesaraswami & V.P. Temple8 to contend that the plaintiff was only expected to prove his title to a high degree of probability and not beyond reasonable doubt. The principle of law argued by the learned senior counsel is not one we wish to dispute, the same having been well settled through numerous decisions of this Court. However, having led in evidence only revenue documents which are essentially fi scal in nature, we have no hesitation in holding that in the present case, the plaintiff has been unable to assert his case to a high degree of probability. It is, therefore, not enough that the plaintiff led in evidence records of rights for a number of years in an attempt to establish his title; such records would not counter the proof of occupancy rights furnished by the defendant, in a test of probative value. 26. This Court, in Somnath Burman vs. S.P. Raju and Ors.9 held that possession can be regarded as a better title against all, except the true and lawful owner. Therefore, the multitude of revenue documents put to use to argue that the plaintiff was cultivating the suit property would not adequately meet the demands of proof made by law. The only credible document of title led as evidence in the present case was in favour of the defendant’s predecessor-in-interest; hence, it must follow that it is only the defendant who can be declared the lawful owner of the ‘B’ schedule property. 27. In the light of the discussions made above, we hold that the Trial Court erred in decreeing the suit by placing on a higher probative pedestal the revenue entries. In our considered opinion, the fi rst appellate court rightly overturned the fi ndings of the Trial Court and dismissed the suit. The Commissioner’s was correctly interpreted to determine as to in whom occupancy rights vested in respect of the ‘B’ schedule property. 28. The fi rst appellate court having examined the facts in extenso, the High Court ought not to have interfered with the fi ndings rendered therein by virtue of being, in second appeal, a court of law. As was astutely said by this Court in Gurdev Kaur vs. Kaki10, a second appellate court is not expected 8 (2003) 8 SCC 752 9 (1969) 3 SCC 129 10 (2007) 1 SCC 546 812 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. to conduct a “third trial on facts” or be “one more dice in the gamble.” The decision rendered by the fi rst appellate court, not being in violation of the settled position of law, ought not to have been interfered with.