4.5 Making the above submissions and heavily relying upon the decisions of this Court in the cases of Hitendra Vishnu Thakur (supra); Sayed Mohd. Ahmed Kazmi (supra); Sanjay Dutt (supra) and Jigar (supra), it is prayed to allow the present appeals and direct the respondent D to release the appellant – accused on statutory bail. 5. While opposing the present appeals, Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the State has vehemently submitted that as such the decision of this Court in the case of Hitendra Vishnu Thakur (supra) has been subsequently watered down by this E Court in the case of Sanjay Dutt (supra). It is submitted that the view taken by this Court in the case of Hitendra Vishnu Thakur (supra) that at the time of extension of time for investigation, a notice to the accused is required to be given by the Designated Court before it grants any extension is no longer a good law in view of the subsequent decision F of this Court in the case of Sanjay Dutt (supra). It is submitted that in the case of Sanjay Dutt (supra) this Court has explained the decision in the case of Hitendra Vishnu Thakur (supra) and has observed and held that the only requirement is the production of the accused before the Court in accordance with Section 167(1) of the Cr.PC and that the accused is not entitled to written notice giving reasons for the extension. G 5.1 Now so far as the reliance placed upon the decision of this Court in the case of Jigar (supra) is concerned, it is vehemently submitted that as such the said decision requires reconsideration by the Larger Bench as in the said decision this Court has not taken into consideration Section 465 of the Cr.PC. It is submitted that this Court H QAMAR GHANI USMANI v. THE STATE OF GUJARAT 829 [M. R. SHAH, J.] has failed to consider the law laid-down by this Court in the case of A Rambeer Shokeen Vs. State (2018) 4 SCC 405, in which it was categorically held that the accused persons are entitled to the right of the default bail only after rejection of the application for extension of time period for investigation or when the chargesheet is not filed within the prescribed time. B 5.2 It is further submitted that even otherwise as observed and held by this Court in the case of Narender G. Goel Vs. State of Maharashtra (2009) 6 SCC 65 the accused has no right to be heard at the stage of investigation and more particularly, at the stage of extension of period for investigation. It is submitted that as observed and held by C this Court, the accused is not entitled to have the reasonings for extension of period of investigation because accused has no right to be heard at the stage of investigation. 5.3 It is further submitted by Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the State that even otherwise, in the D facts and circumstances of the case, the appellant is not entitled to any relief(s) as prayed, more particularly, the statutory bail.