(iii) The Authority reserves the right to revoke the licence at any time in the interest of public by giving a 60 days’ notice. (iv) Notwithstanding anything contained anywhere else in the licence the Authority’s decision shall be fi nal. (v) The authority reserves the right to take over the entire services and networks of the licensee or revoke/ terminate /suspend the licence in the interest of national security or in the event of a national emergency/ war or low intensity confl ict type of situations. In Witness whereof the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed through their respective authorized representatives the day and year fi rst before written Signed and Delivered for and on behalf of President of India” (Emphasis by us) 13.2. The conditions on which the licence was granted were stipulated in Schedule A and Schedule B of the licence agreement. The payment of licence fee was in the following terms: “PAYMENT OF LICENCE FEES 19.1 The Licence fee payable by licencee for each service area shall be regulated as follows: - Licence Fee For Service Area 1st Year 2nd Year 3rd Year (Rupees in Crores) Bombay 3 6 12 C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 415 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Delhi 2 4 8 Calcutta 1.5 3 6 Madras 1 2 4 4th Year and onwards @ Rs. 5 lakhs (fi ve lakhs) per 100 (one hundred) subscribers or part thereof; subject to the minimum shown below :- Minimum Licence Fee for Fourth to Sixth Year Seventh (for year) year onwards (for Service Area each year) each year) (Rs.in crores) Bombay 18 24 Delhi 12 16 Calcutta 9 12 Madras 6 8 a) For purpose of charging the lump-sum Licence fee for the fi rst three years, the year shall be reckoned as twelve months, beginning with the date of commissioning of services or completion of 12 months from date of signing of Licence Agreement, whichever is earlier. b) The fourth year for purpose of charging the Licence fee shall be the period from the completion of the third year as defi ned above to the 31st day of March succeeding. The annual Licence Fee for the fourth year will therefore, be computed prorate with reference to the actual number of days. Thereafter, the year for purpose of levy of Licence fee shall be the fi nancial year i.e. 1st April to 31st March and part of the year as balance period, if any. c) For the purpose of calculation of Licence fee from the fourth year onwards as indicated in para 19.1 above, the number of subscribers at the end of each month shall be added for all the months of the year and divided by the number of completed months. XXX 416 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. (f) The rate of Rs. fi ve lakhs per hundred subscribers or part thereof is based on the unit call rate of Rs. 1.10. Fourth year onwards, as defi ned in the clause 19.1(d), the rate of Rs.