It is submitted that in the aforesaid decision, it is observed and held by this Court that the High Court in exercise of powers of judicial review, Courts should be slow in interfering with the punishment of dismissal on the ground that it was disproportionate. It is submitted that punishment should not be merely B disproportionate but should be strikingly disproportionate to warrant interference by the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India and it is only in an extreme case, where on the face of it there is perversity or irrationality that there can be judicial review under Articles 226 or 227 or under Article 32 of the Constitution of India. C 3.5. Making the above submissions and relying upon the above decisions, it is prayed to allow the present appeal. 4. Present appeal is vehemently opposed by Shri Abhishek Gupta, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent – delinquent. 4.1 It is submitted that in the present case the offences and D misconduct was committed by the respondent while he was not on active duty. It is submitted that therefore, as per Section 10 of the CRPF Act, 1949, a member of the force who is in a state of intoxication when not on duty is deemed to have committed a less heinous offence. It is submitted that therefore, the Division Bench of the High Court is absolutely justified in interfering with the of penalty of dismissal E imposed by the disciplinary authority by observing that the penalty of dismissal for committing a less heinous offence can be said to be disproportionate to the gravity of the wrong. 4.2 It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent that looking to the fact that the respondent had F worked for 11 years, a lenient view may be taken and any other punishment lessor than the penalty of dismissal may be imposed. Therefore, it is prayed to take a lenient view looking to his past 11 years of service. 5. We have heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective parties at length. G 6. At the outset, it is required to be noted that the disciplinary authority imposed the penalty of dismissal after holding the departmental enquiry and after following the due procedure as required under Rule 27 of the CRPF Rules, 1955 and after having held the charges and misconduct proved. The charges and misconduct held to be proved against H UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. v. CONST SUNIL KUMAR 967 [M. R. SHAH, J.] the respondent who was serving in CRPF – a disciplined force can be A said to be a grave and serious misconduct. The charges and misconduct proved against the respondent is of misbehaving with superior and giving threats of dire consequences to the superior, may be under the influence of intoxication. He also misbehaved and gave threats to the colleagues. The misconduct committed by the respondent is of insubordination also. B The misconduct of misbehaving with the superior/senior officer and of insubordination can be said to be a very serious misconduct and cannot be tolerated in a disciplined force like CRPF and therefore, as such the Division Bench of the High Court is not justified in observing that on the proved charges and misconduct penalty of dismissal can be said to be disproportionate.