It is one thing to say that in a popular sense and it could be urged and it may be true that the word project has been defined in the PPA as power plant and the captive coal mine, but as we have noticed G this is a matter to be determined on what was intended by the author of the notification under Section 25 of the Customs Act and the matter is to be further determined with reference to the express terms of the Notification. Even more importantly, the question must fall to be decided with reference to the interpretation available prior to the cut off date and after cut off date. The communication, which is the OM dated 17.06.2011 H 82 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A relied upon by the first respondent appears to have been issued on the basis of the request made by the first respondent to the State of Madhya Pradesh. (136) Shri Amit Kapur, learned counsel on behalf of the first respondent drew our attention to Entry 78 of notification No. 21/02 dated B 1.3.2002. Entry 78 reads as follows: C (137) Shri Ramchandran, learned senior counsel, would point out that the said Entry relates to inputs for power generation. The case of the first respondent is also that Entry 399 actually specifically deals with the goods required for coal mining project under which the first respondent D has been visited with customs duty. (138) The argument of Shri Amit Kapur is that first of all, Entry 78 if contrasted with Entry 400 would show that all goods needed for a power project understood in a larger sense as including a captive coal mine would also come within four walls of Entry 400. E (139) Shri Amit Kapur, learned counsel, would point out that captive coal mine envisaged as such is one where the entire production of coal is to be utilised for the power plant in question which also would indicate that it is part of the power project. It is not in dispute that whatever may be the distinction which may exist between a mega power project, an F ultra mega power project (we are concerned with latter), there is no separate notification under the Customs Act which deals with ultra mega power project. (140) The upshot of the above discussion is that we are of the view that the first respondent has not been able to demonstrate that G there was a change in law as contemplated in Article 13.1.1 by issuance of the OM dated 17.06.2011. RELIEF (141) The three procurers who were respondents before the Tribunal have not chosen to file appearance before this Court. The lead H HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 83 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] procurer has filed an appeal before this Court. Further, there is only one A PPA. Ironically, decisions relating to XLI Rule 21 and Rule 33 have been placed before this Court by the first respondent reminding this Court of the power available to it.