It was noticed by the High Court that the only ground urged by the appellant for seeking relief of suspension of the under appeal was that if such relief were not granted, he would remain disqualifi ed. According to the High Court, absolutely nothing was mentioned in the affi davit fi led by the appellant about the ramifi cations of the conviction. Another consideration which weighed with the High Court was the objective of the Gangsters Act, being a law enacted to maintain public for reining in organised crime and anti-social activities in the state of Uttar Pradesh as well as the severity of the accusations against the appellant. Consequently, it was ruled that although the appellant had made out a case of suspension of execution of sentence but could not fulfi l the conditions for staying his conviction. 6. Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant, assailed the impugned by advancing the following submissions: a. The failure to stay the conviction would infl ict irreparable harm to the appellant. There is only a primary conviction, against which an appeal has been carried to the High Court. Having regard to the huge pendency of appeals in the High Court, the said appeal is not likely to be heard in the near future resulting in the appellant being deprived of engaging in electoral politics for around 10 years. The case is at the stage of fi rst appeal, and refusal to stay the conviction of the appellant at this stage would be an onerous disproportionate limitation. b. The appellant has been a member of the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly fi ve times and a member of the Lok Sabha twice. He has not been convicted for any off ence in the past, much less any heinous off ence, apart from the conviction under consideration. In a particular case, viz. Case Crime No. 589/2005, the appellant has been acquitted after a full-fl edged trial. The off ence, in the case under consideration, though has been held to be proved, the AFJAL ANSARI v. STATE OF UP 987 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] of conviction suff ers from various infi rmities based whereon the High Court itself proceeded to suspend execution of the sentence. There could be no cogent ground for not staying the conviction for the self-same reasons. The infi rmities present in the and rendered by the Trial Court and the infi rmity from which the and under appeal suff er would constitute ‘exceptional circumstances’ empowering this Court to stay the conviction. c. The electoral constituency of Ghazipur is not being represented in Parliament due to the appellant’s disqualifi cation arising out of his conviction. The people of Ghazipur are suff ering as they do not have a legislative representative who can highlight their grievances in Parliament, and only executive and judicial remedies are left available to them. d. Further, the execution of more than two dozen projects under the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme5, which have been initiated by the appellant, are now upended and uncertain.