The said account was also not declared in ITR of Anoop Bartaria filed for the assessment year 2015-16. F 17. He submitted that the petitioner-Anoop Bartaria and his company had availed the loans for the project of World Trade Park from IDBI Bank/DHFL and UCO Bank, by mortgaging the units of the said project to the said banks. In line with terms of sanction, the World Trade Park Ltd. had opened an escrow account with IDBI Bank, in which all sale proceeds were to be deposited in that account only. However, Mr. G Bartaria did not deposit any amount in the said escrow account and facilitated Mr. Bharat Bomb and his associates in parking the tainted money by opening the account in the Syndicate bank. In the request letters to IDBI for issuing NOC in respect of office nos. 407, 408 and 3 1992 Suppl. (1) SCC 335 H 538 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 409, the name of the customer shown was M/s Raj Darbar Material Ltd. showing the status of the properties as unsold. 18. Learned ASG has also placed reliance on the counter affidavit to buttress his submissions that the petitioner- Anoop Bartaria, this company M/s. World Trade Park Ltd., earlier named as M/s. R.F Trading B and Properties, and M/s. Sincere Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. had received more than 160 crores of defrauded fund since October 2013 till unearthing of the fraud, from the accounts of fictitious firms/companies created and operated by Bharat Bomb and his associates. 19. The learned ASG has placed heavy reliance on the prosecution complaint filed by the ED, more particularly on para nos. 10.5 and 10.8 C to show as to how the petitioner-Anoop Bartaria was complicit in the crime and sharing the fruit of the crime with Bharat Bomb; and as to how he was directly involved in the activity connected with proceeds of crime including generation, acquisition and use of proceeds of crime by commission of scheduled offence. D 20. Pressing into service the provisions contained in Section 45 read with the explanation to the said provision inserted by the Finance (No.2) Act, 2019, he submitted that the offences under the PMLA are “cognizable and non-bailable”. Learned ASG lastly submitted that because of the passed by this Court on 25.03.2019 directing the respondents E not to take coercive action against the petitioners, the proceedings before the competent Court are stayed and the investigations have also come to stand still, which has caused great prejudice to the case filed by the ED under the PMLA. 21. Now, adverting to the first and foremost contention raised as to whether the offences of money laundering under PMLA are cognizable F or not, it may be noted that sub-section (1) of Section 45 pertaining to the offences was amended by Act 20 of 2005. Sub-section 1 of Section 45 prior to amendment read as under: “Section 45- Offences to be cognizable and non-bailable- G (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), (a) Every offence punishable under this Act shall be cognizable; (b) No person accused of an offence punishable for a term of imprisonment of more than three years under Part A of the H Schedule shall be released on bail or on his own bond unless.” ANOOP BARTARIA & ETC.