In the said case, this Court did not recognize commercial speech on par with other forms of speech by holding that it did not have the same value as political or creative expression. That broadly, the right to publish F and distribute commercial advertisements advertising an individual’s personal business is a part of freedom of speech guaranteed by the Constitution, but not every advertisement is a matter which comes within the scope of freedom of speech, nor can it be said that it is an expression of ideas. In every case, one has to see what G is the nature of advertisement and what is the business/ commercial activity falling under Article 19(1)(g) it seeks to further. In the aforesaid case, what was challenged was the Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable H 742 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Advertisements) Act, 1954. It was held that the object of the Act was the prevention of self-medication and self-treatment by prohibiting advertisements, which may be used to advocate the same or which tended to spread the evil. It was further held that the advertisements of Hamdard Dawakhana, appellant in the said case, were B relating to commerce or trade and not propagation of ideas. Such advertising of prohibited drugs or commodities the sale of whichwas not in the interest of the general public, cannot be “speech” within the meaning of freedom of speech and would not fall within Article 19(1)(a). C It is therefore evident that this Court in the said case placed weight on the aspect as to whether, the advertisement sought to be protected, did in fact constitute ‘propagation of ideas.’ The true content and object of the material sought to be propagated/circulated was to D be assessed, in to declare whether such content would enjoy the protection of Article 19(1)(a). (ii)Subsequently, in Indian Express Newspaper (Bombay) Pvt. Ltd. vs. Union of India, (1985) 1 SCC 641 (“Indian Express Newspaper (Bombay) Pvt. E Ltd.”), this Court considered the decision in Hamdard Dawakhana and observed that the main plank of said decision was the type of advertisement or the content thereof and that particular advertisement did not carry with it the protection of Article 19(1)(a). It was further clarified that the observations made in Hamdard F Dawakhana are too broadly stated. That all commercial advertisements cannot be denied the protection of Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution merely because they are issued by businessmen. (iii)Subsequently, in Tata Press Limited vs. Mahanagar G Telephone Nigam Limited,(1995) 5 SCC 139 (“Tata Press Limited”), this Court clarified that commercial speech, which is entitled to protection under the First Amendment in USA is also protected under Article 19(1)(a) of the Indian Constitution. However, in the USA, the State was completely free to recall commercial H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 743 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] speech which is false, misleading, unfair, deceptive and A which proposes illegal transactions in USA. But, under the Indian Constitution, commercial speech which is deceptive, unfair, misleading and untruthful, would be hit by Article 19(2) of the Constitution and can be regulated/ prohibited by the State.