Bail – Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 – Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 – s.37 – Held: The restrictions on the Court while examining the question of bail under the 1967 Act is less stringent in comparison to the provisions of G s.37, Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 – Criminal Law. Bail – Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 – Bail restricting sections – Jurisdiction of Constitutional Court – Held: A bail restricting clause cannot denude the jurisdiction of a H 870 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Constitutional Court in testing if continued detention in a given case would breach the concept of liberty enshrined in Article 21, would apply in a case where such a bail-restricting clause is being invoked on the basis of materials with prima facie low-probative value or quality – Constitution of India – Article 21 – Criminal Law. B Criminal Law – Stringent provisions of a statute – Interpretation of – Held: When the statutes have stringent provisions, the duty of the Court would be more onerous – Graver the offence, greater should be the care taken to see that the offence would fall within the four corners of the Act – Unlawful Activities (Prevention) C Act, 1967 – Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987 – Interpretation of Statutes. Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 As it would be evident from the analysis of the evidence cited by the NIA, the acts allegedly committed by the D appellants can be categorised under three heads. The first is their association with a terrorist organisation which the prosecution claims from the letters and witness statements. But what this Court must be conscious of, while dealing with prima facie worth of these statements and documents is that none of them had been E seized or recovered from the appellants but these recoveries are alleged to have been made from the co-accused. The second head of alleged offensive acts of the appellants is keeping literatures propagating violence and promoting overthrowing of a democratically elected government through armed struggle. But again, it is not the NIA’s case that either of the two appellants F is the author of the materials found from their residences, as alleged. None of these literatures has been specifically proscribed so as to constitute an offence, just by keeping them. Thirdly, so far as AF is concerned, some materials point to handling of finances. But such finances, as per the materials through which G the dealings are sought to be established, show that the transaction was mainly for the purpose of litigation on behalf of, it appears to us, detained party persons. The formation of or association with a legal front of the banned terrorist organisation has also been attributed to AF, in addition. The High Court while analysing each of these documents individually did not opine that H VERNON v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA & ANR. 871 there were reasonable grounds for believing that the accusations A against such persons were not prima facie true.