The third issue was answered holding that the Start date for the ‘Change in Law’ event for the NCDP, 2013 is 1stApril 2013. 21. As such, Issue No. 4 stands squarely covered by our D dated 3rd March 2023 in the case of MSEDCL v. APML and Others (supra) so also by the earlier of this Court in the case of Energy Watchdog (supra). 22. Insofar as Issue Nos. 2 and 3 are concerned, we find that the said issues are interlinked and the same would depend on the decision as E to whether the communication dated 19thJune 2013 providing for IPT would amount to ‘Change in Law’ or not. 23. It will be relevant to refer to the definition of “Law” as defined under the PPA, which reads thus: “Law means, in relation to this Agreement, all taws including F Electricity Laws in force in India and any statute, ordinance, regulation, notification or code; rule, or any interpretation of any of them by an Indian Governmental Instrumentality and having force of law and shall further include all applicable rules, regulations, s, notifications by an Indian Governmental G Instrumentality pursuant to or under any of them and shall include all rules, regulations, decisions and s of the Appropriate Commission.” 24. It can, thus, clearly be seen that the definition of “Law” is wide enough to include all rules, regulations, s, notifications by the Governmental instrumentalities. H 1104 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 25. It will be relevant to refer to the communication dated 19th June 2013, which reads thus: “Sub: Modification in Model FSA applicable for New Power plants in respect of “Interplant transfer of coal” A proposal for allowing inter power plant transfer of coal from B one Power Plant to another under the modified FSA applicable for New Power Plants (for both PSU/Govt. PUs and Private PUs) was placed before the 298th CIL Board in its Meeting held on 27.5.13. The CIL Board while approving to the proposal allowed such C dispensation subject to the following conditions which stand as below after legal vetting. a) Transfer of coal shall be allowed only between the power plants wholly owned by the Purchaser or its wholly owned subsidiary. No transfer of coal shall be allowed for a JV D company of the Purchaser. The supply of coal, shall for all commercial purpose under the FSA remain unchanged and on account of the original Power Plant. b) Both the Power Plants should have executed FSA in the E modified FSA Model applicable for new power plants and not having any supplies linked to coal blocks. In case of IPPs both the plants must have valid long term PPAs with DISCOMS. c) In no case the transferred quantity to a plant together with F the quantity supplied under the applicable FSA shall exceed the ACQ of the Transferee Plant for a particular year which is proportional to the long term PPA with DISCOMS. d) Transfer of coal will not be allowed to those plants who are allotted coal blocks under this arrangement.