A 111. This Court in the case of Prakash Singh and Others v Union of India and Others,71 after studying various committee reports on police reforms, laid down certain directions in the nature of police reforms to be operative until the new Police Act is to be framed. It is necessary to quote the following excerpt from the : “It is not possible or proper to leave this matter only with an B expression of this hope and to await developments further. It is essential to lay down guidelines to be operative till the new legislation is enacted by the State Governments. Article 32 read with Article 142 of the Constitution empowers this Court to issue such directions, as may be necessary for doing complete justice in any cause or matter. All authorities are mandated by Article C 144 to act in aid of the s passed by this Court….In the discharge of our constitutional duties and obligations having regard to the aforenoted position, we issue the following directions to the Central Government, State Governments and Union Territories for compliancetill framing of the appropriate legislations.” D 112. This Court has also laid down guidelines to streamline and facilitate the institutional apparatus and procedural system. In the case of Laxmi v Union of India and Others,72 this Court intervened to prevent cases of acid violence, and laid down guidelines on sale of acid and the treatment of victims of acid attack. A three-judge bench decision in Shakti Vahini v Union of India and Others73 issued guidelines to E check unlawful interference by Khap panchayat in interfaith and inter caste marriages. The Court held: “To meet the challenges of the agonising effect of honour crime, we think that there has to be preventive, remedial and punitive measures and, accordingly, we state the broad contours and the F modalities with liberty to the executive and the police administration of the concerned States to add further measures to evolve a robust mechanism for the stated purposes.” 113. The series of case laws authoritatively demonstrate the commitment of this Court to intervene to preserve and promote the “Rule of Law”, by supplementing the legislative gaps till the Legislature steps G in. This has been done in exercise of the plenary power of this Court under Article 142 of the Constitution. 71 (2006) 8 SCC 1 72 (2014) 4 SCC 427 73 (2018) 7 SCC 192 H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 239 [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] 114. Our decision is therefore to lay down parameters or guidelines A for the selection process for the appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioner. This decision is supported by the two-judge in State of Punjab v. Salil Sabhlok and Others.74 In this case, it was pointed out that no parameters or guidelines have been laid down in Article 316 of the Constitution for selecting the Chairperson of the Public Service Commission and no law has been B enacted on the subject with reference to Schedule VII List II Entry 41 of the Constitution.