The purpose of the Telangana Off enders Act 1986 is to prevent any person from acting in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public . For this purpose, Section 3 prescribes that the detaining authority must be satisfi ed that the person to be detained is likely to indulge in illegal activities in the future and act in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public . The satisfaction to be arrived at by the detaining authority must not be based on irrelevant or invalid grounds. It must be arrived at on the basis of relevant material; material which is not stale and has a live link with the satisfaction of the detaining authority. The of detention may refer to the previous criminal antecedents only if they have a direct nexus or link with the immediate need to detain an individual. If the previous criminal activities of the Appellant could 12 (2020) 13 SCC 632 978 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. indicate his tendency or inclination to act in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public , then it may have a bearing on the subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority. However, in the absence of a clear indication of a causal connection, a mere reference to the pending criminal cases cannot account for the requirements of Section 3.It is not open to the detaining authority to simply refer to stale incidents and hold them as the basis of an of detention. Such stale material will have no bearing on the probability of the detenu engaging in prejudicial activities in the future.” (boldin original) (underlining ours, for emphasis) 19. We may also refer to the decision of a Constitution Bench of this Court in Sunil Fulchand Shah vs. Union of India13 wherein the need to strictly adhere to the timelines, provided as procedural safeguards, was stressed upon. It was held thus: “11. *** The safeguards available to a person against whom an of detention has been passed are limited and, therefore, the courts have always held that all the procedural safeguards provided by the law should be strictly complied with. Any default in maintaining the time-limit has been regarded as having the eff ect of rendering the detention or the continued detention, as the case may be, illegal. The justifi cation for preventive detention being necessity a person can be detained only so long as it is found necessary to detain him. If his detention is found unnecessary, even during the maximum period permissible under the law then he has to be released from detention forthwith. It is really in this context that Section 10 and particularly the words ‘may be detained’ shall have to be interpreted.” 20. On a conspectus of the decisions referred to above and other decisions on preventive detention, we may observe here that the argument commonly advanced on behalf of detaining authorities in the early days of the Constitution was that the Court’s enquiry ought to be confi ned to whether there is an of detention or not and the moment such an , good on its face, is produced, all enquiry into good faith, suffi ciency of the reasons 13 (2000) 3 SCC 409 AMEENA BEGUM v. THE STATE OF TELANGANA 979 & ORS.