The second proviso to sub-section 1 of Section 389 is on par with sub-section 2 of Section 439 of CrPC. Therefore, the Court can even Suo Motu issue a notice calling upon the accused to show cause why the bail should not be cancelled. Under no circumstances, the bail granted to an accused under sub-section 1 of Section 389 can be cancelled without giving a reasonable opportunity to the accused of being heard. 8. Unfortunately, the High Court, without even giving an opportunity of being heard to the appellant-accused on the issue of cancellation of bail, has straight away proceeded to cancel the bail granted to him. Such approach on the part of the High Court cannot be countenanced especially when the High Court can always deal with the situation when an adjournment is sought by the advocate for the accused at the time of fi nal hearing of the appeal on unreasonable grounds. For the default of the advocate appointed by the accused, the Appellate Court cannot penalize the accused by proceeding to cancel his bail only on the ground that his advocate has sought adjournment and that also without giving an opportunity of being heard to him on the issue of cancellation of bail. 9. We have come across cases where an application for suspension of sentence was rejected by the High Court only on the ground that the advocate for the accused declined to argue the appeal on merits. When only the application for suspension of sentence is listed for hearing, the advocate for the accused is not expected to be ready to argue the appeal. 10. Accordingly, the impugned is hereby quashed and set aside and the earlier dated 12th January, 2018 granting suspension of sentence and bail to the appellant is restored. PURUSHOTHAMAN v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU 185 [ABHAY S.OKA, J.] 11.We make it clear that if the appellant applies for adjournment on any unreasonable or unwarranted ground, it will be always open for the High Court to proceed with the appeal by taking recourse to one of the options laid down in the case of Bani Singh1. 12. The appeal is accordingly allowed. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal allowed. Nidhi Jain