Bearing in mind the statutory scheme, it would be impermissible for this Court to allow for the adjudicatory intervention of the adjudicating authority in adjudicating what is described as a jurisdictional question at the stage of Section 97(5). 2. Role of the Adjudicatory Authority 73. Section 100(1) stipulates that the adjudicating authority must issue an within fourteen days of receiving the report, either admitting or rejecting the application fi led under Sections 94 or 95, depending on the circumstances. Importantly, the adjudicating authority does not mechanically accept or reject applications based solely on the resolution professional’s report. Instead, it must actively engage in a fair process, aff ording the debtor a fair opportunity to present their case. The adjudicating authority arrives at its determination by considering arguments supported by relevant material particulars. In essence, the adjudicating authority conducts an independent assessment, not solely relying on the resolution professional’s report, to decide the fate of applications under Section 94 or 95 of the IBC. 74. The true adjudicatory function of the authority commences under Section 100 after the submission of the report. Another reason why we are not inclined to accept the submission is that what is described as a jurisdictional question by the petitioners may not be a simple matter to be decided as a question of law. The jurisdictional questions of the nature which have been suggested by the petitioners, namely, on whether there is a subsisting debt or whether the relationship of debtor and creditor subsists, would involve a decision on mixed questions of law and fact. The entire scheme of Sections 99 and 100 implicates time lines which have been laid down by Parliament. The entire process of implementing these time lines would be rendered nugatory if an adjudicatory role were to be read into the provisions of Section 97(5). The fi nal reason which would militate against accepting the submission is that the provisions of Section 99 do not as such implicate any adverse civil consequences particularly if those provisions are read in the manner in which we now propose to elucidate. (cid:2) DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI (cid:3) 606 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 3. A right of representation has been provided under Section 99(2) 75. On behalf of the petitioners, it has been submitted that the resolution professional has been empowered to make wide ranging enquiries for the purpose of eliciting information under sub-section (4) of Section 99. In our view, it is necessary to clarify the ambit of sub-section (4) of Section 99. Sub-section (4) is prefaced by the words “for the purposes of examining an application”. In other words, the information which the resolution professional is empowered to seek or the explanation which the resolution professional can require to be furnished is for that purpose. That apart, sub- section (4) also goes on to specify that the information or explanation may be sought in connection with the application. In other words, the nature of the information or the explanation which is sought must have a nexus with the application.