682 SUPREME CO[U2R02T3 ]R 2E PSO.CR.RT.S 682 [2023] 2 S.C.R. A PRADEEP KUMAR v. STATE OF CHHATTISGARH (Criminal Appeal No. 1304 of 2018) B MARCH 16, 2023 [B. R. GAVAI AND SANJAY KAROL, JJ.] Penal Code,1860 – ss. 302,34,201 – Two accused persons (including appellant) were convicted for offence of murder by trial C Court –The prosecution case, rested upon three circumstances (a) the alleged confessional statement of appellant;(b) prior animosity between appellant and the deceased; and (c) the recovery of material from the appellant – The High Court upheld the conviction of appellant and acquitted co-accused – On appeal, held: The D testimonies of PW-12(son of the deceased) and PW-13(co-villager) negated circumstances that there was tension between the deceased and the accused, which was, the motive of commission of crime – Recovery of materials i.e keys and the money, there is no independent corroborated material except for the confessional statement of the accused, which also is not proven on record – Further, the extra E judicial confessional statement of the appellant, apart from being hit by s.27 of the Evidence Act, 1872, it not to have been supported by PW-1 and PW-7, who as is evident, was himself a suspect, if witness was himself a suspect, his testimony cannot be said to be reliable and trustworthy – The testimony of star witness PW-19- F investigating officer was found to be unworthy of any credence and hence unreliable – The testimonies of the other prosecution witnesses were found unreliable – Neither the chain of circumstances to have been completely established nor the guilt of the accused alone, having committed the crime to be proven, much less beyond G reasonable doubt – The presumption of the guilt of appellant by both the courts below is based on improper and incomplete appreciation of evidence which has resulted into travesty of justice – of High Court and trial Court set aside – Appellant acquitted –Evidence Act,1872 – s.27. H 682 PRADEEP KUMAR v. STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 683 Allowing the appeal, the Court A HELD: 1. The impugned judgement to say the least, is sketchy. The presumption of the guilt of appellant-accused by both the courts below is based on improper and incomplete appreciation of evidence which in the considered view of this Court, has resulted into travesty of justice. [Para 10][688-F-G] B 2. When this court came to the deposition of PW-12 son of the deceased, unequivocally he states that “... later on the police personnel told me that accused persons have thrown my father after committing murder...” Now this totally belies the testimony of his grandfather (PW-10). To similar effect, it is the testimony C of PW-13 who only adds that “...Later on I came to know that victim has been murdered. I heard from the villagers...”. Significantly, her statement that she was not informed by her husband (PW-7), of the deceased being murdered by the Appellant was not recorded in her previous statement with which she was D confronted. But what is crucial is her deposition is that her husband himself was a suspect and that she admits it to be correct, “... that the police personnel took my husband for inquiry in connection with the murder of deceased.