It was therefore observed by the Director of Local Bodies that as soon as the State Government extends such policy for consideration of appointment F of the employees of the Urban Local Bodies, under compassionate grounds, in the die-in-harness category, the prayer of Respondent No. 1 would be considered. 2.8. Being aggrieved by the passed by the Director of Local Bodies, Government of West Bengal on 16th October, 2015, Respondent G No. 1 preferred a Writ Petition bearing No. 2733 (W) of 2016 before the High Court of Calcutta. A batch of Writ Petitions where the cause of action was the same as that in W.P. No. 2733 (W) of 2016 was heard and disposed of together by the learned Single Judge of the High Court of Calcutta by way of a H THE STATE OF WEST BENGAL v. DEBABRATA TIWARI & 621 ORS. ETC. ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Common and dated 5th July, 2018. The said common A was passed in Writ Petition No. 2739 (W) of 2016.The learned Single Judge dismissed the Writ Petitions by relying on the passed in Gobinda Hazra vs. State of West Bengal, W.P. No. 13147 (W) of 2017, wherein the issue, as to, whether, there subsists any scheme for compassionate appointment in respect of municipal employees was B considered and the issue was answered in the negative. The High Court thus held that no relief could be granted to the Writ Petitioners (Respondents herein), in the absence of a sanctioned scheme for compassionate appointment in respect of municipal employees. 2.9. Aggrieved by the passed by the Single Judge dated 5th C July, 2018, the Respondents- Writ Petitioners preferred a batch of appeals before the Division Bench of the High Court. The said appeals were heard and allowed by a common impugned judgement dated 30th September, 2019, passed in MAT 859 of 2018 with CAN 6137 of 2018in the case of Debabrata Tiwari vs. The State of West Bengal. By way of the impugned , the Director of Local Bodies, Burdwan D Municipality and the concerned authority in Ranaghat and Habra Municipalities were directed to consider the application made by the Writ Petitioners seeking appointment on compassionate grounds. The Division Bench of the High Court also identified the scheme in light of which the said applications would have to be considered and decided. E Hence the present appeals by the State of West Bengal. 2.10. The pertinent findings of the Division Bench of the High Court of Calcutta, in the common impugned dated 30th September, 2019, have been culled out hereinunder: i. The Division Bench of the High Court rejected the argument F canvassed on behalf of the Government that there was an undue delay between the time of making the application and the time when the Respondents-Writ Petitioners approached the Court. That the Writ Petitioners had not delayed filing applications seeking appointments on compassionate grounds and the concerned authorities had G undertaken an enquiry by constituting a committee but had ultimately taken years to consider their applications and to recommend their respective names.