The authorities could not, and did not, go beyond that parameter. B 15. Now the question arises as to whether we could import additional reasoning into the decision of the employer on the basis of interpretation given to said Rule 26(4) by the High Court subsequent in point of time. Ultimately, what we are dealing with in this appeal is a decision of an employer terminating the master-servant relationship on C the basis of certain grounds laid down in the rejection . It is a fact that Rule 26(4) operates in the case of the respondent and in the event we had found that the first decision of the High Court was absolutely contrary to the provisions of the said Rules, we might have had accepted the argument of Ms. Divan founded on reasoning contained in the case D of Manisha Sharma (supra). But as per the said provision, we do not find there is absolute bar on the employer in permitting withdrawal of resignation even after the same is accepted. Said Rule 26 does not contain any such provision. Moreover, sub-rule (4) of Rule 26 envisages certain situations wherein withdrawal of resignation might be permitted even after the resignation becomes effective. The situations contemplated in E sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) of Rule 26(4) permit withdrawal of resignation after the same becomes effective. Resignation can become effective either by stipulation of law or by acceptance thereof. To illustrate the former situation, some statutory instrument may contain deeming provisions for resignation to become effective in the event after tendering F the resignation letter, no decision is taken by the employer within a given timeframe. That is not the case here. So far as the present case is concerned, resignation can become effective only on acceptance thereof and sub-rule (4) of Rule 26 lays down situations in which there can be withdrawal even after resignation becomes effective. This question, however, does not arise here as what we are examining in this G is legality of an by which the respondent’s plea for withdrawal of resignation was rejected on grounds spelt out in the itself. The Tribunal and the High Court found the reasoning of the appellant unsustainable. H THE GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI & ORS. v. KAMLESH 687 RANI BHATLA [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] 16.In the peculiar facts of this case, in our opinion the A of the High Court sustaining the Tribunal’s decision do not warrant any interference. 17. The present appeal is accordingly dismissed. All connected applications are disposed of. B 18.There shall be no as to costs. Nidhi Jain Appeal dismissed. (Assisted by : Anurag Agarwal, LCRA) C D E F G H