The members of the appellants Group, on the other hand, applied for shares. Since, it was contemplated that shareholders could apply not only in the ratio of 1:1 but for larger number of shares, apparently, the members of the appellants Group, applied for more number of shares. Thus, though the wife of the first appellant may have been D entitled to only 20 shares, if the rights issue was limited to ratio 1:1, since it was decided to give an opportunity to shareholders to apply for more shares than they held and as, apparently, shares were available to be allotted in numbers far greater than what the shareholders were actually holding, the wife of the first appellant, apparently, came to be allotted the E seemingly disproportionate number of shares. If the shareholders belonging to the V.P. Patel Group and the Sheth Group had also applied for a larger number of shares than what they held and there was any discrimination or rejection of their application seeking greater number of shares, then, there would have been, indeed, an occasion to find that an act of oppression had been perpetuated. In the absence of any application F by members of the V.P. Patel Group and the Sheth Group for shares in any number, we are unable to perceive or characterise the act as oppressive. 36. The respondents pointed out that from the money available, a sum of nearly 25 lakhs was given to the member of the appellants- G Group. 37. As regards the last complaint, the appellants would point out that actually all that happened was repayment of money brought in earlier by appellant-Group, which was parked with the Company and in connection with the marriage of a family member, the amount was H 270 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A returned. It must be noticed that the allegations and responses from both sides are the subject matter of the audit. We cannot be deflected by the same in ruling on the ‘defect’ or alleged illegality in the matter of allotment of the shares. 38. The facts in Dale & Carrington Invt. (P) Ltd. (supra) are B clearly distinguishable. The case represented on facts a situation, where, the efforts were solely directed at consolidating and cornering of power by the person in question. In this case, from the facts, as recounted, we are inclined to think that the shares were offered to the existing shareholders and, what is more, on a fair and equal footing. This is subject to what we hold further. C 39. It is contended by respondents that though the Board decided on 27.01.2001 to remind the shareholders of the right to apply, it was not done. Per contra, the appellants contend that the notices were sent and they were also produced. The respondents would however point out that no finding has been rendered. D 40. The Notice dated 27.01.2020 sent, reads as follows: “27th January, 2010 To, All the shareholders as per list enclosed E Sub.