Thus, a court is not entitled to presume that any and every person who is proved to have been present near a riotous mob at any time or to have joined or left it at any stage during its activities is in law guilty of every act committed by it from the beginning to the end, or that each member of such a crowd must from the beginning have anticipated and contemplated the nature of the illegal activities in which the assembly would subsequently indulge. In other words, it must be proved in each case that the person concerned was not only a member of the unlawful assembly at some stage, but at all 2 AIR 1976 SC 2566 JAVED SHAUKAT ALI QURESHI v. STATE OF GUJARAT 231 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] the crucial stages and shared the common object of the assembly at all these stages. Such an evidence is wholly lacking in this case where the evidence merely shows that some of the accused were members of the unlawful assembly at one particular stage but not at another. In these circumstances, therefore, the accused who were not present or who did not share the common object of the unlawful assembly at other stages cannot be convicted for the activities of the assembly at those stages. In view of this error committed by the High Court it has become necessary for us to examine the evidence on the limited question as to which of the accused had actually participated in the incidents at the Engineering College, Bharat Lodge and the chawl of Jogendra Singh where acts of incendiarism had taken place. It is also common ground that the occurrence had taken place at night and the evidence of the witnesses identifying the accused had to be examined with great caution.” (emphasis added) 14. Assuming that PW-25 and PW-26 identifi ed accused nos.2, 3 and 4 by stating that they were members of the mob; once a Coordinate Bench of this Court discards their testimony in its entirety being unreliable, the benefi t of the said fi nding will have to be extended to the accused nos.2,3 and 4 as they are similarly placed with accused nos.1,5 and 13. Moreover, except for PW-25 and PW-26, no other witnesses have ascribed any role to the accused nos.2, 3 and 4. 15. When there is similar or identical evidence of eyewitnesses against two accused by ascribing them the same or similar role, the Court cannot convict one accused and acquit the other. In such a case, the cases of both the accused will be governed by the principle of parity. This principle means that the Criminal Court should decide like cases alike, and in such cases, the Court cannot make a distinction between the two accused, which will amount to discrimination. 16. As far as accused nos.3 and 4 are concerned, they did not prefer any appeal. In the case of Pawan Kumar vs. State of Haryana3, this Court dealt 3 (2003) 11 SCC 241 232 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R.