This Court, reiterated the same principles laid down in the Wednesbury case. The relevant extracts from the said is reproduced hereunder:- D “Lord Greene said in 1948 in the Wednesbury case [(1948) 1 KB 223 : (1947) 2 All ER 680 (CA)] that when a statute gave discretion to an administrator to take a decision, the scope of judicial review would remain limited. He said that interference was not permissible unless one or the other of the following conditions was satisfied, namely the was contrary to E law, or relevant factors were not considered, or irrelevant factors were considered; or the decision was one which no reasonable person could have taken. These principles were consistently followed in the UK and in India to judge the validity of administrative action.” F 44. The classification made by GNOIDA does not find its footing in the Land Acquisition Act, or the UP-Land Acquisition Rules, and hence is contrary to law. The said classification also suffers from not taking into account relevant considerations. The Authority, without taking into account any empirical data, or calculating any possibility of Gair- G pushtaini landowners being rendered landless or without a primary source of income, made the impugned classification. These relevant factors, by not being taken into account, can and would cause great injustice to Gair-pushtaini landowners. 11 (2001) 2 SCC 386 H 458 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 45. Further, GNOIDA, by arbitrarily classifying the landowners as Pushtaini and Gair-pushtaini on the basis of a cut-off date, have taken into account an irrelevant factor. The cut-off date by itself, without any context of the landowners on ground, is not indicative of who the most adversely affected landowners are. By not complying with these three factors while making the classification, this Court must strike down B such a classification. 46. While the Wednesbury principle has been used as a guiding principle of interpretation, the Indian Court have now adopted a much more rigorous test, i.e., is proportionality test, to see whether an administrative action can survive the rigours of Article 14. C PROPORTIONALITY TEST 47. In the case of Om Kumar (Supra), this Court held that the administrative measure must not be more drastic than is necessary for attaining the desired result. This was the first formal introduction of the D Proportionality test to Indian Jurisprudence, however the Court pointed out that the proportionality test has been used by the Indian Courts even before this . The relevant paragraphs from the said report reads as under :- E “27.The principle originated in Prussia in the nineteenth century and has since been adopted in Germany, France and other European countries. The European Court of Justice at Luxembourg and the European Court of Human Rights at Strasbourg have applied the principle while judging the validity of administrative action. But even long before that, F the Indian Supreme Court has applied the principle of “proportionality” to legislative action since 1950, as stated in detail below. 28. By “proportionality”, we mean the question whether, while regulating exercise of fundamental rights, the appropriate or G least-restrictive choice of measures has been made by the legislature or the administrator so as to achieve the object of the legislation or the purpose of the administrative , as the case may be.