(Article 19(2)). 12.4. For a country like ours which is a Parliamentary Democracy, freedom of speech and expression is a necessary right as C well as a concomitant for the purpose of not only ensuring a healthy democracy but also to ensure that the citizens could be well informed and educated on governance. The dissemination of information through various media, including print and electronic media or audio visual form, is to ensure that the citizens are enlightened about their rights and duties, D the manner in which they should conduct themselves in a democracyand for enabling a debate on the policies and actions of the Governments and ultimately for the development of the Indian society in an egalitarian way. 12.5. The right to freedom of speech and expression in Article E 19(1)(a) of the Constitution has its genesis in the Preamble of the Constitution which, inter alia, speaks of liberty of thought, expression, belief. Since, India is a sovereign democratic republic and we follow a parliamentary system of democracy, liberty of thought and expression is a F significant freedom and right under our constitutional setup. 12.6. This Court has, since the enforcement of the Constitution, been zealously upholding the right to freedom of speech and expression in innumerable s which may be highlighted with reference to a few of them. G i) In Romesh Thappar vs. State of Madras, AIR 1950 SC 124, 1950 SCC 436, (“Romesh Thappar”)while highlighting that the freedom of speech is the foundation of all democratic organisations, held that said freedom would also H 732 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A include the right to freedom of the press. This highlighted that the free flow of opinion and ideas is necessary to sustain collective life of the well informed citizenry which is a sine qua non for effective governance. B ii) In S. Khushboo vs. Kanniammal, (2010) 5 SCC 600, (“Khushboo”) this Court held that the freedom under Article 19(1)(a) envisaged dissemination of all kinds of views, both popular as well as unpopular. iii) Recently in Shreya Singhal vs. Union of India, C (2015) 5 SCC 1, (“Shreya Singhal”) this Court speaking through Nariman, J. highlighted on the differences between the US First Amendment and Article 19(1)(a) read with Article 19(2) in the following words: “15. It is significant to notice first the differences D between the US First Amendment and Article 19(1)(a) read with Article 19(2). The first important difference is the absoluteness of the US First Amendment—Congress shall make no law which abridges the freedom of speech. Second, whereas E the US First Amendment speaks of freedom of speech and of the press, without any reference to “expression”, Article 19(1)(a) speaks of freedom of speech and expression without any reference to “the press”. Third, under the US Constitution, speech may be abridged, whereas F under our Constitution, reasonable restrictions may be imposed. Fourth, under our Constitution such restrictions have to be in the interest of eight designated subject-matters—that is, any law seeking to impose a restriction on the freedom of G speech can only pass muster if it is proximately related to any of the eight subject-matters set out in Article 19(2).” It was further observed that insofar as the first apparent difference is concerned, the United States Supreme Court H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS.