The vendee would acquired full right title over the afore said land E after the expiry of stipulated period and the vendors would have no option or right there after to interfere with respect to the right title and possession of the vendee and the vendee would have been on liberty to mutate his name in place of vendors and utilize the land as per her choice if any interference is made by the F vendors or their heirs would be illegal by the court and the vendors would be entitle to bear the cost and damages”. (emphasis supplied) 12.The relevant clauses in the Gift Deed are extracted hereinbelow:- G “I, the executant, am in possession of the above-mentioned property. I am in old age now and God knows when this life will come to an end. That beneficiary of this document is the Potehu (daughter-in-law) of the executant. She takes care of me, the executant and I am happy with her care. Therefore, I have decided H INDIRA DEVI v. VEENA GUPTA & ORS. 379 [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] to gift my entire property to her and make her owner of my all the A properties like me. …….. Only some property, as mentioned at column No. 5, has been given to Smt. Indira Devi through sale deed dated 5.8.1977. No B other document regarding these properties has been executed. …… She can also take the possession of property sold to Indra Devi and Malti Devi by purchasing the same from her. Now she will get all the rights which I was enjoying till date in respect of above- C mentioned property.” 13.The civil suit was filed by late Kishori Lal Sahu and Veena Gupta against Kaleshwar Prasad and Indira Devi. The primary relief which has been pressed by the plaintiff is extracted below:- “(a) A decree for specific performance of contract be D passed in favour of the plaintiff first party and the defendant first be directed to take 5000/- from the plaintiff first party and the defendant second party be directed to execute and register a sale deed with respect to the suit house detailed in Schedule-I below in favour of the plaintiff first party and put E the plaintiff first party in possession and on failure of the defendants to do so, the court may be pleased to execute and register a sale deed in favour of the plaintiff first party on behalf of defendant second party and a decree for recovery of possession be passed and the plaintiff first party be put in possession by delivery of possession through court by F dispossessing the defendants or anybody else whosoever be found in possession on behalf of the defendant second party.” 14. As has already been noticed, the Trial Court as well as the first Appellate Court had dismissed the suit whereas the High Court had reversed the findings and decreed the same. G LEGAL POSITION 15.The issue was considered by this Court in T.M. Balakrishna Mudaliar (supra) wherein reference was made to earlier of Privy Council in Sakalaguna Nayudu v. Chinna Munuswami H 380 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R.