On the contrary, if the parties have had access to each other at the relevant point of time, the fate of the question relating to legitimacy is sealed. [Paras 17, 21 and 22][732-E; 735-A-D] 1.2 In the case on hand, the very pleading of the respondent F in his petition for divorce before the Family Court is that the second child-Master ‘X’ was born on 17.7.2013 and that the respondent came to know about the alleged adulterous behavior of the appellant herein, only on 14.9.2016. The pleading of the respondent to the effect that after September 2016, he has had G no physical relationship with the appellant-wife means that he has at least had access to the wife both at the time when the child was begotten and for a full period of three years even thereafter. Therefore, the conclusive proof under Section 112 has actually come into play in this case. [Paras 24, 25][735-F; 736-A-B] H APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 691 1.3 The stage at which the wife may refuse to subject the A child to DNA, would arise only after the Court comes to the conclusion that a DNA test should be ed. [Para 26][736-C] 1.4 An adverse inference, in law, can be drawn only against the person who refuses to answer a question. In the case on hand, the appellant has a dual role to play, namely, that of the B respondent’s wife and that of Master X’s mother. If the appellant does or refuses to do something, for the purpose of deriving a benefit to herself, an adverse inference can be drawn against her. But in her capacity as a mother and natural guardian if the appellant refuses to subject the child to DNA test for the protection of the C interests and welfare of the child, no adverse inference of adultery can be drawn against her. By refusing to subject the child to DNA test, she is actually protecting the best interests of the child. For protecting the best interests of the child, the appellant-wife may be rewarded, but not punished with an adverse inference. By taking recourse to Section 114(h), the respondent cannot throw D the appellant to a catch-22 situation. Therefore, Section 114(h) has no application to a case where a mother refuses to make the child undergo DNA test. What comes out of a DNA test, as the main product, is the paternity of the child, which is subjected to a test. Incidentally, the adulterous conduct of the wife also stands E established, as a by-product, through the very same process. Section 114 uses only the word “may” and not the word “shall”. Therefore, the constraints articulated in the exposition to Illustration (h) under Section 114 may dissuade the Court not to presume at all. Hence, the contention of the respondent that what is sought to be invoked is only Section 114(h) and not Section F 112 is rejected. [Paras 28-32][736-F-H; 737-A-E] 2. The question as to whether a DNA test should be permitted on the child, is to be analysed through the prism of the child and not through the prism of the parents.