[DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] be reasonably presumed that the Government has applied its mind to all relevant facts; thus, if the maximum period of detention has been imposed, it cannot be said that the Government did not apply its mind to the period of detention. It was also held that in any event section 11 enables revocation and/or modifi cation of the by the Government at any time and in the circumstances, the appellant was in the least prejudiced. The concurring also took the same view that the authority is not required to give any special reason either for fi xing a shorter period or for fi xing the maximum period prescribed under section 10. 69. Much water has fl own under the bridge since then. It is no longer the law that an administrative authority is under an obligation to give a reasoned decision only if the statute under which it is acting requires it to assign reasons. On the contrary, it is only in cases where the requirement has been dispensed with expressly or by necessary implication that an administrative authority is relieved of the obligation to record reasons. Further, the presumption of offi cial acts having been validly performed cannot be pressed into service for upholding the period for which the detention would continue if the of detention itself suff ers from an illegality rendering it unsustainable. That apart, the reasoning of no prejudice being suff ered by the detenu because a power of revocation/modifi cation is available to the Government would not be of any consolation if such power were not exercised at all. In such a case, the prejudice would be writ large. The decision in Vijay Kumar(supra) is, therefore, distinguishable. 70. Viewed reasonably, the period of detention ought to necessarily vary depending upon the facts and circumstances of each case and cannot be uniform in all cases. The objective sought to be fulfi lled in each case, whether is sub-served by continuing detention for the maximum period, ought to bear some refl ection in the of detention; or else, the Government could be accused of unreasonableness and unfairness. Detention being a restriction on the invaluable right to personal liberty of an individual and if the same were to be continued for the maximum period, it would be eminently just and desirable that such restriction on personal liberty, in the least, refl ects an approach that meets the test of Article 14. We, however,refrain from pronouncing here that an of detention, otherwise held legal and valid, could be invalidated only on the 1002 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. ground of absence of any indication therein as to why the detention has been continued for the maximum period. That situation does not arise here and is left for a decision in an appropriate case. 71. Both Mr. Luthra and Mr. Dave have referred us the recent decision of a 3-Judges Bench of this Court in the case of Pesala Nookaraju vs. The Government of Andhra Pradesh31, where an of detention passed in exercise of power conferred by the Andhra Pradesh Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Boot-leggers, Dacoits, Drug Off enders, Goondas, Immoral Traffi c Off enders and Land Grabbers Act, 1986 (“1986 Act”, hereafter) was upheld despite the detenu having obtained s of bail upon arrest in connection with investigation of 4 (four) F.I.R.s under sections 7B and 8B of the Andhra Pradesh Prohibition Act, 1995.