Subsequent to the decision in Rudul Sah, compensatory relief has been granted as a means to ‘civilize public power’in several cases involving abrogation of Fundamental Rights, [See for instance, Sabastian M. F Hongray vs. Union of India, A.I.R. 1984 SC 1026; Bhim Singh, MLA vs. State of Jammu and Kashmir, A.I.R. 1986 SC 494.] 55. In Nilabati Behera vs. State of Orissa, (1993) 2 SCC 746, this Court observed that the award of compensation in a proceeding under Article 32 or Article 226 of the Constitution is a remedy available G in public law based on strict liability for contravention of fundamental rights. In respect of such actions, the doctrine of sovereign immunity does not apply, though it may be available as a defence in a private law in an action based on tort. Drawing a distinction between proceedings under the private and public law, it was observed that a public law proceeding may serve a different purpose than a private law proceeding. H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 797 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Public law proceedings are based on the concept of strict liability for A contravention of guarantee basic and indivisible rights of the citizens by the State. The purpose of public law is not only to civilise governmental power and but also to assure the citizens that they live under a legal system which gains to protect their interest and preserve their rights. Therefore, when the court moulds the relief by granting compensation, B in proceedings under Article 32 and Article 226 of the Constitution seeking enforcement or protection of fundamental rights, it does so under public law by way of employing elements of the law of torts and fixing the liability on the State which has been negligent and has failed in its public duty to protect the fundamental rights of the citizens. The payment of compensation under such cases is not to be understood as it is generally C understood in a civil action for damages under private law, but in the broader sense of providing relief by ing monetary amounts to be paid for the wrong done due to breach of public duty which would have the effect of violation of fundamental rights of citizens. Such grant of damages in exercise of a writ jurisdiction by the constitutional courts is D independent of the rights available to the aggrieved party to claim compensation under private law in an action based on tort. Therefore, a suit may be instituted in a competent court of law or proceedings may be initiated to prosecute the offender under the penal law. 56. Though, in D.K.Basu vs. State of West Bengal, (1997) 1 E SCC 416 monetary compensation was granted, in Hindustan Paper Corporation Ltd. vs. Ananta Bhattacharjee, (2004) 6 SCC 213 this Court cautioned that a direction to pay compensation under Article 226 of the Constitution is permissible as a public law remedy and resorted to only when there is a violation by the State or its agents acting in official capacity of the fundamental right guaranteed by Article 21 of the F Constitution, and not otherwise.