c. The facts in Honey Preet Insan are peculiar to the extent that the relief of interim protection was denied because the applicant was at large and had categorically refused to join investigation. d. At this juncture it may be noted that the aforementioned approach was supported by the Justice V.S. Malimath Committee’s Report on Reforms in Criminal Justice System. In section 7.33, page 121, the Committee had proposed that provision regarding anticipatory bail may be retained subject to two conditions: that the Court would hear the Public Prosecutor; and that the petition for anticipatory bail should be heard only by the Court of competent jurisdiction. e. Another set of judgements, such as of the Delhi High Court in Surya Pratap Singh, Allahabad High Court in Ajay Agarwal, Amita Garg, Bombay High Court in Teesta Atul Setalvad, Nikita Jacob and Manda Suresh Parulekar, highlight the transit anticipatory bail approach. In these cases, the High Court granted transit bail and ruled that the grant of protection from arrest beyond the local limits of their jurisdiction is limited to the extent of consideration of bail for the transitional period. In other words, the High Courts in their respective judgement has read the scheme of administration of criminal justice and the provision for anticipatory bail in a conjoint sense, thereby PRIYA INDORIA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA AND ORS. 569 ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] limiting the relief of extra-territorial anticipatory bail to a defi nite interim period. f. Another line of s namely, by the Delhi High Court in Pritam Singh; Kerala High Court in C.L. Mathew; Bombay High Court in N.K. Nayar; Calcutta High Court In Re:Benod Ranjan Sinha and Karnataka High Court in L.R. Naidu and Gameskraft Technologies have read the expression ‘the High Court or the Court of Session’ in Section 438 of CrPC as diff erent and disjoint from the general scheme of criminal procedure, thereby deciding in favor of grant of protection from arrest to remove the apprehension of arrest at a particular place, irrespective of the territorial jurisdiction to take cognizance of the criminal off ence in question. The constitutional imperative of safeguarding personal liberty was emphasised and it was noted that a person may apprehend arrest at a place including at a place other than the one within the jurisdiction in which an alleged off ence has been committed. The High Courts in their respective s adverted to the lack of legislative qualifi cation of the expression ‘the High Court or the Court of Session’ to mean that it extends to any High Court or Court of Session in whose jurisdiction an arrest is apprehended by a person against whom an FIR has been fi led. Position of law overseas: 19. Article 9 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 1948 establishes that “no one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention or exile.” Article 10 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights of the United Nations, 1966 establishes that “all persons deprived of their liberty shall be treated with humanity and with respect for the inherent dignity of the human person”.