Consequently, since at the commencement of 2015 Act the proceedings of the present appellant were pending before the High Court (the appeal was decided on 07.05.2019), Section 25 of the 2015 Act would be attracted. It would mean that what would be applicable in the present case would be the 2007 Rules, including Rule 12 which we have referred above. This aspect has also been examined in great detail in Hariram v. State of Rajasthan and Another (2009) 13 SCC 211. 25. In other words, what would be applicable in the present case regarding the determination of the age of the appellant would be the 2000 Act and the Rules framed therein i.e., 2007 rules. Rule 12 has an important bearing in the present case, which we have already referred above. The fi rst document under the 2007 Rules which has to be considered for PAWAN KUMAR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 275 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] determination of the age of a person who is claiming juvenility is the matriculation certifi cate and the settled position here is that the appellant had not done his matriculation and there is no question of the appellant having such a certifi cate. The other document which then becomes relevant is the school leaving certifi cate of Primary School, Bhatgawan, which is also his certifi cate of age. 26. One important aspect which was missed by the High Court as well as the Additional Sessions Judge in his report dated 28.02.2022, was the provisions of Rule 12 of the 2007 Rules which are applicable for determination of age in the present case and, in particular, the provision under sub-rule (3)(b) of Rule 12 which states that “in the case exact assessment of the age cannot be done, the Court or the Board or, as the case may be, the committee for the reasons to be recorded by them, may, if considered necessary give benefi t to the child or juvenile by considering his/her age on lower side within the margin of one year”. We are of the considered view that in the present case, even assuming for the sake of argument that there were some confl icting aspects as to the age of the appellant but since the margin of age was so thin, the aforesaid benefi t ought to have been given to the appellant. 27. From perusal of the report dated 28.09.2022 the following facts emerge. The appellant had attended three schools during his life time. The fi rst was the Primary School at Bhatgawan in Barabanki. The second was High School, Kamela, Barabanki and the third was National Inter College, Ranapur, Barabanki (in chronological ). The admitted position is that the appellant had not completed his matriculation at the time of the incident in the year 1995 and therefore the only evidence he could place before the authorities was the copy of the admission register of National Inter College and the transfer certifi cate of the college, which had recorded his date of birth to be 05.07.1980.