Customs Act – ss.7(a), 57 – Indian Ports Act, 1908 – Major Port Trust Act, 1964 – s. 35 – Held: Every port falling under the Indian Port Act and the Major Port Act may not be on their own become a customs port – A customs port u/s.2(12) comes into being D on a port being appointed as such u/s.7(a) – The case of the appellant based on the license u/s.57 of the Customs Act may make it a customs area as it includes a warehouse but, it is inconceivable as to how it would transform it into ‘in a notified port’ – Environment Protection Act, 1986. E Partly allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 The Central Government declared certain areas as Coastal Regulation Zone (‘CRZ’). The CRZ in the First Clause consists of the land area from high tide line to 500 meters on the land along the sea front. The High Tide line is the line based on F the highest water mark during the spring tide. We may only further notice that among the other 4 categories of CRZ, the CRZ includes the water and the bed area between the LTL (LOW TIDE LINE)(which line is based on the lowest height of the water body during the spring tide) to the territorial water limit (12 nautical G miles) in the case of the sea and the water bed and area between the LTL at the bank to the LTL on the opposite of the bank of the tidal influenced water bodies. CRZ has been classified under para 7 into CRZ I, CRZ II, CRZ III, CRZ IV and CRZ V. This Court is concerned with CRZ II. Paragraph-3 provides for prohibited activities within CRZ. This Court may notice that it is divided H 248 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A into 14 categories and the noticeable feature is that certain exceptions to the prohibitions are also declared. Of relevance to the cases before us, are certain Clauses in paragraph-3. [Paras 21 and 22][262-F-H; 263-A-B, E] 1.2 Paragraph-3(xi) provides for prohibition of construction B activity in CRZ1 except those specified in para 8 of the notification. This Court need not be detained with various others clauses. Regulation 4 deals with permissible activities in CRZ area. It is declared that activities which are enumerated under paragraph-4 shall be regulated except those prohibited in paragraph-3. This means what is prohibited in paragraph-3 cannot C either be permitted or regulated within the meaning of paragraph- 4. Since Clause 2 of paragraph-4 provides that the activities described thereunder would require clearance from MoEF, the question would arise as to whether for the other activities, which are permissible, does it require clearance? Paragraph-4.2 D provides the answer. It provides for the procedure for clearance of permissible activities. Various formalities have to be undergone. Originally, the 2011 notification did not provide for any ex post facto approval. It is in the year 2018, i.e., on 09.03.2018 that paragraph-4.3 came to be inserted in the 2011 Notification.