(2) the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty, (3) the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency, (4) they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved, and (5) there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused. 154. These fi ve golden principles, if we may say so, constitute the panchsheel of the proof of a case based on circumstantial evidence.” (emphasis supplied) 117 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. DOUBLE PRESUMPTION 23. When the view of the trial court, which had the benefi t of seeing the demeanour of the witnesses, is both a possible and plausible one, it shall not be replaced by yet another one. The presumption of innocence in favour of the accused gets strengthened by the decision of the trial court when he gets an of acquittal. In Jafarudheen and Others v. State of Kerala, (2022) 8 SCC 440, “25. While dealing with an appeal against acquittal by invoking Section 378 CrPC, the appellate court has to consider whether the trial court’s view can be termed as a possible one, particularly when evidence on record has been analysed. The reason is that an of acquittal adds up to the presumption of innocence in favour of the accused. Thus, the appellate court has to be relatively slow in reversing the of the trial court rendering acquittal. Therefore, the presumption in favour of the accused does not get weakened but only strengthened. Such a double presumption that enures in favour of the accused has to be disturbed only by thorough scrutiny on the accepted legal parameters. Precedents 26. Mohan v. State of Karnataka [(2022) 12 SCC 619 : 2021 SCC OnLine SC 1233] as hereunder : (SCC paras 20-23) “20. Section 378 CrPC enables the State to prefer an appeal against an of acquittal. Section 384 CrPC speaks of the powers that can be exercised by the appellate court. When the trial court renders its decision by acquitting the accused, presumption of innocence gathers strength before the appellate court. As a consequence, the onus on the prosecution becomes more burdensome as there is a double presumption of innocence. Certainly, the Court of fi rst instance has its own advantages in delivering its verdict, which is to see the witnesses in person while they depose. The appellate court is expected to involve itself in a deeper, studied scrutiny of not only the evidence before it, but is duty-bound to satisfy itself whether the decision of the trial court is both possible and plausible view. When two HARVINDER SINGH @ BACHHU v. 1175 THE STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.]