Raj Kumar (PW4), a tenant of the first floor, during investigation, stated that C Santosh @ Bhure resided in that apartment with one Hari Om who had left a week prior to the incident, and on 11.09.2000, at about 9.00 p.m., he saw the deceased playing cards and having liquor with Santosh and Neeraj in that apartment. D (ii) On 20.09.2000 police party visited Etawah, the native place of Santosh @ Bhure, but could not find him there. However, the accused persons surrendered before the concerned Court at Tis Hazari on 23.09.2000. On getting information of their surrender, the police moved an application for their E custody and got three days’ police custody of both the accused. (iii) As per prosecution, two disclosure/confessional statements were made by each of the two accused during police custody; the first, dated 23.09.2000, resulted in no discovery, F whereas the second, dated 25.09.2000, resulted in recovery of a knife/dagger at the instance of Neeraj and blood-stained clothes, carrying blood of same group as of the deceased, at the instance of Santosh @ Bhure. (iv) On basis of the materials so collected, both the accused G were charge-sheeted. After taking cognizance on the police report, the matter was committed to the Court of Session. The Court charged them for offences punishable under sections 302/34 and 120-B IPC. (v) During the course of trial, 29 prosecution witnesses were examined and various documents in respect of seizure of H 732 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A articles, forensic reports, autopsy report, etc. were produced and exhibited. (vi) As there existed no eye witness account of the murder, the prosecution sought to rely on circumstances, enumerated in paragraph 49 of the Trial Court’s , extracted B below: “49. …… i. tenancy and the residence of accused Santosh @ Bhure on the second floor of House No.D-156, JJ Colony, Khyala; C ii. Hari Om residing with accused Santosh @ Bhure in the tenanted premises and leaving the premises about one week before the incident; iii. presence of deceased Hari Shankar at the residence of accused Santosh @ Bhure; D iv. recovery of dead body of Hari Shankar from the second floor of House No.D-156, JJ Colony, Khyala and its identification; v. recovery of the letter, Ex.PW15/G from the pocket of the pant which the deceased was wearing and its E seizure; vi. seizure of exhibits from the place of crime; vii. post-mortem on the body of the deceased and the report; F viii. arrest of accused Santosh @ Bhure and Neeraj; ix. disclosure statements of the accused persons and the recovery of the exhibits at their instance; x. specimen hand-writing and signature of accused Neeraj and sending of the letter, Ex.PW15/G and G the specimen hand-writing and signature of the accused to the handwriting expert of FSL and its report; xi. opinion of the autopsy surgeon about the use of the recovered knife and causing injuries on the person of deceased; H SANTOSH @ BHURE v. STATE (G.N.C.T.)