In Abhiram Singh v. C.D. Commachen (DEAD) by Legal E Representatives and others59, a Bench of seven learned Judges of this Court had to interpret the word ‘his’ in Section 123 of the Representation of the People Act. By a 4:3 majority, this Court held that the word ‘his’ in Section 123(3) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, for the purpose of maintaining the purity of the electoral process, must be given a broad and purposive interpretation so that any appeal made to an elector F by a candidate or his agent or by any other person with the consent of the candidate or his election agent, to vote or refrain from voting, inter alia, on the grounds of religion and caste, would constitute a corrupt practice. Dr. T.S. Thakur, C.J., wrote a concurring and we find it apposite to notice the following passage from his on the G importance of India being a secular country and about according any particular religion, special privileges, being a violation of the basic principles of democracy: “35. At the outset, we may mention that while considering the mischief sought to be suppressed by clauses (2), (3) and (3-A) of H 59(2017) 2 SCC 629 ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 143 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Section 123 of the Act, this Court observed in Ziyauddin A Burhanuddin Bukhari v. Brijmohan Ramdass Mehra [Ziyauddin Burhanuddin Bukhari v. Brijmohan Ramdass Mehra, (1976) 2 SCC 17, decided by a Bench of three learned Judges.] that the historical, political and constitutional background of our democratic set-up needed adverting to. In this context, it was said that our Constitution-makers intended a secular democratic republic where B differences should not be permitted to be exploited. … 62. … Dr Radhakrishnan, the noted statesman/philosopher had to say about India being a secular State in the following passage: “When India is said to be a secular State, it does not mean that C we reject reality of an unseen spirit or the relevance of religion to life or that we exalt irreligion. It does not mean that secularism itself becomes a positive religion or that the State assumes divine prerogatives. Though faith in the Supreme is the basic principle of the Indian tradition, the Indian State will not identify itself with or be controlled by any particular religion. We hold that no one religion D should be given preferential status, or unique distinction, that no one religion should be accorded special privileges in national life or international relations for that would be a violation of the basic principles of democracy and contrary to the best interests of religion and Government. This view of religious impartiality, of comprehension and forbearance, has a prophetic role to play E within the national and international life. No group of citizens shall arrogate to itself rights and privileges, which it denies to others. No person should suffer any form of disability or discrimination because of his religion but all like should be free to share to the fullest degree in the common life.