[2023] 1 S.C.R. 279 279 JOHN ANTHONISAMY @ JOHN A v. STATE, REP. BY THE INSPECTOR OF POLICE (Criminal Appeal No. 466 of 2017) JANUARY 19, 2023 B [M. R. SHAH AND C.T RAVIKUMAR, JJ.] Penal Code, 1860 – s.302 r/w s.201 – Murder – Circumstantial evidence – Purported extra-judicial confession – Effect – Five accused including appellant (A-1) – Prosecution case that in C pursuance of a conspiracy, the accused persons killed the deceased and stole/took away his car – PW11 (Sub inspector) closed the case as undetected – However, case was subsequently re-opened and investigation initiated by police witness (PW30) on basis of confessional statement made in letter allegedly written by appellant to PW22 – Trial Court convicted appellant u/s.302 r/w s.201 IPC – D Conviction confirmed by High Court – Challenge to – Held: It was contended by appellant that he was convicted on confessional statement in his letter /communication to PW22 and the instant case being a case of circumstantial evidence, therefore, unless and until the complete chain of events were proved and established, he could E not have been convicted on confessional statement – However, High Court did not give much weightage so far as the letter /communication by appellant addressed to PW22 is concerned and therefore, it cannot be said that appellant was convicted on the confessional statement made in the letter /communication concerned – Further, as rightly observed by the High Court, by other circumstances the F prosecution established and proved that the deceased was killed after his car was stolen/taken away by the appellant – First strong circumstance against the appellant was that the dead body was exhumed from the place identified by appellant and super imposition test and DNA examination proved that the dead body was that of the deceased – Second strong circumstance against the appellant G was that the car was recovered from the place and the person disclosed by the appellant – Another circumstance against the appellant was that the car engine and gear box sold by him was recovered from PW-17 on disclosure statement made by appellant – Conviction of appellant accordingly confirmed. H 279 280 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Dismissing the appeal, the Court HELD : 1. It is the case on behalf of the appellant that he has been convicted on the confessional statement and therefore, in case of circumstantial evidence and unless and until the complete chain of events were proved and established, he could not have been convicted on confessional statement. However, B the so-called communication by the appellant addressed to PW- 22 is as such not believed by the High Court being secondary evidence and the same has not been proved. Therefore, as such the High Court has not given much weightage so far as the letter/ communication is concerned. Therefore, it cannot be said that the appellant has been convicted on the confessional statement C made in the letter /communication. [Para 6.1][286-E-H; 287-A] 2. During investigation, appellant disclosed the place where he had buried the dead body of the deceased.