In fact, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has formulated guidelines which regulate all banks’ conduct in regard to the LRD facilities and they extends to a class of borrowers who own commercial properties. 30. It would also be relevant at this stage to notice that clauses 1 and 4(c) and (j) of the Assignment Agreement categorically set aside the rents payable to IL&FS, in favour of the assignee, i.e. the lender bank. Furthermore, the Escrow Agreement records (through clause 2) that all receivables to which the borrower would be entitled would be deposited in the escrow account. Furthermore, the lessees or tenants of the properties owned by the borrower be instructed to pay such an amount in the escrow account itself. Clause 4(c) of the Escrow Agreement is more categorical; it authorizes only the lender (i.e., HDFC) to instruct the escrow bank to transfer the amounts and permits the bank to appropriate amounts towards adjustment arising out of the Facility liability. In the same line, the General Power of Attorney (GPA) document (especially clauses 2 and 5) categorically entitles the lender/HDFC to appropriate the proceeds deposited towards the discharge of the borrower’s liability under the Facility. Clause 5 similarly entitles access to the lease rent. Furthermore, the bank/lender virtually steps into the shoes of the borrower and by the terms of the GPA is also authorized to let out the premises in case due to an unforeseen situation an existing lessee or tenant vacates it or is unable to pay. 31. The borrower is correct in arguing that the expression LRD is nowhere used in any of the documents executed at the time. Yet, as discussed earlier in the , it is the nature and substance of the transaction which is determinative. An application of the rule that all the contemporaneous documents are to be read together, to discern the true purport of the contract, it is evident that what the parties intended was the assignment of the debt, i.e., the rents payable. 105 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 32. It would at this stage, be necessary to consider whether such amounts payable on a future date are to be considered property and, therefore, capable of transfer. Under the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, Section 5 states generally that all manner of property is capable of transfer. Section 6 lays out what are the kinds of properties or actions which are not transferable: these are “personal claims” in the nature of tortious claims and “choices in action” cannot be transferred. 33. “Actionable claim” is defi ned by the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (hereafter “TPA”) in the following manner: “Section 3 Interpretation clause…. “actionable claim” means a claim to any debt, other than a debt secured by mortgage of immoveable property or by hypothecation or pledge of moveable property, or to any benefi cial interest in moveable property not in the possession, either actual or constructive, of the claimant, which the Civil Courts recognise as aff ording grounds for relief, whether such debt or benefi cial interest be existent, accuring, conditional or contingent:” Thus, in terms of Section 3 of the TPA, actionable claim means (a) claim to an unsecured debt (other than a debt secured by mortgage of immovable property, hypothecation or pledge (b) benefi cial interest in a movable property.