Even if there is a requisition and a good case for extradition, Government is not bound to accede to the request. It is given an unfettered right to refuse. Section 3(1) of the Extradition Act says— ”the Central Government may, if it thinks fit”. Therefore, if it chooses not to comply with the request, the F person against whom the request is made cannot insist that it should. The right is not his; and the fact that a request has been made does not fetter the discretion of Government to choose the less cumbrous procedure of the Foreigners Act when a foreigner is concerned, provided always, that in G that event the person concerned leaves India a free man. If no choice had been left to the Government, the position would have been different but as Government is given the right to choose, no question of want of good faith can arise merely because it exercises the right of choice which the H ANUSHKA RENGUNTHWAR & ORS. v. UNION OF INDIA & 283 ORS. law confers. This line of attack on the good faith of A Government falls to the ground.” 33. In to contend that the classification made is valid, the learned Additional Solicitor General has referred to the decision in; (i) AIR 1952 SC 75 State of W.B. Vs. Anwar Ali Sarkar as B hereunder: “63.In to appreciate this contention, it is necessary to state shortly the scope of Article 14 of the Constitution. It is designed to prevent any person or class of persons from being singled out as a special subject for discriminatory C and hostile legislation. Democracy implies respect for the elementary rights of man, however suspect or unworthy. Equality of right is a principle of republicanism and Article 14 enunciates this equality principle in the administration of justice. In its application to legal proceedings the Article assures to everyone the same rules of evidence and modes D of procedure. In other words, the same rule must exist for all in similar circumstances. This principle, however, does not mean that every law must have universal application for all persons who are not by nature, attainment or circumstance, in the same position. E 64. By the process of classification the State has the power of determining who should be regarded as a class for purposes of legislation and in relation to a law enacted on a particular subject. This power, no doubt, in some degree is likely to produce some inequality; but if a law deals with the liberties of a number of well-defined classes, it is not F open to the charge of denial of equal protection on the ground that it has no application to other persons. The classification permissible, however, must be based on some real and substantial distinction bearing a just and reasonable relation to the objects sought to be attained and cannot be made G arbitrarily and without any substantial basis. Classification thus means segregation in classes which have a systematic relation, usually found in common properties and characteristics.