Yet, the framework of such policies or regulations, expressed in favour of those in matrimonial relationships, results in denial of entitlements/benefi ts, despite the professional abilities and contributions which such individuals might to society. 115. The objective of many of these laws or schemes is to confer or provide entitlements based on individual earning and contribution. For example, provident fund is payable due to the employee’s personal contribution and their status as an employee, directly fl owing from the functions discharged. Similarly, the objective of entitlement of benefi ts under the Employee State Insurance Act, and other such insurance related schemes or welfare measures (such as the Workman’s Compensation Act), fl ow from the individual status, work, and eff ort of the concerned employee. Major part of these benefi ts, or all of them, fl ow in the event of certain eventualities such as fatal accident, or death. The design of these statutes and schemes, is to enable both the concerned subscriber or employee (in the event of infi rmity or termination of employment) to receive them, or in an unforeseen event such as death, for his dependents to receive them. The restrictive way in which ‘dependent’ or ‘nominee(s)’ are defi ned (‘spouse’, or members of the family in a heteronormative manner) exclude their enjoyment to the intended benefi ciary. 149 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 116. This deprivation has to be addressed. That these can be magnifi ed, can be illustrated by a few examples. For instance, a queer couple might live together as spouses (without legal recognition)- even for two decades. If one of them passes away in a motor vehicle accident, the surviving partner would not only be unable to get any share of the deceased partner’s estate, but also any portion of the compensation. In case the union was not with approval of their respective families, who might have ostracised or broken relationship with them, the result would be injustice, because the surviving spouse, who shared life and cared for the deceased partner, especially during hard times, would be completely excluded from enjoying any benefi ts - all of which would go to the family members of the deceased (who may have even boycotted them). The same result would occur, in the event of death of one partner; family pension and death benefi ts would be denied to the queer partner. This injustice and inequity results in discrimination, unless remedial action is taken by the state and central governments. 117. It is relevant to record a note of caution at this juncture. While the right to marry or have a legally recognised marriage is only statutory, the right to cohabit and live in a relationship in the privacy of one’s home is fundamental, and enjoyed by all. This is not to say that the latter, is unqualifi ed or without restriction. Rather, that the latter, is a right aff orded to all, irrespective of the State’s recognition of the relationship or status, as in the case of ‘married’ couples.