117. Parliament was conscious of the limiting and restrictive character of the Special Marriage Act 1872 and enacted the SMA in 1954, which was a more permissive legislation in that any two persons could marry, without having to repudiate their respective religions. By stipulating that “a marriage between any two persons may be solemnized under this Act,”106 the SMA also set out a mechanism for inter-caste marriages to be solemnized independent of personal law. 118. The families or relatives of couples who entered into inter-caste or interfaith marriages would frequently infl ict violence upon them, even 106 Section 4, SMA SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1313 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] to the extent of brutally murdering them. Their communities would either ordain or participate in these atrocities. Such murders are colloquially referred to as “honour killings” and are more accurately termed as caste- based murders. It is a most unfortunate truth that this culture of violence persists to date. Couples who face this opprobrium have knocked on the doors of this Court inter alia seeking protection from their families and others who oppose their relationship107 and this Court has otherwise been seized of cases arising from violence in this context.108 In Shakti Vahini v. Union of India,109 this Court took note of the violence against couples in inter-caste and interfaith marriages. It directed the state machinery to take preventive as well as remedial measures to protect such couples who wished to marry or who were recently married. 119. It is beyond dispute that couples in inter-caste and interfaith relationships have historically been forced to contend with and continue to contend with enormous diffi culty while solemnizing their unions. As evident from the discussion in the preceding paragraph, large sections of society were and are fi ercely opposed to such marriages. The opposition stems, at least in part, from a belief that a marriage ought to consist of two individuals from the same religion or caste. Parliament chose to enact the SMA despite the opposition to atypical marriages and has not chosen to repeal the SMA or otherwise exclude the celebration of inter- caste marriages under personal laws despite continuing hostility from the communities of such couples. Parliament has presumably done so because it is cognizant of the fact that the exercise of fundamental rights is not contingent upon the approval of the community. Similarly, this Court has carried out the constitutional mandate by protecting the rights of individuals and couples in the face of considerable opposition from their families. In a democracy, certain rights inhere in all individuals. If the exercise of rights was contingent upon everyone else or, at least a substantial portion of the community approving of such exercise, we would be doing a disservice to a constitutional democracy. The Constitution does 107 See, for instance, Lata Singh v. State of U.P., (2006) 5 SCC 475. 108 See, for instance, Gang-Rape ed by Village Kangaroo Court in W.B., In re, (2014) 4 SCC 786; Vikas Yadav v. State of U.P., (2016) 9 SCC 541.