This is itself indicative that neither the interpretation clause nor the defi nition clause can be used to substantively alter any of the provisions of the Constitution. 389. It is trite law that there is no bar on legislative bodies defi ning a word or term in an ‘interpretation’ clause artifi cially270 such that the term is stretched or shrunk or otherwise given an artifi cial projection to make it more meaningful or to subserve the objective of the statute.271 The fundamental diff erence between a Constituent Assembly and a Legislative Assembly renders the modifi cation of Article 367 a modifi cation of Article 370(3), which has an eff ect that is appreciable and substantive. The diff erence is of a magnitude as to change the essential character of the proviso to Article 370. While the ‘interpretation’ clause can be used to defi ne or give meaning to particular terms, it cannot be deployed to amend a provision by bypassing the specifi c procedure laid down for its amendment. This would defeat the purpose of having a procedure for making an amendment. 390. The consequence of permitting amendments through the circuitous manner would be disastrous. Many provisions of the Constitution would be susceptible to amendments which evade the procedure stipulated by Article 368 or other provisions. For instance, Articles 243D, 243T, 330 and 332 provide for the reservation of seats for Scheduled Castes in Panchayats, Municipalities, the Lok Sabha and the Legislative Assemblies of States respectively. Each of these provisions uses the word “shall” while prescribing reservation. This is indicative of the mandatory nature of the provision. Article 341 stipulates that the President may specify the castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within castes, races or tribes which shall be deemed to be Scheduled Castes for the purposes 270 Kishan Lal v. State of Rajasthan, 1990 Supp SCC 742; Feroze N. Dotivala v. P.M. Wadhwani, (2003) 1 SCC 433 271 CIT v. Sundaram Spinning Mills, (2000) 1 SCC 466 230 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. of the Constitution. Theoretically, can a public notifi cation which deletes all castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within them from the list of Scheduled Castes be contemplated? The consequence would be that no caste, race or tribe would be considered a Scheduled Caste for the purposes of the Constitution and the mandate of Articles 243D, 243T, 330 and 332 would be obviated without following the procedure prescribed by Article 368. Hence, amendments cannot be carried out by bypassing a procedure which has been laid down for that purpose. 391. The decision of this Court in Madhav Rao Jivaji Rao Scindia v. Union of India272 supports this interpretation. Article 291 of the Constitution stipulated that where under any covenant or agreement entered into by the Ruler of any Indian State before the commencement of the Constitution, the payment of any sums free of tax has been guaranteed or assured by the Government of the Dominion of India to any Ruler of the State as a Privy Purse, such sums would be: a. charged on and paid out of the Consolidated Fund; and b. be exempt from all taxes on income.