Dismissing the Writ Petition, the Court D HELD: 1. What is dealt with by Section 44(1)(a) of Prevention of Money-Laundering Act, 2002 is a situation where there is no complication. Section 44(1)(a) lays down the most fundamental rule relating to territorial jurisdiction, by providing that an offence punishable under Section 4 of the PMLA and any E scheduled offence connected to the same shall be triable by the Special Court constituted for the area in which the offence has been committed. It is relevant to note that Section 44(1)(a) uses the expression “offence” in three places in contradistinction to the expression “scheduled offence” used only once. This usage is not without significance. In all three places where the word F “offence” alone is used, it connotes the offence of money- laundering. The place where the expression “scheduled offence” is used, it connotes the predicate offence. By prescribing that an offence punishable under Section 4 of the PMLA and any scheduled offence connected to the same shall be triable by the G Special Court constituted for the area in which “the offence” has been committed, Section 44(1)(a) makes it crystal clear that it is the Special Court constituted under Section 43(1), which will be empowered to try even the scheduled offence connected to the same. [Para 23][903-A-D] H 894 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 2. If the Court which has taken cognizance of the scheduled offence is different from the Special Court which has taken cognizance of the offence of money-laundering, then the authority authorised to file a complaint under PMLA should make an application to the Court which has taken cognizance of the scheduled offence. On the application so filed, the Court which B has taken cognizance of the scheduled offence, should commit the case relating to the scheduled offence to the Special Court which has taken cognizance of the complaint of money-laundering. Therefore, it is clear that the trial of the scheduled offence should take place in the Special Court which has taken cognizance of C the offence of money-laundering. In other words, the trial of the scheduled offence, insofar as the question of territorial jurisdiction is concerned, should follow the trial of the offence of money- laundering and not vice versa. [Paras 24, 25][903-E-H] 3. Since the Act contemplates the trial of the scheduled D offence and the trial of the offence of money-laundering to take place only before the Special Court constituted under Section 43(1), a doubt is prone to arise as to whether all the offences are to be tried together. This doubt is sought to be removed by Explanation (i) to Section 44(1). Explanation (i) clarifies that the trial of both sets of offences by the same Court shall not be E construed as joint trial. [Para 26][904-A-B] 4. A careful dissection of clauses (a) and (c) of sub-section (1) of Section 44 shows that they confer primacy upon the Special Court constituted under Section 43(1) of the PMLA. These two clauses contain two Rules, namely, (i) that the offence punishable F under the PMLA as well as a scheduled offence connected to the same shall be triable by the Special Court constituted for the area in which the offence of money-laundering has been committed; and (ii) that if cognizance has been taken by one Court, in respect of the scheduled offence and cognizance has been taken G in respect of the offence of money-laundering by the Special Court, the Court trying the scheduled offence shall commit it to the Special Court trying the offence of money-laundering.