[2023] 3 S.C.R. 985 985 SHAH NEWAZ KHAN & ORS. A v. STATE OF NAGALAND & ORS. (Civil appeal no. 1497 of 2023) FEBRUARY 28, 2023 B [HRISHIKESH ROY AND DIPANKAR DATTA, JJ.] Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – ss.24, 25 – Constitution of India – Arts. 214, 231 – Suit – Transfer of – Appellant-plaintiff moved an application u/s. 24 of CPC before the Gauhati High Court C (Common High Court for the states of Assam, Nagaland and two other states) for an to transfer of a suit filed by appellant in the court of the District Judge, Dimapur, Nagaland to the court of the District Judge at Gauhati, Assam – High Court rejected the transfer application – In appeal before the Supreme Court, issue was: Is the Supreme Court the sole repository of power in terms of D s. 25 of the CPC to direct transfer of a suit, appeal or other proceeding from a Civil Court in one State to a Civil Court in another State? Or, is it open for a High Court, if it is the common High Court for two or more States, to entertain an application for transfer u/s. 24 of the CPC and transfer a suit, appeal or other proceeding E from a Civil Court to another Civil Court, both of which are subordinate to such High Court but situate in different States in relation to which it exercises jurisdiction, for consideration and decision – Held: A true and proper interpretation of s.25 of the CPC leads to conclusion that same applies to inter-State transfer of a suit, appeal or other proceeding where both States have a High F Court in terms of Art.214 of the Constitution and not to a transfer where both States have a common High Court under Art. 231 – Power u/s. 24 of the CPC can be exercised by the High Court even for inter-State transfer of a suit, appeal or other proceeding, if it is the common High Court for two or more States under Art. 231 of G the Constitution and both the Civil Courts (transferor and transferee) are subordinate to it – of High Court set aside – Gauhati High Court to now decide the application u/s. 24 of CPC afresh. Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – ss.24, 25 – Interpretation of – Held: A narrow interpretation of s.25 imposing a bar for H 985 986 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A entertainment of an application u/s. 24 for transfer of a suit, appeal or other proceeding by a common High Court like the Gauhati High Court inter-se the four States in relation to which it exercises jurisdiction could place a heavy burden and might pose an insurmountable obstacle for litigants of the far-flung areas of the North-East, if they were made to approach Supreme Court for such B transfer on the specious ground that the Civil Court to which the same is proposed to be transferred is in a State other than the State in which the suit has been instituted.