E 17.2. As aforesaid, we would not be re-opening any concluded matter which is not in challenge before us but, with respect, we need to observe that the directions contained in paragraph 32 of the impugned remain wholly untenable and are required to be annulled all together. In this regard, we may also observe that when there is no F provision for re-evaluation in the Statute of the University, issuance of any writ of mandamus of this nature would practically amount to issuing directions for doing something which is not provided for by law. 18. We could summarise by saying that in a given case, even if the Court is to express its dissatisfaction as regards any particular state of affairs, the circumspection requisite of the Court even as regards the G expressions cannot be forsaken; and the relief to be granted in a given case ought to remain confined to the subject-matter of litigation before the Court. Even the process of granting of ancillary or other relief or issuance of other direction cannot travel beyond the real questions in controversy before the Court. It gets perforce reiterated that one H 486 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A particular fault or infirmity at one particular level, when being appropriately dealt with by the Court, cannot be generalised and all other similar processes in any institution or by the person concerned cannot be presumed to be suffering from illegalities or infirmities. The High Court in the present case, while expressing its dissatisfaction, and presumably to provide for a cleansing process, has inexplicably travelled far beyond B the issues at hand and has issued untenable directions apart from making unnecessary observations. All this, in our view, was avoidable; and ought to have been avoided. We say no more. 19. For what has been discussed and observed hereinabove, while not disturbing the directions and mandate in paragraph 29 of the C impugned as also the expressions of hope and trust in paragraph 31 of the impugned, we are clearly of the view that the directions contained in paragraphs 30, 32 and 33 of the impugned cannot be approved and deserve to be set aside. 20. Accordingly, and in view of the above, this appeal succeeds D and is allowed in part and to the extent that paragraphs 30, 32 and 33 of the impugned are annulled and are set aside. No costs. 21. Needless to reiterate that the relief otherwise given to the writ petitioner (respondent No. 1) by other part of the impugned remains undisturbed only for the peculiar circumstances of the present E case. Nidhi Jain Appeal partly allowed. (Assisted by : Vinayak and Shashwat Jain, LCRAs) F G H