One of the questions raised is that what meaning is to be given to the words “if the person to be searched so requires”. Do they cast a duty upon the offi cer about to make the search to intimate such person that if he so requires he would be taken before the nearest Gazetted Offi cer or the nearest magistrate for the purpose of making search in their presence or it is for such person to make such a request on his own without being informed by the offi cer? …” In paragraph 5, the Court observed:- “5. … But when a police offi cer carrying on the investigation including search, seizure or arrest empowered under the provisions of the CrPC comes across a person being in possession of the narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances then two aspects will arise. If he happens to be one of those empowered offi cers under the NDPS Act also then he must follow thereafter the provisions of the NDPS Act and continue the investigation as provided thereunder. If on the other hand, he is not empowered then the obvious thing he should do is that he must inform the empowered offi cer under the NDPS Act who should thereafter proceed from that stage in accordance with the provisions of the NDPS Act. But at this stage the question of resorting to Section 50 and informing the accused person that if he so wants, he would be taken to a Gazetted Offi cer and taking to Gazetted Offi cer thus would not arise because by then search would have been over. As laid down in Section 50 the steps contemplated thereunder namely informing and taking him to the Gazetted Offi cer should be done before the search. When the search is already over in the usual course of investigation under the provisions of CrPC then the question of complying with section 50 would not arise.” 39. Thereafter the Court considered the provisions of Sections 100 and 165 resply of the CrPC 1973 which deal with the search of the premises and the person. Section 100(1) deals with the search of a closed place and Section 100(3) deals with search of a person, whereas Section 165 deals with search by a police offi cer from any place. The Court observed that if there RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 313 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] is non-compliance of Section 100 or 165 that itself cannot be a ground for rejecting the prosecution case outright. The eff ect of such non-compliance will have a bearing on appreciation of evidence of offi cial witnesses and other material depending upon the facts and circumstances of each case. In carrying out such searches if they come across any substance covered by the NDPS Act, the question of complying with the provisions of the said Act including Section 50 at that stage would not arise. When the contraband seized during such arrest or search attracts the provisions of the NDPS Act, then from that stage the other relevant provisions of the NDPS Act would be attracted and further steps have to be taken in accordance with the provisions of the said Act.