The said B promise is carried out and a valuable consideration is received by the dealer through credit notes. In substance, when the dealer receives a credit note, it is a sale within the meaning of the definition under the respective sales tax legislation under consideration, pursuant to the warranty for which the manufacturer C compensates the dealer by issuance of a credit note. The value of the credit note is a valuable consideration received which is in the nature of a benefit from the manufacturer which is exigible to tax. If the dealer had sold a spare part of the automobile from his stock to any other consumer across the counter, he would have collected the requisite sales tax along with the price from that D consumer but in the instant case, the consideration is received in the form of a credit note from the manufacturer which is subject to sales tax. The person who pays the valuable consideration in a sale transaction is irrelevant so long as it is paid. [Para 65] [1343-B-E] E 19.1. Applying the definitions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 to the facts of the present case, it would mean that as between the manufacturer of the automobile, the dealer and the customer, the manufacturer is the promisor who makes the proposal to recompensate the dealer when pursuant to a warranty F clause, the dealer replaces a spare part from out of his own stock or by buying the same from the open market or from the manufacturer of the spare part. Thus, the dealer is the promisee. The occasion to replace the spare part is when the customer brings to the notice of the dealer a defect in a part of the automobile, pursuant to a warranty which has been given by the G manufacturer to the customer. [Para 67][1344-B-C] 19.2. Section 2(d) of the said Act in fact enables the promisee (the dealer) to provide consideration by conferring a benefit on a third party (customer) at the promisor’s (the manufacturer’s) request pursuant to a warranty between the manufacturer and H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER 1279 OF COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. customer. Thus, a contract could arise even though the promise A is for doing or abstaining from doing something for the benefit of a third party. In other words, if the promisee (the dealer) replaces a defective part of an automobile sold to a third party, i.e., the customer, he would receive a credit note from the manufacturer. This is because the manufacturer would have proposed to the B dealer to recompensate the dealer for the above act which proposal would have been accepted by the dealer and, thus, the manufacturer who has made the proposal is the promisor and the dealer who has accepted the proposal is the promisee. Further, when at the desire of the promisor (the manufacturer), the promise (the dealer) does some act or promises to do an act, such act or C promise is called consideration for the promise.