We have also discussed in detail all the subsequent developments which ultimately culminated in the impugned dated 09.09.2010 in RFA No.1966 of 2007, including the slight modification of the and decree of the High Court dated 29.10.2007 in terms of the of this Court in Civil Appeal No.5201 of 2009. Pursuant to the in the said Civil Appeal by this Court, F in terms of the surviving directions of the High Court in its dated 09.09.2010, which virtually merged with the in C.A. No.5201 of 2009 the second defendant viz., the deceased second appellant herein filed his affidavit in lieu of his examination-in-chief on 16.09.2009 and got marked Exhibits D-1 to D-9. He was then cross examined. No G other witnesses were examined on behalf of the defendants. 15.The materials on record and the impugned passed by the High Court would reveal that the original defendants 1 and 2, who were the appellants before the High Court raised various contentions in support of their prayers for amendment of the written statement as H 378 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A also for permission to raise additional grounds in the appeal, before the High Court and they were also reiterated before us. It is contended that the delay in seeking such prayers by itself cannot be a reason to reject the prayers made in the stated Misc. Civil Applications and further that allowing such prayers would not have, in any way, caused prejudice to the respondent herein/the respondent therein. The chronology of events B referred to hereinbefore in this were evidently weighed with the High Court while considering the said applications and also answering the points formulated qua those prayers. The fact that the defendants were given opportunities to file additional written statements for not less than eight times after the amendment of the plaint, in between the period C 07.03.1996 till the framing of the issues viz. 15.04.1997, that in the interlocutory application filed in RFA No.1966 of 2007 based on which the trial Court was directed to afford opportunity to the defendants to adduce evidence as per and decree passed on 29.10.2007 they sought permission only to adduce evidence, contending that they were deprived of opportunity to adduce evidence and even at that point of D time no permission was sought for amending the written statement, were taken into consideration by the High Court. Evidently, the High Court also observed that if the amendment of written statement was allowed at that stage, it would have necessitated framing of fresh issues and parties were to agitate their rights as if in a de novo trial. That apart, the E High Court, inter alia considered the following aspects as well: That, in the written statement filed by the defendants they did not disclose their defence and at the same, they also did not plead therein that they are in possession of the suit property. That their plea, essentially attracts the principle of ‘just tertii’, F which expression in Latin means ‘right of a third party’, that the third parties, according to them, are Sriman Madhwa Sangha, which is an organisation and Sri Vittal Rao, that it has come in evidence that those third parties filed a petition for evicting the respondent herein/plaintiff as HRC No.