Raju alia Abdul Haque alias Jagga Vs. State of West Bengal” (supra) dated 05.09.2018 (which are not adverted to in “State of Punjab Vs. Baljinder Singh and Another” (supra) dated 15.10.2019) lay down a fi ne distinction and in these circumstances thus, where the contraband is recovered from an object which is held by an accused in his hand and the search of the person of such an accused is also conducted which lead to no recovery of any contraband, though, there are recoveries of other personal assets of a person from his personal search, in view of the s of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in “SK. Raju alia Abdul Haque alias Jagga Vs. State of West Bengal” (supra), the non compliance of Section 50 of the NDPS Act, 1985 would prima facie vitiate the recovery.” (Emphasis supplied) 109. Akhilesh Bharti (supra) referred to above was considered by a co-ordinate Bench of the Delhi High Court in Kamruddin v. State (NCT of Delhi), 2022 SCC OnLine Del 3761, and held as under:- “23. In the decision of S.K. Raju (supra), the Hon’ble Supreme Court has clearly held that since the search of the person of the appellant therein was also involved, therefore, Section 50 of the NDPS Act would be attracted in that case and accordingly the requirement of Section 50(1) of the NDPS Act was insisted. 24. So far as the decision relied upon by learned APP for the state in the case of State of HP Vs. Pawan Kumar is concerned, it is to be stated that in paragraph No. 17 of the decision in the case of S.K. Raju (supra) the Hon’ble Supreme Court has taken note of the decision in the case of Pawan Kumar (supra). The distinction between the two situations has been considered and if a bag, article or container etc. being carried by an accused is subjected to search independently without there being any search of the person of the appellant, the decision in 362 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. the case of Pawan Kumar (supra) would have application. However, in a case where the person of accused is subjected to search along with the search of bag, article or container which he holds in his hand, there is requirement of compliance of Section 50 of the NDPS Act.” (Emphasis supplied) 110. It appears that the Delhi High Court laboured under an erroneous impression that in Pawan Kumar (supra) the search was only of the bag and not of the accused. However, at the cost of repetition, we state that in Pawan Kumar (supra) the search was of both the accused as well as the bag which he was carrying. This is evident from para 2 of the in Pawan Kumar (supra) wherein it has been observed as under:- “2. … A search of the accused and the bag being carried by him was then conducted and 360 gm of opium wrapped in polythene was found inside the bag. …” (Emphasis supplied) 111.