This is why the General Clauses Act cannot be made applicable to sub-section (2) of Section 167. Moreover, excluding the date of the remand would also result in a break in the continuity of the custody of the accused which begins G on his date of arrest under Section 56 and continues till the stipulated 60/ 90 day period, under Section 167. Additionally, it is to be noted that when we include the date of remand as the first day of the stipulated remand period- there arises no fixed 60-day period for which the accused is remanded. Once the Magistrate authorises remand, irrespective of the time of the day, when he does so, the prosecution, in each case will H ENFORCEMENT DIRECTORATE, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA v. 941 KAPIL WADHAWAN & ANR. ETC. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] have a varying period of custody which may range in a moving cursor A manner from a spectrum of 59 days and 23 hours or so to 59 days and 1 hour or so for offences covered under proviso a(ii) of Section 167(2). The exact period of remand for an accused is subject to the first gaze of the Magesterial court and the signing of the remand . This explains the finding in Chaganti (supra) that General Clauses Act is inapplicable B to Section 167 CrPC, as there is no definite ‘from’ period from which the stipulated remand, may commence. Moreover, the fact that the date of remand is included and not excluded from the stipulated period, is based on the pivotal consideration that personal liberty of the individual commands that any lacuna in the specificity of the law has to be so interpreted in the accused’s favour. C 35. The learned ASG placing reliance on Econ22and Saketh23 to contend that Section 9 of the General Clauses Act would be applicable to Section 167 CrPC, as there is a particular time period fixed, irrespective of a ‘from’ and ‘to’ stipulation, within which investigation is to be done. This we find to be fallacious as there is no fixed time period under which D the investigation is to be completed. As explained above, when we include the date of remand in the stipulated 60/90 day period under Section 167, then it would result in a varying remand period not exactly amounting to a neat 60/90 days time. Thereby, making the General Clauses Act, inapplicable. E 36.Section 57 of the CrPC mandates that the accused be produced before a Magistrate within 24 hours of arrest and under Section 167(2) the Judicial Magistrate is required to scrutinize the executive action and determine whether the rights of the accused are not subjugated by police action. The separation of the Executive and the Judicial exercise of F power, ultimately protects an individual’s personal liberty which is also constitutionally protected under Articles 21 and 22(2). If the date of remand ed by a Magistrate is ignored, then an accused even though in custody, the same will not be counted within the 60/90 day period.