Clause 3(3) of the amalgamation notification reads as follows: “3. Transfer of assets and liabilities and general eff ect thereof. - (1)-(2) xxxxxxx (3) If on the appointed date, any cause of action, suit, decrees, recovery certifi cates, appeals or other proceedings of whatever nature is pending by or against the transferor bank before any court or tribunal or any other authority (including for the avoidance of doubt, an arbitral tribunal), the same shall not abate, be discontinued or be ill any way prejudicially aff ected, but shall, subject to the other provisions of this Scheme, be prosecuted and enforced by or against the transferee bank: Provided that where a contravention of any of the provision of any statute or of any rule, regulation, direction or made thereunder has been committed by or any proceeding for a criminal off ence has been instituted against, a director or secretary, manager, offi cer or other employee of the transferor bank before the appointed date, such RELIGARE FINVEST LIMITED v. STATE OF NCT OF 207 DELHI & ANR. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] director, secretary, manager, offi cer or other employee shall, without prejudice to the application of section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897), be liable to be proceeded against under such law and punished accordingly, as if the transferor bank, being a banking company had not been dissolved.” Section 45(5)(e) of the Banking Act reads as follows: “45. Power of Reserve Bank to apply to Central Government for suspension of business by a banking company and to prepare scheme of reconstruction or amalgamation. — (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this Part or in any other law or [any agreement or other instrument], for the time being in force, where it appears to the Reserve Bank that there is good reason so to do, the Reserve Bank may apply to the Central Government for an of moratorium in respect of [a banking company]. (2) to (4) xxx (5) The scheme aforesaid may contain provisions for all or any of the following matters, namely:— (e) subject to the provisions of the scheme, the continuation by or against the banking company on its reconstruction or, as the case may be, the transferee bank, of any actions or proceedings pending against the banking company immediately before the [reconstruction or amalgamation]” Clause 13 of the Amalgamation scheme in the present case, i.e., relating to interpretation by RBI in the case of disputes, is as follows: “13. Interpretation of provisions of this Scheme. – If any doubt arises in the interpretation of the provisions of this Scheme, the matter shall be referred to the Reserve Bank and its views on the issue shall be fi nal and binding on all concerned.” 22. As is apparent from the factual narrative and the above discussion, the issue which this court is concerned with, is whether a transferee entity (here, a successor bank) can be fastened with corporate 208 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R.