We may next notice the rendered by a Bench of two learned Judges in SMS Tea Estates (supra). They dealt with three questions. What is of relevance, is the second question, which was, G ‘whether an Arbitration Agreement in an unregistered instrument, which is not duly stamped, is valid and enforceable’. The Court, inter alia, held as follows: “20. The Scheme for Appointment of Arbitrators by the Chief Justice of Gauhati High Court, 1996 requires an application under H 320 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Section 11 of the Act to be accompanied by the original arbitration agreement or a duly certified copy thereof. In fact, such a requirement is found in the scheme/rules of almost all the High Courts. If what is produced is a certified copy of the agreement/contract/instrument containing the arbitration clause, it should disclose the stamp duty that has been paid on the original. B Section 33 casts a duty upon every court, that is, a person having by law authority to receive evidence (as also every arbitrator who is a person having by consent of parties, authority to receive evidence) before whom an unregistered instrument chargeable with duty is produced, to examine the instrument in to C ascertain whether it is duly stamped. If the court comes to the conclusion that the instrument is not duly stamped, it has to impound the document and deal with it as per Section 38 of the Stamp Act. xxx xxx xxx D 22. We may therefore sum up the procedure to be adopted where the arbitration clause is contained in a document which is not registered (but compulsorily registerable) and which is not duly stamped: 22.1. The court should, before admitting any document into E evidence or acting upon such document, examine whether the instrument/document is duly stamped and whether it is an instrument which is compulsorily registerable. 22.2. If the document is found to be not duly stamped, Section 35 of the Stamp Act bars the said document being acted upon. F Consequently, even the arbitration clause therein cannot be acted upon. The court should then proceed to impound the document under Section 33 of the Stamp Act and follow the procedure under Sections 35 and 38 of the Stamp Act. 22.3. If the document is found to be duly stamped, or if the deficit G stamp duty and penalty is paid, either before the court or before the Collector (as contemplated in Section 35 or 40 Section of the Stamp Act), and the defect with reference to deficit stamp is cured, the court may treat the document as duly stamped.” (Emphasis supplied) H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 321 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] This view has been followed subsequently in Garware (supra) A and also in Dharmaratnakara Rai Bahadur Arcot Narainswamy Mudaliar Chattram v. Bhaskar Raju & Bros.17 We have omitted repetition of paragraphs-19 and 21, which have been referred to earlier. 28. Shin-Etsu Chemical Co. Ltd. v. Aksh Optifibre Ltd. and another18 was a case of international arbitration arising under Section B 45 of the Act.