The fundamental right of the foreigner is confined to Article 21 for life and liberty and does not include the right to reside C and settle in this country, as mentioned in Article 19(1)(e), which is applicable only to the citizens of this country.” As such Articles 19(1)(d) and (e) are unavailable to foreigners because those rights are conferred only on the citizens. Certainly, the machinery of Article 14 cannot be invoked to obtain that fundamental right. Rights under Articles 19(1)(d) D and (e) are expressly withheld to foreigners.” (iv) AIR 1955 SC 367 Hans Muller of Nurenburg Vs. Superintendent, Presidency Jail, Calcutta & Ors. “19. We do not agree and will first examine the position where an of expulsion is made before any steps to E enforce it are taken. The right to expel is conferred by Section 3(2)(c) of the Foreigners Act, 1946 on the Central Government and the right to enforce an of expulsion and also to prevent any breach of it, and the right to use such force as may be reasonably necessary “for the F effective exercise of such power” is conferred by Section 11(1), also on the Central Government. There is, therefore, implicit in the right of expulsion a number of ancillary rights, among them, the right to prevent any breach of the and the right to use force and to take effective measures to carry out those purposes. Now the most effective method G of preventing a breach of the and ensuring that it is duly obeyed is by arresting and detaining the person ed to be expelled until proper arrangements for the expulsion can be made. Therefore, the right to make arrangements for an expulsion includes the right to make arrangements H 282 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A for preventing any evasion or breach of the , and the Preventive Detention Act confers the power to use the means of preventive detention as one of the methods of achieving this end. How far it is necessary to take this step in a given case is a matter that must be left to the discretion of the Government concerned, but, in any event, when B criminal charges for offences said to have been committed in this country and abroad are levelled against a person, an apprehension that he is likely to disappear and evade an of expulsion cannot be called either unfounded or unreasonable. Detention in such circumstances is rightly C termed preventive and falls within the ambit of the Preventive Detention Act and is reasonably related to the purpose of the Act. 35.The Foreigners Act confers the power to expel foreigners from India. It vests the Central Government with absolute D and unfettered discretion and, as there is no provision fettering this discretion in the Constitution, an unrestricted right to expel remains. 42.Our conclusion is that the Foreigners Act is not governed by the provisions of the Extradition Act. The two are distinct E and neither impinges on the other.