The High Court relied on material which was disclosed solely to the Court in a sealed cover by the second respondent, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs3. The appellants instituted 1“MIB” 2“MBL” H 3“MHA” 614 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A proceedings under Article 136 of the Constitution to challenge the correctness of the of the Division Bench of the High Court. A. Facts 2. On 19 May 2010, MBL applied for permission to uplink and downlink a news and current affairs television channel named ‘Media B One’. On 7 February 2011, MHA granted a security clearance for the operation of the channel. By an dated 30 September 2011, MIB gave MBL permission to uplink ‘Media One’ for a period of ten years under the ‘Policy Guidelines for Uplinking of Television Channels from India’4. The permission was granted subject inter alia, to compliance C with the terms and conditions set out in the Annexure to the letter. The Annexure to the uplinking permission prescribes the following conditions: “(i) The Licensing Authority shall be empowered to impose such restrictions as may be necessary as and when required. (ii) The Licensing Authority shall have the power to revoke D the licence on grounds of national security and public . (iii) The Licensing Authority shall have the power to prohibit transmission of programmes considered to be prejudicial to friendly relations with foreign governments, public , security of state, communal harmony etc. E (iv) Licence should provide access facilities of all equipment and records/system to the Licensing Authority or its representative; (v) License should make available detailed information about equipment and its location; F (vi) Licensing Authority shall be legally competent to take over the stations on the occurrence of public emergency or in the interest of public safety/; (VII) Monitoring stations should be set up so as to facilitate prompt intervention for deterrent action against violations of technical G parameters and provision laid down in the legislation and licensing agreements. (IX) The applicant would make available to the licensing Authority the detailed technical information about the equipment to be used.” (emphasis supplied) H 4 “Uplinking Guidelines” MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 615 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] On the same day, MIB issued a registration certificate for A downlinking of the Media One channel for a period of five years according to the provisions of the ‘Policy Guidelines for Downlinking of Television Channels’5. The downlinking permission stipulated that in addition to complying with the terms and conditions set out in the Annexure extracted above, the channel was required to comply with the Programme and B Advertising Code prescribed under the Cable Television Networking (Regulation) Act 1995 and the Rules framed under it. 3. In 2012, MBL applied for uplinking and downlinking of a ‘non- news television channel’ called ‘Media One Life’, and news television channel, ‘Media One Global’. MBL withdrew the application for ‘Media C One Global’. On 26 August 2015, MIB granted permission to uplink and downlink ‘Media One Life’ for a period of ten years.