the transaction between SPCL and NBCC as service provider and service recipient respectively, learned counsel drew support from clause 29(h) of the Exemption Notifi cation which exempts services provided by sub-contractors by way of works contract to another contractor providing works contract services which are already exempted under the Exemption Notifi cation. Accordingly, it was submitted that there was no merit in the appeals and the same deserved outright dismissal. 13. Learned counsel appearing for IIT Patna supported the impugned and of the Patna High Court. According to him, IIT Patna qualifi es as a “governmental authority” under the Exemption Notifi cation as amended by the Clarifi cation Notifi cation. It was further submitted that the provisions contained in sub-clause (i) and sub-clause (ii) of clause 2(s) are independent disjunctive provisions and the expression ”90% or more participation by way of equity or control” is related to sub-clause (ii) alone, meaning thereby that an authority established by Government should have 90% or more participation in to be exempted from service tax. The authority set up by an Act of Parliament or State Legislature is not subject to this condition. No case for interference having been set up, the counsel prayed for dismissal of CA-I. ANALYSIS 14. Before we commence our analysis, it would be apt to juxtapose the relevant clauses from the Exemption Notifi cation and the Clarifi cation Notifi cation for facility of appreciation: EXEMPTION NOTIFICATION CLARIFICATION NOTIFICATION 2(s) “governmental authority’’ means 2(s) “governmental authority” means an a board, or an authority or any other authority or a board or any other body; body established with 90% or more (i) Set up by an Act of Parliament participation by way of equity or or a State Legislature; or control by Government and set up by an Act of the Parliament or a State (ii) established by Government, Legislature to carry out any function with 90% or more participation by way entrusted to a municipality under article of equity or control, to carry out any 243W of the Constitution; function entrusted to a municipality under article 243W of the Constitution; COMMISSIONER, CUSTOMS CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 435 PATNA v. M/S SHAPOORJI PALLONJI AND COMPANY PVT. LTD. & ORS. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 15. Having read the two defi nitions, fi rst and foremost, it is necessary to ascertain the objective behind the Clarifi cation Notifi cation which amended the Exemption Notification and re-defined “governmental authority”. A bare perusal of the Exemption Notifi cation reveals that the exemption therein was only extended to those entities, viz. board or authority or body, which fulfi lled the three requisite conditions, i.e. : a) having been established with 90% or more participation by way of equity or control by Government, b) set up by an Act of the Parliament or a State Legislature, and c) carrying out any function entrusted to a municipality under Article 243W of the Constitution. It is evident that the scope of the exemption was severely restricted to only a few entities.