D Electricity Act, 2003 – s.64 – Tariff s u/s.64 – Held: Are quasi-judicial in nature and ipso facto binding on the parties unless amended or modified through law. Electricity – Power Purchase Agreements, if statutory contracts – Held: Power Purchase Agreements are essentially not statutory E contract showever, certain terms contained in those contracts are regulated by law, i.e. applicable regulations, under the Act – The PPA between a generating company or, as in the instant case, a wind generator, and a distribution licensee, such as the appellant, is the outcome of a carefully considered decision, whereby the parties after due deliberations and negotiations agree on terms F based on existing law and regulations. Pleadings – Standard of – Allegation of coercion/duress/fraud – Findings on, not to be rendered casually by APTEL – Held: It is incomprehensible how an allegation of coercion w.r.t entering into the PPA by the parties could have been entertained and incorporated G as a finding, given that the respondents are established companies who enter into negotiations and have the support of experts, including legal advisers, when contracts are finalized – Casual approach of APTEL in not reasoning how such findings could be rendered cannot be countenanced – As a judicial tribunal, dealing H 672 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A with contracts and bargains, which are entered into by parties with equal bargaining power, APTEL is not expected to casually render findings of coercion, or fraud, without proper pleadings or proof, or without probing into evidence – Electricity Act, 2003. Allowing the appeals, the Court B HELD: 1. Did the PPA in the present case, require prior approval of the state commission RWE and the other respondents urge that the PPA was unenforceable because it was not approved by the State Commission. The argument is unmerited and insubstantial. From C a reading of the State Commission’s regulations (Renewable Sources Regulations) relating to procurement of energy from Renewable Sources, it is evident that there was never any provision, which mandated prior approval by the state commission, of PPAs entered into, by parties, in exercise of their free choice, in relation to renewable energy sources. As a matter of fact, in D the case of renewable power, the state commission had approved a model PPA. Further, the tariff terms and conditions to the extent decided are by the Central Commission and not by the State Commission. These are incorporated in the model PPA. Neither the commission, nor the contesting respondents, during the E hearings in the present appeals, were able to point out any provision in the PPA in the present case, which conflicted with any provision of the model PPA, or any express regulation. Furthermore, it was not established how in the absence of any reference to the Multi Year Tariff Regulations, they were applicable to PPAs relating to renewable energy sources. In the F absence of specific norms prescribing prior approval of PPAs like in the case of provisions of Regulation 21 of the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (Multi Year Tariff) Regulations, 2019; Regulation 45 of the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission Comprehensive (Conduct of Business) G Regulations 2001 and Regulation 36 of the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Distribution Licensee) Regulations, 2013, the respondent’s arguments on this aspect cannot be accepted.