It is also their grievance that safeguards provided in the new G LA Act, which are beneficial to land owners, are not available in the Highways Act, both in relation to the quantum of compensation as well as the procedure. Reference is made to Section 39 of the new LA Act, which provides for additional compensation in case of multiple displacements and it is pointed out that no such relief is provided in the Highways Act, despite multiple acquisitions for widening of highways. H C.S. GOPALAKRISHNAN ETC. v. THE STATE OF TAMIL 957 NADU & OTHERS [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] 30.It is contended that though the Validation Act of 2019 applies A the provisions of the new LA Act to the Highways Act insofar as compensation is concerned, the selective application of the provisions of the new LA Act would result in discrimination even in the matter of compensation. It is pointed out that timelines prescribed under the new LA Act, which are not relatable to the First Schedule to the new LA Act, B are not made applicable under the Validation Act of 2019 and the absence of such timelines would permit the State to peg the market value for determining compensation on a date in the remote past, thereby depriving the land owners of just and fair compensation. According to the learned counsel, though there is de jure parity between the new LA Act and the State Acts, there would actually be de facto discrimination in the payment C of compensation. Reference is made to P. Vajravelu Mudaliar Vs. Special Deputy Collector, Madras and others [AIR 1965 SC 1017], Nagpur Improvement Trust and others Vs. Vithal Rao and others [AIR 1973 SC 689], Union of India Vs. Tarsem Singh and others [(2019) 9 SCC 304], Savitri Cairae and others Vs. U.P. Avas Evam D Vikas Parishad and others [(2003) 6 SCC 39] and The State of Madhya Pradesh Vs. G.C. Mandawar [AIR 1954 SC 493]. 31.It is asserted that there is no intelligible differentia between land owners whose lands are acquired under the Highways Act and those whose lands are acquired under the new LA Act and it would E amount to an unreasonable classification if they are denied compensation on the same terms, when their lands are acquired for public purposes. An example is cited, where a person’s land may be acquired under the Highways Act while his neighbour’s land, which is identically situated in all respects, is acquired under the new LA Act, but they would be given compensation on different criteria owing to the absence of timelines in F the Highways Act, which would permit the State to peg the market value on a past date to determine the compensation unlike the situation obtaining under the new LA Act. Reference is made to Joseph Shine Vs. Union of India [(2019) 3 SCC 39] to contend that when a statute is arbitrary, it would offend Article 14 of the Constitution and would G require to be struck down.