F 32. It is true that the general rule is that while participating in the recruitment process, the person must possess the eligibility qualification on the last date fixed for such purpose unless there is any express provision to the contrary and there can be no relaxation in the matter of holding requisite eligibility qualification by the date fixed and this has to G be established by producing necessary certificate or degree, as the case may be. But, at the same time, in to avail the benefit of reservation or weightage, necessary certificates have to be produced but they are in the nature of proof for the purpose of seeking entitlement to claim the benefit of reservation, but it has no nexus with the last date of the H SAKSHI ARHA v. THE RAJASTHAN HIGH COURT AND 607 OTHERS [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] application and, it may not be proper to apply any rigid principle in the A absence of any rule to the contrary. As a matter of caution, every infraction of the rule relating to submission of proof in availing the benefit of reservation may not necessarily result in rejection of the candidature. 33. In the similar circumstances, the vacancies are reserved for various categories i.e. SC/ST/OBC/MBC/Persons with Disabilities and B women candidates under the Scheme of Rules, 2010 and that has been notified category-wise under Clause 4 of the advertisement dated 22nd July, 2021 with which we are concerned, and it goes without saying that the candidate must be a member of the reserved category at the time when the application form is filled pursuant to the advertisement in C question, but at the same time so far as the scheme of examination and syllabus, as provided in Rule 20 of the Rules, 2010 is concerned, for holding competitive examination for the post of Civil Judge conducted by the recruiting authority is common for all and each of the candidate regardless the category to which one belongs, has to undergo the same process of qualifying the preliminary examination followed with main D examination and interview, except that the candidates are admitted to the main examination followed with interview in terms of the total number of vacancies category-wise. 34. The reservation of vacancies of various categories as referred to in Rule 10 is not a condition of eligibility for the candidate to participate E in the selection process as the certificate of category for the purpose of claiming reservation will arise not at the stage when the application form is filled making self-declaration by the individual candidate to participate in the selection process but at the stage when the select list is to be prepared of the candidates who have participated in the selection process F since the final select list has to be published category-wise by giving the benefit of reservation to the candidates who have participated in the process of selection and for no other purpose and when the respondent has demanded from the applicant to furnish their respective certificate of the category to which one had participated in the selection process under its notice dated 04th August, 2022, indisputedly each of the applicant G had furnished the certificate of their category to which one belong at the time of advertisement when demanded by the recruiting authority in terms of Clause 6(i) & (iii) read with Clause 22(3) of the advertisement dated 22nd July, 2021.