The appellants’ case is grounded in the interpretation of the term ‘vest’ in Section 109A of the Companies Act, 1956 and Bye-law 9.11.1 under the Depositories Act, 1996, and according to them, the use of the term ‘vest’ indicates the intent to bestow ownership of the securities upon the nominee on the shareholder’s death. To address the aforesaid argument, it is apposite to note how the term ‘vest’ or ‘vesting’ has been defi ned by the courts, from time to time. 716 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 31. In Fruits & Vegetable Merchant Union v. Delhi Improvement Trust,16 the Supreme Court held that the term ‘vest’ has a variety of meanings dependent on the context within which it operates. “11. . . . . . . In this chapter occur Sections 45 to 48 which provide for the vesting of certain properties in the Trust. Section 45 lays down the conditions and the procedure according to which any building, street, square or other land vested in the Municipality or Notified Area Committee may become vested in a Trust. Similarly, Section 46 deals with the vesting in the Trust of properties like a street or a square as are not vested in a Municipality or Notified Area Committee. These sections, as also Sections 47 and 48 make provision for compensation and for empowering the Trust to deal with such property vested in it. The vesting of such property is only for the purpose of executing any improvement scheme which it has undertaken and not with a view to clothing it with complete title. As will presently appear, the term “vesting” has a variety of meaning which has to be gathered from the context in which it has been used. It may mean full ownership, or only possession for a particular purpose, or clothing the authority with power to deal with the property as the agent of another person or authority.” (Emphasis supplied) 32. In Vatticherukuru Village Panchayat v. Nori Venkatarama Deekshithulu,17 this Court considered the question of the effect of ‘vesting’ under S. 85 of the AP Gram Panchayat Act, 1964 of the water works & appurtenant land on the Gram Panchayat. It was held that the word ‘vesting’ in S. 85 did not confer absolute title on the Gram Panchayat. Even after vesting, the Government, in appropriate cases, was amenable to place restrictions on the Gram Panchayat on enjoyment of such waterworks & lands. It is apposite to refer to the discussion at para 10, wherein the varied meaning of the term ‘vest’ was considered: 16 AIR 1957 SC 344 17 1991 Supp (2) SCC 228 SHAKTI YEZDANI & ANR. v. JAYANAND JAYANT 717 SALGAONKAR & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] “10. The word ‘vest’ clothes varied colours from the context and situation in which the word came to be used in a statute or rule. Chamber’s Mid-Century Dictionary at p. 1230 defi nes ‘vesting’ in the legal sense “to settle, secure, or put in fi xed right of possession; to endow, to descend, devolve or to take eff ect, as a right”.