303-EMP/1M-10/2000 - 21st August, 2002: “In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (c) of section 3 of the West Bengal Regulation of Recruitment in State Government Establishments and Establishments of Public Undertakings, Statutory Bodies, Government Companies and Local H 640 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Authorities Act, 1999 (West Bengal Act XIV of 1999), the Governor is pleased to prescribe the following procedure for filling up the vacancies reserved for the Exempted Categories as specified under sub-section (a) of section 3 of the aforesaid Act:— A. GENERAL PROCEDURE TO BE FOLLOWED IN B RESPECT OF DIFFERENT EXEMPTED CATEGORIES: 1. Dependents of persons who died in harness: None except wife/ son/daughter/near relation of the deceased employee and solely dependent on the earnings of the deceased employee, shall be eligible for consideration for such employment. The benefit will C be admissible if the family, left behind by the deceased employee, is in immediate need of assistance and such employment on compassionate ground is absolutely essential to support the family of the deceased. A person belonging to a completely separate family shall not be treated as solely dependent on the deceased employee for the purpose of such employment on compassionate D ground. The wife/son/daughter/near relation of an employee who died-in- harness, may apply to the appointing authority through the Head of the Office of the employee in a prescribed form as per Part I & II of Annexure “A” along with a copy of death certificate E praying for employment to support the family of the deceased employee. On receipt of such application the appointing authority shall form an enquiring committee of senior officials not less than three in number. The committee so formed shall make an enquiry about the genuineness of the prayer as well as the financial condition of the family of the deceased employee and submit a report as F per Annexure “A” to the appointing authority. The appointing authority will forward the case together with his views, recorded in Annexure “A”, to the Administrative Department concerned for consideration. If it is decided by the administrative department to be a fit case for offering employment on compassionate ground G a suitable vacancy may be identified under the appointing authority concerned for providing employment subject to the condition that the candidate satisfies the qualification and other requirements prescribed for recruitment to the post. If a suitable vacancy is not available under the appointing authority concerned the administrative department may identify suitable vacancy under H THE STATE OF WEST BENGAL v. DEBABRATA TIWARI & 641 ORS. ETC. ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] some other appointing authority under its administrative control A for providing employment. The administrative department will forward the case with suitable direction, to the appointing authority, in whose establishment the vacancy has been identified. In the event of non-availability of the berth for accommodating such a case the administrative department concerned will have to move B other departments for suitable berth. When a suitable vacancy is available in some other department to accommodate the case, the Administrative Department will forward the case along with the relevant papers to that department for further action.