[2023] 1 S.C.R. 463 463 ANNA MATHEWS AND OTHERS A v. SUPREME COURT OF INDIA AND OTHERS (Writ Petition (Civil) No. 148 of 2023) B FEBRUARY 10, 2023 [SANJIV KHANNA AND B. R. GAVAI, JJ.] Constitution of India: Art.217 – Collegium recommendation – Scope and ambit of judicial review in the matter of appointment of judges – Held: The Collegium of the Supreme Court takes the C final call after considering recommendation of High Court, inputs of intelligence agencies, comments from the government, opinion and comments of the judges of this Court and a number of letters and communications from all quarters – Supreme Court while exercising power of judicial review cannot issue a writ of certiorari D quashing the recommendation, or mandamus calling upon the Collegium of the Supreme Court to reconsider its decision, as this would be contrary to the ratio and dictum of the earlier binding decisions of this Court – To do so would violate the law as declared, as it would amount to evaluating and substituting the decision of the Collegium, with individual or personal opinion on the suitability E and merits of the person. Constitution of India: Art.217 – While Art.217(2) prescribes the threshold limit or the entry point for a person to be qualified to be a judge of a High Court, Art.217(1) prescribes the procedure to be followed, which procedure is designed to test the fitness of a F person so to be appointed; her character, her integrity, her competence, her knowledge and the like – When eligibility is put in question, the question would fall within the scope of judicial review – However, the question whether a person is fit to be appointed as a judge essentially involves the aspect of suitability and stands G excluded from the purview of judicial review. Dismissing the writ petitions, the Court HELD: After the Collegium of the High Court makes a recommendation for elevation, inputs are received from the H 463 464 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A intelligence agencies, which conduct a background check, and comments from the government are considered by the Collegium of the Supreme Court consisting of the Chief Justice of India and two senior most Judges. Opinion and comments of the Judges in this Court conversant with the affairs of the High Court concerned B are called for in writing and placed before the Collegium. Invariably a number of shoot down and dismissive letters and communications from all quarters are received. Only thereafter, and on consideration, the Collegium of the Supreme Court takes a final call, which is then communicated to the government. [Para 7][470-D-F] C 2. During the course of hearing before this Court, it was accepted that a number of persons, who have had political backgrounds, have been elevated as judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court, and this by itself, though a relevant D consideration, has not been an absolute bar to appointment of otherwise a suitable person. Similarly, there have been cases where the persons recommended for elevation have expressed reservations or even criticised policies or actions, but this has not been held to be a ground to treat them as unsuitable.