[B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 9. Ms. Madhavi Goradia Divan, learned ASG appearing for the A Board submitted that neither the learned Single Judge nor the Division Bench found any mala fides against the members of the Selection Committee and the Division Bench concurrently found that a court cannot step into the shoes of the Selection Committee or assume an appellate role to examine whether the marks awarded by the Selection Committee B in the viva-voce test were excessive and not corresponding to the performance in such test. Therefore, quashing the selection process, de hors any finding as to mala fides against the members of the Selection Committee, would not be sustainable. 9.1. It was further submitted that the Selection Committee was C formed as per Rule 9 of the 1992 Rules. Rule 9(1) clearly stipulates that the Chairman of the Board may nominate a Committee which shall consist of one or more members of the Board for the purpose of conducting examinations and holding interviews and tests for the purposes of selection of candidates to be appointed to the State Cadre. Further, Rule 9(iii) empowers the Chairman to associate with the Selection Committee, an D Expert/Specialist with the Board if he feels necessary, in the discipline in which recruitment is sought to be made. Thus, to ensure the selection of meritorious candidates was carried out with all fairness and transparency the Selection Committee comprised of (i) the Chairman of the Board (an IAS officer); (ii) a Member of the E Board (Kashmir Administrative Officer); and (iii) an Expert/Specialist who was employed as an Assistant Professor in the Government Medical College at Srinagar. It was contended that if there was any ulterior motive to manipulate the scores in the viva-voce to benefit certain candidates, the Chairman of the Board could have just constituted a one-member F Committee comprising of only himself to conduct the viva-voce for the selection of candidates. 9.2. It was further contended that each member of the three- member Selection Committee individually assessed each candidate and awarded points in the viva-voce which were averaged by dividing by G the number three and the same could be evidenced from the marks awarded to the candidates in the viva-voce such as 11.67, 13.67, 11.33 etc. ; 9.3. In so far as the marks awarded by the expert member of the Selection Committee are concerned, the learned ASG brought to the H 744 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Court’s notice, dated 18th December, 2015 passed by the learned Single Judge wherein it was categorically held that a Court while exercising the power of judicial review cannot step into the shoes of the Selection Committee and neither can it assume an appellate role in examining whether the marks awarded by the Selection Committee in the viva-voce were excessive and not corresponding to the performance B in such test. Further, that the respondents chose not to file an appeal/LPA challenging the above finding and in fact, the aforesaid observation of the learned Single Judge vis-à-vis the marks allotted by the Selection Committee was affirmed by the Division Bench.