The liability to pay electricity charges is a statutory liability and Section 56 provides the consequences when a consumer neglects to pay any charge for electricity or any sum other than a charge for electricity C due from him. Section 56(1) provides that the power of the licensee to disconnect electrical supply when a consumer is in default of payment is “without prejudice to his rights to recover such charge or other sum by suit”. This means that the licensee can exercise both its statutory remedy to disconnect as well as a civil remedy to institute a suit for recovery D against the consumer since the licensee will not necessarily obtain the amount due from the consumer by disconnecting the supply. In its decision in Bihar SEB v. Iceberg Industries Ltd.,57 this Court has held that the power to disconnect supply under Section 56 is a special power given to the supplier in addition to the normal mode of recovery by instituting a suit. The power to disconnect the supply of electricity as a E consequence of the non-payment of dues and as a method to recover dues is supplemental to the right of the licensee to institute a suit or other proceedings for the recovery of dues on account of electrical charges. 122. Section 56(1) of the 2003 Act is pari materia to Section 24 of the 1910 Act. Section 24 of the 1910 Act empowered the Electricity F Board to issue a demand and to discontinue supply to consumers who neglected to pay charges, without prejudice to the right to recover such charges or other sums by way of a suit. The import of Section 24 was considered by this Court in Isha Marbles (supra), where it was observed that the action of cutting off electricity supply after service of the notice G as prescribed under Section 24 was in addition to the general remedy of filing a suit for recovery. 123. In M/s Swastic Industries v. Maharashtra State Electricity Board,58 this Court held that the right to discontinue supply 57 (2020) 20 SCC 745 H 58 (1997) 9 SCC 465 K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 705 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] of energy under Section 24 was not taken away by Section 60A of the A 1948 Act, which provided an option to the Electricity Board to file a suit within the period of limitation stipulated there. This Court observed that: “5. It would, thus, be clear that the right to recover the charges is one part of it and right to discontinue supply of electrical energy to the consumer who neglects to pay B charges is another part of it. The right to file a suit is a matter of option given to the licensee, the Electricity Board. Therefore, the mere fact that there is a right given to the Board to file the suit and the limitation has been prescribed to file the suit, it does not take away the right conferred on C the Board under Section 24 to make demand for payment of the charges and on neglecting to pay the same they have the power to discontinue the supply or cut off the supply, as the case may be, when the consumer neglects to pay the charges.