When an arbitration clause is contained “in a contract”, it is signifi cant that the agreement only becomes a contract if it is enforceable by law. We have seen how, under the Stamp Act, an agreement does not become a contract, namely, that it is not enforceable in law, unless it is duly stamped. Therefore, even a plain reading of section 11(6-A), when read with Section 7(2) of the 1996 Act and Section 2(h) of the Contract Act, would make it clear that an arbitration clause in an agreement would not exist when it is not enforceable by law. This is also an indicator that SMS Tea Estates has, in no manner, been touched by the amendment of Section 11(6-A).” 206. Further, this Court noted Section 11(13) of the Arbitration Act which provides a timeline of sixty days for disposal of any application for appointment of an arbitrator. In view of Section 11(13), this Court held that the provisions of the Stamp Act and the Arbitration Act need to be harmoniously construed. Accordingly, the Court held that once the High Court impounds an unstamped instrument at the Section 11 stage, it shall hand it over to the relevant authority under the Maharashtra Stamp Act to be decided within a period of forty-fi ve days from which such authority receives the instrument. Once the stamp duty and penalty was paid, the High Court could proceed expeditiously to hear and dispose of the Section 11 application. 207. The conclusions of this Court in Garware Wall Ropes (supra) can be summarized as follows: fi rst, there was no legislative intent to overrule SMS Tea Estates (supra) because neither the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the 2015 Amendment Act nor the Law Commission of India Report, 2014 mentions it; second, the referral court at the Section 11 stage is only giving eff ect to the provisions of the Stamp Act and not deciding any preliminary issues between the parties; third, the separability presumption could only be applied for limited purposes. Since the Stamp Act applies to the instrument as a whole, it is not possible to bifurcate the arbitration IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1187 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] clause contained in such agreement; and fourth, an arbitration clause in an unstamped contract would not exist, leading to the conclusion that Section 11(6A) has not overruled SMS Tea Estates (supra). 208. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the 2015 Amendment Act are as follows: “(iii) an application for appointment of an arbitrator shall be disposed of by the High Court or Supreme Court, as the case may be, as expeditiously as possible and an endeavour should be made to dispose of the matter within a period of sixty days. “(iv) to provide that while considering any application for appointment of arbitrator, the High Court or the Supreme Court shall examine the existence of a prima facie arbitration agreement and not other issues.” 209.