The expression is relatable to a money consideration. No doubt, cash is a money consideration but the definition of “sale” under the F Central Sales Tax Act as well as under the State enactments does not imply price to mean only a money consideration in a narrower sense but in a wider sense to include different forms of money consideration such as deferred payment and also a valuable consideration which need not be restricted to cash or deferred G payment only but a valuable consideration which would include a credit note which is to be read within the definition of “price”. [Para 46][1334-H; 1335-A-D] H 1276 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 15. Benjamin’s Sale of Goods, Eighth Edition, states that the consideration in a contract of sale of goods must in English law, be a price in money, either paid of promised. By money is meant legal tender; it does not mean money’s worth. Payment need not, however, be made in cash: a method of payment that enables the seller to obtain money such as the use by the buyer B of a credit card or a debit card or digital cash or cheque or banker’s draft or trading cheque also comes within the expression “payment of price”. It is only a method of payment or a form of payment. It is also irrelevant that the money payment comes, not from the buyer of the goods or to whom the property in the goods are C transferred, but from the card issuer. Thus, there can be various methods of payment i.e., by cash, by negotiable instrument, by credit or charge card or by stored value card or sometimes referred to as digital cash card or electronic purses, internet payments on which that “value” is stored electronically. There can also be payment by direct debits to effect payment of goods D supplied particularly when there are recurring payments of variable amounts. The seller can obtain through the banking system in direct debit forms to the buyer’s bank. A converse to the system of direct debit is the credit note issued by a buyer in favour of a seller which is a recompense or monetary benefit E showed in the buyer’s accounts. Thus, the use of the banking system by instructing the bank to transfer of balance from the buyer’s account to the credit of a seller is a form of transmission of a valuable consideration. [Para 47][1335-E-H] 16. A credit note is a valuable consideration which is F essentially a document to inform a buyer that the buyer’s account is being credited because of errors, returns or allowances. On discharging his obligation under the warranty appended to a sale of an automobile, a dealer receives a credit note. This would be a receipt in the account of the dealer and a liability in the returns of the manufacturer which may ultimately enable the manufacturer G to decrease his tax liability. Consequently, the dealer of the automobile in whose account a credit is shown would be ultimately a recipient of a valuable consideration on account of a transfer of goods, namely, spare part by a dealer to a customer while discharging his obligation under a warranty and thereby receiving a valuable H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER 1277 OF COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR.