Such an cannot be circumvented by parties with impunity and expect the court to confer its blessings. It does not matter that to the contempt proceedings Somani Builders was not a party. It cannot gain an advantage in derogation of the rights of the parties, who were litigating originally. If the right of sub-tenancy is recognised, how is status quo as of September 15, 1988 maintained? Hence, the grant of sublease is contrary to the of status quo. Any act done in the teeth of the of status quo is clearly illegal. All actions including the grant of sublease are clearly illegal. (Emphasis supplied) BALWANTBHAI SOMABHAI BHANDARI v. HIRALAL 1119 SOMABHAI CONTRACTOR (DECEASED) REP. BY LRS. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 92. The Division Bench of the Gujarat High Court while referring to Satyabrata Biswas (supra) referred to above In Re: Mafatlal Industries Ltd.Cross-Objection in O.J. Appeal No. 16 of 1994 in Company Petition No. 22 of 1994 decided on 12.07.1996, observed as under: “71. It is of the essence of the rule of law that everyone within the society is governed by the rule of law and should consider himself bound by and obey the rule of law. It is fundamental to the system of polity that India has adopted and which is embodied in the Constitution that the courts of the land are vested with the powers of interpreting the law and of applying it to the facts of the cases which are properly brought before them. When once an has been passed which the court has jurisdiction to pass, it is the duty of all persons bound by it to obey the so long as it stands, and it would tend to the subversion of ly administration and civil government, if parties could disobey s with impunity. If disobedience could go unchecked, it would result in s of courts ceasing to have any meaning and judicial power itself becoming a mockery. The right cannot be doubted that the court is empowered by the statute to issue injunction against the defendant in appropriate cases in such terms as the court thinks proper. Machinery has been provided to penalise the person who disobeys the which is binding on the person injuncted as a part of the fundamental rule of law which governs equity. The further question that is required to be considered is whether the act itself committed in breach of the remains unscathed. In our opinion, taking the view that such a transaction in all circumstances irrespective of binding circumstance or nature of the does not aff ect the transaction would be encouraging breach of the injunction by any person venturing to suff er penalty and would result in cutting at the very roots of the eff ective nature of the s and attainment of the object for which the courts exist and exercise judicial power. ××× ××× ××× 73. From the above, it is clear that apart from countenancing the proceedings for contempt for breach of the injunction, the apex court per-mitted the action to be taken for eviction of the sub-tenant inducted in possession contrary to the injunction by declaring 1120 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R.