(c) no Magistrate of the second class, not specially empowered in this behalf by the High Court, shall authorise detention in the custody of the police. Explanation I.—For the avoidance of doubts, it is hereby declared that, notwithstanding the expiry of the period specifi ed in paragraph (a), the accused shall be detained in custody so long as he does not furnish bail. Explanation II.—If any question arises whether an accused person was produced before the Magistrate as required under clause (b), the production of the accused person may be proved by his signature on the authorising detention or by the certifi ed by the Magistrate as to production of the accused person through the medium of electronic video linkage, as the case may be. Provided further that in case of a woman under eighteen years of age, the detention shall be authorised to be in the custody of a remand home or recognised social institution. ××× ××× ××× (3) A Magistrate authorising under this section detention in the custody of the police shall record his reasons for so doing.” 50. Before we consider this most important provision, let us have a comparison between the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (hereinafter referred to as “CrPC, 1898”) and the CrPC, 1973. COMPARISON CHART ON SECTION 167 OF CRPC. SECTION 167 OF THE CODE OF SECTION 167 OF THE CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 1898 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 1973 167. Procedure When Investigation 167. Procedure When Investigation Cannot be Completed in Twenty-Four Cannot be Completed in Twenty-Four Hours: Hours: (1) Whenever it appears that any investigation (1) Whenever any person is arrested and under this Chapter cannot be completed detained in custody, and it appears that the within the period of twenty-four hours fi xed investigation cannot be completed within by section 61, and there are grounds for the period of twenty-four hours fixed believing that the accusation or information by Section 57, and there are grounds for is well-founded, the offi cer-in-charge of the believing that the accusation or information V. SENTHIL BALAJI v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY 887 DEPUTY DIRECTOR AND ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] police-station shall forthwith transmit to the is well-founded, the offi cer in charge of the nearest, Magistrate a copy of the entries in police station or the police offi cer making the diary hereinafter prescribed relating to the the investigation, if he is not below the case, and shall at the same time forward the rank of sub-inspector, shall forthwith accused (if any) to such Magistrate. transmit to the nearest Judicial Magistrate a copy of the entries in the diary hereinafter prescribed relating to the case, and shall at the same time forward the accused to such Magistrate. (2) The Magistrate to whom an accused (2) The Magistrate to whom an accused person is forwarded under this section may, person is forwarded under this section may, whether he has or has not jurisdiction to try whether he has or has not jurisdiction to try the case, from time to time authorise the the case, from time to time, authorise the detention of the accused in such custody detention of the accused in such custody as such Magistrate thinks fi t, for a term not as such Magistrate thinks fi t, for a term exceeding fi fteen days in the whole.