money, C jewellery and bullion. To provide more clarity it is relevant to quote the section in full. It reads as follows: “69A. Unexplained money, etc. Where in any financial year the assessee is found to be the owner of any money, bullion, jewellery or other valuable article and such money, bullion, jewellery or D valuable article is not recorded in the books of account, if any, maintained by him for any source of income, and the assessee offers no explanation about the nature and source of acquisition of the money, bullion, jewellery or other valuable article, or the explanation offered by him is not, in the opinion of the Assessing Officer, satisfactory, the money and the value of the bullion, E jewellery or other valuable article may be deemed to be the income of the assessee for such financial year.” 5. The Patna High Court in the challenged before us- held that under Section 69A “any article which has value will come under the expression “valuable article” as mentioned in Section 69A of F the Act…”1 According to the Division Bench, for purposes of Section 69A, it will not be relevant whether the article in question is generally considered to be of high value and is a precious item. It possibly could be a commonplace and ordinary article but all that will be relevant is that the considered item has some value. The article can be a run-of-the-mill G item or it can be a high priced one. According to the High Court the nature of the article is immaterial so long as it is of some value which may be accounted only by volume. In this case, the addition to assessee’s income related to Rs. 1.05 crores worth of bitumen. In particular, the H 1 DN Singh Vs. Commissioner of Income Tax &Anr. (2010) 324 ITR 304 M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 593 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] impugned judgement also noted that in Section 69A the word ‘valuable A article’ is a ‘separate item’ from bullion, money and jewellery and concluded that it may include any article of value. 6. At this juncture, it is also relevant to consider,the decision of the Chhattisgarh High Court in Dhanush vs. CIT2 under a related anti- avoidance provision, i.e. Section 69B of the Act. However, before B adverting to the decision, it is pertinent to note that on the question of interpretation of the phrase ‘other valuable article’ in Section 69A, the findings, will alsobe applicable to Section 69B. Although Section 69A deals with unexplained ownership of valuable articles, and the provision in Section 69B covers cases of understatement of expenditure incurred C on acquisition of valuable articles, both provisions deal with the ownership of valuable articles. Section 69B, inserted by virtue of the Finance Act, 1965 (10 of 1965), reads as follows: “69B. Amount of investments, etc., not fully disclosed in books of account. Where in any financial year the assessee has made D investments or is found to be the owner of any bullion, jewellery or other valuable article, and the Assessing Officer finds that the amount expended on making such investments or in acquiring such bullion, jewellery or other valuable article exceeds the amount recorded in this behalf in the books of account maintained by the assessee for any source of income, and the assessee offers no E explanation about such excess amount or the explanation offered by him is not, in the opinion of the Assessing Officer, satisfactory, the excess amount may be deemed to be the income of the assessee for such financial year.” F 7.