In K. R. Deb (supra), the Supreme Court observed in the context of the rules in question that though it may be possible in certain circumstances for the disciplinary authority to record further evidence, because of some serious defects that had crept into the inquiry or some important witnesses were not available at the time of the inquiry or were not examined for some other reason, no power is vested in the disciplinary authority to completely set aside previous inquiry on the ground that the report does not appeal to 572 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. the disciplinary authority. It was also observed that disciplinary authority in terms of the rules had enough power to reconsider the evidence and come to its own conclusion.In Vijay Shankar Pandey (supra), the Supreme Court followed K.R. Deb (supra) and reiterated the principle laid down therein. The said decisions are also not applicable to the facts of the present case. We also fi nd no merit in the contention urged on behalf of the petitioner that complaint dated 30.08.2011 having not been submitted to the Complaints Committee, the same could not have been acted upon. Materials on record do not indicate that at the time of submission of the complaint dated 30.08.2011, there was any specifi c Complaints Committee in place and on the contrary, it appears that only after the complaint was received by the authority, FLCC was constituted to go into the complaint. Even otherwise, the Standing No.1/2006 itself visualizes submission of complaint directly to the Frontier IG/IF under certain circumstances.” (Emphasis supplied) 102. We are in complete agreement with the aforesaid fi ndings recorded by the High Court on the issue of multiple inquiries. F. CONCLUSION 103. For all the forgoing reasons, we have reached to the conclusion that the appeal deserves to be allowed. The High Court committed an egregious error in passing the impugned and . 104. In the result, the appeal succeeds and is hereby allowed. The impugned and passed by the High Court dated 15.05.2019 is hereby set- aside. 105. The of penalty imposed by the Disciplinary Authority is hereby restored. However, we clarify that the appellant shall not eff ect any recovery of the amount already paid so far to the respondent. 106. Pending application(s) if any shall stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal allowed. Bibhuti Bhushan Bose Assisted by: Shubhanshu Das, LCRA