upon levy of UDF during the period in question in the present D case. [Para 34][342-C-F] 1.4 There is a distinction between the charges, fee and rent etc. collected under Section 22 of the AAI Act and the UDF levied and collected under Section 22A of the AAI Act. It is that the UDF is in the form of ‘tax or cess’ collected for financing the cost E of future projects and there was no consideration for services provided by the assessee to the customer, visitors, passengers, vendors etc. The aggregate of collections in the bank accounts do not form part of profit and loss account. [Para 35][342-F-G] 1.5 It is also useful to notice that by a circular issued by the F CBEC, Circular No. 89/7/2006- ST dated 18.12.2006, it was clarified that collection of amounts, by way of taxes, sovereign or statutory dues, would not be subjected to service tax levy. [Para 36][342-G; 343-A] 1.6 In the instant case, undoubtedly neither is there any G compulsion to levy development fee, nor is the collection conditional upon its deposit in the government treasury. However, the absence of these features does not render User Development fee(UDF) any less a statutory levy. Firstly, the ruling in Consumer H 324 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Online Foundation’s case is conclusive that UDF is a statutory levy. Secondly, the collection is not premised on rendering of any service. Thirdly, the amounts collected are deposited in an escrow amount, not within the control of the assesses. Fourthly, the utilization of funds, is monitored and regulated by law. In this regard, the fact that the amount is not deposited in a government B treasury, per se, does not make it any less a statutory levy or compulsory extraction. Nor does its discretionary nature, render it any less a statutory levy. Airport management has evolved; it is no longer the monopoly of the government; private participation is recognized. As part of the Union’s economic C policies, the upgradation and renovation of airports is funded through UDF, which is a statutory levy. Instead of the conventional practise of ensuring that amounts collected are deposited with the Government, an entirely new regulatory regime has been envisioned, under the 2011 Rules, read with specific conditions imposed by the Airport Authority India on each assessee, which D includes monitoring of amounts, nature of expenditure, submission of plans for expansion, renovation, their sanctioning etc. These rules and controls are in public interest, and evidently intended to further efficiency in funding and swift taking up and completion of works, rather than funding through Finance Rules, E which might entail delay, and cost overruns. However, the public nature of these funds does not in any manner get undermined, merely because they are kept in an escrow account, and their utilization is monitored separately. Thus, the impugned cannot be faulted. [Paras 39, 40][345-B-H; 346-A] F Consumer Online Foundation v Union of India 2011 (5) SCR 911; Commissioner of Service Tax vs. Bhayana Builders (P) Ltd. 2018 (1) SCR 1128 – relied on.