Therefore, they were not entitled either to TDR or to additional TDR. Realising this difficulty, they appear to have got 2 deeds of PoA from appellant No.1 so as to piggy ride on appellant No.1. In fact, the F first PoA was redundant since by the time it was executed, appellant No.1 had already obtained DRC for TDR. Yet, the first PoA was towards TDR and the second PoA was for additional TDR. 44. Therefore, even an independent analysis of the correspondence between the parties show that no amenity was developed as required by G law, by appellant No.1, to be entitled to Additional TDR. In fact, we could have simply affixed our seal of approval to the finding of fact recorded by the High Court of Bombay in this regard, as the said finding does not appear to be perverse. But instead of taking such a short-cut route, we have gone into greater detail so that the valuable rights guaranteed to appellant No.1 under Article 300A is not defeated. H 84 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 45. Drawing our attention to the photographs of the Recreation Ground as it exists, it was argued by the learned senior counsel for the appellants that what was once a barren land, could not have become what it is but for the activities undertaken by the appellants. Therefore, his argument was that if this is not construed as development of amenity, nothing else can be construed so. B 46.But unfortunately for the appellants, whatever they had done through their Architects up to the date of handing over possession and getting the DRC, was not projected by them as the development of amenity. If all those activities up to the date of handing over possession constituted development of amenity, there was no necessity for appellant C No.1 to give PoA to appellant No.2 to undertake the activity of development of amenity and to seek Additional TDR. If the work of development of amenity and the lodging of a claim for additional TDR had been undertaken only after Mayfair Housing entered into the picture, then the appellants became bound by the condition laid down by the D Corporation that appellant No.2 will not be entitled to Additional TDR. 47.Therefore, we are of the view that the High Court was right in recording a finding of fact that the appellants did not develop the amenity so as to be entitled to additional TDR. Once the finding of fact made by the High Court in this regard is upheld, the appeal should E automatically meet with the fate that it deserves. Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed. There will be no as to costs. Pending application(s) if any, shall stand disposed of. Nidhi Jain Appeal dismissed. F (Assisted by : Tamana, LCRA) G H