(2) If the court fi nds a person to be a juvenile on the date of commission of the off ence under sub-section (1), it shall forward the juvenile to the 272 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Board for passing appropriate , and the sentence if any, passed by a court shall be deemed to have no eff ect. ]” The defi nition of “juvenile in confl ict with law” was also amended which we have already referred above. 22. In addition, comprehensive Rules known as Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Rules, 2007, were also made, inter alia, laying down a detailed procedure as to the determination of the age of a juvenile. Rule 12 of the said Rules is as follows: “12. Procedure to be followed in determination of Age.—(1) In every case concerning a child or a juvenile in confl ict with law, the court or the Board or as the case may be the Committee referred to in Rule 19 of these rules shall determine the age of such juvenile or child or a juvenile in confl ict with law within a period of thirty days from the date of making of the application for that purpose. (2) The court or the Board or as the case may be the Committee shall decide the juvenility or otherwise of the juvenile or the child or as the case may be the juvenile in confl ict with law, prima facie on the basis of physical appearance or documents, if available, and send him to the observation home or in jail. (3) In every case concerning a child or juvenile in confl ict with law, the age determination inquiry shall be conducted by the court or the Board or, as the case may be, the Committee by seeking evidence by obtaining— (a)(i) the matriculation or equivalent certifi cates, if available; and in the absence whereof; (ii) the date of birth certifi cate from the school (other than a play school) fi rst attended; and in the absence whereof; (iii) the birth certifi cate given by a corporation or a municipal authority or a panchayat; (b) and only in the absence of either (i), (ii) or (iii) of clause (a) above, the medical opinion will be sought from a duly constituted Medical Board, which will declare the age of the juvenile or child. In case exact PAWAN KUMAR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 273 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] assessment of the age cannot be done, the Court or the Board or, as the case may be, the Committee, for the reasons to be recorded by them, may, if considered necessary, give benefi t to the child or juvenile by considering his/her age on lower side within the margin of one year. and, while passing s in such case shall, after taking into consideration such evidence as may be available, or the medical opinion, as the case may be, record a fi nding in respect of his age and either of the evidence specifi ed in any of the clauses (a)(i), (ii), (iii) or in the absence whereof, clause (b) shall be the conclusive proof of the age as regards such child or the juvenile in confl ict with law.