4.6 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the passed by B the DRAT allowing waiver of the statutory pre-deposit on the aforesaid ground, the secured creditor/assignee filed the subject writ petition before the High Court being Writ Petition No. 6060/2020. By the impugned and , the High Court has partly allowed the said writ petition preferred by the secured creditor/assignee by directing that the borrower is required to deposit 50% of the remaining 4.1 crores being C debt due (after deducting/adjusting Rs. 12.5 crores realised/recovered by selling the mortgaged property). The High Court has also observed that it shall be open to DRAT to reduce the said pre- deposit amount to 25%, after recording reasons in writing for the said reduction. The aforesaid is passed by the High Court, after observing and D concluding as under: “(a) Pre-deposit contemplated under the second proviso of Section 18 of the SARFAESI Act, 2002 is mandatory in nature and cannot be waived by the learned DRAT. (b) While computing the “amount of debt due”, the amount of E debt claimed by he secured creditor in its notice issued under Section 13(2) of the Act, shall be relevant and any future interest need not be taken into consideration for purposes of determining, “the amount of debt due as claimed by the secured credit”, in cases where the DRT has not determined the liability of a borrower. F (c) The interest component shall be ignored only for the purposes of Section 18 of the Act. This shall not affect the rights of the secured creditors to claim interest from the borrower, for recovery of amounts due under the RDDB Act. G (d) Any amount that has been repaid by the borrower and/or recovered by a secured creditor after filing of the petition under Section 17, shall stand to the benefit of the borrower while computing the ”amount of debt due” under the second proviso to Section 18 of the SARFAESI Act, 2002.” H M/S SIDHA NEELKANTH PAPER INDUSTRIES PVT. LTD. v. 561 PRUDENT ARC LIMITED & OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] 4.7 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned A and passed by the High Court, both, the secured creditor/assignee – Prudent ARC Limited and the original borrower – Sidha Neelkanth Paper Industries Pvt. Ltd. have preferred the present appeals. Factual Aspects in Civil Appeal Nos.8972, 8973 & 8974 of 2022: B 5. That the respective respondents in the present appeals took financial assistance by way of a Home Loan to the tune of Rupees one crore fifty lakhs from Bank of Baroda – the financial creditor. In to secure the loan, the borrowers had mortgaged their property situated at Survey No. 542/2/2/1, Patwari Halka No. 18, Junior Dewas, District C Dewas. Upon committing the default in returning the loan amount, the Bank issued a demand notice dated 3.8.2019 under Section 13(2) of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘SARFAESI Act’) for a debt of Rs.