It is the case of the appellant that in these circumstances, the appellant did not appear and ultimately the complaints were dismissed for non- B appearance vide dated 25.01.2019. 6. The dismissing the complaints for non-prosecution was subjected to challenge before the Delhi High Court through eight separate petitions which came to be dismissed by a common dated 07.11.2019 impugned in these appeals. C 7. We have heard Shri Maninder Singh, learned Senior Advocate appearing for the appellant; and Mr. Samrat Nigam, learned Advocate for the respondents. 8. The learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the learned Magistrate while dismissing the complaints for non-prosecution lost sight D of the proviso to sub-section (1) of Section 256 of the Code. It is submitted that the said proviso enables the Magistrate to dispense with the attendance of the complainant and proceed with the case where the complainant is represented by a pleader or by the officer conducting the prosecution or where the Magistrate is of the opinion that the personal E attendance of the complainant is not necessary. It is submitted that as the statement of the complainant had been recorded and the complainant was also subjected to cross-examination, there existed admissible evidence on record in support of the complaint case. In these circumstances, even if the complainant was absent, the F learned Magistrate could have proceeded to decide the case on merits. Thus, the of the learned Magistrate stands vitiated for having failed to notice that there existed evidence on record enabling the matter to proceed even in absence of the complainant under the proviso to sub- section (1) of Section 256 of the Code. It is urged that the High Court also failed to notice the aforesaid aspect; consequently, the (s) of G the High Court as well as of the learned Magistrate are liable to be set- aside and the matter be restored to the stage at which the learned Magistrate had dismissed the complaint. In support of his submissions, the learned counsel for the appellant placed reliance on the decisions of this Court in Associated Cement Co. H M/S. BLS INFRASTRUCTURE LIMITED v. 187 M/S. RAJWANT SINGH [MANOJ MISRA, J.] Ltd. v. Keshvanand1; S. Anand v. Vasumathi Chandrasekar2; and, A S. Rama Krishna v. S. Rami Reddy (Dead) By His LRs & Others3. 9.Per contra, the learned counsel for the respondent(s) submitted that sub-section (1) of Section 256 of the Code mandates the Magistrate to acquit the accused if, on the day appointed for the appearance of the accused or any day subsequent thereto, to which the hearing may be B adjourned, the complainant does not appear. It is submitted that since it is not in dispute that the complainant had filed an application under section 311 of the Code and the complainant remained absent from the proceedings, the learned Magistrate was justified in dismissing the complaint(s) for non-appearance of the complainant. It has also been C urged that if there is any technical defect in dismissing the complaint(s) for non-appearance of the complainant, the same be treated as an of acquittal as per provisions of sub-section (1) of Section 256 of the Code.