Of course, the Magistrate himself is free to put such questions M/S IVECO MAGIRUS BRANDSCHUTZTECHNIK GMBH v. 245 NIRMAL KISHORE BHARTIYA [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] to the witnesses produced before him by the complainant as he may think proper in the interests of justice. But beyond that, he cannot go. … No doubt, one of the objects behind the provisions of Section 202 CrPC is to enable the Magistrate to scrutinise carefully the allegations made in the complaint with a view to prevent a person named therein as accused from being called upon to face an obviously frivolous complaint. But there is also another object behind this provision and it is to fi nd out what material there is to support the allegations made in the complaint. It is the bounden duty of the Magistrate while making an enquiry to elicit all facts not merely with a view to protect the interests of an absent accused person, but also with a view to bring to book a person or persons against whom grave allegations are made. Whether the complaint is frivolous or not has, at that stage, necessarily to be determined on the basis of the material placed before him by the complainant. Whatever defence the accused may have can only be enquired into at the trial. An enquiry under Section 202 can in no sense be characterised as a trial for the simple reason that in law there can be but one trial for an off ence. Permitting an accused person to intervene during the enquiry would frustrate its very object and that is why the legislature has made no specifi c provision permitting an accused person to take part in an enquiry. ***” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 33.2 Considering the decision in Vadilal Panchal (supra), what was said therein was explained in the following words: “13. *** we may point out that since the object of an enquiry under Section 202 is to ascertain whether the allegations made in the complaint are intrinsically true, the Magistrate acting under Section 203 has to satisfy himself that there is suffi cient ground for proceeding. In to come to this conclusion, he is entitled to consider the evidence taken by him or recorded in an enquiry under Section 202, or statements made in an investigation under that section, as the case may be. He is not entitled to rely upon any material besides this. ***” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 246 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. In the same paragraph, after referring to the decision in Ramgopal Ganpatrai Ruia v. State of Bombay22, the Court proceeded to rule that: “*** Thus, where there is a prima facie case, even though much can be said on both sides, a committing Magistrate is bound to commit an accused for trial. All the greater reason, therefore, that where there is prima facie evidence, even though an accused may have a defence like that in the present case that the off ence is committed by some other person or persons, the matter has to be left to be decided by the appropriate forum at the appropriate stage and issue of process cannot be refused.