The Act 1996 does not prescribe D any time period for filing an application under Section 11(6). Since there is no provision in the Act 1996 specifying the period of limitation for filing an application under Section 11, one would have to take recourse to the Act 1963, as per Section 43 of the Act 1996 which provides that the Limitation Act shall apply to arbitrators, as it applies to proceedings E in Court. Since none of the articles in Schedule to the Limitation Act provide a time period for filing an application for appointment of arbitrator under Section 11, it would be covered by the residual provision under Article 137 of the Limitation Act which provides that the period of limitation is F three years for any other application for which no period of limitation is provided elsewhere in the division. The time limit starts from the period when the right to apply accrues. This Court relied on its various other decisions including few High Court decisions. This Court held that an application under Section 11 is G to be filed in a Court of Law, and since no specific Article of the Act 1963 applies, the residual Article would become applicable. The effect being that the period of limitation to file an application under Section 11 is three years from the date of refusal to appoint the arbitrator or on expiry of 30 days whichever is earlier. H M/S B AND T AG v. MINISTRY OF DEFENCE 627 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] In the said case the respondent had issued the notice of arbitration A on 29.04.2020 which was rejected by the appellant on 09.06.2020. The respondent filed an application under Section 11 before the High Court on 24.07.2020, i.e., within the period of three years of rejection of the request for appointment of arbitrator. This Court allowed the appeals filed by the BSNL holding as under: B “48. Applying the law to the facts of the present case, it is clear that this is a case where the claims are ex facie time- barred by over 5½ years, since Nortel did not take any action whatsoever after the rejection of its claim by BSNL on 4-8- 2014. The notice of arbitration was invoked on 29-4-2020. C There is not even an averment either in the notice of arbitration, or the petition filed under Section 11, or before this Court, of any intervening facts which may have occurred, which would extend the period of limitation falling within Sections 5 to 20 of the Limitation Act. Unless, there is a pleaded D case specifically adverting to the applicable section, and how it extends the limitation from the date on which the cause of action originally arose, there can be no basis to save the time of limitation. 49. The present case is a case of deadwood/no subsisting E dispute since the cause of action arose on 4-8-2014, when the claims made by Nortel were rejected by BSNL. The respondent has not stated any event which would extend the period of limitation, which commenced as per Article 55 of the Schedule of the Limitation Act (which provides the limitation for cases pertaining to breach of contract) F immediately after the rejection of the final bill by making deductions.