Illustration Z attempts to horsewhip A, not in such a manner as to cause grievous hurt to A. A draws out a pistol. Z persists in the F assault. A believing in good faith that he can by no other means prevent himself from being horsewhipped, shoots Z dead. A has not committed murder, but only culpable homicide. Exception 3.—Culpable homicide is not murder if the offender, being a public servant or aiding a public servant G acting for the advancement of public justice, exceeds the powers given to him by law, and causes death by doing an act which he, in good faith, believes to be lawful and necessary for the due discharge of his duty as such public servant and without ill-will towards the person whose death is caused. H NAGARATHINAM v. STATE THROUGH THE INSPECTOR OF 1133 POLICE [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] Exception 4.—Culpable homicide is not murder if it is A committed without premeditation in a sudden fight in the heat of passion upon a sudden quarrel and without the of fender having taken undue advantage or acted in a cruel or unusual manner. Explanation.—It is immaterial in such cases which party B offers the provocation or commits the first assault. Exception 5.—Culpable homicide is not murder when the person whose death is caused, being above the age of eighteen years, sufffers death or takes the risk of death with his own consent. C Illustration A, by instigation, voluntarily causes Z, a person under eighteen years of age to commit suicide. Here, on account of Z’s youth, he was incapable of giving consent to his own death; D A has therefore abetted murder. xxx 302. Punishment for murder - Whoever commits murder shall be punished with death or imprisonment for life and shall also be liable to fine. E xxx 304. Punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder- Whoever commits culpable homicide not amounting to murder shall be punished with (imprisonment for life), or imprisonment of either description for a term which may F extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine, if the act by which the death is caused is done with the intention of causing death, or of causing such bodily in jury as is likely to cause death, Or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, or with fine, or with G both, if the act is done with the knowledge that it is likely to cause death, but without any intention to cause death, or to cause such bodily injury as is likely to cause death.” 12. In the facts and circumstance of the present case, we find the scenarios put forth by the Appellant not covered under the exceptions H 1134 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A enumerated under Section 300 of the IPC. More so, when there was no consent from the persons who were fed and died upon consuming the pesticide administered by the Appellant. In Guruswami Pillai (supra), the father had caused the death of his minor daughter by cutting her throat with a blade and had also attempted to commit suicide.