*** *** *** R.163. Acceptance or rejection of proof to be communicated G – After such investigation as he may think necessary, the liquidator shall in writing admit or reject the proof in whole or in part. Every decision of the Liquidator accepting or rejecting a proof, either wholly or in part, shall be communicated to the creditor concerned by post under certificate of posting where the proof is admitted and by registered post for acknowledgement where the proof is H 1104 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A rejected wholly or in part, provided that it shall not be necessary to give notice of the admission of a claim to a creditor who has appeared before the Liquidator and the acceptance of whose claim had been communicated to him or his agent in writing at the time of acceptance. Where the Liquidator rejects a proof, wholly or in part, he shall state the grounds of the rejection to the creditor in B Form No.69, Notice of admission of proof shall be in Form No.70. *** *** *** R.338. Cost and expenses payable out of the assets in a winding-up by the Court.- C (1) The assets of a company in a winding-up by the Court remaining after payment of the fees and expenses properly incurred in preserving, realising or getting in the assets including, where the company has previously commenced to be wound-up voluntarily, such remuneration, cost and expenses as the Court may allow to the liquidator in such voluntary winding-up, shall, D subject to any of the Court and to the rights of secured creditors if any, be liable to the following payments which shall be made in the following of priority, namely :- First.-the taxed costs of the petition including the taxed costs of any person appearing on the petition, whose costs are allowed by E the Court. Next.-the costs and expenses of any person who makes, or concurs in making, the Company’s statement of affairs ; Next.-the necessary disbursements of the Official Liquidator other F than expenses properly incurred in preserving, realising or getting in the properties of the company ; Next.-the cost of any person properly employed by the Official Liquidators ; Next.-the fees to be credited to Government under section 451 G (2) ; Next.-the actual out of pocket expenses necessarily incurred by the members of the Committee of Inspection, and sanctioned by the Court. H OFFICIAL LIQUIDATOR v. UJJAIN NAGAR PALIKA NIGAM 1105 & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] (2) Save as otherwise ed by the Court no payments in respect A of bills of advocates, shall be allowed out of the assets of the company without proof that the same have been considered and allowed by the taxing officer of the Court. The taxing officer shall before passing the Bills or charges of an advocate, satisfy himself that the appointment of an advocate to assist the liquidator in the B performance of his duties has been duly sanctioned. (3) Nothing contained in this Rule shall apply to or affect costs which, in the course of legal proceedings by or against the company which is being wound-up by the Court, are ed by the Court in which such proceedings are pending, to be paid by the company C or the liquidator, or the rights of the person to whom such costs are payable.” 15.3.