The omission of word “undisclosed income” in Section 153A does not mean that assessment consequent to search in the absence F of any incriminating material being found during the course of search, the AO shall assume jurisdiction to assess income de hors incriminating material in respect of unabated assessments as is being contested by the Revenue. The provision of 153A still have to be read in light of Sections 132 and 132A. This G intention of the legislation is also manifestly evident from a plain reading of second proviso to sub-section (1) of Section 153A as well as from sub-section (2) of Section 153A of the Act. H PRINCIPAL COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, CENTRAL-3 921 v. ABHISAR BUILDWELL P. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] x) It is submitted that the second proviso to sub-section (1) of A Section 153A provides that assessment or reassessment, if any, relating to the six assessment years referred to in the sub- section pending on the date of initiation of search under Section 132 or requisition under Section 132A, as the case may be, shall abate. Thus, where an assessment is pending as on date B of search, the same ‘abates’ and such assessments then can be made by following the procedure under Section 153A and the Revenue shall have the power to assess “total income” in accordance with the provision of the Act. Accordingly, by way of this second proviso, the intention of the legislation to do away with two separate assessments is achieved. C xi) Further, to give this second proviso force and to enable the Revenue to make assessment qua “total income” as against just undisclosed income, in the proceedings under Section 153A itself, the expression “total income” has been used in first proviso to Section 153A(1). Here, for the purpose of abated D assessments, the expression “total income” shall undisputedly derive its meaning from definition of “total income” provided under Section 2 which means that the Revenue shall be permitted to make assessment qua total income. Had the expression “total income” not been used in the first proviso, E the Revenue would have not been able to bring to tax income other than undisclosed income even qua the abated assessments. However, in contrast to abated assessments, in case of completed assessments, where no assessment was pending as on date of search, it is pertinent to mention that no two assessments were taking place in the first place itself. F Only one assessment took place in the earlier block assessment regime wherein only undisclosed income could be brought to tax that too when incriminating material was unearthed. xii) It is further submitted that, in cases of unabated assessments where no incriminating material whatsoever was unearthed, G no addition could be made in the erstwhile regime as well. It is humbly submitted that the intention of the Parliament was to never tinker with such category of cases in the 153A regime. This is because when no two assessments were taking place in respect of such category of cases, there was no question of H 922 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R.