by the 1978 Act, the high denomination bank notes were meant to be “all A series” of the bank notes of the denominational value of Rs.1,000/-, Rs.5,000/- and Rs,10,000/-. It is thus submitted that, whenever it was found necessary to demonetize “all series” of a particular denomination, it was considered necessary to do so by way of a separate enactment of Parliament. B 19. Shri Chidambaram submits that, since the bank notes are issued in different series, the words “any series” before the words “of bank notes of any denomination” appearing in sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act, will have to be construed as limiting the power of the Government to declare only a specified series of notes to be no longer C legal tender. He submits that it will have to be held that the words “any series” mean “any specified series” and not “all series” of bank notes. 20. Shri Chidambaram submits that, if it is held that the Central Government is conferred with the power under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act to demonetize currency notes of “all series”, then a D situation may arise wherein the bank notes issued on the previous day can be demonetized on the very next day. He submits that, as a result of the demonetization done on 8th November 2016, even the currency notes issued on the previous day of the denominational value of Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/- had become illegal tender. E 21. Shri Chidambaram submits that if sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act is not read down in the aforesaid manner, then the said Section would be vulnerable to be challenged on the ground that it confers an unguided, uncanalised and arbitrary power upon the Executive Government. He submits that, in such a situation, the said provision is liable to be struck down on the ground that it violates Articles 14, 19, 21 F and 300A of the Constitution of India. He submits that the fact that the demonetization of “all series” of high denominational currency notes in the years 1946 and 1978 was done through separate enactments of Parliament would support the said proposition. 22. Shri Chidambaram submits that, upon a plain reading of sub- G section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act, it is obvious that there is neither any policy nor any guidelines in the said provision. What factors are required to be taken into consideration and what factors are to be eschewed from consideration, are not specified in sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act. It is submitted that if a drastic power of H 38 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A demonetizing currency notes of “all series” in certain denominations is to be entrusted to the Executive Government, then Parliament ought to have laid down the guidelines for exercising such power. He submits that, in the absence of anything of that nature, it will have to be held that the delegation to the Executive Government is excessive, arbitrary and as such, violative of Articles 14, 19, 21 and 300A of the Constitution of B India.