(b) E For the purposes of pension, only such period from the work- charged tenure would be added for making the service of an employee which has been regularized to qualify him for pension. (c) While adding such period of work-charged tenure, the modus would be of granting/counting one year for every five years of service rendered under work-charged establishment. If that also F leaves some shortfall, then further number of years of work- charged tenure can be taken/added for making the service of the employee pensionable. (d) For the purposes of giving benefit to an employee for promotion on the selection grade and timebound promotion, the entire period of service rendered as work-charged G employee can be counted. (e) The Rules and Circular of 2013 are valid as has been held in Binod Kumar (supra). (f) The Rules and Circular of 2013 are applicable to such work-charged employees who have been appointed after 22.10.1984 and prior to 11.12.1990.” 3. The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants has vehemently submitted that in fact the respective appellants rendered H UDAY PRATAP THAKUR AND ANR. v. THE STATE OF BIHAR 535 [M. R. SHAH, J.] services as work charged for approximately more than 30 to 35 years. It A is submitted that they were also granted other benefits like MACP etc. while working as work charged under the work charged establishment. It is submitted that therefore, their earlier services rendered as work charged employees shall not be wiped out and/or at-least cannot be ignored for the purpose of pension. B 3.1 It is submitted that the respective appellants were as such appointed not on a particular project but the appointment was for a work, which was regular and periodical in nature for a monthly salary and they were working in the Government department. It is submitted that therefore, their services were not qualitatively different from regular C employees. 3.2 It is submitted that it was unfair on the part of the State Government to take work from them for periods depriving them of their due emoluments. It is submitted that all the appellants were appointed after their names were called from the Employment Exchange. D 3.3 It is submitted that as observed and held by this Court in the case of Prem Singh Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and Ors., (2019) 10 SCC 516, the services rendered as work charged is to be counted for pensionary benefits. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants has heavily relied upon the paragraphs 29, 30, 31, 32 and 36 of the said E decision. 4. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State while opposing the present appeals has vehemently submitted that in fact taking into consideration the fact that despite having worked for a longer period as work charged, thereafter when they were regularized and they were found short of qualifying service for pension and on that ground, they F may not be denied the pension solely on the ground that they have not completed the qualifying service for pension, a conscious decision has been taken by the State in favour of such employees providing that for the purpose of qualifying service, the services rendered as work charged is to be counted to make them eligible for pension.