It was held: “222. A conjoint reading of Article 239-AA(3)(a) and Article 239- AA(4) reveals that the executive power of the Government of NCT of Delhi is coextensive with the legislative power of the G Delhi Legislative Assembly which is envisaged in Article 239- AA(3) and which extends over all but three subjects in the State List and all subjects in the Concurrent List and, thus, Article 239- AA(4) confers executive power on the Council of Ministers over all those subjects for which the Delhi Legislative Assembly has legislative power. H 518 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 223. Article 239-AA(3)(a) reserves Parliament’s legislative power on all matters in the State List and Concurrent List, but clause (4) nowhere reserves the executive powers of the Union with respect to such matters. On the contrary, clause (4) explicitly grants to the Government of Delhi executive powers in relation to matters for which the Legislative Assembly has power to legislate. The B legislative power is conferred upon the Assembly to enact whereas the policy of the legislation has to be given effect to by the executive for which the Government of Delhi has to have coextensive executive powers… 224. Article 239-AA(4) confers executive powers on the C Government of NCT of Delhi whereas the executive power of the Union stems from Article 73 and is coextensive with Parliament’s legislative power. Further, the ideas of pragmatic federalism and collaborative federalism will fall to the ground if we are to say that the Union has overriding executive powers D even in respect of matters for which the Delhi Legislative Assembly has legislative powers. Thus, it can be very well said that the executive power of the Union in respect of NCT of Delhi is confined to the three matters in the State List for which the legislative power of the Delhi Legislative Assembly has been excluded under Article 239-AA(3)(a). Such an interpretation E would thwart any attempt on the part of the Union Government to seize all control and allow the concepts of pragmatic federalism and federal balance to prevail by giving NCT of Delhi some degree of required independence in its functioning subject to the limitations imposed by the Constitution… F 284.16. As a natural corollary, the Union of India has exclusive executive power with respect to NCT of Delhi relating to the three matters in the State List in respect of which the power of the Delhi Legislative Assembly has been excluded. In respect of other matters, the executive power is to be exercised by the Government of NCT of Delhi. This, however, is subject to the G proviso to Article 239-AA(4) of the Constitution. Such an interpretation would be in consonance with the concepts of pragmatic federalism and federal balance by giving the Government of NCT of Delhi some required degree of independence subject to the limitations imposed by the H Constitution.” GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 519 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 20. The of the majority, however, clarified that if A Parliament makes a law in relation to any subject in List II and List III, the executive power of GNCTD shall then be limited by the law enacted by Parliament.