The Speaker did not provide the political party with an opportunity D of being heard before issuing the communication dated 3 July 2022 recognising Mr. Gogawale as the Chief Whip; vi. The decision of the Speaker recognising a whip is not excluded from judicial review by the provisions E of Article 212 of the Constitution. Article 212 only precludes judicial review of ‘proceedings in the Legislature of the State’ on the ground of procedural irregularity. This Court in Raja Ram Pal v. Hon’ble Speaker, Lok Sabha14 has held that Article 212 does not exclude judicial review on the grounds F of substantive or gross illegality; and vii. The Leader of the legislature party must be appointed only by the political party. The link between the political party and the legislature party would be severed if the legislature party is permitted to appoint G a Leader different from the candidate selected by the political party. c. An MLA who the Speaker holds to have voluntarily given up membership for the purpose of the Tenth Schedule 13 "Act of 1956" 14 (2007) 3 SCC 184 H 890 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A cannot initiate proceedings under Paragraph 15 of the Symbols because they will no longer be a part of the political party. Thus, members of a splinter faction who have been disqualified cannot be permitted to stake a claim under the Symbols as the political party; B d. The decision of the ECI does not have any bearing on proceedings under the Tenth Schedule because: (i) Disqualification relates back to the date of the actions which led to the incurring of disqualification; and (ii) The decision of the ECI will only have a prospective effect either from the date on which proceedings were instituted under C Paragraph 15 of the Symbols or the decision of the ECI in those proceedings; e. The communication of the Governor dated 28 June 2022 calling for a trust vote is illegal. The Governor’s power to call for a trust vote is not unrestrained. The Governor’s D decision to call for a floor test is subject to judicial review and is liable to be quashed if it is based on extraneous considerations. The Governor’s decision to call for a floor test on 28 June 2022 was illegal because: i. The resolution of thirty-four members of the SSLP E which is relied upon by the Governor does not state that they intend to exit the MVA; and ii. The Governor cannot base his satisfaction on a claim of a majority of the SSLP against the government formed by their own political party; F f. The communication of the Governor dated 30 June 2022 calling Mr. Eknath Shinde to take oath as the Chief Minister is unconstitutional and ought to be set aside for the following reasons: i. The Governor calling Mr. Shinde to take oath amounts G to a recognition of a split in the Shiv Sena; ii. The Governor could not have called Mr. Shinde to form the Government when a disqualification petition was pending against him; H SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 891 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] iii.