A valuable national asset was being destroyed. G There were safety concerns. Large profits were being reaped but by paying very low wages to the workers. All privately held coal leases were brought under the umbrella of the Nationalisation Act except those held by privately owned steel companies. The Nationalisation Act came to be again amended by Act 22 of 1978. Thereafter, again it was amended H by Act 57 of 1986 and finally by Act 47 of 1993. Suffice it to notice that COAL INDIA LIMITED v. COMPETITION COMMISSION 867 OF INDIA [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] with the commencement of the Coal Mines Nationalisation (Amendment) A Act, 1976 on 29.04.1976, carrying on a coal mining operation or leasing for mining coal by any private party, was prohibited. 77. Section 11 of the Nationalisation Act contemplates that the general superintendence, direction, control and management of the affairs and business of a coal mine, where the right of an owner, stood vested in B the Central Government under Section 3, would stand vested in the Government Company specified in terms of the direction made by the Central Government under Section 5. The first appellant is a Government Company, which was wholly owned by the Central Government and was the Company contemplated under Section 5 and, therefore, the C general superintendence, direction, control and management of all the mines, ownership of which stood vested in the Central Government, vested with the first appellant. The first appellant is the holding Company and there are subsidiary companies. Reliance is placed on the of this Court rendered in the context of Article 324 of the Constitution. It is true that the said Article, which deals with the powers of the Election D Commission of India, employs the words general superintendence, direction and control of, inter alia, for the conduct of all elections to Parliament and the State Legislatures, apart from elections to the Office of the President and the Vice-President. It is, undoubtedly, true that this Court has held that the words ‘superintendence, direction and control’, E are words of the widest import. It is subject to limitations, flowing from constitutional provisions, binding laws and directions, which may be issued by the Courts.It is true that the Election Commission of India has been clothed with the plenary jurisdiction. We must, no doubt, not lose sight of the fact that Article 324 deals with one of the most important Constitutional Functionaries. The importance of holding free and fair elections, cannot F be understated. Even, according to the appellants, the appellants are bound to act in accordance with Presidential Directives and the extant policy in the superintendence, control and management of the affairs of the nationalized mines. It may not be appropriate to describe the power, therefore, as fully akin to the powers that vests with the Election G Commission of India under Article 324. However, we do agree that subject to such directives and policy considerations, there is a large measure of power with the appellants.