This is indeed B a powerful reason for a liberal construction.” Arbitration must provide a one-stop forum for resolution of disputes. The Court of Appeal held that if arbitrators can decide whether a contract is void for initial illegality, there is no reason why they should not decide whether a contract is C procured by bribery, just as much as they can decide whether a contract has been vitiated by misrepresentation or non- disclosure. [Emphasis supplied] 64. Thus, the one-stop arbitration approach would ensure that all D issues on initial illegality or whether a contract is void can be decided by the arbitral institutions subject, of course, to the ultimate supervisory jurisdiction of the Courts. An arbitral award can be set aside by Courts as per the legislative mandate in Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, 1996. This would prevent multiplicity of proceedings in Courts and tribunals and ensure minimal judicial intervention. E H. Discussion on SMS Tea: 65. Having broadly discussed the legislative scheme of the Stamp Act, 1899 and the Arbitration Act, 1996, let us now examine the correctness of the decisions referred to in NN Global(supra). F 66. The judicial position on the enforceability of an arbitration agreement contained in an unstamped or insufficiently stamped agreement can be traced from this Court’s 2011 decision in SMS Tea (supra). The facts of the case were that the appellant was granted lease of two tea estates for a term of 30 years. The leases deed contained an arbitration clause. On abrupt eviction by the respondent from the tea estates, the G appellant filed an application under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 for the appointment of arbitrator. The learned Chief Justice of Guwahati High Court dismissed the Section 11 application and held that the lease deed was compulsorily registrable under Section 17 of the Registration Act, 1908 and Section 106 of the Transfer of Property H Act, 1882 ; and as the lease deed was not registered, even the arbitration M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 461 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] clause would be rendered invalid. The matter reached this Court where A one of the questions was whether an arbitration agreement in an unregistered instrument which is not duly stamped, is valid and enforceable. It was observed that the arbitration agreement in an unstamped or insufficiently stamped instrument is invalid, given that Section 35 of the Stamp Act, 1899 expressly bars the authority before B which such unstamped or insufficiently stamped instrument is presented to act on such an instrument. At this stage, it is important to keep in mind that decision in SMS (supra)came at a time when SBP (supra) and Boghara Polyfab (supra) continued to hold the field i.e. prior to the insertion of Section 11(6A) to the Act. Thus, even at the Section 11 stage, under the law which existed before the 2015 Amendment, the C Court had wide powers and could also conduct detailed adjudication.