by both the Courts below which as such were on appreciation of evidence A on record. 2.4 It is submitted that the Hon’ble High Court has not properly appreciated the fact that as such the road in question was constructed in the year 1987 and that too with the help and consent of the plaintiff and that at no point of time till 2002, he made any grievance even with respect B to non- payment of the compensation. It is submitted that in the deposition the plaintiff witnesses including the plaintiff have specifically admitted that the road in question has been constructed in the year 1987. It is submitted that for the first time in the year 2002 the plaintiff in a representation to the Chief Minister made a grievance with respect to C non-payment of the compensation. It is submitted that therefore when on appreciation of evidence on record both the courts below held that the suit was barred by limitation, the High Court has committed an error in interfering with the said findings in exercise of powers under Section 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure. D 2.5 Making above submissions, it is prayed to allow the present appeals and quashed and set aside the impugned and passed by the High Court and restore the and decree passed by the learned Trial Court dismissing the suit. 3. We have gone through the impugned and passed E by the High Court as well as the findings recorded by the learned Trial Court confirmed by the First Appellate Court. We have also considered the deposition of the plaintiff witnesses which were elaborately considered by the learned Trial Court. From the deposition of the plaintiff witnesses it can be seen that the plaintiff and other witnesses specifically admitted that the land in question on the land of the plaintiff was F constructed in the year 1987. The plaintiff witnesses have also admitted that the retaining wall was constructed on the land of the plaintiff in the year 1987. Even according to the plaintiff and his witnesses the fruit trees were damaged/destroyed in the year 1987. Even the cause of action pleaded in the suit was construction of road in the year 1987. G Considering the aforesaid facts and circumstances when the learned Trial Court held that the suit was barred by limitation considering Articles 58 and 72 of the Limitation Act and when the same was confirmed by the First Appellate Court, the High Court ought not to have interfered with the said findings of facts in exercise of powers under Section 100 of the CPC. H 586 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 3.1 At this stage, it is required to be noted that it was the specific case on behalf of the defendants that the road was constructed with the help and consent of the plaintiff which is established and proved by the conduct on the part of the plaintiff mainly not raising any dispute till 2002. B 3.2 From the impugned and passed by the High Court and the substantial question of law framed it is to be noted that the High Court has not framed any substantial question of law on the limitation and/or the suit being barred by limitation.