Deepa2. 12. Other aspect which we must consider is the fact that for the E last 25 years the appellant and respondent, are living separately, and have not cohabitated. There is absolutely no scope of reconciliation between the parties. There is in fact no bond between the two and as the Law Commission in its 71st report said about such a marriage, which is a marriage which has de facto broken down, and only needs a de jure recognition by the law. The same was reiterated by the Law Commission F in its 217th report. 13. Under similar circumstances, this Court in R. Srinivas Kumar v. R. Shametha3, Munish Kakkar v. Nidhi Kakkar4 and Neha Tyagi v. Lieutenant Colonel Deepak Tyagi5 has held that an irretrievable G marriage is a marriage where husband and wife have been living 1 (2006) 4 SCC 558 2 (2013) 5 SCC 226 3 (2019) 9 SCC 409 4 (2020) 14 SCC 657 H 5 (2022) 3 SCC 86 SH. RAKESH RAMAN v. SMT. KAVITA 559 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] separately for a considerable period and there is absolutely no chance of A their living together again. In all the above cited three cases, this Court in exercise of its power under Article 142 of the Constitution of India has dissolved the marriage on the ground of irretrievable breakdown as a ground, which otherwise does not exist under the Hindu Marriage Act. 14. In Naveen Kohli (supra), a strong recommendation has been B made by this Court to the Union of India to consider adding irretrievable breakdown down of a marriage as a ground for divorce under the Hindu Marriage Act. 15. The multiple Court battles between them and the repeated failures in mediation and conciliation is at least testimony of this fact that C no bond now survive between the couple, it is indeed a marriage which has broken down irretrievably. 16. Matrimonial cases before the Courts pose a different challenge, quite unlike any other, as we are dealing with human relationships with its bundle of emotions, with all its faults and frailties. It is not possible in D every case to pin point to an act of “cruelty” or blameworthy conduct of the spouse. The nature of relationship, the general behaviour of the parties towards each other, or long separation between the two are relevant factors which a Court must take into consideration. In Samar Ghosh v. Jaya Ghosh6 a three judge Bench of this Court had dealt in detail as to E what would constitute cruelty under Section 13(1)(ia) of the Act. An important guideline in the above decision is on the approach of a Court in determining cruelty. What has to be examined here is the entire matrimonial relationship, as cruelty may not be in a violent act or acts but in a given case has to be gathered from injurious reproaches, complaints, accusations, taunts, etc. The Court relied on the definition of F cruelty in matrimonial relationships in Halsbury’s Laws of England (Vol 13, 4th Edn, Para 1269, Pg 602) which must be reproduced here: “The general rule in all cases of cruelty is that the entire matrimonial relationship must be considered, and that rule is of special value when the cruelty consists not of violent acts but of G injurious reproaches, complaints, accusations or taunts.