After the inspection of the institute, report was submitted by the Enforcement Offi cer on 01.07.2003, wherein it was stated that there being total 26 employees working in both Institutes, being managed by the same Society and within the same premises, the establishment would be covered under the provisions of the EPF Act w.e.f. 01.03.1988. It is the date from which the EPF Act was made applicable to the educational institutions. The coverage was confi rmed vide dated 12.08.2003. There is nothing pointed out by learned counsel for the appellant, that the aforesaid two s clubbing both the establishments provisionally and thereafter fi nally was challenged by the appellant. If yes, the same was not presented before this Court. The proceedings in the present case started after an was passed by the Commissioner on 23.09.2005under Section 7-A of the EPF Act, which provides for determination of the dues payable under the EPF Act, for the benefi ts of the employees. The Commissioner’s begins with the line that the establishment has been covered under the provisions of the EPF Act and Schemes framed there under. Further, it recorded that the management had responded to the notice issued by the Commissioner on 30.06.2004 vide its letter dated 14.12.2004, disputing the applicability of the provisions of the EPF Act. The passed by the Commissioner also recorded that on various dates when the matter was listed, either no one appeared on behalf of the management or only adjournment was sought. It was also recorded that the management had failed to produce the relevant records. The Enforcement Offi cer had to visit the establishment for the inspection. The report mentions that there were total 26 employees. Thereafter, the establishment had pointed out that, 8 out of the 26 employees were working in the aided Institute i.e., Ideal Institute, thus, these ought to be excluded for the purpose of calculation of dues under the EPF Act. The issue raised in the present appeal is not regarding the calculation of dues under the EPF 548 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Act, rather it is regarding the coverage of the EPF Act by clubbing of two Institutes. In fact, no arguments were raised regarding calculation. 17. After verifi cation of all the documents, the Commissioner passed an wherein it determined the amount due under various schemes of the EPF Act. The appellant fi led a Review Petition under Section 7-B of the EPF Act, which was rejected by the Commissioner vide dated 14.11.2005. Aggrieved by the s, the appellant fi led an appeal before the Tribunal. However, no one appeared when the appeal was taken up for hearing. The Tribunal while considering the merits of the case, recorded that the onus to prove that the employees were less than 20 for exclusion of the applicability of EPF Act before the Commissioner, was on the appellant and the appellant had failed to discharge the same. Thus, there was no error in the passed by the Commissioner under Section 7-A of the EPF Act.