Dr. R.R. Deshpande & Associates Abhimanyu Tewari, Ms. Eliza Bar, Ms. K. Enatoli Sema, Ms. Limayinla Jamir, Amit Kumar Singh, Ms. Chubalemla 200 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. Chang, Prang Newmai, Rajiv Shankar Dwivedi, Ms. Madhusmita Bora, Pawan Kishore Singh, Dipankar Singh, Ms. Pavithra V, Dr. Ravindra Chingale, Siddharth Dharmadhikari, Aaditya Aniruddha Pande, Bharat Bagla, Sourav Singh, Som Raj Choudhury, Ms. Shrutee Aradhna, Anand Shankar, Sameer Abhyankar, Ms. Nishi Sangtani, Ms. Vani Vandana Chhetri, Ms. Sugandh Rathore, Vishnu Sharma, Ms. Anupama Sharma, V.N. Raghupathy, Manendra Pal Gupta, Mrs. Ansha Varma, Pukhrambam Ramesh Kumar, Karun Sharma, Jatinder Kumar Bhatia, Krishnam Mishra, Param Kumar Mishra, Jayant Mohan, Ms. Adya Shree Dutta, Advs. for the Respondents. / OF THE SUPREME COURT PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J. 1. This Writ Petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India fi led by way of a public interest litigation seeking multiple reliefs, running into three pages, the gist of which is only for a direction to implement the mandate of Section 4 of the Right to Information Act, 2005.1 As the prayer is only for implementing the various obligations enlisted under Section 4, it is necessary to reproduce the Section for ready reference: “4. Obligations of public authorities- (I) Every public authority shall— (a) maintain all its records duly catalogued and indexed in a manner and the form which facilitates the right to information under this Act and ensure that all records that are appropriate to be computerised are, within a reasonable time and subject to availability of resources, computerised and connected through a network all over the country on diff erent systems so that access to such records is facilitated; (b) publish within one hundred and twenty days from the enactment of this Act,— (i) the particulars of its organisation, functions and duties; (ii) the powers and duties of its offi cers and employees; 1 Hereinaft er referred to as ‘Act’ KISHAN CHAND JAIN v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 201 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J. ] (iii) the procedure followed in the decision making process, including channels of supervision and accountability; (iv) the norms set by it for the discharge of its functions; (v) the rules, regulations, instructions, manuals and records, held by it or under its control or used by its employees for discharging its functions; (vi) a statement of the categories of documents that are held by it or under its control; (vii) the particulars of any arrangement that exists for consultation with, or representation by, the members of the public in relation to the formulation of its policy or implementation thereof (viii) a statement of the boards, councils, committees and other bodies consisting of two or more persons constituted as its part or for the purpose of its advice, and as to whether meetings of those boards, councils, committees and other bodies are open to the public, or the minutes of such meetings are accessible for public; (ix) a directory of its offi cers and employees; (x) the monthly remuneration received by each of its offi cers and employees, including the system of compensation as provided in its regulations; (xi) the budget allocated to each of its agency, indicating the particulars of all plans, proposed expenditures and reports on disbursements made; (xii) the manner of execution of subsidy programmes, including the amounts allocated and the details of benefi ciaries of such programmes; (xiii) particulars of recipients of concessions, permits or authorisations granted by it; (xiv) details in respect of the information, available to or held by it, reduced in an electronic form; (xv) the particulars of facilities available to citizens for obtaining information, including the working hours of a library or reading room, if maintained for public use; 202 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R.