We may broaden our inquiry into the relevant contents of CRZIII. CRZ-III of the 2011 Notification was divided into area ‘A’, which, inter alia, dealt with areas up to 200 meters from HTL on the landward side in the case of sea front. The said Clause proclaimed further that the said area would be a No H 250 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Development Zone (NDZ). This Court notices that in CRZ-III the NDZ was not to be applicable in ‘such areas’ within any port limits. Thus, the expression ‘within’ made its appearance in relation to notified port limits again. In the permitted activities in the NDZ under area ‘A’, viz., up to 200 meters as aforesaid, this Court finds Clause (e), which permitted facilities for receipt B and storage of petroleum products and liquified petroleum gas as specified in Annexure-II. Area B of CRZ-III is described as the area comprised from 200 meters to 500 meters. Since the CRZ itself would terminate upon the 500 meters distance being obtained, this constituted, in other words, the residuary area, of C CRZ-III. Under the same we notice that again facilities for receipt and storage of petroleum products and liquified natural gas as specified in Annexure-II was permitted. This Court may bear in mind that the very same activity had also been contemplated in area A of CRZ-III, viz., the area comprised to 200 meters of the high tide line of the landward area in the case of the sea front, D inter alia. Interestingly, when it comes to storage of nonhazardous cargo, such as edible oils fertilizers and food grain ‘in’ the notified ports, it was permitted activity in area ‘B’ of CRZ-III under Clause 4 thereof, that is, an area located between 200 metres to 500 metres. It must be noticed that CRZ-III had been classified in E paragraph-7 essentially as relatively undisturbed area, which did not belong to either CRZ-I or II, which included the coastal zone in rural areas, both developed and undeveloped and also areas within municipal limits or in other legally designated urban areas, which were not substantially built up. This Court has already noticed the classification of CRZ-II earlier, as areas which had F been developed up to or close to the shore line. Can it then be said that storage of non-hazardous cargo, such as edible oil, fertilizers food grain, permitted in the notified ports in CRZ-III, Area ‘B’, be also permitted in CRZ-III Area ‘A’? Going by the contents of CRZ-III under activities which were permitted in the G NDZ, we are unable to find any clause which permitted such storage of non-hazardous cargo including edible oil, inter alia. Therefore, in the NDZ area falling under area ‘A’ of CRZ-III, it may have been impermissible. [Para 42][274-E-H; 275-A-E] 1.7 Going by the definition of the word ‘in’, it includes ‘so H as to be enclosed, surrounded or inside’. One way of looking at K.T.V. HEALTH FOOD PVT. LTD. v. UNION OF INDIA AND 251 ORS.