Section 10 of the NIA Act further F clarifies that the State Government also has the power to investigate the scheduled offence in accordance with the procedure prescribed under this Act. However, there is no ambiguity in the legislative mandate that in both the situations, whether the investigation is carried out by the NIA or by the State Government, the trial of the scheduled offence would be G conducted only by the Special Court constituted under this Act. Section 13 of the NIA Act is to be read with Section 11 of this Act when the investigation is carried out by the NIA and in the situation, investigation having been entrusted to the State Government, then Section 13 is to be read with 22 of the NIA Act. A combined reading of both the sections makes it crystal clear that in the situation where the investigation has H JUDGEBIR SINGH @ JASBIR SINGH SAMRA @ JASBIR 49 v. NATIONAL INVESTIGATION AGENCY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] been carried out by the State Government, in that situation as per Section A 22(2)(ii) the reference to Agency in sub section (1) of Section 13 of the NIA Act shall be construed as a reference to “Investigating Agency of the State Government”. 68. Thus, the scheme of both the Acts makes it clear that once the investigation is completed, the report under Section 173 of the CrPC B is to be filed in the Special Court constituted under the Act. Section 16 of the NIA Act leaves no room for any doubt, as it empowers the Special Court to take cognizance of any offence without the accused being committed to it, for trial, upon receiving a complaint of facts that constitute such offence or upon a police report of such facts. Thus, by incorporating C Section 16 in the NIA Act the legislature has made the Special Court as the court of original jurisdiction unlike the Sessions Court, which is a court of committal under the Criminal Procedure Code. (See Satish Kumar v. State of Punjab and Another, 2021 SCC OnLine P&H 786) 69. In Satish Kumar (supra), the High Court of Punjab and D Haryana at Chandigarh has referred to a notification issued by the Government of Punjab dated 10.6.2014 wherein the Special Courts are constituted by the State Government for the trial of offence as specified in the schedule appended to the NIA Act which are investigated by the State Police. The aforesaid notification is reproduced as under: E “NOTIFICATION The 10th June, 2014 No. S.O.141/C.A.34/ 2008/S.22/2014- In exercise of the powers conferred under sub section (1) of section 22 of the National Investigation Agency Act, 2008 (Central Act No. 34 of 2008) and all other powers enabling him in this behalf, the Governor of Punjab with the concurrence of Hon’ble Chief Justice of the High F Court of Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh is pleased to constitute the courts of Sessions Judge and the first Additional Sessions Judge (for the area falling within their respective jurisdiction), at each district headquarter in the State, to be the Special Courts, for the trial of offences as specified in G the Scheduled appended to the aforesaid Act, which are investigated by the State Police.” 70.