Consequently, it was held that in view of the validity of COs of 1959 and 1964, the validity of the Act could not be challenged on the ground that any of its provisions were inconsistent with Article 22 of the Constitution. 330. The issue before the Constitution Bench of this Court in Sampath Prakash (supra) was whether Article 370 automatically ceased to exist when the Constituent Assembly of the State was dissolved after it framed the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. This Court held in the negative 202 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. because the special conditions which warranted the introduction of Article 370 continued to exist and the Constituent Assembly of the State had not recommended that the provision must cease to exist in exercise of the power under the proviso to Article 370(3). In that case, the issue was whether the power under Article 370(1)(d) ceased to exist upon the Constituent Assembly ceasing to exist. The issue was answered with reference to Article 370(3), that the power under Article 370(1) continues to exist because the Constituent Assembly of the State did not in exercise of power under 370(3) recommend that Article 370 must cease to exist. However, the issue of whether the power under Article 370(3) could be exercised after the Constituent Assembly of the State ceased to exist to did not arise for the Court’s consideration in that case. This issue must be decided by this Bench. b. The limited power of the Constituent Assembly under Article 370 331. The argument of the petitioners that Article 370 has attained permanence after the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir ceased to exist is premised on the understanding that the constitutional body had unbridled power to alter the constitutional integration of the State with the Union. In the sections below, we will be analysing if the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir had such unrestrained power by referring to the constitutional history and structure of the provision. I. The structure of Article 370(1) and 370(2) 332. Article 370(1) required the concurrence of the Government of the State for both applying the provisions of the Constitution and expanding the ambit of the legislative competence of the Union over the State. 333. The power under Article 370(1)(d) had three components. Firstly, the President was empowered to notify which of the provisions other than Articles 1, 238 and 370 shall apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Secondly, the provisions of the Constitution need not be applied to the State of Jammu and Kashmir in the same manner as they applied to the rest of the States since the President was conferred with the power to prescribe modifi cations and exceptions to the provision. Thirdly, such an could be issued by the President only with either the concurrence or the consultation of the Government of the State depending on whether the provision related to the matters in the IoA or otherwise. This provision IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 203 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] indicates that upon the adoption of the Constitution, all provisions of the Constitution did not automatically apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir.