That on or about 21-8-1947 the lease, Mr. John Vaughan Transferred the property in suit to the defendant no.1 and put him in possession of the same without the written approval of the Deputy Commissioner, Nainital, an application was no doubt made to and approved by the then superintendent of Tarai and Bhabar Govt. Estates, but the D s of the Superintendent T.& B. Govt. Estates, sanctioning and approving the transfer were without any right or authority. The name of the defendant no. 1 was ed to be entered in the revenue records by the superintendent Tarai and Bhabar Govt. Estates and entries E were made accordingly. But these entries were not in and according to law or otherwise correct and no presumption of correctness flows from them. The breach of the covenant by the lease has given a right to the plaintiff of re-entry and as also a right to recover damages. F 4. That on the expiry of the original lease on 20th June 1954 the defendant No. 1 deposited rent at the enhanced rates and applied for a renewal of the lease to which he was not entitled. G 5. That the approval of the superintendent, Tarai and Bhabar Govt. Estates; The entry in the revenue records on the payment of the rent do not in any way confer the rights of a lease on the defendant no. 1 whose possession continues to be wrongful from its very inception and the plaintiff is H 968 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A entitled to recover the possession of the premises in suit and also damages. X-X-X-X” 42.Hence, it can be safely deduced that the Appellants did contend the issue of prior approval from the initial stage itself. Apart from the B said eviction suit, two other proceedings need to be highlighted, i.e. consolidation proceedings which occurred between 1959-1960 and acquisition proceedings for a portion of land initiated by the military authorities in 1963. In respect of the consolidation proceedings, we cannot deduce the stand taken by State as no document or in respect of C the same has been produced before us. However in respect of the acquisition, dated 22.11.1965 passed by the concerned Land Acquisition Officer, which granted compensation to the predecessor of Respondents has been brought on record wherein it must be noted that compensation was granted on the basis of revenue entries and without any serious examination of the validity of the same. Hence, both these D proceedings cannot be treated as an admission of validity of revenue entries or as accepting the waiver of breach of the condition in respect of prior approval from the Deputy Commissioner. 43.Coming back to the aspect of prior approval, the Respondents drew our attention towards the vernacular copy of the dated E 07.08.1980 passed by the Commissioner, Kumaon, in the mutation proceedings to support the plea of grant of valid approval. The relevant part of the said in the vernacular language is as follows – “Mool leejdhari shri John Vaughan ko Upayukta ki anumati 2009 se lease hastantaran ke adhikar prapt the jo anumati F missal 14/23 dinank 6.12.48 dwara unhone prapt kar li thi aur jiske adhar par malkagjatomein 1948 mein sanshadhan bhi ho gayatha”4 [Broadly on translation in English, it would read: “The original lease holder Sri John Vaughan had rights to transfer G with the permission of Deputy Commissioner which permission he had received vide File 14/23 dated 6.12.48 and on the basis of which amendments were made in the Revenue papers in 1948.”] The following makes it apparent that the approval from the H appropriate authority as per the lease deed, i.e.