Subba Rao J. (as he then was) in Thomas Dana v. State of Punjab [AIR 1959 S.C. 375.] , in his dissenting (the dissent being on other points) H observed that if the authority concerned makes an of THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX JAIPUR v. PRAKASH 121 CHAND LUNIA (D) THR. LRS. & ANR. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] confiscation it is only a proceeding in rem and the penalty is A enforced against the goods. 12. A proceeding in rem, therefore, in the strict sense of the term is an action taken directly against the property (in this case the smuggled gold) and even if the offender is not known, the customs authorities have the power to confiscate the contraband gold. B Therefore, by no process of reasoning can the confiscation of the contraband gold by the customs authorities be said to be a trading or commercial loss connected with or incidental to the assessee’s business. 13. In Commissioners of Inland Revenue v. Alexander Von Glehn& C Co. Ltd. [[1920] 2 K.B. 553, 566 (C.A.).] . Lord Sterndale M.R. observed: “During the course of the trading this company committed a breach of the law. As I say, it has been agreed that they did not intend to do anything wrong in the sense that they were willingly D and knowingly sending these goods to an enemy destination, but they committed a breach of the law, and for that breach of the law, they were fined. That, as it seems to me, was not a loss connected with the business, but was a fine imposed upon the company personally, so far as a company can be considered E to be a person, for a breach of the law which it had committed. It is perhaps a little difficult to put the distinction into very exact language, but there seems to me to be a difference between a commercial loss in trading and a penalty imposed upon a person or a company for a breach of the law which they have committed in that trading.” F 14. The principle stated by Lord Sterndale M.R. holds good here too, as it is impossible to hold that the loss incurred by reason of the confiscation of the contraband gold is an expenditure incurred in connection with the trade or business of the assessee-firm or incidental to the carrying on of its business. G xxx xxx xxx 16. Their Lordships of the Supreme Court in Haji Aziz and Abdul Shakoor Bros. v. Commissioner of Income-tax [[1961] 41 I.T.R. 350 (S.C.), [1961] 2 S.C.R. 651 (S.C.).] , after reviewing several Indian and English cases, observed at page 359: H 122 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A “As was pointed out in Von Glehn’s case [[1920] 2 K.B. 553 (C.A.).] , an expenditure is not deductible unless it is a commercial loss in trade and penalty imposed for breach of the law during the course of trade cannot be described as such. If a sum is paid by an assessee conducting his business, because in conducting it he has acted in a manner which has rendered B him liable to penalty, it cannot be claimed as a deductible expense.