The said certifi cate was in respect of the properties which stood in the name of the late husband regarding which an objection had been raised by the respondent for not being included in Form No.26. If that be the position, as on 22.03.2019 when the nomination was fi led by the appellant herein, the issue relating to the legal heir certifi cate, though set aside was at large and the dispute was pending. In any event, the appellant had not set up any claim to the said properties which were not indicated in Form-26. Though the learned senior counsel for the respondent would contend that the ‘no objection certifi cate’ fi led by the remaining family members which ultimately resulted in the issue of the legal heir certifi cate dated 22.03.2022 in favour of the fi rst wife itself is contrary to law inasmuch as the minor children also have signed the said document, the validity of the same is not an issue for consideration herein. The fact remains that even the other persons who have signed have indicated that they have no objection and the legal heir certifi cate has accordingly been issued in favour of the fi rst wife. Therefore, neither as on the date of the death of the spouse nor on the date of fi ling the nomination for the election at the fi rst instance in the year 2016 or at the point when the nomination was fi led on 22.03.2019, the property left behind by the deceased was claimed by the appellant. 14. It is no doubt true that much has been made about the challenge raised by the appellant to the legal heir certifi cate dated 04.05.2017 issued 103 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. in favour of the fi rst wife which had been set aside as on the date of fi ling the nomination on 22.03.2019. Apart from the fact as already indicated, the dispute was still at large before the forum to which it was remitted, in any event, legal heir certifi cate by itself cannot be construed as a document of title to the property. It is a mode to determine the heirship based on which the consequential actions would follow. The appellant in her evidence has specifi cally disclosed the reason for which she had challenged the legal heir certifi cate. The portion of the evidence reads as hereunder :- “That my challenge to legal heir certifi cate dated 04.05.2017 was primarily for the purpose of pressurizing Smti Dangwimsai Pul to handover the papers of land bearing Plot No.230 situated at Tezu township. Late Kalikho Pul before his death had made it clear that this plot of land is meant for me. The papers of this plot of land were in the possession of Smti Dangwimsai Pul and after the death of Shri Kaikho Pul, she showed reluctance in handling over the papers of this plot of land to me. I needed the papers of this plot of land badly to get an allotment in my favour.