On this ground, the appellant argued that the application was not maintainable. The Appellate Tribunal held, inter-alia:- “56. In regard to the plea of the Appellant that the Adjudicating Authority in the impugned even though at paragraph 12 had mentioned that the Corporate Debtor had raised two fold contention (1) that the petition is barred by limitation (2) the petition has been initiated as by the RBI Circular 12.02.2018 which was held ultra virus of section 35 AA of the Banking Regulation Act by the Hon’ble Supreme Court, this Tribunal ongoing through the impugned is of the considered view that the Adjudicating Authority had not adverted to the same and the said in this regard has not spelt 498 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. out reasons. Therefore, this Tribunal is of the earnest opinion that it is desirable that an ‘Adjudicating Authority’ is to disclose its mind in future so that the compulsion of disclosure, guarantees consideration apart from the fact, that the duty to assign reasons introduces clarity and minimizes arbitrariness. Also, it will enable the superior authority to evaluate the so passed on legal plane. However, this Tribunal being an ‘Appellate Authority’ over the Adjudicating Authority in the present Appeal has dealt with the aspect of limitation concerning the section 7 application and the aspect of RBI circular dated 12.02.2018 and answered the same at the relevant of this . As such, the Appellant cannot be an aggrieved person in this regard, in the considered opinion of this Tribunal. 57. It is to be pointed out that in our ‘Justice Delivery System’, ‘Law’ is to be decided with reasons which carry convictions within the Codes/ Tribunals/Lawyers/Stakeholders and Litigants to make it, stable, predictable and consistent with a view to have certainty and clarity to the benefi t of one and all. It cannot be gainsaid that the / of a Tribunal is to be written only after deep travail and positive vein. Also that, the procedure for developing the law has to be one of evolution. In this connection it is signifi cant to point out that the exception to rule of ‘Stare decisis’ is that a Court/Tribunal is not bound to follow the decision(s) reached ‘per incuriam’. 58. As matter of fact, in the instant case when once the Company has/had defaulted and after the initiation of legal proceedings as available to the Lender on that date (Before the Debt Recovery Tribunal) and when the Financial Creditor/Lender had obtained the (s) in the ‘Original Applications’ and later recovery certifi cates were issued, and when the Original Applications fi led before the Debt Recovery Tribunal(s) had attained fi nality, thereafter it is for the Lender/Financial Creditor/Decree Holder as matter of ‘Election’ to pursue the recovery mechanism for his/its personal benefi ts before a ‘competent forum’ or to initiate Insolvency Proceedings for the benefi t of ‘stakeholders’ and ‘one and all’. In the event of the Decree Holder/Lender/Financial Creditor has/had resorted to the initiation of Insolvency Proceedings under relevant section of the I & B Code TOTTEMPUDI SALALITH v. STATE BANK OF INDIA & 499 ORS.