With the increase in number of dwelling units, a corresponding increase in the vehicles is bound to be there. However, without considering the said aspect, one dwelling unit is permitted to be converted into three apartments. F 154. We find that the High Court has failed to take into consideration all these aspects. No doubt that the High Court has issued certain directions so as to protect the interest of home buyers. It has also observed that “Chandigarh Administration chooses to stay smug, taking a stand on paper that floor-wise sale of residential building is not G permissible while residential floors are being advertised for sale right under its nose”. It therefore directed the Chandigarh Administration to issue a notice to be published at periodic intervals in the newspapers for the purposes of sounding a word of caution and educating such home buyers who have already purchased a share in a residential building/site as also the prospective home buyers. The High Court also directed the H 672 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Chandigarh Administration to mention in the said notice that fragmentation of site/building is specifically prohibited under the 2007 Rules. It further directed to mention in the said notice that the Chandigarh Administration does not recognize ownership rights over any floor/part of any site/building by virtue of such transactions. A word of caution was also directed to be put, that in case a dispute arises between the co-sharers/co-owners, the B only remedy would be to put the property to auction and the sale proceeds thereafter be distributed inasmuch the fragmentation/division of the building/site by metes and bounds is specifically prohibited. 155. In our view, the High Court ought not to have stopped at that. Having noted the stand of the Chandigarh Administration that the construction and floor-wise sale of residential building was not permissible C in view of Rule 16 of the 2007 Rules, the High Court ought to have held that the statutory rules framed under 1952 Act expressly prohibits fragmentation/division/bifurcation/apartmentalization of a residential unit in Phase-I of Chandigarh. The legislative intent as found in Rule 14 of the 1960 Rules has been clearly reiterated in Rule 16 of the 2007 Rules, D which has been enacted under Section 5 read with Section 22 of the 1952 Act. We are of the considered view that the High Court has erred in not considering the same. 156. Shri Patwalia fairly conceded that the said exercise has acted as a deterrent and number of such transactions amounting to apartmentalization have substantially reduced. E 157. No doubt that the High Court has rightly issued the directions to safeguard the interest of the home buyers. However, we find that the High Court itself having found that after the repeal of the 2001 Rules and enactment of the 2007 Rules, apartmentalization was not permissible, it ought not to have permitted a modus operandi which indirectly permits F to do what was not permissible in law. In any case, taking into consideration the heritage status of Phase-I, the High Court ought to have considered the matter in correct perspective.