As such, before an ESZ area is specified, various factors are taken into consideration. There are various factors which would determine the ESZs for a particular Protected Area. The circumstances may differ from one B Protected Area to another Protected Area. As such, the direction which prescribes a uniform one kilometre ESZ requires to be modified. [Para 57][632-B-C] 1.9 On the date of filing of the present application, final notifications have been issued in respect of 474 Protected Areas C whereas draft notifications have been issued in respect of 102 Protected Areas. 73 proposals are pending. This Court has already found the said Guidelines to be reasonable and has accepted the same. The Court has also accepted the view of the Standing Committee of the NBWL that uniform guidelines may not be possible in respect of each Sanctuary or National Park for D maintaining ESZs. Though the Court has observed that a minimum width of one kilometre in ESZ ought to be maintained, in paragraph 56.6 of the dated 3rd June 2022 itself, it has observed that minimum width of the ESZ may be diluted in overwhelming public interest but for that purpose the State or E Union Territory concerned is required to approach Central Empowered Committee (CEC) and MoEF & CC. Both these bodies shall give their respective recommendations before this Court and on that basis, the Court should pass appropriate . [Para 58][632-C-F] F 1.10 The ESZs are required to be notified after following the procedure as prescribed under the 1986 Rules and the said Guidelines. Such notifications cannot be issued unless a close scrutiny at various levels including the scrutiny by Expert Committee consisting of experts from 13 organizations. As such, the direction as contained in paragraph 56.6 of the dated G 3rd June 2022 also needs to be modified. [Para 59][632-G] 1.11 Insofar as the restriction on mining is concerned, it has been the consistent view of this Court that the mining activities H 606 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A within an area of one kilometre of the boundary of the Protected Areas would be hazardous for the wildlife. Though in the case of Goa Foundation’s case the said directions were issued in respect of State of Goa, such directions need to be issued on Pan-India basis. [Para 60][632-H; 633-A] B 1.12 The direction in paragraph 56.1 of the dated 3rd June 2022 is modified and clarified that the directions contained therein would not be applicable to the ESZs in respect of which a draft and final notification has been issued by the MoEF & CC and in respect of the proposals which have been received by the Ministry. However, the Central Government is directed that wide C publicity should be given to the draft notification which is required to be published under the provisions of clause (a) of sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 of the 1986 Rules. The final notification to be published under clause (d) of sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 of the 1986 Rules shall not be given effect for a period of 30 days from the date of issuance D thereof.