The Central Government appears to have taken the position (as the Election Commission informs the Court on affi davit) that the benefi t of reservation should be extended to all those castes and tribes which were designated by the Amending Act of 2002 and thereafter until 31 May 2012. A succession of three Ordinances came to be promulgated by the President under Article 123 of the Constitution. The fi rst of them called the Readjustment of Representation of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in Parliamentary and Assembly Constituencies Ordinance 2013 was promulgated on 30 January 2013, inter alia, empowering the Election Commission to readjust the representation of SCs/STs in Parliamentary and Assembly constituencies in all States and Union Territories on the basis of the revised population of 2001 estimated by the Registrar General by taking into account the relevant Acts which were enacted by Parliament between 2002 and 31 May 2012. Though the Ordinance was sought to be replaced by an Act of Parliament, the Bill was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee which, in its Report dated 5 May 2013, recommended the passage of the Bill. The Bill was,however, not converted into law. 109 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 30. A second Ordinance was issued on 5 June 2013. The Ordinance lapsed. A third Ordinance was promulgated on 27 September 2013. 31. In pursuance of the third Ordinance, the Registrar General of India completed the exercise of estimating the revised population fi gures of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes by taking into account changes that were made under Article 342 of the Constitution by the inclusion of additional castes and tribes up to 31 May 2012. The Election Commission made necessary adjustments only in respect of the State of Uttar Pradesh, while the provisions of the third Ordinance were in force. However, the Election Commission has stated in its counter that in terms of the revised Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes’ population fi gures which were ascertained by the Registrar General of India in 2013, an increase of one seat each for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes was found in respect of West Bengal while no increase was found for seats for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in Sikkim. This, the Court is informed, was as a result of the provisions of Section 7A of the RP Act. 32. The third Ordinance which was promulgated by the President in 2013 lapsed. No law has been enacted by Parliament either in terms of the provisions of the Ordinance or bearing on the subject matter of the dispute in the present case. However, in 2018, the Union Ministry of Home Aff airs9 initiated an exercise to increase the seats in the Legislative Assembly from 32 to 40 so as to provide for the reservation of seats for the Limboo and Tamang Tribes. On 30 July 2005, a communication was addressed by MHA to the Chief Secretary of the State of Sikkim, proposing that the State could choose one of three options for implementing it: “(i) The reservation for Limboos and Tamang may be considered out of the 17 un-reserved Assembly seats at present on the basis of proportion of their population to the total population, without increasing the size of the State Legislature; (ii) The strength of State Legislature may be increased to 40 and reservation for Limboos and Tamangs may be considered out of 25 seats (17 un-reserved at present + 8 additional seats) subject to the “MHA” PUBLIC INTEREST COMMITTEE FOR SCHEDULING SPECIFIC 1093 AREAS v. UOI [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] condition that in the event of any new communities being declared as ST in future they may also be accommodated within the overall size of 40 without having to request further increase in the number of seats; (iii) The strength ·of the State Legislature may be increased to 60 to bring at par with other States and in conformity with Article 171(1) and reservation for Limboos and Tamangs may be considered in proportion to their population out of the 45 seats (17 un-reserved seats + 28 additional seats) subject to the condition that in the event of any new communities being declared as ST in future they will also be accommodated within the over all strength of 60 without having to ask for any further increase in the strength of the Assembly.” 33.