v. NAVEEN 39 MATHEW PHILIP & ANR. ETC. ETC. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] of India is an abuse of process of the court. The writ petitions A have been filed against the proposed action to be taken under Section 13(4). As observed hereinabove, even assuming that the communication dated 13-8-2015 was a notice under Section 13(4), in that case also, in view of the statutory, efficacious remedy available by way of appeal B under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act, the High Court ought not to have entertained the writ petitions. Even the impugned s passed by the High Court directing to maintain the status quo with respect to the possession of the secured properties on payment of Rs 1 crore only (in all Rs 3 crores) is absolutely unjustifiable. The dues are to the C extent of approximately Rs 117 crores. The ad interim relief has been continued since 2015 and the secured creditor is deprived of proceeding further with the action under the SARFAESI Act. Filing of the writ petition by the borrowers before the High Court is nothing but an abuse of D process of court. It appears that the High Court has initially granted an ex parte ad interim mechanically and without assigning any reasons. The High Court ought to have appreciated that by passing such an interim , the rights of the secured creditor to recover the amount due and payable have been seriously prejudiced. The secured E creditor and/or its assignor have a right to recover the amount due and payable to it from the borrowers. The stay granted by the High Court would have serious adverse impact on the financial health of the secured creditor/assignor. Therefore, the High Court should have been extremely F careful and circumspect in exercising its discretion while granting stay in such matters. In these circumstances, the proceedings before the High Court deserve to be dismissed.” • Varimadugu Obi Reddy v. B. Sreenivasulu, G (2023) 2 SCC 168, “36. In the instant case, although the respondent borrowers initially approached the Debts Recovery Tribunal by filing an application under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act, 2002, but the of the Tribunal H 40 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A indeed was appealable under Section 18 of the Act subject to the compliance of condition of pre-deposit and without exhausting the statutory remedy of appeal, the respondent borrowers approached the High Court by filing the writ application under Article 226 of the Constitution. We deprecate such practice of entertaining the writ application B by the High Court in exercise of jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution without exhausting the alternative statutory remedy available under the law. This circuitous route appears to have been adopted to avoid the condition of pre-deposit contemplated under 2nd proviso to Section C 18 of the 2002 Act.” 18. While doing so, we are conscious of the fact that the powers conferred under Article 226 of the Constitution of India are rather wide but are required to be exercised only in extraordinary circumstances in matters pertaining to proceedings and adjudicatory scheme qua a statute, D more so in commercial matters involving a lender and a borrower, when the legislature has provided for a specific mechanism for appropriate redressal.