The injunction or interference in the Tender leads to additional costs on the State and is also against public interest. 31. He submitted that the allegations of favouritism levelled by TATA Motors by pointing towards the fact that apart from EVEY, there were two more parties who were technically qualified and were L2 and F L3 viz., Switch Mobility Automotive Limited and PMI Electro Mobility Solutions Private Limited respectively, EVEY was declared L1 and awarded the Tender only after opening of the price bids at a later stage are reckless and baseless. 32. Relying on the decisions of this Court in Raunaq International G Ltd. v. I.V.R. Construction Ltd. and Othersreported in (1999) 1 SCC 492 and S.S. & Company v. Orrisa Mining Corporation Limited reported in (2008) 5 SCC 772, he submitted that once the High Court found TATA Motors to be technically non-compliant, it ought not to have entertained a challenge to the tendering process at the instance of an unsuccessful party. The writ petition was filed against the technical H 708 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A evaluation, whereas, the contract is now well underway at the stage of performance. He submitted that interfering with the technical evaluation at this stage would make the contract redundant and cause loss of exchequer’s money. 33. In the last, the learned Senior counsel submitted that till date EVEY has supplied 20 tailor-made buses and the civil infrastructure for B these buses has also been put in place. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE “TATA MOTORS” 34. Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, the learned Senior counsel, appearing for TATA Motors vehemently submitted that the contract awarded by BEST to EVEY is per se illegal. The learned Senior counsel C argued that the acceptance of the EVEY’s revised Annexure Y after the expiry of the bid submission end date and technical bid opening date is contrary to the Tender conditions. Clause 16 of Schedule I (Invitation for Proposal) of the Tender prohibits any addition, correction or submission of document after the technical bid opening. However, the same was D not followed and by allowing a bidder to correct errors at a later stage may lead to unequal treatment of bidders. The decisions of this Court in Poddar Steel Corporation v. Ganesh Engineering Works and Others, reported in (1991) 3 SCC 273 (Para 6); W.B. State Electricity Board (supra) (Paras 27 and 28), were relied upon to substantiate the aforesaid contention. E 35. He submitted that the actions of BEST could be termed as arbitrary, discriminatory, unfair, and that his client has locus to challenge the same as no legitimacy should be granted to tender processes tainted with malice. The learned Senior counsel relied upon the decision of this Court in Monarch Infrastructure (P) Ltd v. Commissioner, F Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation and Others, reported in (2000) 5 SCC 287 (Paras 10 and 14);Meerut Development Authority v. Association of Management Studies and Another, reported in (2009) 6 SCC 171 (Paras 27, 28, 45 and 76);Maa Binda Express Carrier and Another v. North-East Frontier Railway and Others, reported in (2014) 3 SCC 760 (Paras 8, 9 and 12)to fortify the submission.