The further reasoning was that it was Article 144 of the old Act which operated to bar the suit after 12 years of adverse possession. The Court noted certain divergence of D opinions in the Calcutta High Court. It further went on to doubt whether the first of the 27 Indian Appeals 69 (EC) could lead to the inference that if a part of the property was transferred by the Manager of a religious endowment, on the basis that it belonged to him, the right of the succeeding Manager could be lost. Thereafter, the Court went on to find that the matter must be viewed in the context of Article 134B of E the Limitation Act, 1908. This Court found that it did not make any difference to the application of Article 134B, if the transfer is made on the basis that the property belonged not to the endowment but to the Manager. All that was necessary for the successor Manager to prove were found to be the following facts: F “(1) that the property belongs to the religious endowment; (2) that it was transferred by a previous manager; and (3) that the transfer was for a valuable consideration. The character of the representations made by the previous manger in regard to his relation with the property which is the subject matter of transfer, G is irrelevant for the purpose of Art. 134-B.” 26. The High Court of Orissa in Chintamani Sahoo (Deceased by LR. )(supra), distinguishes the aforesaid on the basis that this Court was not considering the question whether Article 134B applied to void or voidable transactions as it did not arise. H 966 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 27. The appellants have placed reliance on certain s of other High Courts contending that they lay down a different principle. In Chinna Jeeyangar Mutt, Tirupath v. C.V. Purushotham and others20, a learned Single Judge traced the history of Articles 134A, Article 134B, Article 134C also with reference to the Third Report of the Law Commission of India. The said portion reads as follows: B “12. The Law Commission observed in its 3rd report relating to Limitation Act, 1908 in paragraph 123 as follows: “The starting point of limitation for suits covered by Article 134-B is the date of death, resignation or removal of the transferor. This C has given rise to some difficulties in certain cases. Thus, an Endowment Commissioner may find it necessary to challenge an alienation by one of the previous managers, after decades; or, there may be a gap of more than 12 years between the death, resignation or removal of one manager and the appointment of his successor. In such cases, it would be more equitable to make the D date of the plaintiff’s appointment as Manager the starting point for limitation. But there may be cases and circumstances where the existing provision may be more favourable to the institution. To provide for both contingencies, the later of the two dates should be taken as the starting point of limitation.” E 28.