(1) Where the allegations made in the first information report or the complaint, even if they are taken at their face value and G accepted in their entirety do not prima facie constitute any offence or make out a case against the accused. (2) Where the allegations in the first information report and other materials, if any, accompanying the FIR do not disclose a cognizable offence, justifying an investigation by Police H 164 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A officers under Section 156(1) of the Code except under an of a Magistrate within the purview of Section 155(2) of the Code. (3) Where the uncontroverted allegations made in the FIR or complaint and the evidence collected in support of the same B do not disclose the commission of any offence and make out a case against the accused. (4) Where, the allegations in the FIR do not constitute a cognizable offence but constitute only a non-cognizable offence, no investigation is permitted by a Police officer without an C of a Magistrate as contemplated under Section 155(2) of the Code. (5) Where the allegations made in the FIR or complaint are so absurd and inherently improbable on the basis of which no prudent person can ever reach a just conclusion that there is sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused. D (6) Where there is an express legal bar engrafted in any of the provisions of the Code or the concerned Act (under which a criminal proceeding is instituted) to the institution and continuance of the proceedings and/or where there is a specific provision in the Code or the concerned Act, providing efficacious E redress for the grievance of the aggrieved party. (7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly attended with mala fide and/or where the proceeding is maliciously instituted with an ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance on the accused and with a view to spite him due to private and personal grudge.” F 22. One would grant that the jurisdiction of the Court when asked to invoke power under Section 156(3) is wider as held in Priyanka Srivastava (supra), yet there are limits within which the Magistrate must act. When the Magistrate is satisfied that the allegations made disclose commission of a cognizable offence, he must stay his hands, G direct registration of an FIR and leave it to the investigative agency to unearth the facts and ascertain the truth of the allegations. Magistrate in terms of the ratio in Lalita Kumari (supra) can for good reasons direct preliminary enquiry. We would now refer to the power of the Magistrate to take cognizance, postpone issue of process and follow the procedure H under Section 202 of the Code. KAILASH VIJAYVARGIYA v. RAJLAKSHMI CHAUDHURI 165 AND OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] Difference in the power of Police to register and investigate A an FIR under Section 154(1) read with 157 of the Code, and the Magistrate’s direction to register an FIR under Section 156(3) of the Code.Power of the Magistrate to direct registration of an FIR under Section 156(3) in contrast with post-cognizance stage power under Section 202 of the Code.