835 [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] Section 61, and there are grounds for believing that the A accusation or information is well-founded, the officer in charge of the police station or the police officer in charge of the police station or the police officer making the investigation if he is not below the rank of sub-inspector shall forthwith transmit to the nearest Magistrate a copy of the entries in the B diary hereinafter prescribed relating to the case, and shall at the same time forward the accused to such Magistrate. (2) The Magistrate to whom an accused person is forwarded under this section may, whether he has or has not jurisdiction to try the case, from time to time authorise the detention of the C accused in such custody as such Magistrate thinks fit, for a term not exceeding fifteen days in the whole. If he has not jurisdiction to try the case or commit it for trial, and considers further detention unnecessary, he may the accused to be forwarded to a Magistrate having such jurisdiction : D Provided that no Magistrate of the third class, and no Magistrate of the second class not specially empowered in this behalf by the State Government shall authorise detention in the custody of the police. (3) A Magistrate authorising under this section detention in E the custody of the police shall record his reasons for so doing. (4) If such is given by a Magistrate other than the District Magistrate or Sub-Divisional Magistrate, he shall forward a copy of his , with his reasons for making it, to the Magistrate to whom he is immediately subordinate.” F 17. This period of 15 days, however, more often than not, was inadequate to conclude investigations, especially in complicated cases which required a longer and deeper investigation. This lack of time, because of the abovementioned provision of the 1898 Act, led to a widespread practice wherein investigating officers would file preliminary chargesheets after the expiry of the remand period, and subsequently G request the magistrate to postpone the commencement of trial and remand the accused under Section 344 of the 1898 Act for a further time, till the final chargesheet was filed. H 836 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 18.This practice of filing preliminary chargesheets was first pointed out by the Law Commission of India in its Report No. 145 on Reforms of the Judicial Administration, wherein it was stated that in many cases, the accused persons, without the filing of any detailed reports before the courts by the investigating authority, were languishing in jail for a prolonged period of time. It thus recommended that there existed an urgent need B for a provision that provided for an appropriate time frame for the completion of an investigation while also safeguarding the personal liberty of the accused. 19. These recommendations made by the abovementioned law commission report were again emphasized by the Law Commission in C its Report No. 416, wherein it was explicitly stated that there was an urgent need to protect the civil liberties of accused persons against the misuse of Section 344 of the 1898 Act, wherein the accused persons, on grounds of a preliminary report and pending investigation, were remanded to custody indefinitely.