995 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Powered Committee which found that the hysterectomies in the state A could not be termed as “wholly unneeded.” 5. The right to health is an intrinsic element of the right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution. Life, to be enjoyed in all its diverse elements, must be based on robust conditions of health. There has been B a serious violation of the fundamental rights of the women who underwent unnecessary hysterectomies. 6. In 2022, MoHFW issued guidelines titled “Guidelines to Prevent Unnecessary Hysterectomies,”2 which have been forwarded to all the States and Union Territories for compliance. The Guidelines were C formulated after a series of consultations with different stake holders. The Guidelines indicate that while in developed countries hysterectomies are typically conducted amongst pre-menopausal women above the age of forty-five years, in India, community based studies have consistently found rising hysterectomy rates among young women, ranging from twenty-eight to thirty-six years of age. Field based studies have indicated D that unnecessary hysterectomies are performed in cases where medical or non-invasive treatment would have been sufficient. The evidence indicates a higher risk among poor, less educated women, particularly in the rural areas. E 7. Paragraphs 5.1.3 to 5.1.5 of the affidavit filed by the Secretary, MoHFW are set out below: “5.1.3. Data from National Family Health Survey-4 (2015-16) estimates hysterectomy prevalence to be 3.6% amongst women aged 36-39 years, 9.2% amongst women aged 40-49 years and F the median age for hysterectomy is 37 years. 5.1.4 Notably, two-thirds of the procedures were conducted in private facilities. 5.1.5 A working paper from the National Health Authority on early G trends from AB-PMJAY indicates that 2% of the claims submitted by women were for hysterectomy. Notably, six states – 2 “Guidelines” H 996 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Karnataka – generated three quarters of all hysterectomy claims.” 8. In 2019, a national consultation on unnecessary hysterectomies identified three important challenges: B a. The need for appropriate clinical and population level guidelines; b. Availability of appropriate information on and treatment of gynaecological morbidity at the primary level; and c. The critical need to monitor and regulate the appropriate use C of hysterectomies, particularly for treatment of benign gynaecological conditions and amongst younger women. 9. Chapter 3 of the Guidelines provides guidance on prevention of unnecessary hysterectomies. It refers to the role of programme managers D and also refers to the role of different levels of public health facilities. The Guidelines note that reporting of hysterectomies, cases conducted for women less than 40 years of age and the cause of the hysterectomy have to be incorporated in the existing screening checklist. To achieve this, the Guidelines propose the setting up of Hysterectomy Monitoring Committees at District, State and National levels. Chapter 3 also deals E with District, State and National Hysterectomy Monitoring Committees in the following terms: “District Hysterectomy Monitoring Committees A District Hysterectomy Monitoring Committee must be set up in F each district to enable effective monitoring.