(3) When any is made under this section by an offi cer mentioned in sub-section (2), he shall forthwith report the fact to the Government together with the grounds on which the has been made and such other particulars as in his opinion, have a bearing on the matter, and no such shall remain in force for more than twelve days after the making thereof, unless, in the meantime, it has been approved by the Government.” PESALA NOOKARAJU v. THE GOVERNMENT OF 547 ANDHRA PRADESH & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 14. Section 12 provides for the action upon report of the Advisory Board. It reads thus:- “Section 12. Action upon report of Advisory Board:—(1) In any case where the Advisory Board has reported that there is, in its opinion, suffi cient cause for the detention of a person, the Government may confi rm the detention and continue the detention of the person concerned for such period, not exceeding the maximum period specifi ed in Section 13 as they think fi t. (2) In any case where the Advisory Board has reported that there is, in its opinion, no suffi cient cause for the detention of the person concerned, the Government shall revoke the detention and cause the person to be released forthwith.” 15. Section 13 provides for the maximum period of detention. Section 13 reads thus:- “Section 13. Maximum period of detention:—The maximum period for which any person may be detained, in pursuance of any detention made under this Act which has been confi rmed under section 12, shall be twelve months from the date of detention.” (Emphasis supplied) ESSENTIAL CONCEPT OF PREVENTIVE DETENTION 16. The essential concept of the preventive detention is that the detention of a person is not to punish him for something he has done but to prevent him from doing it. The basis of detention is the satisfaction of the executive of a reasonable probability of the likelihood of the detenu acting in a manner similar to his past acts and preventing him by detention from doing the same. A criminal conviction on the other hand is for an act already done which can only be possible by a trial and legal evidence. There is no parallel between the prosecution in a Court of law and a detention under the Act 1986. One is a punitive action and the other is a preventive act. In one case a person is punished on proof of his guilt and the standard is proof beyond the reasonable doubt, whereas in the other a person is detained with a view to prevent him from doing such act(s) as may be specifi ed in the Act authorizing preventive detention. 548 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 17. The power of preventive detention is qualitatively diff erent from punitive detention. The power of preventive detention is a precautionary power exercised in reasonable anticipation. It mayor may not relate to an off ence. It is not a parallel proceeding. It does not overlap with prosecution even if it relies on certain facts for which prosecution may be launched or may have been launched.