17. The learned counsel vehemently submitted that the Courts below ought not to have drawn any adverse inference against the appellant convict for not having participated in the TIP. According to the learned counsel, the TIP is a part of the police investigation and the accused cannot be compelled to submit himself to the TIP, more particularly if the case of the accused is that he was already shown to the witness before the TIP could be undertaken. In other words, the submission of the learned counsel is that if the identifi cation of the appellant convict for the fi rst time before the Trial Court is eschewed from consideration, then there is no other evidence to connect him with the alleged act. The learned counsel submitted that the prosecution seeks to rely upon the discovery of the weapon of off ence i.e. the ice pick and an amount of Rs. 7,000/- of the denomination of one thousand from the house of the appellant convict, but it is not a discovery in the eye of law as the same is not in conformity with Section 27 of the Evidence Act, 1872 (for short, ‘the Evidence Act’). 18. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel prayed that there being merit in his appeal, the same may be allowed and the appellant convict be acquitted of all the charges. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 19. On the other hand, this appeal was vehemently opposed by Mr. K.M. Nataraj, the learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the State (NCT of Delhi). He submitted that no error, not to speak of any error of law, could be said to have been committed by the Courts below in holding the appellant convict guilty of the off ences he was charged with. The learned ASG submitted that the Courts below were justifi ed in drawing adverse inference against the appellant convict for having declined to participate in 904 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. the TIP. It was argued that once having declined to participate in the TIP, the accused thereafter cannot object or say anything against as regards the evidentiary value of the identifi cation by the eye witnesses of the accused persons before the Trial Court. He further argued that the identifi cation of the accused by the eye witnesses before the Trial Court constitutes substantive evidence and, if TIP is carried out in the course of the investigation, then the proceedings of such TIP would corroborate the substantive evidence of identifi cation before the Court. The learned ASG submitted that the Courts below have believed and found the identifi cation of the accused appellant for the fi rst time before the Trial Court, absolutely reliable and trustworthy. This being a question of fact, the same may not be disturbed by this Court in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution. 20. The learned ASG further submitted that over and above the evidence of identifi cation, there is evidence of discovery of the currency notes of Rs.