Thus, the canvas of the challenge before the South African Constitutional Court in Fourie (supra) and the legal and constitutional regime in place varies widely from that in India. III. The decision of the UK House of Lords in Ghaidan 198. Learned counsel for the petitioners argued that this Court ought to interpret the SMA to make it ‘constitutionally compliant.’ They relied on the decision of the House of Lords of the United Kingdom in Ghaidan (supra) and urged this Court to adopt the principle of interpretation which had been adopted in that case. 199. In that case, the respondent was in a stable and monogamous homosexual relationship with his partner who was a tenant in the house that the couple shared. The respondent and his partner were living together when the latter died. The appellant (being the landlord) claimed possession of the house. The respondent resisted the claim on the ground that he ought to be considered a ‘statutory tenant’ in terms of UK’s Rent Act 1977.173 This enactment provided that a surviving spouse of the original tenant shall be the statutory tenant if the surviving spouse was residing in the house in question immediately before the death of the original tenant. It also stipulated that a person who was living with the original tenant “as his or her wife or husband” shall be treated as the spouse of the original tenant. In essence, the Rent Act protected the tenancy rights of a heterosexual couple when the couple was in a relationship that was of a similar character as marriage. The surviving partner in a homosexual relationship could have become entitled to an ‘assured tenancy’ which was less advantageous than a statutory tenancy. 173 “Rent Act” SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1345 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 200. The respondent contended that the diff erence in the treatment of heterosexual couples and homosexual couples was based on their sexual orientation alone, and lacked justifi cation, infringing Article 14 (prohibition of discrimination) read with Article 8 (right to respect for private and family life) of the European Convention on Human Rights.174 He further argued that the court had a duty under Section 3 of the UK’s Human Rights Act 1998175 to read and give eff ect to the Rent Act in a way which was compliant with the ECHR. In other words, he urged the court to read the Rent Act such that it granted the surviving partner in a close and stable homosexual relationship the same rights as the surviving partner in a heterosexual relationship of a similar nature – the right to succeed the tenancy as a statutory tenant. The court of fi rst instance rejected the respondent’s arguments. The fi rst appellate court allowed the appeal, leading to proceedings before the fi nal appellate authority, the House of Lords (now, the Supreme Court of the UK). 201. The House of Lords accepted the respondent’s arguments.176 It noted that the rationale of the Rent Act was that the security of tenure in a house which a couple had made their home ought not to depend upon which of them dies fi rst.