The act by itself therefore is not detrimental 578 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. of its own gravity. It is the potentiality of the act to disturb the even tempo of the life of the community which makes it prejudicial to the maintenance of public ....” 62. It has to be seen whether the detenu’s activity had any impact on the local community, or to put it in the words of Hidayatullah, J., had the act of the detenu disturbed the even tempo of the life of the community of that specifi ed locality? 63. In Commissioner of Police & Others, v. C. Anita (Smt. ), (2004) 7 SCC 467, this Court again examined the issue of “public ” and “law and ” and observed thus:- “7. ....The crucial issue is whether the activities of the detenu were prejudicial to public . While the expression “law and ” is wider in scope inasmuch as contravention of law always aff ects , “public ” has a narrower ambit, and public could be aff ected by only such contravention which aff ects the community or the public at large. Public is the even tempo of life of the community taking the country as a whole or even a specifi ed locality. The distinction between the areas of “law and ” and “public ” is one of the degree and extent of the reach of the act in question on society. It is the potentiality of the act to disturb the even tempo of life of the community which makes it prejudicial to the maintenance of the public . If a contravention in its eff ect is confi ned only to a few individuals directly involved as distinct from a wide spectrum of the public, it could raise problem of law and only. It is the length, magnitude and intensity of the terror wave unleashed by a particular eruption of dis that helps to distinguish it as an act aff ecting “public ” from that concerning “law and ”. The question to ask is: “Does it lead to disturbance of the current life of the community so as to amount to a disturbance of the public or does it aff ect merely an individual leaving the tranquility of the society undisturbed?” 64. Thus, from the various decisions referred to above, it is evident that there is a very thin line between the question of law and situation PESALA NOOKARAJU v. THE GOVERNMENT OF 579 ANDHRA PRADESH & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] and a public situation, and some times, the acts of a person relating to law and situation can turn into a question of public situation. What is decisive for determining the connection of ground of detention with the maintenance of public , the object of detention, is not an intrinsic quality of the act but rather its latent potentiality. Therefore, for determining whether the ground of detention is relevant for the purposes of public or not, merely an objective test based on the intrinsic quality of an act would not be a safe guide.