The Court then went on to observe that it was also true that a party cannot postpone the accrual of a cause of action by writing letters or sending reminders but where the bill had been finally prepared, the claim made by the claimant is the C accrual of the cause of action. For a proper understanding of the ratio in the aforesaid , we reproduce hereinbelow para 4 of the in its entirety. Para 4 reads thus: “4. Therefore, in to be entitled to of reference under S. 20, it is necessary that there should be an arbitration D agreement and secondly, difference must arise to which this agreement applied. In this case, there is no dispute that there was an arbitration agreement. There has been an assertion of claim by the appellant and silence as well as refusal in respect of the same by respondent. Therefore, a dispute has E arisen regarding non-payment of the alleged dues of the appellant. The question is for the present case when did such dispute arise. The High Court proceeded on the basis that the work was completed in 1980 and, therefore, the appellant became entitled to the payment from that date and the cause of action under Art. 137 arose from that date. But in to F be entitled to ask for a reference under S. 20 of the Act there must not only be an entitlement to money but there must be a difference or a dispute must arise. It is true that on completion of the work a right to get payment would normally arise but where the final bills as in this case have not been prepared as G appears from the record and when the assertion of the claim was made on 28th Feb. 1983 and there was non-payment, the cause of action from that date, that is to say, 28th of Feb. 1983. It is also true that a party cannot postpone the accrual of cause of action by writing reminders or sending reminders but where the bill had not been finally prepared, the claim H 618 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A made by a claimant is the accrual of the cause of action. A dispute arises where there is a claim and a denial and repudiation of the claim. The existence of dispute is essential for appointment of an arbitrator under S. 8 or a reference under S. 20 of the Act. See Law of Arbitration by R.S. Bachawat, 1st Edition, page 354. There should be dispute B and there can only be a dispute when a claim is asserted by one party and denied by the other on whatever grounds. Mere failure or inaction to pay does not lead to the inference of the existence of dispute. Dispute entails a positive element and assertion in denying, not merely inaction to accede to a claim C or a request. When in a particular case a dispute has arisen or not has to be found out from the facts and circumstances of the case.” (Emphasis supplied) 37.