It is trite to submit that such an observation could at best be treated C as obiter dicta (defined as an incidental remark of a Judge’s expression of opinion uttered in court or in a written , but not essential to the decision and therefore not legally binding as a precedent). c. Be that as it may, what has been held by this Court in paragraph 57 of Durgesh Sharma (supra) nullifies the point sought to be urged on D the behalf of the appellants. d. In Megha Jain (supra), the Division Bench of the Gauhati High Court has held that it has jurisdiction to exercise powers under section 24 of the CPC read with section 23(1) and/or section 23(2) thereof to transfer a suit, appeal or any other proceeding from one of the four E States under its jurisdiction to any other State under its jurisdiction for trial. In paragraph 9 of Megha Jain (supra), reference has been made to section 24 (1) (a) of the CPC to arrive at the conclusion that the High Court or the District Court may, at any stage, transfer any suit etc. pending before it to any court subordinate to it and that a transfer petition seeking transfer from one State to any of the four States shall be F maintainable thereunder. The abovesaid conclusion is not the correct exposition of law. Sections 22 to 24 of the CPC and section 25 thereof are two different codes within the CPC and there is no overlapping in relation to the domain where these two sets of codes operate. e. A plain reading of section 22 of the CPC would show that the G words “several Courts” occurring in its last has been continued in section 23, while no such co-relation exists either between sections 22 and 25 or sections 23 and 25. Therefore, application of section 23 together with section 25 appears completely faulty. Also, in relation to the exercise of power under section 24, the said power has been made available to even H SHAH NEWAZ KHAN v. STATE OF NAGALAND 995 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] a District Court, which makes it amply clear that the power under section A 24 is a continuation of sections 22 and 23 only. f. Further, the power of transfer of suits under section 22 can be exercised, “(W)here a suit may be instituted in any one of two or more courts and is instituted in one of such courts”. And this power under section 22 is explained in section 23 for the purposes as to which B court an application for transfer may lie. Further, after the application is made, under section 24, such power is explained as to how the same can be exercised. Therefore, section 22 provides which of the suits, section 23 provides which of the courts and section 24 provides how such transfers can be effected. C g. In contrast to the above, the power under section 25 has been clearly defined and the same does not have any mention in sections 22 to 24 in the same manner as it occurs in section 25, categoric and precise.