The rationale given for this legislative change was to protect interest of workmen in case of winding up. It is submitted that resultantly, the D Companies Act, 2013, as enacted, while mostly retaining the structure of Section 529 and 529-A of the Companies Act, 1956, introduced the proviso to Section 326(1) and also modified Section 326(2). 3.8 It is submitted that the consequence of this change was that while workmen’s dues and dues owed to secured creditors as per Section E 325(1) Proviso (c) ranked pari passu, the wages and salaries due to workmen for a period of 2 years preceding winding up , shall be paid in priority to all other debts, within a period of 30 days of sale of assets and shall be subject to such charge over the security of secured creditors as may be prescribed. Importantly, the Government Dues and F wages or salary owned to employees remained restricted to periods as they were in the Companies Act, 1956. It is submitted that another important aspect to be noted is that the definition of “workmen’s dues” includes the Pension Fund, Gratuity Fund and the Provident Fund amounts and there was no exclusion of the said amounts in the case of liquidation. It is submitted that therefore, the position of law regarding “overriding G preferential payments” and “preferential payments”, as per the Companies Act, 1956 and the Companies Act, 2013, is that workmen have a charge over the property of the security of every secured creditor to the extent of workmen’s portion, the workmen’s dues rank pari passu with the debts owed to secured creditors and specifically wages or salary H 98 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A due to workmen for a period of 2 years preceding the winding up shall be paid in priority to all other debts. 3.9 That thereafter, Shri K.V. Viswanathan, learned Senior Advocate and Amicus Curiae has taken us to the framing of the IBC. It is submitted that the Bankruptcy Law Reforms Committee submitted its B Report on 04.11.2015. The said Report discussed the changes that are to be made to the existing regime of insolvency and bankruptcy proceedings and inter alia provided for reasons as to why changes were being made to the existing position of law. It is submitted that important parts of the Bankruptcy Law Reforms Committee (BLRC) Report may be summarized as follows: C i. The Committee noted that operational creditors will include workmen and employees whose past payments are due. ii. Further, the Committee notes that the Central and State Government dues will be kept at a priority below the unsecured financial creditors in addition to all kinds of D secured creditors. iii. The Committee also categorically notes that liquidation under the new regime will have an irreversible, time-bound process with defined payout prioritisation. In the waterfall, secured creditors shall share highest priority along with a defined E period of workmen dues. iv. Thereafter, the Committee, in to bring the law in India in line with global practice, established the priority of payout in liquidation and drafting instructions were accordingly given.