… We have frequently noticed that all the remedies which are open to an appellant are not first exhausted before moving this Court. Ordinarily, this Court will not allow the High Court to be bypassed in this manner, and the proper course for an appellant is to exhaust all his remedies before invoking the C jurisdiction of this Court under Article 136. …” (Emphasis supplied) 26. We shall now look into a very recent pronouncement of this Court in the case of Ibrat Faizan v. Omaxe Buildhome Private Limited reported in 2022 INSC573. In the said case,the appellant had D booked a flat in the project floated by the respondent. The appellant paid the entire amount of consideration but the respondent did not hand over the flat within the time stipulated in the agreement. Therefore, the appellant filed a consumer complaint before the SCDRC on 10.08.2013, alleging deficiency of service on the part of the respondent. The SCDRC allowed E the complaint filed by the appellant vide its dated 16.10.2020. The SCDRC directed the respondent to hand over the flat to the possession of the appellant subject to their meeting the requirements. The SCDRC further directed the respondent to pay compensation for the deficiency of service of the respondent in the form of nine per cent simple interest F till the date of delivery of the flat in possession of the appellant. 27. The appellant filed an execution and contempt petition against the respondent since he did not comply with the of the SCDRC. Vide its dated 12.03.2021, the SCDRC directed the respondent to produce the details of bank accounts or properties for the purpose of G attaching the same and to implement the passed by the SCDRC. 28. The respondent filed an appeal before the NCDRC. On 30.03.2021, the NCDRC stayed the of SCDRC subject to the deposit of the cost of entire flat along with nine per cent interest on the amount paid till date in the Registry of the SCDRC. H M/S UNIVERSAL SOMPO GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD. v. 1167 SURESH CHAND JAIN AND ANR. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 29. The respondent, being aggrieved against the of NCDRC A filed a writ petition before the High Court, challenging the passed by the NCDRC. Before the High Court the respondent contended that the NCDRC ought not to have directed the respondent, the builder, to deposit the entire cost of the apartment along with the compensation awarded by the SCDRC. The High Court stayed the of National B Commission, vide its dated 25.05.2021. The said stay was issued subject to the condition that the respondent is to deposit with the State Commission fifty per cent of the amount directed to be deposited by way of interest towards compensation, within four weeks from the date of stay issued by the High Court. C 30. In the meantime, the NCDRC passed the final , confirming the passed by the State Commission, vide its dated 09.12.2021. The respondent also filed a writ petition before the High Court, challenging the final passed by the NCDRC.