Whereas it is expedient to provide for registration norms and competency of the Community Health Professionals, after passing B.Sc (Community Health) course and to give same status to the D students who have completed or have been undergoing the Diploma in Medicine and Rural Health Care (DMRHC) course in Medical Institute, Jorhat with that of B.Sc (Community Health) course, to enable them to serve as Paramedical personnel in the State of Assam and the matters connected therewith or incidental thereto; E xxx 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,- (a) “Act” means the Assam Community Health Professionals’ F (Registration and Competency) Act, 2015; (b) “Certificate” means a Certificate of Registration issued by the Director of Medical Education, Research and Training, Assam under section 3 of this Act; (c) “Community Health Professionals” means the persons who G have been registered as such by the Director and issued a Certificate of Registration in accordance with the provisions of section 3 of this Act; (d) “Course” means the prescribed Paramedical Course of B.Sc (Community Health) or in short B.Sc (CH) as approved by the H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 1009 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Union Cabinet, conveyed vide Govt. of India’s letter No. DO No. A V 11025/40/2009/MEP-1 Dated 31/12/2013; xxx 3. (1) Every student who successfully completes the Course from any institution permitted by the Government of Assam to run the B Course, shall be registered by the Director at Directorate of Medical Education, Assam, Guwahati and shall be issued with a Certificate of Registration as Community Health Professional. (2) The students who have already completed or have been undergoing the Diploma in Medicine and Rural Health Care C (DMRHC) course in the Medical Institute, Jorhat, on the date of commencement of this Act, shall be deemed to have completed or have been undergoing as the case may be, the Paramedical Course of B.Sc (CH) for the purposes of this Act and shall acquire the same status to that of B.Sc (Community Health) graduates and they shall also be registered by the Director and issued with D Certificate of Registration as Community Health Professionals: Provided that the Certificate of Registration issued by the Director under this sub-section to the students who have already completed Diploma in Medicine and Rural Health Care (DMRHC) course from the Medical Institute, Jorhat, shall be deemed to have E been issued by the Director with effect from the date of issue of their respective Diplomas from the said Institute: Provided further that the students who have been undergoing the Diploma in Medicine and Rural Health Care (DMRHC) course in the Medical Institute, Jorhat on the commencement of this Act, F shall be deemed to have been undergoing the Course as defined under this Act and they shall be issued Certificate of Registration under this Act by the Director on completion of their Course.” It would be useful to refer to a decision of this Court in the case of Indian Aluminium Company Co. vs. State of Kerala, AIR 1996 G SC 1431, wherein the principles regarding the abrogation of a of a court of law by a subsequent legislation could be culled out in the following manner: — “56.