...according to law and not humour. It is to be, not arbitrary, vague A and fanciful, but legal and regular. And it must be exercised within the limit, to which an honest man competent to the discharge of his office ought to confine himself.” 19.1 It is a well-established rule of administrative law that discretionary power is to be exercised and a decision has B to be made, by the very authority to whom the discretion is entrusted by the statute in question. The situation of an authority not exercising its discretion arises when any authority does not itself consider a particular matter before it on merits but still takes a decision, as if it is directed to do so, by another authority, most often, by a higher C authority.When an authority exercises the discretion vested in it by lawat the behest of another authority in a specific matter, this would in law amount to non-exercise of its discretionary power by the authority itself, and consequently, such action or decision is invalid. D 19.2 The petitioners have contended that it is implicit insub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act that adequate time and attention must be devoted by both the Central Board of the Bank and the Central Government before proceeding with a measure of such magnitude and consequences, E asdemonetisation. It was further submitted that the facts and records of the present case would show that the procedure with such implicit obligations was abandoned and the process contemplated was not as per the said provision.That the proposal emanated from the Central Government and was not initiated by the Bank. The Central F Board of the Bank passed a resolution in a hurried manner. No adequate care and consideration were bestowed on such a crucial matter by the Central Board of the Bank having regard to the severe ramifications that the proposed demonetisation would have on almost every citizen of the G country. Possibly, the Central Board of the Bank acted on the “assurances” of the Central Government which is evident on a perusal of the records and not on an independent application of mind owing to lack of time. As noted from the records submitted by the Central Government as well as the Reserve Bank of India in the H 222 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A instant case, the Central Government wrote to the Central Board of the Reserve Bank of India on 7th of November, 2016 about its proposal to demonetise all series of bank notes of denominations of Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/-, which were in circulation, and on the very next day i.e., 8th November, 2016, a meeting of the Central Board of the B Bank was held at New Delhi at 05:30 p.m. and shortly thereafter, the gazette notification was issued. Such a swift action would indicate that the Central Board of the Bank had hardly twenty-four hours to consider the proposal of the Central Government and hence, hardly any time to apply C its mind independently to the proposal.