The Court, inter alia, made the following observations: - “4. This section in unambiguous language lays down that no charge is enforceable against any property in the hands of a transferee E for consideration without notice of the charge except where it is otherwise expressly provided by any law for the time being in force. The saving provision of law must expressly provide for enforcement of a charge against the property in the hands of a transferee for value without notice of the charge and not merely create a charge. ….. F *** *** *** 11. Now the circumstances which by a deeming fiction impute notice to a party are based, on his wilful abstention to enquire or search which a person ought to make or, on his gross negligence. This presumption of notice is commonly known as constructive G notice. Though originating in equity this presumption of notice is now a part of our statute and we have to interpret it as such. Wilful abstention suggests conscious or deliberate abstention and gross negligence is indicative of a higher degree of neglect. Negligence is ordinarily understood as an omission to take such H reasonable care as under the circumstances is the duty of a person OFFICIAL LIQUIDATOR v. UJJAIN NAGAR PALIKA NIGAM 1113 & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] of ordinary prudence to take. In other words it is an omission to A do something which a reasonable man guided by considerations which normally regulate the conduct of human affairs would do or doing something which normally a prudent and reasonable man would not do. The question of wilful abstention or gross negligence and, therefore, of constructive notice considered from this point B of view is generally a question of fact or at best mixed question of fact and law depending primarily on the facts and circumstances of each case and except for cases directly falling within the three explanations, no inflexible rule can be laid down to serve as a straight-jacket covering all possible contingencies. The question one has to answer in circumstances like the present is not whether C the purchaser had the means of obtaining and might with prudent caution have obtained knowledge of the charge but whether in not doing so he acted with wilful abstention or gross negligence. Being a question depending on the behaviour of a reasonably prudent man, the Courts have to consider it in the background of D Indian conditions. Courts in India should, therefore, be careful and cautious in seeking assistance from English precedents which should not be blindly or too readily followed.” 21.1. In the aforesaid case of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, while commencing the discussion, this Court also observed, E as underscored on behalf of respondent No. 2, that ‘the purchaser at auction sale takes the property subject to all the defects of title and the doctrine of caveat emptor (let the purchaser be aware) applies to such purchaser’ but thereafter, the Court observed that the case of the -debtor having no saleable interest at all in the property sold such as contemplated by the XXI Rule 91 of the Code of Civil F Procedure was, however, different and not covered by this doctrine.