He further submitted that the ASI will conduct survey, documentation, photography, detail description, GPR survey and full studies without harming the existing structures. He also submitted that all the aforesaid works would be carried without any damage to the structures. He has submitted that the scientifi c investigation would be carried out beyond the structure and in open areas only: no drilling, no cutting, no removal of brick or stones from the existing structure will be done while conducting the survey and study. It has been further submitted that archaeological sites will be in open place fl oor area which will not aff ect the structure at all and no wall/structure would be damaged and the entire survey will be conducted by the non-destructive method by using techniques such as GPR survey. GPS survey the other scientifi c methods and other modem techniques. It has also been submitted that in case any further investigation/excavation is required, permission of the Hon’ble Court would be sought.” 9. The High Court held that the of the District Judge directing a survey falls within the ambit of XXVI Rule 10A of the Code of Civil Procedure 1908. The High Court rejected the submission of the petitioners that XXVI Rule 10A cannot be used by the parties to gather evidence in their favour. The Court observed that where a question arising in a suit involves a scientifi c investigation which cannot, in the opinion of the court, be conveniently conducted before the court, it may, if it thinks necessary or COMMITTEE OF MANAGEMENT ANJUMAN INTEZAMIA MASAJID, 115 VARANASI v. RAKHI SINGH [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] expedient in the interest of justice so to do, issue a commission for that purpose. In paragraph 21 of its , the High Court has dealt with the apprehension that the survey would envisage an act of excavation or destruction of the structure existing at the site. The High Court has recorded the statement of the Additional Director General, ASI as well as of the Additional Solicitor General who was appearing for the Union of India, that no excavation whatsoever will take place. The High Court observed that since the Department of Archeology and counsel representing the Department had expressly stated that no damage would be caused to the property in question, the survey which is proposed, may be permitted to be carried out. In the concluding paragraph of its , the High Court clarifi ed that while it was affi rming the dated 21 July 2023 of the District Judge, this was subject to the observations of the High Court and the contents of the affi davit which was fi led on behalf of ASI. 10. Before we deal with the submissions which have been urged on behalf of the petitioners by Mr Huzefa A Ahmadi, senior counsel, it needs to be clarifi ed at the outset that it has been clarifi ed on behalf of ASI by Mr Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General that the entire survey which is envisaged to be carried out in pursuance of the of the District Judge would be completed without any excavation at the site and without causing any damage to the structure.