The contractor urged that this was contrary to the technical specifi cation (hereafter “TS”) clause 305.8; the National Highways Authority of India (hereafter “NHAI”) justifi ed the EE’s interpretation. Since there have been diff erent outcomes in all these appeals, and the impugned s in some of them have relied upon the of the Division Bench of the Delhi High Court, in CA 4658/20231 (hereafter referred to as “the main ”) the facts and decisions, in that appeal would be alluded to. 2. NHAI awarded, to the contractor the work of construction of the Allahabad by-pass project in U.P. by agreement dated 02.06.2004. The project was completed. However, certain disputes arose inter se the parties with reference to diff erent areas of the contract; these were referred to arbitration. NHAI has an inbuilt resolution mechanism, i.e., a Dispute Resolution Board (“DRB”) consisting of technical experts in the fi eld, to which matters are fi rst referred to. Since the contractor was not satisfi ed with the opinion of the DRB, in terms of the agreement, it could and, did invoke the arbitration. The disputes in the present case culminated in a reference to the arbitration of three technical persons, who after considering the rival viewpoints and the materials before them, made the award2. The award was unanimous on most questions while, on others, there was a dissenting view of one of the arbitrators. 1 Arising out of SLP No. 38162/2012, which was directed against the of the Division Bench of the Delhi High Court dated 08.11.2012 in FAO (OS) No. 48/ 2012. 2 Award dated 30.03.2010 M/S HINDUSTAN CONSTRUCTION COMPANY LIMITED v. 627 M/S NATIONAL HIGHWAYS AUTHORITY OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 3. The contractor, aggrieved by both the unanimous view and the majority view preferred objections under Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (“the Act”). A learned single judge rejected the petition3. The single judge was of the considered opinion that as far as measurement aspects were concerned, the tribunal’s majority opinion refl ected a plausible and reasonable view that did not call for interference: “26. As regards non-payment for, executed work of embankment which forms the subject matter of Disputes 2 and 4, this is purely a question of fact based on the measurement. There is no dispute in relation to the construction of the embankment that is covered under item 2. 02 (a) of the BOQ. In fact, NHAI has already paid HCC for the said construction. Clause 305.8 of the MORTHTS provides for measurement of the cross section of the embankment as one whole composite section and paid under item No.2.02(b). The decision of the majority members of the Arbitral Tribunal based on an analysis of the material before them was a possible view to take. Merely because another view as evidenced by the dissenting opinion is possible interference by this Court under Section 34 of the Act is not warranted.” 4. NHAI appealed to the Division Bench, which set aside the decision of the learned single judge, and held that the tribunal’s majority view, and award, were based on an implausible interpretation of the contract.