The merit of the 25% cannot be prejudged by a sub-classification. It violates the equality and equal opportunity guarantees. The Forest Guards, irrespective of educational qualifications, having D formed one class for the purpose of participation in LDCE, a further classification between graduates and non-graduates for participating in LDCE is unreasonable. It is a case of equals being treated unequally.” 34. In U.P. Raghavendra Acharya & Ors. v. State of Karnataka E & Ors.,14 a notification dated 22.07.1999, issued by the State of Karnataka, denied revised scales of pay to those teachers who had retired during the period from 01.01.1996 to 31.03.1998. The High Court held that the impugned notifications were arbitrary as these resulted in discrimination between the teachers working in the government colleges and the teachers working in the Non-Government Colleges, which would F mean treating the equals unequally. It was further opined that, in any event, the teachers of the Government Aided Colleges as also the teachers of the Regional Engineering Colleges formed a class by themselves and no discrimination could have been made between the employees who retired prior to 31.03.1998 and those retiring subsequent thereto. This court held that the discrimination, brought about on the G basis of date of retirement, was invidious: “The State while implementing the new scheme for payment of grant of pensionary benefits to its employees, may deny the same to a class of retired employees who were governed H 14 [2006] 2 Suppl. SCR 582; (2006) 9 SCC 630 MAHARASHTRA STATE FINANCIAL CORP. EX- EMPLOYEES 1191 ASSOC. v. STATE OF MAHARASHTRA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] by a different set of rules. The extension of the benefits can A also be denied to a class of employees if the same is permissible in law. The case of the appellants, however, stands absolutely on a different footing. They had been enjoying the benefit of the revised scales of pay. Recommendations have been made by the Central Government as also the University Grant B Commission to the State of Karnataka to extend the benefits of the Pay Revision Committee in their favour. The pay in their case had been revised in 1986 whereas the pay of the employees of the State of Karnataka was revised in 1993. The benefits of the recommendations of the Pay Revision Committee w.e.f. 1.1.1996, thus could not have been denied C to the appellants. The stand of the State of Karnataka that the pensionary benefits had been conferred on the appellants w.e.f. 1.4.1998 on the premise that the benefit of the revision of scales of pay to its own employees had been conferred from 1.1.1998, in D our opinion, is wholly misconceived. Firstly, because the employees of the State of Karnataka and the appellants, in the matter of grant of benefit of revised scales of pay, do not stand on the same footing as revised scales of pay had been made applicable to their cases from a different date. Secondly, the appellants had been given the benefit of the revised scales E of pay w.e.f.