The inclusion of Article 17 enjoins the state to forbear caste discrimination, overtly, or through classifi cation, and looms large as a part of the equality code and indeed the entire framework of the Constitution. The protected attribute of ‘sex’ has been held to include ‘sexual orientation’ and ‘gender expression’ by this court in NALSA (supra) and Navtej Johar & Ors. v. Union of India (hereafter, “Navtej Johar”)37. 39. The rationale for enacting proscribed grounds under Article 15 or 16 (or both) is the awareness of Constitution makers that courts could use these markers- or pointers of distinction, to determine if reasonable classifi cation were permissible. Hence, absent the prohibited ground of sex, gender could have been a plausible basis for an intelligible diff erentia. To prevent such classifi cations specifi c proscribed grounds were enacted as injunctions against State action. The provisions, and the equality code, are consequently not only about the declaratory sweep of equality: but also about the total prohibition against exclusion from participation in specifi ed, 36 2006 Supp (7) SCR 336 37 (2018) 7 SCR 379 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1451 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] enumerated activities, through entrenched provisions. A closer look at Article 15, especially Article 15(2), would further show that likewise most of the proscribed grounds in Article 15(1) were engrafted to ensure that access to public resources - in some cases not even maintained by the state, but available to the public generally, could not be barred. This provision was made to right a historical wrong, i.e., denial of access to the most deprived sections of society of the most basic resources, such as water, food, etc. The aim of the Constitution was to act as the ultimate leveller, ensuring that equality in practice, and substance, became the constitutional culture of this great nation. Together with the affi rmative action provisions - Articles 15(3) & (4), 16(4) & 16(5) was intended to guarantee that not mere facial discrimination was forbidden but that existing inequalities were ultimately eradicated. Flowing from these, this court has, time and again, emphasized that non-discrimination is essential for enjoyment of all rights and freedoms of citizens of our country, to realize their worth and potential.38 40. In the context of the present debate, in NALSA (supra), this court took note of the Yogyakarta Principles and principle on right to equality and non-discrimination enshrined therein which reads as: “2. The rights to equality and non-discrimination - Everyone is entitled to enjoy all human rights without discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. Everyone is entitled to equality before the law and the equal protection of the law without any such discrimination whether or not the enjoyment of another human right is also aff ected. The law shall prohibit any such discrimination and guarantee to all persons equal and eff ective protection against any such discrimination.” In this backdrop, the declaration of law, in Navtej Johar (supra) has provided impetus, so far as LGBTQ+ persons are concerned.