260/2018- Romila Thapar and Ors. -vs- Union of India and Ors.]. One of the prayers in this petition was for direction of immediate release of all activists arrested in connection with the Bhima Koregaon violence. Direction was also sought for staying any arrest until the matter was fully investigated and decided by this Court. That writ petition was dismissed on 28th September 2018 D (by a 2:1 majority). The majority view was that it was not a case of arrest because of expression of mere dissenting views or difference in political ideology of the named accused, but concerning their links with the members of the banned organisation. At that stage, the Court did not go into an exercise of evaluating the materials brought before it. This E finding or observation, however, cannot aid the prosecution in a regular application for bail, the appeals in respect of which we are adjudicating. The Court deciding on specific plea of the appellants for bail is required to independently apply its mind and examine the materials placed before it for determining the question of granting bail to the individual applicants. F 6. As the charges against the appellants include commission of offences under different Sections of the 1967 Act, including those coming within Chapters IV and VI thereof, the restriction on grant of bail as contained in Section 43D (5) of the said Act would apply in their cases. We shall also refer to the ratio of the of a three-Judge Bench of this Court in the case of Union of India -vs- K.A. Najeeb [(2021) 3 G SCC 713] while examining the appellants’ cases in the backdrop of the aforesaid provision. In this , it has been held that such statutory restrictions, per se, do not oust the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Courts to grant bail on grounds of violation of Part III of the Constitution of India and it would be within the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Courts, H 882 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A i.e., this Court and the High Courts to relax the rigours of such provisions, where there is no likelihood of trial being completed within a reasonable time and the period of incarceration a detenue has already undergone, covers a substantial part of the prescribed sentences for the offences with which the latter has been charged. This ratio has been relied upon by the learned counsel for the appellants. Other authorities cited on this B point are Thwaha Fasal -vs- Union of India [2021 SCC OnLine SC 1000] and Angela Harish Sontakke -vs- State of Maharashtra [(2021) 3 SCC 723]. On general proposition of law on the aspect of grant of bail due to delay in trial, the case of Sagar Tatyaram Gorkhe and Another -vs- State of Maharashtra [(2021) 3 SCC 725] has been relied upon. C In course of hearing, we were apprised by the appellants’ counsel that charges against the appellants are yet to be framed. 7. We have referred to the case of Dr. Anand Teltumbde, who was added as an accused in relation to the same case on 23rd August 2018 and has subsequently enlarged on bail.