However, pre-fixing “medicated” to “talcum powder” rendered the issue, beyond debate. 25. It was submitted that products which are sold over the counter E are sometimes hybrid in nature, such as lozenges, cough drops, which double up both as curative of certain ailments, as well as sweets or eatables. Likewise, Nycil powder has dual use: it can be used as a cosmetic,but has a medicinal use as well. However, the statute in this case, clearly requires its classification as a cosmetic, along with others, F in view of the specific and unambiguous use of the term “medicated talcum powder”. 26. Learned counsel for the revenue relied on Hamdard (Wakf) Laboratories (supra) and N.D.P. Namboodripad (Dead) by LRs. v. Union of India21 and submitted that when an interpretation clause uses the word “includes”, it is meant to be extensive. The term ‘and includes’ G is intended to rope in items which would not be part of the meaning, but for the definition the words ‘includes’ thus, means ‘comprises’ or ‘consists of’. 201994 (1) SCR 343 21 2007 (3) SCR 769 H 442 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 27. Mr. K. Radhakrishna, learned senior counsel appearing for the revenue, in the Tamil Nadu case, contended that the history of the legislation is a decisive factor to be taken into account, while determining the proper classification of a product. It was pointed out that two factors are important: one, that the entry (entry 20, Part C of the First Schedule which deals with “medicines”) was amended in 1994. Before amendment B (on 01.04.1994), the entry clearly stated that preparations or formulations that were “capable of being used as creams, hair oils, tooth pastes, tooth powders, cosmetics, toilet articles, soaps and shampoos” were to be “excluded”. For the same period, cosmetics (described as scents, hair oils etc, and falling in Entry 1 of Part F of the First Schedule) included C talcum powder. Two, the placement of talcum powder, with lipsticks, lip salve, nail polish, nail varnishes, nail brushes, toilet powders, baby powders, talcum powders, powder pads, etc. clearly established that all manner of talcum powder fell within the entry, i.e. Entry 1(iii). After amendment, with effect from 01.04.1994, the matter was placed beyond any controversy, by the explanation, which was added. The explanation D specifically stated that items “listed above” “even if medicated or as defined in Section 3”(of the Drugs Act)”or manufactured on the license issued under the said Act will fall under this item”. The explanation clearly brought within the fold of Entry 1, Part F medicated talcum powder, regardless that the license to manufacture it, was under E the Drugs Act. 28. Learned senior counsel highlighted that the Madras High Court, in the impugned , had considered the meaning of the expressions “drug” and “cosmetic” under the Drugs Act, and also taken note of the dictionary meanings of those terms. Learned senior counsel relied on F Dattatraya Govind Mahajan &Ors v. State of Maharashtra &Anr22 and Mrs. Zakiya Begum &Ors v. Mrs. Shanaz Ali &Ors23 and urged that though a provision may be termed as an explanation, the court must construe it according to its plain language, to give effect to legislative intent.