Ms Bhati informed this Court that in view of the email extracted above and the ensuing urgency, she mentioned the matter before Kohli, J (Nagarathna J was presiding over another Bench) and requested that it be listed. Kohli, J. orally informed Ms. Bhati that she was functus offi cio after passing the dated 9 October 2023 and that the matter ought to be mentioned before the Chief Justice of India so that he may exercise his powers on the administrative side and constitute a bench to hear the matter. As stated above, Ms. Bhati mentioned the matter before the Bench presided over by the Chief Justice. The ASG stated that she would move a recall application, before the same bench which had heard the petition earlier the urgency arising as a result of the fact that the Court had directed an MTP to be carried out immediately upon the petitioner reporting to AIIMS. This was the appropriate course on the part of the ASG to follow since the Judges who had heard the petition (Justices Kohli and Nagarathna) were not sitting as a Bench thereafter and a special Bench had to be constituted. This lay within the powers of the Chief Justice on the administrative side. The Chief Justice constituted the same two-Judge Benchcomprising of Kohli, J. and Nagarathna, J. to hear the application for recall of the dated 9 October 2023 and the case was directed to be notifi ed on the next day in the sitting list of 11 October 2023. 7. The two-Judge Bench heard the counsel for the petitioners as well as the ASG. At this juncture, the petitioner fi led an affi davit which stated, “I have made a wilful and conscious decision to medically terminate my pregnancy and don’t want to keep the baby even if survives.” 8. The judges were unable to agree when the application moved by the ASG was heard and delivered a split verdict. In her , Kohli, J. held that her judicial conscience prevented her from allowing the prayer 452 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. in view of the email sent to Ms. Bhati. Nagarathna, J., on the other hand, held that the dated 9 October 2023 ought not to be overturned for the following reasons: a. The interest of the mother, who already had two children and would deliver a third child within a year of delivering the second, must be given preference; b. The socio-economic conditions and the mental state of the petitioner must be considered by this Court; c. The decision of the petitioner ought to be respected and must not be substituted by the decision of this Court; and d. A foetus is dependent on the mother and cannot be recognized as a personality apart from that of the mother as its very existence is owed to the mother. 9. Following the split verdict, the petition was directed to be listed before the present three judge Bench, in view of the diff erence of opinion between the two judges on the application for recall of the dated 9 October 2023.On 13 October 2023, this Court passed an calling for a further report from AIIMS on certain specifi c issues.