The appeal23 preferred by the appellant against the said dismissal was rejected by the C 24 of the Appellate Authority25. D. DECISION OF THE HIGH COURT 19. The said s were challenged before the Bombay High Court. The High Court observed that the Committee had granted ample opportunities to the appellant to cross-examine the complainants and the D witnesses, but he had deliberately elected not to appear before it. In such circumstances, the Committee could not be blamed for proceeding ex-parte against him and submitting its Report. It was also held that the Committee was justified in discarding the medical certificates submitted by the appellant as he kept on making flimsy excuses to stay away from E the enquiry proceedings. The plea of the appellant that the Committee was improperly constituted or its composition was questionable as it comprised of persons who were junior to him in the Department, was rejected as meritless. Further, the contention that the enquiry had been conducted with undue haste, without giving a fair and reasonable opportunity to the appellant to defend himself, was also turned down. As F a result, the High Court did not see any merits in the said writ petition which was dismissed holding that there was no breach of the principles of natural justice and the Service Rules in the case. E. ARGUMENTS ADVANCED BY COUNSEL FOR THE PARTIES : G (a) COUNSEL FOR THE APPELLANT 22 Rule 11 (IX) CCS CCA, 1965 23 Appeal dated 25th June, 2010 24 Dated 19th April, 2010 25 Governor of Goa and Chancellor of Goa University H 790 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 20. Arguing on behalf of the appellant, Mr. Bishwajeet Bhattacharya, learned Senior counsel has assailed the impugned on several counts. The main thrust of his arguments is that the dismissal 26 passed by the Disciplinary Authority and upheld by the Appellate Authority is based solely on the Report submitted by the Committee which was nothing more than a fact-finding proceeding that had B commenced on 17th March, 2009 and concluded on 5th June, 2009; that though the inquiry had purportedly commenced on 17th March, 2009, the first hearing had actually taken place only on 27th April, 2009 and the entire proceedings were hurriedly closed within a span of thirty-nine days, by relying on forty-eight documents and forty-three depositions in the course of eighteen meetings without affording the appellant adequate C opportunity to defend himself and present his case. It was argued that though the Committee had acceded to the request of the appellant for extension of time27 and had granted him time till 12th June, 2009, the period was abruptly curtailed by almost one month and the date was advanced to 14th May, 2009, without any justification and unmindful of D the appellant’s indisposition, as was conveyed. Only when the appellant wrote to the Committee seeking a new date for his further deposition and for conducting further proceedings, did he come to know that the Committee had concluded its proceeding and submitted its Report on 5th June, 2009 itself.