The Corporation has categorically confirmed that the land of the extent of 6 grounds 170 sq. ft., had been handed over by the original owner. This is also corroborated by (i) a letter of the Assistant Engineer of the Corporation of Chennai dated 29.1.1976 and (ii) the handing over-taking over certificate dated E 11.2.1976 signed by an Officer of the Deputy Collector’s office and the Corporation of Chennai. The fact that the said land has been developed into a park and that it is now maintained by the Corporation of Chennai, is beyond any pale of doubt. But it is equally true that no deed of conveyance/gift was executed and F registered by the original promoter in favour of the Corporation. Nevertheless, the land is in public domain for the past 36 years and no one except the local body, can today lay a claim on the said land of the extent of 6 grounds and 170 sq. ft. Therefore, on the first question, it has to be held that OSR land has already been handed over to the local body.” G 43. Thereafter it is interesting that the learned Single Judge holds as follows: - “Para 13. Incidentally it must be pointed out that in Pt. Chet Ram Vashist vs. Municipal Corporation of Delhi {1995 (1) SCC 47}, the Supreme Court held that the effect of reserving any site for H 1068 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A open space, park etc., in a layout is that the owner ceases to be a legal owner of the land in dispute and that he would hold the said land for the benefit of the society or the public in general. It was further held in the said decision that the entitlement of the Corporation or the local body to demand the transfer of the land to them, is not made out from the provisions of any Act or on any B principle of law. The Court pointed out that the Corporation may get a right as custodian of public interest to manage it in the interest of the society in general. However, the right to manage as a local body, was held by the Supreme Court in the said decision, to be not the same thing as to claim transfer of the property to itself. The decision in Pt. Chet Ram Vashist, was followed in Chairman, C Indore Vikas Pradhikaran vs. Pure Industrial Coke & Chemicals Ltd {MANU/SC/7706/2007 : 2007 (8) SCC 705}. Again in Babulal Badriprasad Varma vs. Surat Municipal Corporation {MANU/ SC/7606/2008 : 2008 (12) SCC 401}, the Supreme Court pointed out that a statute of town planning ex facie is not a statute for D acquisition of a property. The Court further observed that every step taken by the State does not involve application of the Doctrine of Eminent Domain.” Para 16.At this juncture, a small prelude is necessary, to understand how the liability to earmark open space for public and recreational purposes, in a land developed into a layout and how the liability to E pay OSR charges, came into existence.