In the course of its , the trial court merely noted the following, before awarding the death penalty: C In present day circumstances it has become common of kidnapping of children and elders for ransom and kidnapped being murdered if expected ransom is not received. In this situation unless the kidnappers for ransom are punished with extreme penalty, in future kidnapping of children and elders for ransom would get increased D and the danger of society getting totally spoiled, would have to faced is of no doubt. Hence having regard to all these it is decided that it would be in the interests of justice to award to the 1st accused the extreme penalty. Not only that the court saw the mother of the deceased boy profusely crying and weeping in court E over the death of her son in court and the scene of onlookers in court having wept also cannot be forgotten by anyone. Hence it is decided that such offenders have to be punished with extreme penalty; in the interests of justice. 72. The High Court took into account the gruesome and merciless F nature of the act. It reiterated the precedents stating that the death penalty is to be awarded only in the rarest of rare cases. However, it did not specifically look at any mitigating circumstances bearing on the petitioner. It merely held that: 28. In a given case like this, it is an inhuman and a merciless act G of gruesome murder which would shock the conscience of the society. Under the circumstance, showing mercy or leniency to such accused would be misplacing the mercy. That apart, showing leniency would be mockery on the criminal system. Therefore, the death penalty imposed by the trial Judge, has got to be affirmed, and accordingly, it is affirmed. H SUNDAR @ SUNDARRAJAN v. STATE BY INSPECTOR OF 1057 POLICE [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 73. This Court examined the aggravating circumstances of the A crime in detail. However, as regards the mitigating circumstances, it noted that: 31. As against the aforesaid aggravating circumstances, learned counsel for the accused-appellant could not point to us even a single mitigating circumstance. Thus viewed, even on the B parameters laid down by this Court, in the decisions relied upon by the learned counsel for the accused-appellant, we have no choice, but to affirm the death penalty imposed upon the accused appellant by the High Court. In fact, we have to record the aforesaid conclusion in view of the rendered by this C Court in Vikram Singh & Ors. Vs. State of Punjab, (2010) 3 SCC 56, wherein in the like circumstances (certainly, the circumstances herein are much graver than the ones in the said case), this Court had upheld the death penalty awarded by the High Court. 74. The above sequence indicates that no mitigating circumstances D of the petitioner were taken into account at any stage of the trial or the appellate process even though the petitioner was sentenced to capital punishment.