1 (Pledge Agreement) inter alia provides that the Corporate Debtor is the guarantor of the entire loan amount for which reliance was placed upon clause 2.12 of D the Pledge Agreement, is rejected, for the Pledge Agreement specifically restricts and limits the liability of the Corporate Debtor the extent of the pledged shares vide clause 2.1.1. [Para 6][821-C-D] 1.2 Certain communications issued by the IDBI Bank, the E lead bank of the Joint Lenders Forum, which now constitutes the majority of the CoC of the corporate debtor permitting the pledge of shares etc., have to be read and understood in the context in which they were written. It was clear and understood by the financial creditors of the corporate debtor that the corporate debtor is not to bear any additional financial liability by a security F or charge of its assets for the STL Facilities, and the loans were being procured and taken by Brassco and WLD from the Appellant Nos. 2 and 3. It was stipulated that the assets of the Corporate Debtor would not be encumbered in anyway, and except for shares given as security, and the burden to repay/ discharge the loan G was/ is upon Brassco and WLD. IDBI Bank had only permitted the corporate debtor to pledge the shares in question, and to this extent, they did not have any objection. [Para 6.1][822-A-C] 1.3 Appellant No. 1 is a secured creditor to the extent of the shares pledged to it by the Corporate Debtor. It holds the H 808 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A first right in pledge on 66.77% shareholding in JMT Auto Limited. The expression ‘security interest’ as defined in Section 3(31) of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 states that it means right, title, interest or a claim to a property created in favour, or provided for a secured creditor by a transaction which secures payment or performance of an obligation and includes, B mortgage, charge, hypothecation, assignment and encumbrance, or any other agreement or arrangement for securing payment or performance of any obligation of any person. The person is whose favour the security interest is created need not be the creditor who avails the credit facility, and can be a third person. Security C interest can be created for credit facilities/loan advanced to another person. It is accepted and admitted that the appellant No. 1 has security interest in the pledged shares. [Para 7][822- D-G] 1.4 The law of pledge contemplates special rights for the D pawnee in the goods pledged, i.e., the right to possession of the security, and in case of default, the right to bring a suit against the pawnor, as well as the right to sell the goods after giving reasonable notice to the pawnor. The general rights or ownership rights in the property remain with the pawnor, and wholly reverts to him on discharge of the debt or performance of the promise. E In other words, the right to property vests in the pawnee only as far as it is necessary to secure the debt.