H 568 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 16. The Act, 2014 has been enacted by the legislature of the State of Odisha having been assented to by the President on the 16th January, 2015 with an object to provide for the establishment of the body of Lokayukta for the State of Odisha to inquire into allegations of corruption against public functionaries and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. The Act is applicable to the public servants of the B State of Odisha serving in and outside the State and the public servants under the control of Government of Odisha. 17. A ‘complaint’ has been defined under Section 2(d), and the term ‘preliminary inquiry’ and ‘public servant’ under Sections 2(l) and 2(n) of the Act 2014 which are stated as follows:- C “2. (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,— …… (d) “complaint” means a complaint, made in such form as may be prescribed, alleging that a public servant has committed an offence D punishable under the Prevention of Corruption Act,1988; …… (l) “preliminary inquiry” means an inquiry conducted under this Act; E …… (n) “public servant” means a person referred to in clauses (a) to (h) of sub-section (1) of section 14 but does not include a public servant in respect of whom the jurisdiction is exercisable by any court or other authority under the Army Act, 1950, the Air Force F Act, 1950, the Navy Act, 1957 and the Coast Guard Act, 1978 or the procedure is applicable to such public servant under those Acts; …….”. 18. Chapter VII prescribes the procedure in respect of preliminary G inquiry and investigation, the relevant part of which is reproduced as under:- “20. (1) The Lokayukta, on receipt of a complaint, if it decides to proceed further, may — H OFFICE OF THE ODISHA LOKAYUKTA v. DR. PRADEEP 569 KUMAR PANIGRAHI [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] (a) preliminary inquiry against any public servant by its Inquiry A Wing or any agency to ascertain whether there exists a prima facie case for proceeding in the matter; or (b) investigation by any agency or authority empowered under any law to investigate, where there exists a prima facie case: B Provided that any investigation under this clause shall be ed only if in the opinion of the Lokayukta there is substantial material relating to the existence of a prima facie case or any earlier statutory investigation or enquiry regarding the same complaint reveals that a prima facie case exists: C Provided further that before ing an investigation under this clause, the Lokayukta shall call for the explanation of the public servant and views of the competent authority, so as to determine whether there exists a prima facie case for investigation: Provided also that a decision to investigation under this clause shall be taken by a bench constituted by the Chairperson D under section 16. (2) During the preliminary inquiry referred to in sub-section (1), the Inquiry Wing or any agency shall conduct a preliminary inquiry and on the basis of material, information and documents collected, seek the comments on the allegations made in the complaint from E the public servant and competent authority and after obtaining the comments of the concerned public servant and competent authority, submit, within sixty days from the date of receipt of the reference, a report to the Lokayukta.