5. For purposes of this article, “fees for technical services” means payments of any kind to any person in consideration for the rendering of any technical or consultancy services (including through the provision of services of technical or other personnel) if such services : 118 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. (a) are ancillary and subsidiary to the application or enjoyment of the right, property or information for which a payment described in paragraph 4 of this article is received ; or (b) make available technical knowledge, experience, skill, know-how or processes or consist of the development and transfer of a technical plan or technical design. 6. Notwithstanding paragraph 5, “fees for technical services” does not include amounts paid: (a) for services that are ancillary and subsidiary, as well as inextricably and essentially linked, to the sale of property other than a sale described in paragraph 4(a) ; (b) for services that are ancillary and subsidiary to the rental of ships, aircraft, containers or other equipment used in connection with the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffi c; (c) for teaching in or by educational institutions; (d) for services for the personal use of the individual or individuals making the payment; or (e) to an employee of the person making the payments or to any individual or partnership for professional services as defi ned in article 14 (independent personal services) of this Convention. 7. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the benefi cial owner of the royalties or fees for technical services, being a resident of one of the States, carries on business in the other State, in which the royalties or fees for technical services arise, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fi xed base situated therein, and the royalties or fees for technical services are eff ectively connected with such permanent establishment or fi xed base. In such case, the provisions of article 7 or article 14, as the case may be, shall apply. 8. Royalties or fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise in one of the States when the payer is that State itself, a political sub- division, a local authority or a resident of that State. Where, however, ASSESSING OFFICER CIRCLE (INTERNATIONAL TAXATION) 2(2)(2) 1181 NEW DELHI v. M/S NESTLE SA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] the person paying the royalties or fees for technical services, whether he is a resident of one of the States or not, has in one of the States a permanent establishment or a fi xed base in connection with which the contract under which the royalties or fees for technical services are paid was concluded, and such royalties or fees for technical services are borne by such permanent establishment or fi xed base, then such royalties or fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise in the State in which the permanent establishment or fi xed base is situated.