Insofar as the submission on behalf of the respective assessees regarding levy of interest and the submission on behalf of the assessees H 494 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A that in absence of any specific passed in the assessment to levy interest, the interest could not have been levied, is concerned, the said issue as such is concluded against the assessees in view of the Constitution Bench decision of this Court in the case of Anjum M.H. Ghaswala (supra) as well as the subsequent decision in the case of Karanvir Singh Gossal (supra). The ITAT relied upon the decision of B the Patna High Court in the case of Ranchi Club Ltd. (supra), however, the decision of the Patna High Court in the case of Ranchi Club Ltd. (supra) is held to be not good law, in view of the Constitution Bench decision of this Court in the case of Anjum M.H. Ghaswala (supra). 12.1 In the case of Anjum M.H. Ghaswala (supra), while dealing C with the interest under the provisions of Sections 234A, 234B and 234C of the Income Tax Act, 1961, it is observed and held that the interest contemplated under the said provisions is mandatory in nature and the power of waiver or reduction has not been expressly conferred on the Commission. The same indicates that insofar as the payment of statutory D interest is concerned, the same is outside the purview of the settlement contemplated in Chapter XIX-A of the Act. In the present case also, the levy of interest under Section 234A for default in furnishing the return of income is mandatory and automatic. Section 234A of the Act provides that where the return of income for any assessment year is furnished after the due date or is not furnished, the assessee shall be liable to pay E simple interest. Thus, interest under section 234A is statutory interest leviable and payable and therefore the decision of this Court in the case of Anjum M.H. Ghaswala (supra) shall be applicable with full force. Therefore, when the interest is levied as per the workings mentioned in ITNS 150 which is forming part of the assessment , it is rightly held F to be sufficient and good enough to charging interest. (See decision of this Court in the case of Bhagat Construction Company Private Limited (supra)). 13. As regards the submission on behalf of the assessees that no substantial question of law was framed on levy of interest, at the outset, G it is required to be noted that both the parties made submissions on levy of interest elaborately which have been dealt with and considered by the High Court in light of the Constitution Bench decision of this Court in the case of Anjum M.H. Ghaswala (supra). Even otherwise, the said issue can be said to be incidental or collateral. Even otherwise, in view of the decision of this Court in the case of Anjum M.H. Ghaswala (supra) H MANSAROVAR COMMERCIAL PVT. LTD. v. COMMISSIONER 495 OF INCOME TAX, DELHI [M. R. SHAH, J.]