The matters relating to the appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioner have been settled by the decision of this Court in T.N. Seshan, Chief Election Commissioner of India v. Union of India and others8. It is pointed out that the Election Commission (Conditions of Service of Election Commissioners and Transaction of G Business) Act, 1991 (hereinafter referred to as, ‘the 1991 Act) does not deal with the process of selection and all the details that may be connected to it. It is commended to the Court as a matter of fact that the Election Commissioners have been appointed from the high-ranking Members of 8 (1995) 4 SCC 611 H 34 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A the Civil Services since no Government so far has thought it fit to provide for any other source other than the Civil Services for making appointment and the Parliament has also not intervened. The system has worked well under Article 324(2). Any aberrations or illegalities in the matter of appointment or acts or omissions on the part of the appointees, lend themselves to the correctional jurisdiction of the superior courts under B its powers of judicial review. Section 4 of the 1991 Act does contemplate a six-year tenure for both the Election Commissioners’ and the Chief Election Commissioner.Based on the observations made in T.N. Seshan (supra), Government has followed a sound practice of appointing Officers from the Civil Services. It is contended that those who are considered C for appointment, must be”ripe” enough ‘for being inducted into the Election Commission’.The six-year tenure is an ideal. However, strict adherence to the same would have introduced considerable problems. This being the position, the concept of a composite tenure has been arrived at. In other words, the separate term of six years, contemplated in Section 4 of the 1991 Act of six years each, has been understood as D been practically attained with the incumbent being selected and appointed in such a manner that the person appointed as an Election Commissioner can look forward to an approximate tenure of six years, even though not as Election Commissioner but as an Election Commissioner and as a Chief Election Commissioner. There is a database of serving/retired E Officers of the rank of Secretary to the Government of India/Chief Secretaries. The appointees are selected from the said database. The Minister of Law and Justice recommends a panel for the Prime Minister and the President from the database. Unless this Court considers non- adherence to Section 4 of the 1991 Act, as constituting a subversion of the independence of the Election Commission requiring redress thereof, F this Court need not consider the ‘aspirational propositions’ as a principle to occupy an ‘imagined vacuum’. The Reports relied upon by the petitioners are based on systems enshrined in other jurisdictions. It is significant that the Constituent Assembly, though conscious of other mechanisms, deliberately chose to adopt the method found in Article G 324(2). There is no identifiable wrong. There is no continuing wrong either.