In this court’s opinion, the guide, issued by the Ministry of Defence cannot be conclusive; as it does not show, what was the basis for the maximum attribution period of one year; and on the other hand, the prevailing guidelines of the national expert body indicated entirely diff erent, and nuanced seroprevalence periods, for diff erent kind of individuals. Therefore, this court holds that such a guide to military offi cers cannot be accepted, at least in this case, to reject the petitioner’s claim. 66. A review of the evidence and the materials on record reveals that the appellant was transfused with one unit of blood on 10 July 2002, at the advice of Lt. Col. Devika Bhat, who also deposed during the CoI proceedings. There is no indication in her deposition that the appellant was informed of the likely consequences- or even reasonable likelihood or the possibility of contamination or infection due to the transfusion. Likewise, he was not informed about any potential risks. By all accounts, the appellant really had no choice because the transfusion took place under medical advice. At some stage, the respondents argued that if the appellant so wished, he could have opted not to go in for transfusion. That is, in the realm of theory, no such alternative option is shown to have been made available to him, when in fact the transfusion did take place. (iii) The law on negligence 67. In India, medical negligence is said to have been established by an aggrieved plaintiff or complainant when it is shown that the doctor or medical professional was in want of, or did not fulfi l the standard of care required of her or him, as such professional, reasonably skilled with the science available at the relevant time. In other words, a doctor is not negligent if what he has done would be endorsed by a responsible body of medical opinion in the relevant speciality at the material time. This test is known as the Bolam test54 and has gained widespread acceptance and application 54 So called, due to the case: Bolam v Friern Hospital Management Committee 1957(2) All.ER 118. 642 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. in Indian jurisprudence. It fi nds resonance in several decisions. Recently, in Arun Kumar Mangalik v Chirayu Health and Medicare Ltd.55, this court outlined that though Bolam has been the bulwark principle in deciding medical (and professional negligence) cases, it must adapt and be in tune with the pronouncements relating to Article 21 of the Constitution and the right to health in general: “41. Our law must take into account advances in medical science and ensure that a patient-centric approach is adopted. The standard of care as enunciated in the Bolam case must evolve in consonance with its subsequent interpretation by English and Indian Courts. [..]” 68. In United Kingdom itself, the duty of care has evolved beyond the Bolam approach; in Sidaway v Board of Governors of the Bethlem Royal Hospital & the Maudsley Hospital56 and more signifi cantly, in Montgomery v Lanarkshire Health Board57 (the latter decision drawing upon the reasoning of the Australian High Court in Rogers v Whittaker58), the UK Supreme Court outlined the duty of a doctor, surgeon or physician, and address the right of a patient as follows: “An adult person of sound mind is entitled to decide which, if any, of the available forms of treatment to undergo, and her consent must be obtained before treatment interfering with her bodily integrity is undertaken.