The change in the REC Regulations 2010, whereby the Explanation E to Regulation 5 was amended resulted in a change. The pre-existing clause that the power would be “at a price not exceeding pooled cost of the power purchase”was altered to “at the pooled cost of power purchase”. This change, was through the Second Amendment (to the REC Regulations), carried out on 10.07.2013. It is a matter of record, that for the period between 29.03.2102 and 10.07.2013 - and indeed, F after the Second Amendment, no difficulty was experienced in the pricing mechanism agreed by the parties, under the PPA. It was on 10.12.2013 that the respondent WPD approached the state commission for re- determination of tariff. Clearly, this was an opportunistic attempt to derive advantage from the change, brought about by the Second Amendment, G and seek to have it applied to an existing contract, which cannot be countenanced. In view of these reasons, it is held that the reasoning of APTEL, and the State Commission cannot be upheld. Applicability of the Second Amendment to pre-existing contracts- the general law H GUJARAT URJA VIKAS NIGAM LIMITED v. RENEW WIND 711 ENERGY (RAJKOT) PVT. LTD. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 60. Power Purchase Agreements are essentially not statutory A contracts; however, certain terms contained in those contracts, are regulated by law, i.e. applicable regulations, under the Act. The PPA between a generating company or, as in this case, a wind generator, and a distribution licensee, such as Gujarat Urja, is the outcome of a carefully considered decision, whereby the parties, after due deliberations and B negotiations, agree on terms, which are based on existing law and regulations. Aside from contending that the PPA had to be approved, (which this court has rejected in a previous part of this ) but was not, the respondents also urge, independently, that the Second Amendment had necessitated re-visiting of the terms of the PPA, relating to the payment of average pooled power purchase cost, given that the C amendment mandated that the power would be at the pooled power purchase cost, as opposed to the previous provision, which stated that the cost would not exceed the pooled power purchase cost. 61. Regulation 1 (2) of the Second Amendment clearly provides that the amendments were to come into force from the date of their D publication in the Official Gazette, which is 10th July, 2013. Furthermore, the Statement of Reasons, accompanying the Second Amendment, clarified that existing PPAs were not affected: “Some of the stakeholders have suggested to clarify as to whether the PPAs executed at price lower than APPC would E become ineligible under REC Mechanism. It is felt that the tariff for electricity component lower or higher than APPC may lead to avoidable loss or profit to RE generator. The Commission would like to clarify that the intention is not to debar the projects that have executed PPA at tariff lower than F APPC. This amendment will apply prospectively and as such will not affect the already executed PPAs at lower than APPC.” 62.