The High Court, while accepting the grievances, issued a slew of directions in the impugned and . The challenge to the of the High Court is confined to direction (i) which is extracted D below: “i. Multiplexes/Cinema Halls Owners of the State of J&K are directed not to prohibit cinema goers/viewers henceforth from carrying his/her own food articles and water inside the theatre.” 7. Mr K V Viswanathan, senior counsel, appearing with Mr E Niranjan Reddy, senior counsel and Mr Sumeer Sodhi, on behalf of the appellants submitted that: a. The precincts of a cinema hall constitute private property into which admission is reserved by the owner of the theatre; F b. The 1975 Rules which have been framed by the State Government do not provide that the movie goer should be allowed to bring eatables or beverages from outside into the precincts of the cinema hall; c. There is no compulsion on any person either to visit the theatre or to purchase food within the precincts of the theatre G once they have bought a ticket to view a movie; d. As regards the sale of drinking water, cinema halls make adequate provisions to ensure that hygienic drinking water is made available free of cost within the precincts of the H 580 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A movie theatre for movie goers so that they are not compelled to pay for packaged drinking water; e. As a matter of practice, the prohibition of bringing food or beverages from outside the hall is not enforced in the case of infants and babies, for whom the parents or B accompanying guardians are allowed to bring a reasonable quantity of food or beverages which may be required for the duration of their visit to the theatre; and f. The cinema tickets issued by the appellant theatre in Civil Appeal No. 78 of 2023 to the movie goers stipulate that C eatables from outside as well as bottles (empty or filled) are not allowed inside the cinema hall. The tickets also mention that the cinema reserves the right of admission. 8. On the other hand, Mr Bimal Roy Jad, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the original petitioners before the High Court (Respondents No. 3 and 4 in these proceedings), submitted that: D a. The cinema ticket which is issued by the cinema hall represents a contract with the movie goer and in the absence of any prohibition on the printed terms of the ticket, a movie goer cannot be prevented from bringing eatables or beverages inside the theatre; E b. As a consequence of the prohibition which is imposed by the cinema hall, the movie goers are placed at a substantial inconvenience since they are required to purchase food and beverages at exorbitant rates within the movie halls; and F c. The 1975 Rules do not contain any prohibition on bringing food or beverages from outside within the precincts of the cinema halls. B. Cases relied upon by the respondents 9.