Despite these powers of recommendation being available and despite being conscious of the availability of the power, the Constituent Assembly chose not to do any of this and was dissolved. b. Once the State Constituent Assembly ceased to exist, the proviso to Article 370(3) itself ceases to exist and the President becomes the sole repository of powers under Article 370(3). He has a duty to exercise this power in the interests of the residents of the State even in the absence of a recommendation. 115 Written Submissions of Mr. Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India 54 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 48. The petitioners’ assertion that the decision to abrogate Article 370 was taken purely by executive feat is incorrect. The process followed clearly refl ects the participation of the entire nation through their chosen representatives both in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha.116 49. If the President cannot exercise the powers under Article 370(3), it would mean that the existence and exercise of power of the President of India provided for in the Indian Constitution is dependent upon a decision or a lack of it by a body outside the Constitution of India.117 50. If the mere absence of the Constituent Assembly mentioned in the proviso to clause 3 of Article 370 is treated as rendering the power of the President of India nugatory and redundant, it would mean that under Article 370(1)(b) and 370(1)(d), any provision of the Constitution of India can be amended and applied to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Even the provisions which are part of the basic structure of the Constitution can be modifi ed and applied to Jammu and Kashmir or even stultifi ed and eradicated in its application to Jammu and Kashmir – as has happened in the past. This interpretation would amount to placing Article 370 above even the basic structure of the Constitution of India. 51. Even if the State Constituent Assembly was currently in existence, the limited role envisaged for it was to merely make a “recommendation”. Such a recommendation was not binding upon the President.118 52. Considering the limited role that the State Constituent Assembly was to play, its replacement with the “Legislative Assembly” and the recommendation by Parliament in place of the State Legislative Assembly passes muster. Parliament is not an undemocratic body and along with the Council of States, it represents federal aspirations.119 53. Parliament is the repository of the democratic will of the entire nation and in a situation which concerns the relationship of one federal unit with other federal units, the apt constitutional authority to exercise 116 Written Submissions of Mr. Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India 117 Written Submissions of Mr. Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India 118 Written Submissions of Mr. Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India 119 Written Submissions of Mr. Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 55 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] democratic powers as per the Constitution would be Parliament.