The contesting respondent participated in the auction well and truly aware of the risk of having 25% of the sale price forfeited in case of any default or failure on his part to make payment of the balance amount of the sale price. Question of the Bank being enriched by a forfeiture, which is in the nature of a F statutory penalty, does not and cannot therefore arise in the circumstances. 36. TheHigh Court, in our considered opinion, failed to bear in mind the settled principle of law that the power of judicial review of a writ court will not be permitted to be invoked to protect private interest at the cost of public interest, or to decide contractual disputes, unless a G clear-cut case of arbitrariness or mala fides or bias or irrationality is made out. On the pleadings, this was not one such case where the High Court should have interfered. 37. The question under consideration can also be addressed from a different perspective. In the present case, the Authorized Officer had H 8 (2011) 8 SCC 161 AUTHORISED OFFICER STATE BANK OF INDIA v. 1091 C. NATARAJAN & ANR. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] adhered to the statutory rules. If by such adherence any amount is A required to be forfeited as a consequence, the same cannot be scrutinized wearing the glasses of misplaced sympathy. Law is well settled that a result flowing from a statutory provision is never an evil and that a court has no power to ignore that provision to relieve what it considers a distress resulting from its operation. The statute must, of course, be given effect B to whether a court likes the result or not. This is the statement of law in the decision of this Court in Martin Burn Ltd vs The Corporation of Calcutta9. 38. There being no enrichment of the Bank by reason of the impugned forfeiture, based on our reading of the aforesaid decisions, we C answer the second question by holding that the High Court was not justified in exercising writ jurisdiction and directing a refund of 25% of the sale price. 39. One of the points raised by counsel for the Authorized Officer is that the writ petition of the contesting respondent was not maintainable having regard to the alternative remedy available to him under section D 17(1) of the SARFAESI Act. The objection to the maintainability of the writ petition has substance; but since we have examined the questions arising for decision on its merits, relegating the contesting respondent to the forum under section 17(1) of the SARFAESI Act would serve no useful purpose. E 40. For the reasons aforesaid, the impugned and of the High Court stands set aside and the civil appeal stands allowed. Parties shall, however, bear their own costs. F Nidhi Jain Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Tamana, LCRA) G 9 (1966) 1 SCR 543 H