No universal rule can be laid in respect of such questions.” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 33. Profi table reference can next be made to the decision in Chandra Deo Singh (supra), where a Bench of 4 (four) Hon’ble Judges had the occasion to consider a challenge to a of the High Court at Calcutta. There, this Court was presented with a circumstance where two complaints alleging murder of a darwan were lodged before the Sub-Divisional Magistrate. The fi rst complaint was lodged by a distant relative of the deceased accusing three persons of murder whereas the second complaint was lodged by the appellant accusing the respondent no.1 of murdering his uncle. By separate s, the Sub-Divisional Magistrate directed a 244 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Magistrate, First Class, to conduct judicial inquiry. Separate reports were submitted by the Magistrate, First Class. In his fi rst report, he opined that a prima facie case to proceed against the three accused persons had been made out whereas, in his second report, he opined that no prima facie case to proceed against the fi rst respondent had been made out. The Sub- Divisional Magistrate, perusing the second report, dismissed the complaint of the appellant against the respondent no.1 without assigning any reason. The Sub-Divisional Magistrate, however, issued summons against the three other accused. Thereafter, the appellant approached the Sessions Judge with a revision who, after hearing the respondent no.1, directed the Sub-Divisional Magistrate to make a further inquiry against him. Thence, the respondent no.1 preferred a revision application before the High Court challenging the direction of the Sessions Judge. The same was allowed by a Single Judge of the High Court and upon grant of certifi cate under Article 134(1)(c) of the Constitution, the matter was carried to this Court. It was held that upon a fi nding of a prima facie case, the Magistrate was bound to issue process despite the charged person having a defence. Further, it was held that the matter was to be decided by an appropriate forum at the appropriate stage, and issuance of process could not be refused. 33.1 We consider it appropriate to quote certain pertinent observations from such decision, hereinbelow: “7. ***, it seems to us clear from the entire scheme of Chapter XVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure that an accused person does not come into the picture at all till process is issued. This does not mean that he is precluded from being present when an enquiry is held by a Magistrate. He may remain present either in person or through a counsel or agent with a view to be informed of what is going on. But since the very question for consideration being whether he should be called upon to face an accusation, he has no right to take part in the proceedings nor has the Magistrate any jurisdiction to permit him to do so. It would follow from this, therefore, that it would not be open to the Magistrate to put any question to witnesses at the instance of the person named as accused but against whom process has not been issued; nor can he examine any witnesses at the instance of such a person.