This presumption, in my view, has not been dislodged by the plaintiff , as there is no specifi c plea in respect of: (a) lack of power/authority of the person issuing the notifi cation; and (b) the procedure prescribed being not followed in its entirety. No doubt, there is a plea that notice as contemplated under sub-section (2) of Section 52 of URBAN IMPROVEMENT TRUST, BIKANER v. GORDHAN 569 DASS (D) THROUGH LRS. [MANOJ MISRA, J.] the 1959 Act was not served upon the plaintiff prior to the notifi cation but there is no plea that no notice at all was issued to and served on any of the persons recorded as owners in the record of rights. Therefore, once it is established that the plaintiff was not recorded as the owner in the record of rights on the date of issuance of the notifi cation for acquisition of the land, taking into account the law laid down in Ahuja Industries (supra), I’m of the view that mere non-service of notice, under Section 52 (2) of the 1959 Act, upon non-recorded owner, such as the plaintiff , would not render the acquisition notifi cation under Section 52(1) void. Thus, the Civil Court could not have treated the notifi cation under Section 52 (1) of the 1959 Act as void. Issue no. (i) is decided accordingly. Issue No. (ii) – Whether in respect of the land covered by acquisition notifi cation, the suit of the plaintiff for injunction simpliciter, without seeking a declaration and, that too, without impleading the State as defendant, maintainable? 52. As I have held that the acquisition notifi cation could not have been disregarded as void, the question that would now arise for consideration is whether the suit of the plaintiff for injunction simpliciter, without seeking a declaratory relief, would be maintainable in a Civil Court. 53. At this stage, at the cost of repetition, it may be observed that initially the suit was instituted for injunction to restrain the Trust (i.e., the defendant no.1- appellant) from taking possession of the land without following due process of law. When, in the written statement, the appellant took a specifi c plea that the land had already been acquired and compensation was paid, the plaint was amended stating therein that during pendency of the suit possession was taken and, therefore, a direction be issued upon the Trust to restore possession. Despite knowledge of appellant’s case that land has been acquired, no declaratory relief, either to declare the notifi cation invalid or to declare plaintiff as the owner, was sought, despite the legal position that under sub-section (4) of Section 52 of the 1959 from the date of publication of notifi cation under sub-section (1) of Section 52 of the 1959 Act the land would vest in the State free from all encumbrances. 570 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 54. In Anathula Sudhakar v. P. Buchi Reddy24, this Court had the occasion to lay down general principles as to when a mere suit for permanent injunction will lie, and when it is necessary to fi le a suit for declaration and/ or possession with injunction as a consequential relief.