No. 3, i.e. publications. We are also increasing the scope of this category. D 31. The first aspect to be noticed under this head is that of reported and unreported s. We deem it fit to clarify that it is not s (not laying down any proposition of law) but s that have to be considered. We say so as s ordinarily deal with significant and contested legal issues. E 32. Here, we ought to also consider the role played by the advocate in the proceedings. In recent times, and particularly in the Supreme Court, the number of advocates present for a matter are very high. However, that is not ipso facto reflective of the assistance that they are providing to the Court. A matter may be argued by a counsel who may be assisted by others, including an Advocate-on-Record. Thus, an assessment would F have to be carried out in enquiring into the role played by the advocate in the matter they have appeared in with their role specified by them in their application. Merely looking into the number of appearances would not be enough. 33. We believe that this would also take care of any perceived G disadvantages arising due to the larger number of appearances by Government counsel, as compared to counsel who are engaged in private work. 34. One suggestion that we are inclined to accept is that while analyzing the role of lawyers, the quality of the synopses filed in Court H MS. INDIRA JAISING v. SUPREME COURT OF INDIA, 443 THROUGH SECRETARY GENERAL [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] ought to be considered. Synopses can be a useful indicator for assessing A the assistance rendered by an advocate to the Court. Candidates should thus be permitted to submit five of their best synopses for evaluation with their applications. 35. Now turning to another aspect under this head, it may be noticed that many specialized tribunals have been set up, and several B advocates have concentrated their practice before such tribunals. The specialized tribunals are the National Company Law Tribunal, Appellate Tribunal for Electricity, Appellate Tribunal under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal, Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission, etc. This has led to C the opening up of various specializations, including but not limited to arbitration, telecom, electricity, energy, competition, insolvency, and white- collar crime. 36. Often appeals from those tribunals lie to this Court and, thus, such advocates also appear before this Court, although the frequency of D their appearances may be less. Specialised lawyers with domain expertise should be permitted to concentrate on their fields and not be deprived of the opportunity of being designated as Senior Advocates. Thus, in the case of such advocates, a concession is required to be given with regards to the number of appearances. This category of advocates and their expertise is also essential for the advancement of all specialized fields of E law. 37. We also believe that due consideration should be given in the interest of diversity, particularly with respect to gender and first-generation lawyers.