The balance of convenience is in favour of the respondents/defendants, who want to run the party democratically and face the primary members to be elected as the Party General Secretary. If the prayer of the injunction G acceded, it will cause irreparable loss to the respondents. 77. This Court, while considering the prayer for injunction, bound to apply the triple test, namely, prima facie case, balance of convenience and irreparable injury. Undoubtedly, if injunction is not granted, Thiru.Edappadi K.Palaniswami, who convened the H 1144 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A General Council meeting contrary to the written provisions of the Party Constitution will be in a more convenient position, since after the impugned meeting, the plaintiffs/applicants and few others are removed from the Party Primary Membership. They cannot even participate/contest in the proposed General Secretary Election. B 78. The balance of convenience in the given contest must be tested from the arm chair of the Primary Members who are the foundation of the Party and not from the Leaders point of view. The plea made by the respondents/defendants that the majority of the primary members in the Party feel that dual leadership causes C inconvenience in the administration of the Party and they cry for Single Leadership is not based on any quantifiable data. Particularly, when the very same dual leadership were able to run the Government as Chief Minister and the Deputy Chief Minister for nearly 4½years successfully amist (sic) various speculation D and administering the Party as Joint Co-ordinator and Co-ordinator for nearly 5 years. During this period they together decided the electoral alliance, they jointly selected candidates for Elections held at all levels and fought several elections. While so, how suddenly between 20.06.2022 and 01.07.2022, the Party with more than 1 ½ crores of cadre strength decided for change the existing E dispensation through 2500 old General Council Members and whether, the views of abext (sic) 2500 members really reflects the view of 1½ crores primary members are questions need to be examined and be tested. As per the party Constitution, amendments can be made, but it should be by alone following due process. It is F for the members of the Party to decide about Leadership and the Court cannot interfere in their decision, but if there is patent violation of the process, there is no bar to seek remedy through Court. 79. This Court has no doubt in its mind that notice dated 01.07.2022 G calling for General Council meeting for on 11.07.2022 by a person who is not authorised to call for meeting is void ab initio. If the consequence of the void meeting allowed to sustain, it will cause inconvenience to the Party cadres, who will be uncertain about their Leadership. From the typed set of documents, this Court take notice of the fact that due to the dispute between these two H THIRU K. PALANISWAMY v. M. SHANMUGAM & ORS. 1145 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] Leaders, in the local body election held recently, the party men at A the grass root those who contested the election were not able to get the recognised Election Symbol ‘two leaves’.