Sports Offi cer was not expected to conduct classes within the four walls of the College, as in the case of a Professor/Associate Professor/Assistant Professor, would not by itself make him ineligible for being treated as a teacher for all practical purposes inasmuch as most sports require training in open spaces/fi elds/courts etc. 9. The reliance placed by the Division Bench of the High Court on the decision of a three-Judges Bench in the case of State of Madhya Pradesh and Others v. Ramesh Chandra Bajpai11, wherein though reference was made to the decision of P.S. Ramamohana Rao (supra), it was held that the proposition laid down in the said case should not have been automatically extended to other cases and the whole issue would depend on the nature of Rules under which an employee is governed, is in our opinion, misplaced. Laying emphasis on the aforesaid observations made in the last para of the Ramesh Chandra Bajpai’s case (supra), the impugned records that the defi nition of a “teacher” under the M.P. Government Service Rules cannot be imported into Statute 32 to give it a liberal interpretation so as to include a Sports Offi cer as a teacher. 10. The relevant provisions of the Act and the Statute governing the instant case have been extracted above and juxtaposed with the provisions of the A.P. Act and having gone through the relevant Regulations, there is no manner of doubt that the defi nition of the word “teacher” under the J.N.K.V.V. Act corresponds with the defi nition of “teacher” under the A.P. Act, which was the subject matter of consideration in P.S. Ramamohana Rao (supra). We are therefore of the opinion that the Division Bench of the High Court had no reason to rely on the observations made in the case of Ramesh Chandra Bajpai (supra) where the fact situation was entirely diff erent. In the said case, this Court was required to decide as to whether the private respondent therein who was working as a Physical Training Instructor in the Government Ayurvedic College, Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh could claim parity of pay with teachers who had been granted UGC scale of pay. The view expressed was that the doctrine of “equal pay for equal work” can only be invoked when employees are similarly situated and there is wholesale identity between holders of the two posts. This Court did not fi nd any substance in the plea taken by the respondent therein that 11 (2009) 13 SCC 635 968 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. the decision in the case of P.S. Ramamohana Rao (supra) would have any application to the facts of the said case and observed that the said decision had been misapplied and misconstrued by the High Court to give benefi t to the private respondent. 11. In the case at hand, a comparison of the fact situation and the provisions of the relevant Act and Regulations with those analysed in the case of P.S. Ramamohana Rao (supra), would show clear parity.