A “11. This Court has repeatedly stressed the importance of pleadings in an election petition and pointed out the difference between ‘material facts’ and ‘material particulars’. While the failure to plead material facts is fatal to the election petition and no amendment of the pleading could be allowed to introduce such material facts after the time-limit prescribed for filing the B election petition, the absence of material particulars can be cured at a later stage by an appropriate amendment.” 53. In Udhav Singh case [(1977) 1 SCC 511] this Court observed as under: (SCC pp. 522-23, para 41) C “41. Like the Code of Civil Procedure, this section also envisages a distinction between ‘material facts’ and ‘material particulars’. Clause (a) of sub-section (1) corresponds to 6 Rule 2, while clause (b) is analogous to 6 Rules 4 and 6 of the Code. The distinction between ‘material facts’ and ‘material particulars’ is important because D different consequences may flow from a deficiency of such facts or particulars in the pleading. Failure to plead even a single material fact leads to an incomplete cause of action and incomplete allegations of such a charge are liable to be struck off under 6 Rule 16, Code of Civil Procedure. If E the petition is based solely on those allegations which suffer from lack of material facts, the petition is liable to be summarily rejected for want of a cause of action. In the case of a petition suffering from a deficiency of material particulars, the court has a discretion to allow the petitioner to supply the required particulars even after the expiry of limitation.” F 54. In H.D. Revanna case [(1999) 2 SCC 217] the appeal was filed by the candidate who had succeeded in the election and whose application for dismissal of the election petition in limine was rejected by the High Court. This Court noticed that it has been laid down by this Court that non-compliance with the G provisions of Section 83 may lead to dismissal of the petition if the matter falls within the scope of 6 Rule 16 and 7 Rule 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure. In Harmohinder Singh Pradhan v. Ranjeet Singh Talwandi [(2005) 5 SCC 46] this Court observed thus: (SCC p. 51, para 14) H KANIMOZHI KARUNANIDHI v. A. SANTHANA KUMAR 819 [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] “14. Necessary averment of facts constituting an appeal on A the ground of ‘his religion’ to vote or to refrain from voting would be material facts within the meaning of clause (a) of sub-section (1) of Section 83 of the Act. If such material facts are missing, they cannot be supplied later on, after the expiry of period of limitation for filing the election petition and the B plea being deficient, can be directed to be struck down under 6 Rule 16 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 and if such plea be the sole ground of filing an election petition, the petition itself can be rejected as not disclosing a cause of action under clause (a) of Rule 11, 7 of the Code.” C 55.