[…] The state must discard the colonial notion that it is a sovereign handing out doles at its will. Its policies give rise to legitimate expectations that the state will act according to what it puts forth in the public realm. In all its actions, the State is bound to act fairly, in a transparent manner. This is an elementary requirement of the guarantee against arbitrary state action which Article 14 of the Constitution adopts. A deprivation of the entitlement of private citizens and private business must be proportional to a requirement grounded in public interest.” 696 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 36. The doctrine of legitimate expectation does not impede or hinder the power of the public authorities to lay down a policy or withdraw it. The public authority has the discretion to exercise the full range of choices available within its executive power. The public authority often has to take into consideration diverse factors, concerns, and interests before arriving at a particular policy decision. The courts are generally cautious in interfering with a bona fi de decision of public authorities which denies a legitimate expectation provided such a decision is taken in the larger public interest. Thus, public interest serves as a limitation on the application of the doctrine of legitimate expectation. Courts have to determine whether the public interest is compelling and suffi cient to outweigh the legitimate expectation of the claimant. While performing a balancing exercise, courts have to often grapple with the issues of burden and standard of proof required to dislodge the claim of legitimate expectation. 37. In Paponette v. Attorney General of Trinidad and Tobago,27 the Privy Council held that a claimant only has to prove the legitimacy of their expectation. In this regard, the claimant must establish that the expectation is based on an existing promise or practice. Once the claimant establishes their legitimate expectation, the onus shifts to the authority to justify the frustration of the expectation by identifying any overriding public interest. This Court has been applying similar burden requirements in cases of legitimate expectation.28 38. The principle of fairness in action requires that public authorities be held accountable for their representations, since the state has a profound impact on the lives of citizens. Good administration requires public authorities to act in a predicable manner and honor the promises made or practices established unless there is a good reason not to do so. In Nadarajah (supra), Laws LJ held that the public authority should objectively justify that there is an overriding public interest in denying a legitimate expectation. We are of the opinion that for a public authority to frustrate a claim of legitimate expectation, it must objectively demonstrate by placing relevant material 27 [2012] 1 AC 1 28 Union of India v. Hindustan Development Corp, (1993) 3 SCC 499; State of Jharkhand v. Brahmputra Metallics, 2020 SCC OnLine SC 968; State of Bihar v. Shyama Nandan Mishra, 2022 SCC OnLine SC 554 SIVANANDAN C T AND OTHERS v. HIGH COURT OF KERALA AND 697 OTHERS [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] before the court that its decision was in the public interest.