Further testimonies of PW-1 to PW-4 vis-à-vis their statements under Section 161 Code of Criminal Procedure, 19733 are quite inconsistent. C D. It is a clear case of false implication at the hands of the police inasmuch as: i. The police were present throughout the incident, which presence has not been explained. ii. The FIR is written by one Md. Majid Sikdar whose evidence D is not only not recorded in the police case diary but also not produced through trial to prove the report. iii. The first informant has clearly stated that she did not know the contents of the FIR as the same was not read out to her and that she had only put her signatures where she was E told to. 9. On the other hand, learned counsel for the State-Respondent submitted that both the Courts below i.e.the Trial Judge as well as the High Court, after considering the material evidence on record, have recorded concurrent findings on conviction and as such the same would F not require any interference by this Court. 10. Before proceeding with the analysis of the evidence led by the prosecution, the deposition of each of the seven witnesses is briefly recorded hereunder: 10.1 The first informant PW-1 opens her statement by stating G that she knows the accused persons by name and face.She further states that she knows the accused persons present in the dock on the day of her statement; the two absconded accused Dhajen and Muhiram are not present; she then reiterates the contents of the FIR; while Robi 3 CrPC H PULEN PHUKAN & ORS. v. THE STATE OF ASSAM 625 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] Phukan (PW 2) was being assaulted, the deceased fled by the back A court yard; the accused persons chased the deceased who entered into the house of Anjana Phukan (PW4); she followed the accused persons who also entered into the house of Anjana Phukan (PW4); that Kuleswar assaulted the deceased with iron rod and Pulen Phukan gave a blow on the neck of the deceased, as a result of which he fell down. The accused B thereafter left that place. She then states that while the accused persons were taken to the Police Station she along with Jogmaya Phukan (PW- 3) came to the Police Station where the FIR was written and she put her thumb impression; sheproves her thumb impression on the FIR which is marked as Ex.-1;thereafter she proceeds for the Mission Hospital where the body of the deceased had reached. In her cross-examination she C states that Chabua Police Station is about 3 kms. away from her house; she reached the Police Station at about 3-4 PM; she did not read Ex.-1 which was written in the Police Station and only her signatures were obtained thereon;it was also not read over to her;she does not know what is written in it; the police did not question her. Then she denies the D suggestion about the assault being incorrect. Lastly she states that on the date of occurrence, the police were accompanying the accused.