2 on their own free will and volition. It is only after reaching the house of the appellant No. 2 that the entire incident is alleged to have occurred. We should be mindful of the fact that we are dealing with provisions of a criminal statute, like the IPC. The provisions of any criminal statute are to be construed and interpreted strictly. 19. The general rule governing the interpretation of penal statute is that it must be strictly construed. Strict interpretation in the words of Crawford connotes:- “If a statute is to be strictly construed, nothing should be included within its scope that does not come clearly within the meaning of the language used. Its language must be given exact and technical meaning with no 338 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. extension on account of implications or equitable considerations; or has been aptly asserted, its operation must be confi ned to cases coming clearly within the letter of the statute as well as within its spirit and reason. Or stated perhaps more concisely, it is close and conservative adherence to the literal or textual interpretation.” 20. According to Sutherland, by the rule of strict construction it is not meant that the statute shall be stringently or narrowly construed but it means that everything shall be excluded from its operation which does not clearly come within the scope of the language used. 21. When it is said that all penal statutes are to be construed strictly, it only means that the Court must see that the thing charged is an off ence within the plain meaning of the words used and must not strain the words. 22. In the circumstances referred to above, we have reached the conclusion that Section 395 of the IPC is not applicable to the case on hand. SECTIONS 503, 504 AND 506 OF THE IPC 23. Chapter XXII of the IPC relates to Criminal Intimidation, Insult and Annoyance. Section 503 reads thus:- “Section 503. Criminal intimidation. — Whoever threatens another with any injury to his person, reputation or property, or to the person or reputation of any one in whom that person is interested, with intent to cause alarm to that person, or to cause that person to do any act which he is not legally bound to do, or to omit to do any act which that person is legally entitled to do, as the means of avoiding the execution of such threat, commits criminal intimidation. Explanation.—A threat to injure the reputation of any deceased person in whom the person threatened is interested, is within this section. Illustration A, for the purpose of inducing B to resist from prosecuting a civil suit, threatens to burn B’s house. A is guilty of criminal intimidation.” Section 504 reads thus:- “Section 504. Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace.— Whoever intentionally insults, and thereby gives MOHAMMAD WAJID AND ANR. v. STATE OF U.P. 339 AND ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] provocation to any person, intending or knowing it to be likely that such provocation will cause him to break the public peace, or to commit any other off ence, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fi ne, or with both.” Section 506 reads thus:- “Section 506.