The subsequent notice dated 04.08.2022 given by the respondent High Court requiring the candidates belonging to OBC/MBC(NCL) to produce the certificates issued not prior to one year from the last date fixed H SAKSHI ARHA v. THE RAJASTHAN HIGH COURT AND 589 OTHERS for the submission of application form i.e., 31.08.2021, was A absolutely in consonance with the said circulars issued by the State Government. It was also mentioned in the said notice dated 04.08.2022 that in case the OBC/MBC(NCL) certificate was issued between 31.08.2018 and 30.08.2020, an affidavit in prescribed format along with the caste certificate had to be B produced. For the EWS category, it was stated that the Income and Asset certificate required for seeking reservation in EWS category must not have been issued prior to 01.04.2021 and in case the Income and Asset certificate was issued between 01.04.2019 and 31.03.2021, then an affidavit in the prescribed format along with the certificate had to be produced. It was C specifically mentioned therein that SC/ST/OBC/MBC/EWS certificate, as the case may be, must not have been issued after the last date of submission of the application form i.e., 31.08.2021. Such instructions requiring the reserved category candidates to produce the requisite certificates could neither be said to be D unreasonable nor could be construed as changing the rules of game after selection process was started, they being in consonance with the important instructions given in the advertisement dated 22.07.2021, and in consonance with the circulars issued by the State Government with regard to the validity period of caste certificates. [Para 24][631-B-H; 632-A] E 5. It is needless to say that when a candidate applies under a particular reserved category, he or she is required to have the certificate of that particular category on the date on which he or she makes the application to show his or her eligibility to apply under the said category. If such certificates are obtained F subsequent to date of their application or subsequent to the last date of submission of the applications mentioned in the advertisement, such certificates could not be said to be valid certificates, more particularly in cases where the candidate applies under OBC-NCL or EWS, which category is highly dynamic and G not static, as the economic status of the candidate would keep on changing depending on the income of the candidate. [Para 25][632- B-C] 6. It is no more res integra that in absence of a fixed date indicated in the advertisement inviting applications, with reference H 590 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A to which the requisite eligibility is to be judged, and when the rules are silent, the only certain date for the scrutiny of the eligibility of a candidate would be the last date for making the applications. It cannot be gain said that the date of interview or selection would always be uncertain and the uncertainty of the date may lead to an anomalous situation in as much as even those B candidates who were not eligible to apply under the reserved category on the date of making application, may apply under the reserved category and subsequently obtain the certificate by the time the interviews are held.