790 SUPREME CO[U2R02T3 ]R 3E PSO.CR.RT.S 790 [2023] 3 S.C.R. A VIRENDRASING v. THE ADDITIONAL COMMISSIONER AND ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 1715 of 2023) B APRIL 17, 2023 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH AND ARAVIND KUMAR, JJ.] Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961 : ss. 16(1)(i), 40 – Disqualification – Appellant elected as a C member of the Zilla Parishad – Petition by respondent no.3 u/ss. 40 and 16(1)(i) claiming appellant’s disqualification on the ground that the appellant had misused his elected post for gaining undue personal financial benefit whereby in E-tender floated for the project, work was issued in favour of the appellant’s son – D Application allowed by Divisional Commissioner – Writ petition thereagainst dismissed by the High Court – On appeal, held :Salutory purpose of disqualification provisions was to ensure the purity of administration in Municipal Committee – On facts, it was not even a situation where the appellant’s son was carrying on any existing contractual work – It was only soon after the election of E the appellant that his son was registered as a contractor – Only contract awarded to him was the one where the funds flowed to the Gram Panchayat from the Zilla Parishad of which the appellant was a member – Moreover, issuance of the work by the Zilla Parishad itself shows the Zilla Parishad’s supervisory and F sanctioning role in the contract, which falls within the wide ambit of s. 16(1)(i) – Probity in such financial transactions should be the rule rather than the exception – Appellant had a greater responsibility as a father to make sure that his son does not enter into a contract that is sanctioned by the Zilla Parishad itself – passed by the High Court is upheld – Consequential disqualification G would take effect from the date of the . Dismissing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 The objective of the Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961 is to introduce local self- H governance and administration at the grassroots, and to entrust 790 VIRENDRASING v. THE ADDITIONAL COMMISSIONER AND 791 ORS. Zilla Parishads with the execution of works and developmental A schemes of the State Government. It is in this conspectus that the said Act provides for the disqualification of elected representatives. Having been conferred with major financial responsibilities, the statute maintains a system of checks and balances to ensure transparency in local contracts and to obviate B the possibility of elected representatives exercising undue influence. It is no doubt true that elected representatives should not be disqualified on flimsy grounds. However, the statutory mandate is equally binding, whereby activities which tend to defeat the objective of transparency should not be permitted to prevail. [Para 15][799-C-D] C 1.2 The legislature in its wisdom has defined the grounds for disqualification in expansive terms under Section 16(1)(i) of the Act. Thus, the use of the terminology - ‘directly or indirectly’, ‘by himself or by his partner’, ‘any share or interest in any work done’, ‘by of Zilla Parishad or in any contract with’, and ‘by D or on behalf of the Zilla Parishad’.