It is submitted that even vast tract of lands belonging to the State Government including Gochar lands, on the basis E of requisition made for Vedanta Company, had been de-reserved and divested from the purpose for which it was reserved and had been made available for grant in favour of the beneficiary company by way of lease. It is submitted that even the proper procedure has not been followed for grant of lease. F 5.27 It is further submitted that even the subsequent conversion of a private company to public company was mala fide action/act. It is submitted that the entire exercise was hurriedly done to convert the appellant company from private to purportedly public company after it was already decided to acquire land for it and after the Law department G during acquisition proceedings observed and opined that the land may be acquired only for a public company and thereby hurriedly the Articles of Association and Memorandum of Association were changed in violation of the conditions of the license granted to the appellant company and without first informing the concerned authority of the change, which shows that the exercise was expressly taken up to defeat the object of H Part VII of Act, 1894. It is further submitted that currently the possession ANIL AGARWAL FOUNDATION ETC. ETC. v. STATE OF 997 ORISSA AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] of land is still with the landowners and most of whom are agriculturists A and their agricultural lands acquired are the only source of livelihood. It is submitted that in the present case, as submitted hereinabove, approximately 6000 families and 30,000 people are likely to be affected, if the land is taken away, then it will cause them great hardship which can never be compensated in monetary terms. B 5.28 Making above submissions, it is prayed to dismiss the present appeals. 6. Having heard the learned counsel for the respective parties and on going through the impugned and passed by the High Court, it appears that while quashing and setting aside the entire C land acquisition proceedings, the High Court had in fact identified 15 issues, which are as under:- Issues Issue No. 1 Whether the Anil Agarwal Foundation, The Beneficiary Company, is a public D company in terms of the definition under section 3(1)(IV) of the Companies Act, 1956 and can the private guarantee limited company be converted to public company under section 25 of the Companies Act? Issue No. 2 Whether the State Government can acquire the lands in question in favour of the beneficiary company in exercise of its eminent domain power for the purpose of establishment of the proposed Vedanta University (not in E existence) in view of Section 44-B of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894? Issue No. 3 Whether the State Government on the requisition of Vedanta Foundation could have initiated the acquisition proceedings in favour of the beneficiary company by issuing notifications under Section 4(1) of the LA Act without complying with the mandatory provisions of Section 39, 41 and 42 of the Land Acquisition Act read with Rules 3(2) and 4 of the Land Acquisition F (Companies) Rules, 1963?