May be, in a given case only copy of in previous suit is filed in proof of plea of res judicata and the B contains exhaustive or in requisite details the statement of pleadings and the issues which may be taken as enough proof. But as pointed out in Syed Mohd. Salie Labbai v. Mohd. Hanifa [(1976) 4 SCC 780] the basic method to decide the question of res judicata is first to determine the case of the parties as put forward in their respective pleadings of their previous suit and then to find out as C to what had been decided by the which operates as res judicata. It is risky to speculate about the pleadings merely by a summary of recitals of the allegations made in the pleadings mentioned in the . The Constitution Bench in Gurbux Singh v. Bhooralal [AIR 1964 SC 1810 : (1964) 7 SCR 831] D placing on a par the plea of res judicata and the plea of estoppel under 2 Rule 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure, held that proof of the plaint in the previous suit which is set to create the bar, ought to be brought on record. The plea is basically founded on the identity of the cause of action in the two suits and, therefore, it is necessary for the defence which raises the bar to establish E the cause of action in the previous suit. Such pleas cannot be left to be determined by mere speculation or inferring by a process of deduction what were the facts stated in the previous pleadings. Their Lordships of the Privy Council in Kali Krishna Tagore v. Secy. of State for India in Council [(1887-88) 15 IA 186 : ILR F 16 Cal 173] pointed out that the plea of res judicata cannot be determined without ascertaining what were the matters in issue in the previous suit and what was heard and decided. Needless to say, these can be found out only by looking into the pleadings, the issues and the in the previous suit.” G (Emphasis supplied) 27. This Court in the case of V. Rajeshwari (supra) observed that the rule of res judicata does not strike at the root of the jurisdiction of the Court trying the subsequent suit. It is a rule of estoppal based on the public policy of achieving finality to litigation. The plea of res judicata is founded on proof of certain facts and then applying the law to the H PREM KISHORE & ORS. v. BRAHM PRAKASH & ORS. 649 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] facts so found. It is, therefore, necessary that the foundation for the A belief must be laid in the pleadings and then the issue must be framed and tried. 28. At this stage, it would be necessary to refer to the decisions that particularly deal with the question whether res judicata can be the basis or ground for rejection of the plaint. In Kamala & others v. K.T. B Eshwara Sa, (2008) 12 SCC 661, the Trial Judge had allowed an application for rejection of the plaint in a suit for partition and this was affirmed by the High Court.