They connote different G things. Sometimes, if the consequence is so apparent, it may happen that from the knowledge, intent may be presumed. But it will not mean that ‘intent’ and ‘knowledge’ are the same. ‘Knowledge’ will be only one of the circumstances to be taken into consideration while determining or inferring the requisite intent. H ANBAZHAGAN v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY THE 1107 INSPECTOR OF POLICE [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 26. In the case In re Kudumula Mahanandi Reddi, AIR 1960 A AP 141, also the distinction between ‘knowledge’ and ‘intention’ is aptly explained. It is as under:- “Knowledge and intention must not be confused. 17. … Every person is presumed to intend the natural and B probable consequences of his act until the contrary is proved. It is therefore necessary in to arrive at a decision, as to an offender’s intention to inquire what the - natural and probable consequences of his acts would be. Once there is evidence that a deceased person, sustained injuries which were sufficient in the ordinary C course of nature to cause death, the person who inflicted them could be presumed to have intended those natural and probable consequences. His offence would fall under the third head of sec. 300, I.P.C. 18. … A man’s intention has to be inferred from what he D does. But there are cases in which death is caused and the intention which can safely be imputed to the offender is less grave. The degree of guilt depends upon intention and the intention to be inferred must be gathered from the facts proved. Sometimes an act is committed which would not in E an ordinary case inflict injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death, but which the - offender knows is likely to cause the death. Proof of such knowledge throws light upon his intention. 19. …Under sec. 299 there need be no proof of knowledge, that the bodily injury intended was likely to cause death. F Before deciding that a case of culpable homicide amounts to murder, there must be proof of intention sufficient to bring it under Sec.300. Where the injury deliberately inflicted is more than merely ‘likely to cause death’ but sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death, G the higher degree of guilt is presumed.” (Emphasis supplied) It has been further observed therein as under:- “26. …Where the evidence does not disclose that there was any intention, to cause death of the deceased but it was clear that the accused had the knowledge that their acts H 1108 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A were likely to cause death the accused can be held guilty under the second part of sec. 304, I.P.C. The contention that in to bring the case under the second part of sec. 304, I.P.C. it must be brought within one of the exceptions to sec 300, I.P.C. is not acceptable.” (Emphasis supplied) B 27. Thus, while defining the offence of culpable homicide and murder, the framers of the IPC laid down that the requisite intention or knowledge must be imputed to the accused when he committed the act which caused the death in to hold him guilty for the offence of culpable homicide or murder as the case may be.