A non-reasoned limits the power of the courts to exercise judicial review because the scope of judicial review is not limited to the final finding on law or facts but extends to the reasons to arrive at the finding. A limitation on the right to appeal necessarily means that the scope of D judicial review is restricted. Thirdly, articulation of reasons aids in arriving at a just decision by minimalizing concerns of arbitrary state action.49 It introduces clarity of thought50 and eschews irrelevant and extraneous considerations. Fourthly, it enhances the legitimacy of the institution because decisions will appear to be fair. There is a higher probability that the finding through a reasoned is just. Fifthly, reasoned s E are in furtherance of the right to information and the constitutional goal of open government. Secrecy broods partiality, corruption and other vices that are antithetical to a governance model that is premised on the rule of law. 57. On the facts of the case, MIB has denied to disclose even the F summary of the reasoning denying security clearance. This has necessarily left MBL with no remedy. It is crucial to note that the freedom of press which is protected under Article 19(1)(a) has effectively been trumped without providing them with an effective and reasonable avenue 47 See SN Mukherjee v. Union of India, (1990) 4 SCC 594; Seimens Engineering and G Manufacturing Company v. Union of India, (1976) 2 SCC 981; CCI v. SAIL (2010) 10 SCC 744; Kranti Associates v. Masood Ahmed Khan, 2010 9 SCC 496 48 Sir Alfred Denning, Freedom Under the Law (Stevens and Sons 1949) p. 92 49 Rani Lakshmi Bai Kshetriya Gramin Bank v. Jagdish Dharan Varshney, (2009) 4 SCC 240 50 State of West Bengal v. Alpana Roy, (2005) 8 SCC 296 H 644 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A to challenge the decision. This infringes upon the core of a right to fair hearing. The appellants have proved that the disclosure of reasons is necessary for them to have a reasonable hearing. The reply to the show cause notice and the writ petition challenging the validity of the revocation also indicate that the appellants have been constrained in a situation where they are unable to effectively lay a challenge against the decision. B 58. MHA disclosed the material forming the opinion for denying of security clearance solely to the High Court. The High Court instead of deciding if any other less restrictive but equally effective means could have been employed, straight away received the material in a sealed cover without any application of mind. It is now an established principle C of natural justice that relevant material must be disclosed to the affected party. This rule ensures that the affected party is able to effectively exercise their right to appeal. When the state government claims non- disclosure on the ground of public interest under Section 124 of the Evidence Act, the material is removed from the trial itself. As opposed D to this method, when relevant material is disclosed in a sealed cover, there are two injuries that are perpetuated.