There was no urgency to promulgate the Ordinance when the monsoon session of Parliament was going to begin in a few months. G 6. The Government of NCT has also sought a stay of the NCT Ordinance2 on the ground that it prevents the Government of NCTD from meeting its popular mandate. Mr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, learned senior counsel highlighted instances where senior bureaucrats have ignored the s of the concerned Minister to call the National Disaster 2 IA No. 130505 of 2023 H 498 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Relief Force for aiding with the flood situation in Delhi, the Directorate of Vigilance has issued work allocation in direct contravention to prior s of the Minister-in-charge, and the Lieutenant Governor has terminated the contract of 437 consultants working with various departments of the government of NCTD without any consultation with the elected government. Additionally, the letter issued by the Lieutenant B Governor on 5 July 2023 terminating the engagement of specialists/fellow/ consultants is also sought to be stayed. 7. Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General appearing for the Union of India made a reference to paragraph 95 of the 2023 Constitution Bench . In the said paragraph, this Court observed as follows: C “The legislative power of the Union extends to all entries under the State List and Concurrent List, in addition to the Union List. The executive power of the Union, in the absence of a law upon executive power relating to any subject in the State List, shall cover only matters relating to the three entries which are excluded D from the legislative domain of NCTD. As a corollary, in the absence of a law or provision of the Constitution, the executive power of the Lieutenant Governor acting on behalf of the Union Government shall extend only to matters related to the three entries mentioned in Article 239AA(3)(a), subject to the limitations in E Article 73. […] However, if Parliament enacts a law granting executive power on any subject which is within the domain of NCTD, the executive power of the Lieutenant Governor shall be modified to the extent, as provided in that law.” 8. Mr. Harish Salve, learned senior counsel appearing for the Lieutenant Governor submitted that the consultants were terminated F because their appointment was arbitrary. 9. Article 239-AA(3)(a) stipulates that the legislative assembly of NCTD has the power to make laws with respect to matters enumerated in the State List and Concurrent List insofar as such matter is applicable to Union Territories except entries 1,2, and 18 of List II and entries 64, G 65 and 66 of List II insofar as they relate to the above entries. The issue for consideration before the 2023 Constitution Bench was whether Article 239-AA(3)(a), excludes by implication, NCTD’s legislative competence over Entry 41 of List II. The Constitution Bench held that Article 239- AA does not exclude the legislative power of NCTD over any entries H other than those which are expressly excluded. This Court also held that GOVERNMENT OF NATIONAL CAPITAL TERRITORY OF 499 DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS.