More so, when a writ petition has been entertained, parties have exchanged their pleadings/ affi davits and the matter has remained pending for long. In such a situation there must be a sincere eff ort to decide the matter on merits and not relegate the writ petitioner to the alternative remedy, unless there are compelling reasons for doing so. One such compelling reason may arise where there is a serious dispute between the parties on a question of fact and materials/ evidence(s) available on record are insuffi cient/inconclusive to enable the Court to come to a defi nite conclusion. 29. Bearing the aforesaid legal principles in mind, we would have to consider whether, in the facts of the case, the High Court ought to have dismissed the third writ petition of the fi rst respondent and relegate him to a suit as there existed a serious dispute between the parties regarding taking of possession. More so, when the High Court, in the earlier round of litigation, refrained from taking up the said issue even though it had arisen between the parties. 30. No doubt, in a writ proceeding between the State and a landholder, the Court can, on the basis of materials/evidence(s) placed on record, determine whether possession has been taken or not and while doing so, it may draw adverse inference against the State where the statutory mode of taking possession has not been followed [See State of UP vs. Hari Ram (supra)]. However, where possession is stated to have been taken long ago and there is undue delay on the part of landholder in approaching the writ court, infraction of the prescribed procedure for taking possession would not be a determining factor, inasmuch as, it could be taken that the person for whose benefi t the procedure existed had waived his right thereunder [See State of Assam vs. Bhaskar Jyoti Sarma, (supra)]. In such an event, the factum of actual possession would have to be determined on the basis of materials/evidence(s) available on record and not merely by fi nding STATE OF U.P. & ANR. v. EHSAN & ANR. 921 fault in the procedure adopted for taking possession from the land holder. And if the writ court fi nds it diffi cult to determine such question, either for insuffi cient/ inconclusive materials/evidence(s) on record or because oral evidence would also be required to form a defi nite opinion, it may relegate the writ petitioner to a suit, if the suit is otherwise maintainable. 31. In the instant case, the original petitioner had knowledge that 5499.20 square meter of his land was declared surplus by dated 26.11.1977. Yet, this was challenged through writ petition not before the year 1986. What happened in between is not disclosed. Even if we assume that the third writ petition was based on a separate cause of action, still there could have been a whisper as to what was the reason for such long delay in fi ling the fi rst writ petition, particularly when the original petitioner was throughout aware of State’s case that possession had been taken in the year 1979 after publication of the vesting notifi cation.