established principles of equality and non-arbitrariness under Article 14. In a nutshell, an individual who claims a benefi t or entitlement based on the doctrine of legitimate expectation has to establish: (i) the legitimacy of the expectation; and (ii) that the denial of the legitimate expectation led to the violation of Article 14. D. Application of the doctrine of legitimate expectation 45. In to apply the above-mentioned principles in the present case, we consider it appropriate to formulate the following questions: (i) what has the High Court, either by promise or practice, committed itself to; (ii) whether the High Court has acted unlawfully in relation to its commitment; and (iii) what should this Court allow.35 i. What has the High Court committed itself to? 46. Rule 2(c)(iii) of the 1961 Rules provided at the material time that 25% of the posts of District and Sessions Judges should be fi lled by direct recruitment from the Bar on the basis of aggregate marks/grade obtained in the written examination and the viva-voce conducted by the High Court. The scheme of examination specifi cally stipulates that there shall be no cut off marks for the viva voce. Further, the notifi cation dated 30 September 2015 also stipulates that the merit list of successful candidates would be prepared on the basis of the total marks obtained in the written examination and the viva voce. 47. The statutory rule coupled with the scheme of examination and the 2015 examination notifi cation would have generated an expectation in the petitioners that the merit list of selected candidates will be drawn on the basis of the aggregate of total marks received in the written examination and the viva voce. Moreover, the petitioners would have expected no minimum cut-off for the viva voce in view of the express stipulation in the scheme of examination. Both the above expectations of the petitioners are legitimate as they are based on the sanction of statutory rules, scheme of examination, and the 2015 examination notifi cation issued by the High Court. Thus, the High Court lawfully committed itself to preparing a merit list of successful candidates on the basis of the total marks obtained in the written examination and the viva voce. 35 See Regina (Bibi) v. Newham London Borough Council, [2002] 1 WLR 237. SIVANANDAN C T AND OTHERS v. HIGH COURT OF KERALA AND 701 OTHERS [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] ii. Whether the High Court has acted unlawfully in relation to its commitment? 48. The Administrative Committee of the High Court apprehended that a candidate who performed well in the written examination, even though they fared badly in the viva voce, would get selected to the post of District and Sessions Judge. The Administrative Committee observed that recruitment of such candidates would be a disservice to the public at large because they possessed only “bookish” knowledge and lacked practical wisdom. To avoid such a situation, the Administrative Committee of the High Court decided to apply a minimum cut-off to the viva voce examination.