Dismissing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 On a plain reading of sub-clause (1) of Clause 5 E of the Fifth Schedule, to the Constitution of India the power of the Hon’ble Governor under the said sub-clause (1) extends to directing by a notification that a particular Central or State legislation will not apply to a Scheduled Area in the State, and; directing by a notification that a particular State or Central Act F will apply to a Scheduled Area subject to certain modifications. The first part of sub-clause (1) proceeds on the footing that all the State and Central legislations applicable to a State are applicable to the Scheduled Areas within the said State. Otherwise, there was no reason to confer a power on the Hon’ble Governor to declare that particular legislation will not apply to a particular G Scheduled Area. [Para 8][379-D-G] 1.2 The contention raised by the appellant that unless there is a specific notification issued by the Hon’ble Governor applying Central or State laws to a Scheduled Area, the said laws will not H 374 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A apply to the said Scheduled Area, to say the least, is preposterous. [Para 11][381-C-D] 1.3 All the Central and the State laws which are applicable to the entire State of Orissa will continue to apply to the Scheduled Area unless, in exercise of powers under sub-clause (1) of Clause B 5 of the Fifth Schedule, there is a specific notification issued by the Hon’ble Governor making a particular enactment inapplicable, either fully or partially. The power of the Hon’ble Governor under Clause 5 of the Fifth Schedule is restricted to directing that a particular law will not apply to the Scheduled Area it will apply with such modifications as may be specified in the notification C issued under subclause (1) of Clause 5 of the Fifth Schedule or while making Regulations in terms of sub-clause (2) of Clause 5 of the Fifth Schedule. The power of the Hon’ble Governor under Clause 5 of the Fifth Schedule does not supersede the Fundamental Rights under Part III of the Constitution of India. D Therefore, the Fundamental Rights conferred by sub-clause (e) of Article 19(1) of the Constitution of India on the citizens can also be exercised in relation to the Scheduled Area. [Para 13][385-C-G] 1.4 Under sub-clause (e) of Clause (1) of Article 19 of the E Constitution of India, every citizen has a right to reside and settle in any part of the territory of India. However, by making a law, reasonable restrictions can be put on the said Fundamental Right as provided in Clause (5) of Article 19. Therefore, the submission that the non-Tribals have no right to settle down in a Scheduled Area is rejected. The submission that the Fifth Schedule is a law F made by the Parliament is misconceived. Even-assuming that Fifth Schedule is a law, it does not put any constraints on the exercise of the Fundamental Rights under Article 19(1) of the Constitution of India.