3.3 As per the explanation to S. 2(a), the activity in question must cause “harm, danger or alarm or a feeling of insecurity among the general public or any section thereof or a grave widespread danger to life or public health” to be prejudicial to public . The expression ‘public ’ is diff erent from general ‘law and ’ and must be interpreted narrowly. Acts aff ecting public must be such as to create panic, fear or insecurity among the public at large, destroy the even tempo of life of the community, cause serious disturbance to public tranquility, the society and community at large. Where the ordinary law of the land is suffi cient to deal with the off ences in question, recourse to preventive detention is illegal. (a) Rekha v. State of Tamil Nadu, (2011) 5 SCC 244 [paras 13- 17, 21, 23 & 29-35]. (b) Munagala Yadamma v. State of Andhra Pradesh & Ors, (2012) 2 SCC 386 [paras 7-9] (c) Banka Sneha Sheela v. State of Telangana & Ors., (2021) 9 SCC 415 [paras 12-15, 19-25, 29-30 & 32] 538 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 3.4 In the present case, 4 FIRs have been fi led against the Petitioner for off ences under the AP Prohibition Act. Investigation is complete and chargesheets have also been fi led and hence the matters are ready for trial. These cases involve ordinary ‘law and ’ problems. The Petitioner will undergo the requisite punishment if eventually convicted by the competent Court. However, he cannot be preventively detained and prevented from facing trial merely because he is allegedly a ‘habitual off ender’ or has secured bail in all the cases. 3.5 The chemical analysis of the samples allegedly taken from the Petitioner state that they are “unfi t for human consumption and injurious to health”. The Impugned erroneously holds that this is suffi cient to arrive at the subjective satisfaction that the Petitioner was required to be preventively detained, without examining whether the ingredients of the explanation to S. 2(a) regarding prejudice to ‘public ’ are satisfi ed. The total quantity of ID liquor found in the Petitioner’s possession in all 4 cases is allegedly 55 litres, which is a relatively small quantity. There is no imputation that any person consumed any liquor from the Petitioner or endangered his life or suff ered any serious health issues as a result. Mere lab reports cannot be determinative of whether the alleged criminal activity is of such magnitude or intensity as to constitute a “grave widespread danger to public health”. 3.6 Pertinently, in Rekha v. State of Tamil Nadu (supra), the detenu was accused of selling expired drugs after tampering with labels [para 2]. In Munagala Yadamma (supra), the allegation was of bootlegging/ illicitly distilling liquor. No doubt such expired drugs or illicitly distilled liquor may be unfi t for human consumption and may even aff ect the health of those consuming such products. Nevertheless, these were not considered as being prejudicial to the maintenance of public .