The CBDT had, vide Circular No. 738 dated 25th March E 1996, opined that hire-purchase transactions are generally in the nature of finance transactions entered into by the companies engaged in the business of financing, and finance charges accruing or arising to hire- purchase finance companies are in the nature of interest as defined in Section 2(7) of the Act and hence, chargeable to interest tax. However, F in the subsequent Circular No. 760 dated 13th January 1998, the CBDT observed that they considered the issue and were advised that in case of transactions which are, in substance, in the nature of hire-purchase, the receipts of hire charges would not be in the nature of interest. In transactions which are, in substance, in the nature of financing G transactions, the hire charges should be treated as interest, subject to interest tax. To determine the distinction between the two transactions, the assessing officers were required to consider the issue on merits taking, inter alia, into account – (i) the terms of the agreement; (ii) the nature of the arrangement between the supplier of the asset, the hire- purchase company and the end user of the asset; and (iii) the intention H 332 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A of the parties which manifests itself in the fixation of the initial payment, the method of determination of hire-purchase price etc. However, when the hire-purchase company pays the price or a substantial part thereof on behalf of such hirer who is the real purchaser but does not pay the full price, then such agreement is in the nature of a security for re- payment of the loan and is essentially a loan transaction. Reference was B made to the in the case of Sundaram Finance Limited (supra). 17. As noticed above, this in Sundaram Finance Limited (supra) relates to the true nature of hire in hire-purchase agreements as C in the context of the sales tax enactment. In the present case, however, we are dealing with and interpreting Section 2(7) of the Act, which has been interpreted in two decisions, that is, in the case of Sahara India Savings and Investment Corporation Limited (supra) and State Bank of Patiala Through General Manager (supra), which have given a very limited and restricted meaning to Section 2(7) of the Act as interest D directly arising “on” loans and advances, and not any other interest, be it interest earned on investment or interest payable on delayed payment of the discounted bill of exchange. 18. Taxation depends upon the language of the charging section and what is brought to tax within the four corners of the charging section. E Therefore, one should be careful and cautious when applying the ratio of s relating to one tax enactment as a precedent in a case relating to another tax enactment. This rule of caution is important and should not be overlooked, more so when the language of the enactment and the object and purpose of the enactment are different.