A be left to the Reserve Bank. No doubt, the court can also, given the time, perform this task. But the decision has to be taken without delay, and the Reserve Bank already knows intimately the affairs of banking companies and has had access to their books and accounts. If the court were called upon to take immediate action, it would almost always be guided by the opinion of the Reserve B Bank. It would be impossible for the court to reach a conclusion unguided by the Reserve Bank if immediate action was demanded. But the law which gives the same position to the opinion of the Reserve Bank is challenged as unreasonable. In our opinion, such a challenge has no force.….” C [emphasis supplied] 196. The Court has referred to the pivotal role that the RBI plays as a Central Bank, as a bankers’ bank and numerous other powers that it exercises. The Court held that the law which gives an important position to the opinion of the Reserve Bank was challenged unreasonably and D such challenge had no force. 197. It may also be relevant to refer to the following observations of this Court in the case of Peerless General Finance and Investment Co. Limited and another (supra): “30. Before examining the scope and effect of the impugned E paragraphs (6) and (12) of the directions of 1987, it is also important to note that Reserve Bank of India which is bankers’ bank is a creature of statute. It has large contingent of expert advice relating to matters affecting the economy of the entire country and nobody can doubt the bona fides of the Reserve Bank in F issuing the impugned directions of 1987. The Reserve Bank plays an important role in the economy and financial affairs of India and one of its important functions is to regulate the banking system in the country. It is the duty of the Reserve Bank to safeguard the economy and financial stability of the country….” G [emphasis supplied] 198. It can thus be seen that this Court has noted that the RBI, which is a bankers’ bank, is a creature of statute. It has large contingent of expert advice relating to matters affecting the economy of the entire H country. It has been held that the RBI plays an important role in the VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 105 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] economy and financial affairs of India and one of its important functions A is to regulate the banking system in the country. It has been held that it is the duty of the RBI to safeguard the economy and financial stability of the country. 199. It will also further be relevant to refer to the following observations of this Court in the case of Peerless General Finance B and Investment Co. Limited and another (supra): “The function of the Court is not to advise in matters relating to financial and economic policies for which bodies like Reserve Bank are fully competent.