Accordingly, the Miscellaneous Petition was dismissed. 14. It is against these two s of the High Court that the Appellants have preferred the present appeal. 15. We have heard the learned counsel for the parties. G SUBMISSIONS: 16. Mr. A. Sirajuddin, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the Appellants contended that the High Court erred in allowing the appeal filed by Respondent No. 1 herein (Plaintiff) and decreeing the H suit for specific performance. GADDIPATI DIVIJA & ANR. v. PATHURI SAMRAJYAM & 809 ORS. [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] 17. The learned Senior Counsel relied on this Court’s in A N.P. Thirugnanam vs Dr. R. Jagan Mohan Rao & Ors,1 to show that the plaintiff must aver and prove that she was always ready and willing to perform her part of the contract. However, in the present case, except the two-line pleading that the Plaintiff (Respondent No. 1herein) was ever ready and willing to perform her part of the contract, B there are no other details to show her readiness and willingness. Moreover, even in the chief examination, only the said two lines are available without further details. It was also contended that the Trial Court had observed that the Plaintiff had not marked any document to show that she was having necessary funds to pay the balance. C 18. Reliance was also placed on this Court’s in U.N. Krishnamurthy (since deceased) Thr. Lrs. vs A.M. Krishnamurthy,2 wherein it was held that:- “42. It is, therefore, patently clear that the respondent plaintiff has failed to prove his readiness to perform his part of contract D from the date of execution of the agreement till date of decree, which is a condition precedent for grant of. relief of specific performance. This court finds that the respondent plaintiff was not entitled the relief of specific performance.” 19. It was argued that the deceased G. Venugopala Rao had E performed his part of obligation, while Respondent No. 1 failed to perform her part of the agreement with regard to the payment of balance sale consideration within three months as stipulated by the agreement. It was submitted that the deceased G. Venugopala Rao sent the first notice to Respondent No. 1 herein on 02.01.2003, i.e., after four months from the date of signing of the sale agreement. Respondent No. 1 sent a reply F notice stating that the deceased G. Venugopala Rao had not got the property measured and demarcated, and the property was attached in O.S. No. 188 of 2002. In rejoinder to the said reply notice, the deceased G. Venugopala Rao stated that the land been measured and further asked Respondent No. 1 herein to deposit the balance consideration in O.S. G No. 188 of 2002. In his evidence, PW 1 admitted that the schedule property was within specific boundaries bounded by survey stones. Following the deceased G. Venugopala Rao’s rejoinder notice, the Plaintiff (Respondent No. 1 herein) did not pay the balance sale consideration 1 1995 (5) SCC 115 2 2022 SCC OnLine SC 840 H 810 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R.