10,000/-, costs and then the principal and claim interest on the whole of the balance sum again. Certainly, at both stages, if there is short-fall in deposit, the decree holder may be entitled to apply the deposit first towards interest, then D towards costs and the balance towards the principal. But that is different from saying that in spite of his deposit of the amounts decreed by the trial court, the debtor would still be liable for interest on the whole of the principal amount in case the appellate court enhances the same and awards E interest on the enhanced amount.” 30.The rule was explained in another decision of this court, in V. Kala Bharathi & Ors. vs The Oriental Insurance Company Ltd:9 “A bare perusal of the aforesaid provisions makes it amply F clear that the scope of XXI Rule 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure is that the debtor is required to pay the decretal amount in one of the modes specified in Sub-rule (1) thereof. Sub-rule (2) of Rule 1 provides that once payment is made Under Sub-rule (1), it is the duty of the debtor to give notice to the decree-holder through the Court or G directly to him by registered post acknowledgement due. Sub- rule (3) of Rule 1 merely indicates that in case money is paid by postal money or through a bank under Clause (a) 9 V. Kala Bharathi & Ors. vs The Oriental Insurance Company Ltd., 2014 (5) SCC 577, dated 1st April 1947. H 1096 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A or Clause (b) of Sub-rule (1) thereof, certain particulars are required to be accurately incorporated while making such payment. Sub-rules (4) and (5) of Rule 1 states from which date, interest shall cease to run-in case amount is paid under Clause (a) or (c) of Sub-rule (1), interest shall cease to run from the date of service of notice as indicated Under Sub- B rule (2); while in case of out of court payment to the decree- holder by way of any of the modes mentioned under Clause (b) of Sub-rule (1), interest shall cease to run from the date of such payment.” C 31. The provisions of XXI are applicable to decrees of civil court. However, they embody a sound policy principle, that if the amount is deposited, or paid to the decree holder or person entitled to it, the person entitled to the amount cannot later seek interest on it. This is a rule of prudence, inasmuch as the debtor, or person required to pay or refund the amount, is under an obligation to ensure that the amount D payable is placed at the disposal of the person entitled to receive it. Once that is complete (in the form of payment, through different modes, including tendering a Banker’s Cheque, or Pay or Demand Draft, all of which require the account holder / debtor to pay the bank, which would then issue the instrument) the tender, or ‘payment’ is complete.