The disciplinary proceeding, UCO BANK AND OTHERS v. M.B. MOTWANI (DEAD) THR. 535 LRS. & OTHERS [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] thus, is initiated only in terms of the 1976 Regulations and not in terms of the 1979 Regulations. The complete procedure for holding the disciplinary proceeding is provided only in the 1976 Regulations. The 1979 Regulations would be attracted independently where no disciplinary proceeding is to be initiated. However, when read in context of Regulation 20(3), initiation and pendency of disciplinary proceeding is a must. The 1976 Regulations provided for the mode and manner in which the disciplinary proceeding is initiated. It expressly provides for service of chargesheet which is a sine qua non for disciplinary proceeding. While putting the tools for interpretation and giving a harmonious construction to the provisions of the 1976 and the 1979 Regulations, this Court opined that if the intention of the Regulation making authority had been that the legal fi ction as created in Clause (ii) of Sub-Regulation (3) of Regulation 20 of the 1979 Regulations would cover both clauses (i) and (iii), the same should have been placed only after clause (iii). In such an event, clause (ii) of Sub-Regulation (3) of Regulation 20 should have been diff erently worded. With these observations, the review petition fi led by the Bank was dismissed. 22. In Canara Bank’s case (supra),this Court noticed that the earlier s of this Court in the cases of Rajender Lal Capoor -I &Rajender Lal Capoor -II (supra) were delivered by the Division Bench of this Court. When the matter came up for hearing, having a doubt on the view expressed, reference was made to a larger Bench of this Court vide dated 04.08.2010. A Bench consisting of Three Judges of this Court found that the provisions of the 1976 Regulations with reference to initiation of the disciplinary proceeding has been correctly appreciated and interpreted, especially with reference to the departmental proceeding. This Court had quoted with approval paras 14 to 23 of the aforesaid of this Court in Rajender Lal Capoor-II (supra)by which the review petition, fi led by the Bank in Rajender Lal Capoor -I (supra), was dismissed. Para 8 thereof is extracted below: “8. On an exhaustive consideration of the manner in which the provisions have been analysed and the clear and unambiguous language of the same and also having regard to the provisions of the 1976 Regulations of the Bank with regard to initiation of disciplinary proceeding we have no doubt in our mind that the meaning given to 536 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. the provisions of the Regulations in the said case is correct and does not require any reconsideration. From the above it would follow that by virtue of the provisions contained in Regulation 20(3)(iii), a disciplinary proceeding initiated by means of a charge-sheet prior to the retirement of a bank employee would continue even after his retirement in view of the deeming provision contained in the said Regulation 20(3)(iii) by which the offi cer is deemed to continue in service till completion of the proceedings.” 23.