The High Court has duly considered all the sale instances in the light of other evidence on record and after duly reasoning out as to why the other sale instances should not be relied upon, has relied upon the sale instances dated 31.08.1992 (Ex. P/30) and dated 14.08.1992 (Ex. P/32) which were executed in close proximity to the date on which the lands in question were acquired. The solitary sale instance of shop has rightly been ignored, the other sale instances more germane and relevant of the lands situated in nearby area of the area of acquisition being available on record. 11. The next submission made by Mr. Patwalia with regard to the one third cut imposed by the High Court has also hardly any force. The High Court after determining the market value of the lands acquired at MALA ETC. ETC. v. STATE OF PUNJAB AND OTHERS 127 [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] Rs. 3000/- per marla, has deducted one third amount therefrom towards the development charges taking into consideration the settled legal position. It is well settled position of law that while determining the deduction for development charges, the courts should keep in mind the nature of land, area under acquisition, whether the land is developed or not, if developed to what extent, the purpose of acquisition etc. Though, it is true that while determining the market value of large chunk of land, the value of smaller pieces of land could be taken into consideration, however, after making appropriate deduction in the value of lands or setting apart land required for carving out roads, leaving open spaces, plotting out smaller plots etc. The percentage of deduction or the extent of area required to be set apart has to be assessed by the courts having regard to the size, shape, situation, user etc. of the lands acquired. It is essentially a kind of guess work the courts are expected to undertake. 12. In Chimanlal Hargovinddas v. Special Land Acquisition Offi cer, Poona and Anr.2, this Court held as under: “8. ……. The fi rst two grounds are devoid of merit. It is common knowledge that when a large block of land is required to be valued, appropriate deduction has to be made for setting aside land for carving out roads, leaving open spaces, and plotting out smaller plots suitable for construction of buildings. The extent of the area required to be set apart in this connection has to be assessed by the court having regard to the shape, size and situation of the concerned block of land etc. There cannot be any hard and fast rule as to how much deduction should be made to account for this factor. It is essentially a question of fact depending on the facts and circumstances of each case. It does not involve drawing upon any principle of law.” 13. In Lal Chand v. Union of India and Anr.3, this Court held that: “14. The “deduction for development” consists of two components. The fi rst is with reference to the area required to be utilised for developmental works and the second is the cost of the development works.