Ministerial misdemeanors, which have nothing to do with the discharge of public duty and not traceable to the affairs of the State, will have to be G treated as acts of individual violation and individual wrong. To extend in the abstract, the liability of the State to such situations or instances without necessary limitations can be problematic. Post M/s. Kasturi Lal Ralia Ram Jain vs. The State of Uttar Pradesh1 and following Rudul Sah vs. H 1 AIR 1965 SC 1039 614 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A State of Bihar2, this Court has treated misconduct of public servants or officers and consequent infringement of Constitutional rights as ground for grant of compensation. However, there is need for clarity and certainty as far as the conceptual basis is concerned. This may be better resorted through enacted law. B Question No. 5 (v) While the principle of Constitutional tort has been conceived in Nilabati Behera (Smt.) alias Lalita Behera (Through the Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee) vs. State of C Orissa3, and subsequently applied to provide in regard to the constitutional remedies, the matter pre-eminently deserves a proper legal framework in that the principles and procedures are coherently set out without leaving the matter open-ended or vague. III.B. Notes of submissions by Amicus D 10. Ms. Aparajita Singh, learned senior counsel and amicus curiae submitted a written note question-wise, which can be summed up as follows:- Question No. 1 E (i) The right to free speech under Article 19(1)(a) is subject to clearly defined restrictions under Article 19(2). Therefore, any law seeking to limit the right under Article 19(1)(a) has to necessarily fall within the limitations provided under Article 19(2). Whenever two fundamental rights compete, F the Court will balance the two to allow the meaningful exercise of both. This conundrum is not new, as the rights under Article 21 and under Article 19(1)(a) have been interpreted and balanced on numerous occasions. Take for instance the Right to Information Act, 2005. The Act balances the citizen’s right to know under Article 19(1)(a) G with the right to fair investigation and right to privacy under Article 21. This careful balancing was explained by this Court in Thalappalam Service Cooperative Bank Ltd. 2 (1983) 4 SCC 141 H 3 (1993) 2 SCC 746 KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 615 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] vs. State of Kerala4. The decision of this Court in R. A Rajagopal alias R.R. Gopal vs. State of T.N.5 is another example of reading down the restrictions (in the form of defamation) on the right to free speech under Article 19(2), in its application to public officials and public figures in larger public interest. Again, in People’s Union for Civil Liberties B (PUCL) vs. Union of India6, the right to privacy of the spouse of the candidate contesting the election was declared as subordinate to the citizens’ right to know under Article 19(1)(a). In Jumuna Prasad Mukhariya vs. Lachhi Ram7, a challenge to Sections 123(5) and 124(5) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (as they prevailed C at that time) was rejected, on the ground that false personal attacks against the contesting candidate was not violative of the right to free speech.