Ramesh Gowda, S/o Krishnappa and Chandrappa S/o Venkate gowda, residents of our village released me from the hands of the Accused and admitted me to Government Hospital, Shidlaghatta for treatment. I request to take legal action against the accused persons who have assaulted me causing grievous injuries and provide protection to us. Read over and found correct LTM of T.V. Byregowda” (Emphasis supplied) 16. It emanates from the testimony of the PW1(The Doctor) and PW19 (The Police Offi cer) that the dying declaration of the deceased was made in their presence. PW1 stated “When police recorded the statement of the injured. I was present and also endorsed that statement in Ex.P.1 statement now marked, Ex.P.1 (a) is my endorsement and Ex.P.1 (b) is my signature” and PW19 stated “I rushed to the hospital and enquired the injured Byregowda in presence of the doctor and recorded the statement. The statement is marked as Ex. P.1 and my signature is marked Ex. P.1 (b). The Doctor has also signed on the said statement” 17. It further emanates from the record, i.e., the testimony of PW19 that although he signed on the dying declaration made by the deceased, but the cross-examination reveals that he had not himself written the same. It was stated: - “The contents in Ex. P.1 are not in my handwriting. The said document does not contain the endorsement as who has written the said document.” 748 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. Further, in his re-examination, he states that- “The contents in Ex. P1 are in the hand writing of Nataraj, staff of our station. The said statement was taken as stated by the deceased and as told by me. Since the deceased had sustained injury on his right hand also, he was not in a position to sign the same…” And PW1 stated in regards of the person who recorded the dying declaration as under :- “I cannot say by name designation of the police person who recorded the statement of the injured. Again our records also do not disclose as to the time of recording of alleged statement of the injured. It is true that, before recording of the alleged statement of injured, neither the police had requested me to writing nor I had permitted them in writing for recording the statement of the injured. It is true when alleged statement of injured was recorded there were many persons around him. It is not true to suggest that on that day the injured was not in a position to give any statement and police did not record his statement at that point of time as stated in Ex. P.1.” 18. Well then, who recorded the same?, What was his name?, What was his designation if he was a police personnel? remains unstated by her. Signifi cantly, this witness also does not testify to the correctness or otherwise of the contents thereof. It was testifi ed that at the time of recording of such statement “there were many persons around”.