27. Such unreliability of this statement is enhanced by the fact that there is a material diff erence between the statement of the mother treated as DD-IV and her deposition in which she claims the convict-appellant to have physically assaulted the deceased before setting her on fi re. In contrast, none of the other statements made to the police offi cials or the doctor refl ect such an occurrence. Also, the MLC does not record any physical injury apart from the 30% burns sustained. This can be said to be an improvement/exaggeration that originates in a desire to see the convict- ABHISHEK SHARMA v. STATE (GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI) 911 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] appellant punished for a crime he has allegedly committed. Another crucial diff erence between the statement and the testimony is that in the statement made to the police, the fact that “Abhishek poured petrol on her and set her on fi re” is conspicuously absent from there. 28. DD-I raises only questions and provides no context or answers to the incident. It is a statement that only mentions that one person, i.e., the convict-appellant, was the person responsible for the injured condition of the deceased. Keeping this in view and then taking note of subsequent conduct of the hospital as well as the investigating authorities forces us to ask certain questions- a) Given that the declaration only mentioned the name Abhishek Sharma and not any other particulars which may be relevant and helpful in the process of identifi cation such as telephone, address details, description of convict-appellant, place of work, etc., how is it that the investigating authorities got in touch with the employer? b) If such a call was made, why is there no record of the same? c) The statement was recorded at 1:55 AM, and the manager of the call centre where both the convict–appellant and the deceased were employees was contacted at 2:00 AM as is evident from his uncontroverted testimony- in view of the above, how was this possible? The record does not refl ect as to how the police zeroed in on him. 29. Another question that may be asked is that when DD-I was reported, and a doctor took DD-II, why was it only after the recording of DD-III that an FIR was lodged? We must also consider that, as per DD-II, the burns received by the deceased were on the back, arm, shoulder, and hair, resulting in superfi cial and deep burns amounting to 30%. In such a situation, can it be said that there was a reasonable apprehension of death, making the statements admissible as dying declarations? 30. The convict-appellant was not seen at the spot of the crime, nor has the last seen theory been invoked by the prosecution to establish that the deceased and he were together at the time and place of the incident. There is no evidence on record to show what transpired in the investigation of the police from the time of DD-I when, allegedly, the police came to know of the convict-appellant having committed this crime against the deceased and when he was fi nally arrested at 8 PM.