In that view, in the light of the said circular, without relying on D the same, this Court had directed that the evidence be tendered by the parties before the Reference Court so as to make such evidence the basis for fresh determination to be made. Despite the same, the High Court in the instant round has merely relied on the circular providing for the floor rates despite other evidence being available on record. Such determination is thus, not justified. E From the records, it is pointed out that the sale exemplars were brought on record to aid the Court to determine the market value, the consideration of which was required to be made to arrive at an appropriate market value. [Para 9][922-F-H; 923-A-B] 1.2. The Reference Court before appreciating the evidence, F has kept in view the parameters laid down by this Court while considering a reference for the purpose of determining the market value of the acquired lands to arrive at the just compensation. The Reference Court kept in view that the sale instances of small pieces of land cannot be ignored while determining the compensation for a large extent of land acquired. The rule of G deduction on development charges would not be uniformly applicable was also taken into consideration. It is in that light, the Reference Court has placed reliance on the document at Ex.PX dated 07.12.2004 relied upon by the land losers. Under the said H 914 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A document, an extent of 5 Marlas was sold in Sultanpur i.e. the area which is the subject matter of these appeals, for the sale consideration of Rs.1,05,000/-which would amount to Rs.33,60,000/- per acre. On reckoning the said value of land, the Reference Court deducted 35 per cent of the same towards development charges and thereafter added the escalation for 35 B days being the difference of the period between the date of the said sale deed and the date of the preliminary notification. It is on the said basis that the market value of Rs. 22,00,754/-per acre was arrived at by the Reference Court. [Paras 10, 11][923- C, F-H; 924-A] C 1.3. From the of the Reference Court it is noted that the sale exemplars which were relied upon by the respondent -HSIIDC at Ex.R5/R12, Ex.R6, Ex.R9, Ex. R13 to Ex.R16 were discarded since they depict the market value of the land which is lower than the amount awarded by the Collector. To that extent, D the reason assigned by the Reference Court is not justified. The documents would have to be taken into consideration, to decide as to whether the lands are comparable and, on the determination, if the conclusion is that they are comparable but the market value depicted is lesser than what is awarded by the SLAO and if there is no other document to indicate a higher market value, it would E be open for the Reference Court to confirm the award of the LAO being more beneficial to the land losers.