4. While opposing the present appeals, learned Senior Advocate(s) G appearing on behalf of respective respondent No. 1 have vehemently submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case, the High Court has not committed any error in directing to enlarge the accused on bail. 4.1 It is submitted that in the present case so far as the impugned FIR is concerned i.e., for the predicated offences others accused have H been acquitted/discharged. DIRECTORATE OF ENFORCEMENT v. ADITYA TRIPATHI 413 [M. R. SHAH, J.] 4.2 It is further submitted that as the investigation is over and the A chargesheet has been filed, the High Court has rightly enlarged the accused – respective respondent No. 1 on bail. It is submitted that as the accused are on bail since March, 2021, the impugned s passed by the High Court may not be interfered by this Court at this stage. 5. We have heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the B respective parties at length. 6. At the outset, it is required to be noted that respective respondent No. 1 – accused are facing the investigation by the Enforcement Directorate for the scheduled offences and for the offences of money laundering under Section 3 of the PML Act punishable under Section 4 C of the said Act. An enquiry/investigation is still going on by the Enforcement Directorate for the scheduled offences in connection with FIR No. 12/2019. Once, the enquiry/investigation against respective respondent No. 1 is going on for the offences under the PML Act, 2002, the rigour of Section 45 of the PML Act, 2002 is required to be considered. D Section 45 of the PML Act, 2002 reads as under: - “45. Offences to be cognizable and non-bailable.— (1) [Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), no person accused of an offence [under this Act] shall be released on bail or on his own E bond unless—] (i) the Public Prosecutor has been given an opportunity to oppose the application for such release; and (ii) where the Public Prosecutor opposes the application, the court is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing F that he is not guilty of such offence and that he is not likely to commit any offence while on bail: Provided that a person, who, is under the age of sixteen years, or is a woman or is sick or infirm [or is accused either on his own or along with other co-accused of money-laundering a sum of G less than one crore rupees], may be released on bail, if the Special Court so directs: Provided further that the Special Court shall not take cognizance of any offence punishable under Section 4 except upon a complaint in writing made by— H 414 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A (i) the Director; or (ii) any officer of the Central Government or a State Government authorised in writing in this behalf by the Central Government by a general or special made in this behalf by that Government.