There are appellate remedies which provide remedies for an aggrieved assessee and until the assessment reaches fi nality, the conclusion of the Assessing Offi cer in the assessment is nothing but his own assertion. Such a stage had not been reached in the case of the appellant herein. iii. Concealment of particulars before the Assessing Offi cer would not have a bearing while the Settlement Commission exercises its powers under Section 245H of the Act for grant of immunity from prosecution and penalty. That if an assessee has disclosed in the return of income his true income and the disclosure of income is full and complete, there is no reason for him to go before the Settlement Commission. Section 245C contemplates full and 14 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. true disclosure of income to be made before the Settlement Commission only. iv. That Section 245C does not contemplate any explanation or evidence that requires to be off ered by an applicant to the satisfaction of the Settlement Commission and as such the Division Bench’s was liable to be quashed. Section 245C contemplates full and true disclosure of income to be made before the Settlement Commission and the same was made by the assessee. That the learned Single Judge of the High Court committed an error in holding that there is a statutory requirement that concealment of particulars before the Assessing Offi cer would have a bearing on the application fi led before the Settlement Commission, which is required to exercise its power under section 245H of the Act for granting immunity from prosecution and penalty. 3.2. With the aforesaid submissions, it was prayed that the present appeal be allowed and the of the learned Single Judge of the High Court, as affi rmed by the Division Bench in the impugned dated 06.07.2013, be set aside, thereby restoring the of the Settlement Commission dated 04.03.2008. 3.3. Per contra, Sri Balbir Singh, learned Additional Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the respondents-Revenue submitted that the impugned of the High Court is based on a correct appreciation of the law in the light of the facts of the present case and therefore, the same does not call for interference by this Court. It was further submitted as under: i. That it is only when the completed assessments were re-opened by the Revenue and when penalty proceedings were initiated that the application was fi led by the appellant under Section 245C (1) before the Settlement Commission. That there is a marked diff erence between the terms “discovered” and “disclosed” in as much as what was “discovered” by the Assessing Offi cer during the course of assessment proceedings could not form part of what was “disclosed” by the assessee in the application fi led before the Settlement Commission. However, in the present case, what KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. v. COMMISSIONER OF 15 INCOME TAX BANGALORE [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] has been “disclosed” in the application is the same as what was “discovered” by the Assessing Offi cer.