This will help establish proximity (in terms of timeline), to the accused G person’s frame of mind (or mental illness, if any) at the time of committing the crime and offer guidance on mitigating factors (1), (5), (6) and (7) spelled out in Bachan Singh. Even for the other factors of (3) and (4) - an onus placed squarely on the state – conducting this form of psychiatric and H 766 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A psychological evaluation close on the heels of commission of the offence, will provide a baseline for the appellate courts to use for comparison, i.e., to evaluate the progress of the accused towards reformation, achieved during the incarceration period. B 215. Next, the State, must in a time-bound manner, collect additional information pertaining to the accused. An illustrative, but not exhaustive list is as follows: a) Age b) Early family background (siblings, protection of parents, C any history of violence or neglect) c) Present family background (surviving family members, whether married, has children, etc.) d) Type and level of education D e) Socio-economic background (including conditions of poverty or deprivation, if any) f) Criminal antecedents (details of offence and whether convicted, sentence served, if any) g) Income and the kind of employment (whether none, or E temporary or permanent etc); h) Other factors such as history of unstable social behaviour, or mental or psychological ailment(s), alienation of the individual (with reasons, if any) etc. This information should mandatorily be available to the trial court, at the sentencing F stage. The accused too, should be given the same opportunity to produce evidence in rebuttal, towards establishing all mitigating circumstances. 216. Lastly, information regarding the accused’s jail conduct and behaviour, work done (if any), activities the accused has G involved themselves in, and other related details should be called for in the form of a report from the relevant jail authorities (i.e., probation and welfare officer, superintendent of jail, etc.). If the appeal is heard after a long hiatus from the trial court’s conviction, or High Court’s confirmation, as the case may be – a fresh report (rather than the one used by H VIKAS CHAUDHARY v. THE STATE OF DELHI 767 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] the previous court) from the jail authorities is recommended, A for an more exact and complete understanding of the contemporaneous progress made by the accused, in the time elapsed. The jail authorities must also include a fresh psychiatric and psychological report which will further evidence the reformative progress, and reveal post-conviction B mental illness, if any. 217. It is pertinent to point out that this court, in Anil v State of Maharashtra has in fact directed criminal courts, to call for additional material: “Many a times, while determining the sentence, the courts C take it for granted, looking into the facts of a particular case, that the accused would be a menace to the society and there is no possibility of reformation and rehabilitation, while it is the duty of the court to ascertain those factors, and the State is obliged to furnish materials for and against D the possibility of reformation and rehabilitation of the accused.