the word ‘in’ the notified port in para 8(II)(vi) would be that storage A of non-hazardous material is permitted inside the notified port. This Court notices that the definition of the word ‘within’ also includes the word meaning inside. No doubt, Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes declared: “A word is not a crystal, transparent and unchanged; it is the skin of a living thought and may vary B greatly in color and content according to the circumstances and time in which it is used.” [Para 45][276-G-H; 277-A] 1.8 Chennai Port is a Port, which is, admittedly, a major port within the meaning of Major Ports Act, 1964. Another enactment, which deals with ports, is the Indian Ports Act, 1908. C The appellants would contend that, while the storage facility may not be located within the Chennai Port, it is licenced under Section 57 of the Customs Act as a customs station. In the Major Ports Act, the word ‘port’ is defined in Section 2(q). [Para 47][277-D- E] D 1.9 It is not the case of the appellants that the storage is located within the limits of the Chennai Port as contemplated in Section 2(q). It is, therefore, not inside the said Port. However, it is appellants case that the storage facility is located in the Customs notified area. This is based on the license issued under Section 57 of the Customs Act. Thus, every port falling under E the Indian Port Act and the Major Port Act may not be on their own become a customs port. A customs port under Section 2(12) comes into being on a port being appointed as such under Section 7(a). A customs station no doubt, includes any customs port and a land customs station. The case of the appellant based on the F license under Section 57 of the Customs Act may make it a customs area as it includes a warehouse but it is inconceivable as to how it would transform it into ‘in a notified port’. [Paras 49 and 52][277-H; 278-A; 279-A-B] 1.10 CRZ-II has been classified in para 7 as areas that have been developed up to or close to the shore line. The storage G tank of the appellant in the first case appears to be located at a distance of 160 feet from the shore line. At the same time, it is located a few kilometres away from the Chennai port. This Court has already noticed that under CRZ III, the facility of storage of non-hazardous materials including edible oil is permitted only at H 252 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A a distance between 200-500 meters. This is even though both handling and storage of petroleum products is permitted, both within a distance of up to 200 meters from the high tide line as also between 200-500 meters from the high tide line. It may defy logic. At least at first blush. This Court has already set out the objects of the notification. They include guarding against the B dangers of natural hazards in coastal areas and the sea level rise due to global warming.