The deceased had gone to celebrate Dussehra in the house of her elder sister and returned to her house at village Rolep on 15.10.2016 along with the appellant-accused. Around 10.00 a.m. she had gone to a nearby water stream for washing the household utensils and heard someone saying ‘aaya aaya’ and also heard some strange sound such as ‘chyak chyak’. She rushed back to her house and saw the appellant-accused aiming the sharp-edged weapon towards the deceased. After struggling with the accused she snatched the weapon from him but saw the deceased with pool of blood all over his face and neck. The appellant-accused had already assaulted her father. She would further depose that after snatching the weapon she hid it under some rod materials but when she looked back, she again saw the accused with his hand on the neck of the deceased trying to take out the windpipe from the neck of the 2 (2018) 7 SCC 718 RUPESH MANGER (THAPA) v. STATE OF SIKKIM 583 [PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, J.] deceased which was already cut. She separated the appellant-accused from the deceased. 11. PW-13 (Geeta Chettri) had arrived at the place of occurrence on hearing PW-1’s scream. When she reached the house of the deceased, she saw the appellant-accused pulling the deceased by his neck. The statements of both the above witnesses have not been demolished or shaken during the cross-examination. 12. PW-14 (Dr. Siddhant Basnett) examined the deceased when he was brought dead to the Singtam PHC who found the following visible injuries on the body of the deceased: (a) laceration of throat (slit throat) measuring 05 x 06 x 05 cms; (b) laceration-lateral to the lateral canthus of right eye 0.5 x 2 cms; (c) laceration of the right side of chin 0.5 x 7 cms; (d) laceration on the right shoulder 04 x 05 cms. 13. PW-15 (Dr. O.T. Lepcha) conducted the autopsy and found the following ante mortem injuries in his report (Exhibit-11): (a) Linear shaped injury (7.5 x 0.5 cms) placed over the right-side face 5 cm below and lateral to the right eye; (b) Spindle shaped incised injury (3 x 0.5 cms) placed along injury No. (a) above; (c) Spindle shaped incised injury (7 x 0.8 x muscle) over the right mandible (d) Chop injury (10 x 3 cms) placed just above the thyroid cartilage with bevelled margin over the superior margin ( 7 x 1 cms). The injury involved the skin, muscle, the jugular and carotid vessels of both the sides and the trachea ( chopped; and (e) Chop wound (7 x 3 cms) placed over the right upper end of the shoulder/arm. 14. Basing upon the evidence of PW-1 and PW-13 and the medical evidence adduced, it is fully proved that the appellant-accused had attacked the deceased with sharp-edged weapon causing his death. 584 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. ISSUE OF INSANITY 15. Right since the inception, the appellant-accused has set up the plea of insanity and has examined his mother Gita Manger (Rana) (DW-1) in support of his plea.