STATE BANK OF INDIA & ORS v. RAJESH AGARWAL & ORS 521 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] D.4 Challenge to constitutional validity A 66. The borrowers have argued that the Master Directions on Frauds will have to be struck down as arbitrary and unconstitutional for conferring unguided and unbridled powers on banks. To counter the submission, the RBI and lender banks have relied upon the decision in Delhi Cloth Mills & General Mills v. Union of India47 to submit B that the provisions of the Master Directions on Frauds are not arbitrary as they have a reasonable nexus to the object sought to be achieved. It was further argued that the Courts should not interfere with and supplant their wisdom in an economic policy decision unless there is blatant perversity, arbitrariness, or mala fides. C 67. The RBI hasthe right to take all such measures as are necessary to protect the health of the banking system. Hence, the Master Directions on Frauds lay down the procedure for banks, who in case of a breach of loan agreements by borrowers, can seek appropriate remedies by approaching law enforcement agencies and debarring borrowers from D accessing further institutional finance. However, any policy decision which contemplates serious civil consequences for any person will be open to challenge for being arbitrary if the principles of natural justice are not applied during the process. 68. In E P Royappa v. State of Tamil Nadu48, this Court held E that an arbitrary state action is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. Again, in Maneka Gandhi (supra) this court reiterated that the principle of non-arbitrariness pervades Article 14.An administrative action can be tested for constitutional infirmities under Article 14 on four grounds: (i) unreasonableness or irrationality; (ii) illegality; (iii) procedural impropriety;49 and (iv) proportionality. However, the scope of such judicial F review is limited to ascertaining the deficiency in the decision-making process, and not the correctness of the choice made by the administrator.50 69. Fairness in action requires that procedures which permit impairment of fundamental right sought to be just, fair, and reasonable. The principles of natural justice have a universal application and constitute G 47 (1983) 4 SCC 166 48 (1974) 4 SCC 3 49 State of AP v. McDowell, (1996) 3 SCC 709; Om Kumar v. Union of India, (2001) 2 SCC 386 50 Chairman and Managing Director, United Commercial Bank v. P C Kakkar, (2003) 4 SCC 364 H 522 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A an important facet of procedural propriety envisaged under Article 14. The rule of audi alteram partem is recognized as being a part of the guarantee contained in Article 14. A Constitution Bench of this Court in Tulsiram Patel (supra) has categorically held that violation of the principles of natural justice is a violation of Article 14. The court held that any state action in breach of natural justice implicates a violation of B Article 14: “95. The principles of natural justice have thus come to be recognized as being a part of the guarantee contained in Article 14 because of the new and dynamic interpretation given by this Court to the concept of equality which is the subject-matter of C that article.