2 to Serial No. 14. E Secondly, in the case of Ms. Rumessa Mohammad, marks of her M. Pharma Degree were not added to her final score and the error was later on rectified by the Board by the issuance of a subsequent notification dated 30th November, 2010, thereby, revisiting the position of Ms. Rumessa Mohammad in the selection list from Serial No. 17 to Serial No. 4. This notification was a part of the record. F Thirdly, in the case of Mr. Ashish Gupta, marks were rightly awarded to him on account of possessing an M. Pharma degree which was filed along with the application form before the cut-off date. With the said averments, it was contended that the present appeals G be allowed and the impugned s of the High Court be set-aside. 10. Per contra, learned counsel Ms. S. Janani appearing on behalf of the Respondents herein-writ petitioners before the High Court, supported the impugned s of the High Court and submitted that the same do not warrant any interference by this Court as the s H 746 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A were passed based on an unimpeachable appreciation of the law and facts. 10.1. It was averred that the Selection Committee formed was defective and inadequate as the Chairman opted for an expert and took on board the Selection Committee, Dr. Samina Farhat who was a doctor B by profession with M.D. and Ph.D. in Pharmacology to her credit. That the role of a doctor in Pharmacology is to research, develop, and test new medications, as well as run clinical trials for new drug discoveries. On the other hand, the responsibility of a drug inspector is to inspect whether the medicines maintain legal standards of sanitation, limpidness, and grading. They are entrusted with the task to ensure that licensing C conditions are being followed and they also have to obtain and send the drug for testing or analysis if there is a reason to suspect that the drug is being sold or stocked in violation of the Act or Rules. Thus, the learned counsel for the respondents asserted that the expert selected by the Chairman cannot be said to be an expert or specialist in the discipline in D which the recruitment was being made. 10.2. It was next contended that the eligibility criteria were changed midway. That initially, the eligibility criteria required that the equivalent qualification was to be recognised and notified by the Central Government. However, in the approved criteria, the same was dropped. E The respondents contended that the criteria were changed after the applications had been received pursuant to the advertisement. As a result of the above, several candidates and brighter people may not have applied and several persons from unrecognized colleges would have got selected. Further, the Selection Board had no mechanism to verify the genuineness of the certificates or whether the universities were recognized or not. F 10.3. That some of the selected candidates did not produce their original mark sheet of B. Pharma or M. Pharma at the time of the interview and some of them did not even produce their birth certificates.