During the resolution process, the State tax authorities claimed that the dues payable had to be accrued previously and relied upon Section 48, in addition to Section 53 of the IBC. The State contended that the non- B obstante clause in the state enactment and the non-obstante clause in the IBC operated at different fields, and the State had to be treated as a ‘secured creditor’ by virtue of Section 48 of the state act. This was rejected by the NCLT and the NCLAT. However, this court took note of Sections 30 and 31 of the IBC and certain other provisions and held that C NCLT had erred in its observations. It was held that: “56. Section 48 of the GVAT Act is not contrary to or inconsistent with Section 53 or any other provisions of the IBC. Under Section 53(1)(b)(ii), the debts owed to a secured creditor, which would include the State under the GVAT Act, D are to rank equally with other specified debts including debts on account of workman’s dues for a period of 24 months preceding the liquidation commencement date. 57. As observed above, the State is a secured creditor under the GVAT Act. Section 3(30) of the IBC defines secured creditor E to mean a creditor in favour of whom security interest is credited. Such security interest could be created by operation of law. The definition of secured creditor in the IBC does not exclude any Government or Governmental Authority. 58. We are constrained to hold that the Appellate Authority (NCLAT) and the Adjudicating Authority erred in law in F rejecting the application/appeal of the appellant. As observed above, delay in filing a claim cannot be the sole ground for rejecting the claim.” 49. Rainbow Papers(supra) did not notice the ‘waterfall mechanism’ under Section 53 – the provision had not been adverted to G or extracted in the . Furthermore, Rainbow Papers (supra)was in the context of are solution process and not during liquidation. Section 53, as held earlier, enacts the waterfall mechanism providing for the hierarchy or priority of claims of various classes of creditors. The careful design of Section 53 locates amounts payable to secured creditors and H workmen at the second place, after the costs and expenses of the PASCHIMANCHAL VIDYUT VITRAN NIGAM LTD. v. RAMAN 1263 ISPAT PRIVATE LIMITED & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] liquidator payable during the liquidation proceedings. However, the dues A payable to the government are placed much below those of secured creditors and even unsecured and operational creditors. This design was either not brought to the notice of the court in Rainbow Papers(supra)or was missed altogether. In any event, the has not taken note of the provisions of the IBC which treat the dues payable to secured B creditors at a higher footing than dues payable to Central or State Government. 50. The Gujarat Value Added Tax Act, 2003 no doubt creates a charge in respect of amounts due and payable or arrears. It would be possible to hold [in the absence of a specific enumeration of government C dues as in the present case, in Section 53(1)(e)] that the State is to be treated as a ‘secured creditor’.