Since the land in question was never transferred to RIICO, RIICO could not have acted under the 1979 Rules at all. The State Government always continued to manage and control the subject land under the 1959 Rules. 15 (1987) 2 SCC 295. H 16 (1986) 1 SCC 264. BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 281 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] 35. The Appellant Unions have also made the following submissions A in support of the rights of the former employees of JKSL:- i) The unions have challenged the initial transfer lease deed to Respondent No. 1 signed in 2007. This petition has been pending before the HC and its outcome will have a knock- on effect on all other proceedings initiated thereafter. This B includes the SLPs before us; ii) The Appellant Unions had accepted the AAIFR scheme only on the basis that the industrial units at LIA, Kota, would be restarted. The workers had been owed over Rs. 250 Crores in dues, of which they had agreed to take only a C small portion as the rehabilitation plan envisaged the restarting of the units and consequent employment for them. As the plan had abjectly failed and Respondent No. 1 was unsuccessful in restarting production, the labourers were owed the entirety of their dues. D C. ANALYSIS 36. With the assistance of the exhaustive and thorough submissions before us, we may now proceed to examine the controversy before us. C.1. Whether the LIA, Kota has been always under the management and control of the State Government or it was E transferred to RIICO pursuant to Government dated 18.09.1979? 37. From the recounting of the arguments raised on behalf of all the parties, the first question that arises for our determination is whether the LIA, Kota continued under the uninterrupted administrative control F of the State Government, or whether it was transferred to RIICO. To uncover the answer, it is necessary to recapitulate the facts which have already been referred to in extenso. There is broadly no dispute that Government land was allotted to JKSL on a leasehold basis in the year 1958. The said allotment was made by the State Government in G furtherance of its industrial policy, read with the power traceable to the Rajasthan Land Revenue Act, 1956. Section 100 of the said Act empowers the State Government to frame rules for regulating the sales of land in industrial and commercial areas, as well as the power to impose other conditions like annual assessment etc. In exercise of that power, the State Government formulated the 1959 Rules. The allotment of land H 282 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A to JKSL, thus, for all intents and purposes, came to be regulated under the 1956 Act read with the 1959 Rules. As an offshoot of the allotment of land, the State Government and JKSL entered into a bilateral relationship of lessor and lessee, respectively. It may be beneficial to refer to Rule 2 of the 1959 Rules at this stage which provides that the land in industrial area may be allotted on lease hold basis for 99 years “…by the State B Government in the industrialist department….”.