Further, most of the losses in GCV during long storage of coal takes place in the initial period of storage, mostly due to loss in volatile content. (iii) Reduction in GCV during handling inside power plant F C&AG in its Performance Audit Report has observed that GCV of coal progressively decreased from ‘as billed’ stage to ‘as fired’ stage. It is acknowledged that there are minor unavoidable losses G inside the power plant in handling the coal starting from unloading point to the point of bunkering. Loss in GCV may occur mainly due to dust suppression measures used around coal conveyors and transfer points, loss in volatile matter during crushing of the coal etc. H 140 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A CEA has also examined the views taken by various state regulators for considering such loss for the purpose of tariff allowed to generators. However, as the margin would vary from plant to plant, season to season and varying coal characteristics, CEA is of the opinion that a margin of 85-100 kcal/kg for a non-pit head station may be considered as a loss of GCV measured at wagon B top till the point of firing of coal in boiler.” 117. Vide Corrigendum dated 18th October 2017, in the last sentence, after the words wagon top, the words “at unloading point” were added. 118. The aforesaid advice was given by the CEA after holding C meeting on 21st September 2017 with specialist agencies in the field of coal such as CIMFR and CPRI. It has also examined the views taken by various state regulators for considering such loss for the purpose of tariff allowed to generators. While considering at what point of time the margin may be considered as a loss of GCV, the CEA considered the D views of all the stakeholders. It, thereafter, opined that the loss of GCV should be measured at wagon top till the point of firing of coal in boiler. 119. As already discussed herein above, the CEA is an independent body having Members who are experts in various fields related to electricity generation, transmission, finance, etc. E 120. It could thus be seen that two expert bodies i.e. the CERC and the learned APTEL have concurrently held, after examining the material on record, that the factors of SHR and GCV should be considered as per the Regulations or actuals, whichever is lower. The CERC as well as the State Regulatory bodies, after extensive consultation with the stakeholders, had specified the SHR norms in respective Tariff F Regulations. In addition, insofar as GCV is concerned, the CEA has opined that the margin of 85-100 kcal/kg for a non-pit head station may be considered as a loss of GCV measured at wagon top till the point of firing of coal in boiler. 121. In this respect, we may refer to the following observations G of this Court in the case of Reliance Infrastructure Limited v. State of Maharashtra and others9. “38. MERC is an expert body which is entrusted with the duty and function to frame regulations, including the terms and conditions 9 (2019) 3 SCC 352 H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 141 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.]