(3) The age recorded by the Committee or the Board to be the age of person so brought before it shall, for the purpose of this Act, be deemed to be the true age of that person.” D 26.One of the arguments on behalf of the State has been that the Inquiry Report was prepared in a flawed manner, not conforming to the provisions of the 1973 Code. In this regard, Mr. Patil drew our attention to Section 2(61) of the 2015 Act, which stipulates that “all words and expressions used but not defined in this Act and defined in other acts shall have the same meaning respectively assigned to them in those E Acts”. On this count, his main argument has been that the Inquiring Judge ought to have taken evidence in the manner provided in 1973 Code while returning his finding on juvenility of the applicant. 27.It is apparent that the Inquiring Judge has conducted the inquiry typically as a fact-finding inquiry is conducted and has not followed the F procedure of summons trial. The documents on which he relied on were not formally proved as is the normal procedure in a trial and there was no examination or cross-examination on oath. But as it would be evident from sub-section (1) of Section 103 of the 2015 Act, the prescription for following the procedure in summons cases is for the Juvenile Justice G Board (“Board”) or the Child Welfare Committee (“Committee”) while holding any inquiry under the 2015 Act. Under Section 9(2) of the 2015 Act the Court also has been empowered to make an inquiry if the Court itself is of opinion that the person was the child on the date of the commission of offence. The mandate of following summons procedure has not been prescribed so far as inquiry which ought to be conducted H 1094 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A by the Court. The manner in which evidence could be taken has not been mandated. The manner in which the Court shall conduct such inquiry has also not been specifically prescribed. The procedure which has been followed by this Court in the present case has been to direct a Principal District and Sessions Judge, a Senior Judicial Officer at the State Level, to conduct inquiry within a given timeframe. As we find from the Inquiry B Report, the Inquiring Judge had directed a police officer to make authentication of the documents relied upon by the applicant and after the police officer gave his views on the authenticity of the documents, finding discrepancy in some of them. Thereafter, hearing was conducted before the Inquiring Judge, in which prosecution was represented by an C officer holding the rank of Director General of Police (“DGP”). Both the prosecution and police had filed report and statement before the Inquiring Judge. The Inquiring Judge himself applied his mind considering the submissions of the prosecution as also the learned advocate of the applicant and the applicant himself was produced before the Inquiring Judge.