Similarly, there are several issues which are non-arbitrable. There can be prohibition both express or implied for not deciding a dispute on the basis of an arbitration agreement.” 17. In Booz Allen and Hamilton Inc. (supra), what would be a non- arbitrable dispute was elaborated by this Court in detail. Emaar III (supra) then analysed whether this position has changed after the 2016 amendment in the Arbitration Act, 1996. The provisions amended in the Arbitration Act, 1996 particularly with which we are concerned here i.e., Sections 8 and 11 have already been referred to in the preceding paragraphs. This Court in Emaar III (supra), after a change in the provisions post amendment, referred to Section 2(3) of the Arbitration Act, 1996, which reads as under: 282 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. “2. (3) This Part shall not aff ect any other law for the time being in force by virtue of which certain disputes may not be submitted to arbitration.” Thus, it was clear that this part of the Arbitration Act, 1996 (i.e., Part I) shall not aff ect any other law for the time being in force by virtue of which certain disputes may not be submitted to arbitration. Those disputes which cannot be submitted for arbitration have already been referred to above and have been discussed in detail in Booz Allen and Hamilton Inc. (supra). For the sake of repetition and in to just make an illustration, these disputes would be: (i) patent, trademarks and copyright; (ii) anti-trust/competition laws; (iii) insolvency/winding up; (iv) bribery/corruption; (v) fraud; (vi) criminal matter. In A. Ayyasamy v. A. Paramasivam and Others(2016) 10 SCC 386, this Court in para 35 had held as under: “35. Ordinarily every civil or commercial dispute whether based on contract or otherwise which is capable of being decided by a civil court is in principle capable of being adjudicated upon and resolved by arbitration “subject to the dispute being governed by the arbitration agreement” unless the jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal is excluded either expressly or by necessary implication. In Booz Allen and Hamilton Inc. v. SBI Home Finance Ltd. [Booz Allen & Hamilton Inc. v. SBI Home Finance Ltd., (2011) 5 SCC 532 : (2011) 2 SCC (Civ) 781] , this Court held that (at SCC p. 546, para 35) adjudication of certain categories of proceedings is reserved by the legislature exclusively for public fora as a matter of public policy. Certain other categories of cases, though not exclusively reserved for adjudication by courts and tribunals may by necessary implication stand excluded from the purview of private fora. This Court set down certain examples of non- arbitrable disputes such as : (SCC pp. 546-47, para 36) SMT. M. HEMALATHA DEVI & ORS. v. B. UDAYASRI 283 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] (i) disputes relating to rights and liabilities which give rise to or arise out of criminal off ences; (ii) matrimonial disputes relating to divorce, judicial separation, restitution of conjugal rights and child custody; (iii) matters of guardianship; (iv) insolvency and winding up; (v) testamentary matters, such as the grant of probate, letters of administration and succession certifi cates; and (vi) eviction or tenancy matters governed by special statutes where a tenant enjoys special protection against eviction and specifi c courts are conferred with the exclusive jurisdiction to deal with the dispute.