JOSEPH v. THE STATE OF KERALA 517 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] punishments provided by law, or where a sentence of death imposed on a person has been committed under section 433 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 such persons shall not be considered for release from prison unless he has served at least 14 years of imprisonment.” 23. When it comes to date of release, the 1958 Rules also in various provisions, fi x 20 years, to be the deemed sentence for a convict sentenced to life imprisonment: “216. Date of release when two or more sentences run consecutively.– (1) The sentence of all prisoners sentenced to imprisonment for life or to more than 20 years imprisonment in the aggregate, or to imprisonment, for terms exceeding in the aggregate or to imprisonment, for terms exceeding in the aggregate 20 years shall, for the administrative purpose of calculation of the normal date of release be deemed to be sentence of imprisonment of 20 years…. 244. Tickets to be worn by convicts. – […] (2)(b) No other particulars, such as stars denoting health or the life shall be entered thereon, and nothing shall be entered on the back of the ticket. For convictions under sentence for life date of release shall be taken as 20 years from the date of sentence. In the case of a convict having a term of alternative imprisonment, the alternative date of release should also be shown. 299. Defi nitions in these rules. – […] (c) The sentence of all prisoners sentenced to imprisonment for life or to more than twenty years imprisonment in the aggregate or to imprisonment for terms exceeding in the aggregate twenty years shall for the purpose of these rules, be deemed to be sentence of imprisonment for twenty years.” The analogous provision, in relation to ‘deemed’ life imprisonment sentence, can be found in Rule 37723 of the 2014 Rules. 23 “377. Fixation of Conviction Period – (1) The sentence of all prisoners sentenced to imprisonment for life or to more than twenty years imprisonment in the aggregate or to imprisonment for terms exceeding in the aggregate twenty years shall for the purpose of remission rules, be deemed to be sentence of imprisonment for 20 years. 518 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. B. Analysing the law in the present factual matrix 24. Section 99 of the 2010 Act, empowers the state government to make rules consistent with the Act, and sub-clause (xxxii) pertains specifi cally to the authority which may recommend premature release of prisoners under Section 77. The State government has painstakingly framed these rules. As per Rule 462 of the 2014 Rules, Jail Advisory Boards were constituted in each prison, to make recommendations for the premature release of prisoners. The composition of these Boards includes – Director General of Prisons and Correctional Services as Chairman, Superintendent of Prisons as Member Secretary, and the District Collector, District & Sessions Judge, Commissioner of Police or District Police Chief, District Probation Offi cer, and three non-offi cial members appointed by the government – as members.