The amount of Rs.50/- recovered by way of entertainment tax is required to be notionally adjusted against the F amount of eligible capital investment till the amount of Rs. 10 crores gets exhausted or till the expiry of a period of ten years whichever is earlier.” 8. The same contention was urged before the High Court which recorded as under: G “57. Mr. Nanavati further contended that even on merits, the impugned Circulars deserve to be quashed and set aside. Form 17 which is the form of register of tickets not being complementary tickets, issued when tax is payable under H 120 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Section 3 of the Act, clearly stipulates mention of price of ticket including entertainment tax under Column 2, which also goes to show that the entertainment tax is payable on the gross receipt and there is no question of notionally calculating the tax. The returns submitted by few members of Multiplex Association would show that they have been showing the B price of the ticket inclusive of tax and seeking exemption on the basis of the rate applicable by calculating tax on the receipt. Since beginning, the members of the Association have been filing monthly returns on the basis of tax calculated on the receipt made and the respondent authorities have been C accepting the same without any objection. In the case of M/s. lnox Multiplex, the Mamlatdar, Vadodara has passed an assessment by calculating tax on the total receipt i.e. for example for the period between 19.09.2003 and 25.9.2003, the gross collection is Rs. 10,30,746/-. The Mamlatdar has assessed Rs.5,15,373/- as net tax payable at D the rate of 50%. M/s. lnox Entertainment Limited, Vadodara was issued an ad hoc eligibility certificate for an amount of Rs.554.45 Lacs. For the purposes of calculating the amount of tax till the limit of Rs.554.45 Lacs, the Mamlatdar has considered 100% of the gross, collection i.e. on gross E collection of Rs.4,32,268/-, the Mamlatdar has assessed a tax on Rs.4,32,268/-.” The claim in the writ petition inter alia was as follows: “(B) The Hon’ble Court may be pleased to issue a writ of mandamus or any other appropriate writ, or direction F directing the Respondents to consider only the amount of entertainment tax payable notionally by the members of the Petitioner Association to the Respondent State as the capital value for the purpose of setting off the eligible capital investment of the members of the Petitioner Association as contemplated under the scheme contained in the Resolution G at Annexure-A hereto;” 9. The state’s contention, on the other hand was that since the appellant had the benefit of tax exemption, the element of tax had to be added to the actual amount collected. This was sought to be urged by the State in its counter affidavit in following terms: H THE STATE OF GUJARAT & ORS. v. MULTIPLEX ASSN. OF 121 GUJARAT THROUGH ITS PRESIDENT [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] “5.5 In view of the aforesaid, it is respectfully submitted that A section 3 envisages the rate of tax which is to be levied on the payment for admission to the entertainment.