The directions prayed for in the present writ petition, can be traced directly to the obligations and duties set out in the express provisions of this Act: Prayer Provision under Public functionary in the Act charge/ obligation on (a) Implement the - Union of India, State provisions of the governments, and union POSH Act and territories Rules (b) Notify and Section 5 State and UT governments appoint district offi cers (c) Appointing LCs Section 6 and 7 District Offi cer in each district (d) Appointing Section 6(2) District Offi cer nodal offi cers (e) Constituting Section 4 To be constituted by each ICCs in all employer workplaces as defi ned under s. 2(o) (f) Ensure reporting Section 21 and District Offi cers and collection 22 o f a n n u a l compliance reports from all workplaces INITIATIVES FOR INCLUSION FOUNDATION & ANR. v.693 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (g) A n n u a l Section 23 Appropriate government compliance reports are consolidated and the reports are published in the public domain (h) Publicising the Section 24; Appropriate government; Act and Rules Section 20(2) District Officer to take and organize measures for engaging a w a r e n e s s NGOs for creation of a c t i v i t i e s awareness to advance understanding of the provisions of the Act (i) Gist of important Section 19(b) Duty of each employer provisions will be displayed at all working places (j) Framing of rules Section 29 Union Government and or direction to clarify aspects not covered u n d e r t h e prevailing Rules 19. Prayer (g) directing the State/UT governments to ensure that the annual compliance reports collected by the District Offi cers are consolidated and the reports are published in the public domain, requires some consideration. Section 23 of the Act reads as follows: “23. Appropriate Government to monitor implementation and maintain data.- The appropriate government shall monitor the implementation of this Act and maintain data on the number of cases fi led and disposed of in respect of all cases of sexual harassment at workplaces.” 694 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. While the Act does not contemplate such publication in the public domain, there is certainly merit in using this anonymised data on cases lodged and disposed, to consolidate statistics, that will refl ect effi cacy of the implementation of the Act. Therefore, while there is no need for such an express direction by this court, the Central Government, and State Government, as the case may be, in the interest of transparency and good governance may consider to make these statistics public– the access to which, would certainly have a positive impact on various stakeholders. This in turn will also strengthen the monitoring of the implementation of this Act. 20. Prayer (j) seeking the framing of rules and/or directions as provided in Section 29 of the Act is limited to three lacunae pointed out by the petitioner: (i) to clarify the role of districts in collecting the annual compliance reports from ICCs and LCs; (ii) role of district offi cers in collecting fi nes for non-compliance of the Act; and (iii) identify the appropriate authority for collection of fi nes.