B Constitution of India – Art.164(1B) – Appointment of Chief Minister – Pending disqualification petitions – Held: Disqualification is triggered only if disqualification incurred under the Tenth Schedule – Mere institution of a disqualification petition does not trigger some or all of the consequences which flow from the C disqualification itself. Disposing of the Writ Petitions, the Court HELD: 1.1 The decision in Nabam Rebia merits reference to a larger Bench because a substantial question of law remains to be settled. To give quietus to the issue, the following question D (and any allied issues which may arise) are referred to a larger Bench: whether the issuance of a notice of intention to move a resolution for the removal of the Speaker restrains them from adjudicating disqualification petitions under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution. [Para 70 & 71][907-F; 908-F-G] E 1.2 This Court should normally refrain from deciding disqualification petitions at the first instance, having due regard to constitutional intendment. The question of disqualification ought to be adjudicated by the constitutional authority concerned, namely the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly, by following the procedure prescribed. Disqualification of a person for being F a member of the House has drastic consequences for the member concerned and by extension, for the citizens of that constituency. Therefore, any question of disqualification ought to be decided by following the procedure established by law. Absent exceptional circumstances, the Speaker is the appropriate authority to G adjudicate petitions for disqualification under the Tenth Schedule. The Speaker is expected to act fairly, independently, and impartially while adjudicating the disqualification petitions under the Tenth Schedule. Ultimately, the decision of the Speaker on the question of disqualification is subject to judicial review. Therefore, the Speaker of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly H 862 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A is the appropriate constitutional authority to decide the question of disqualification under the Tenth Schedule. [Para 80 & 85][912- G, H; 916-A-B] 1.3 The plain meaning of the provisions of the Tenth Schedule, 1986 Rules, and Act of 1956 indicate that the Whip B and the Leader must be appointed by the political party. To hold that it is the legislature party which appoints the Whip would be to sever the figurative umbilical cord which connects a member of the House to the political party. It would mean that legislators could rely on the political party for the purpose of setting them up for election, that their campaign would be based on the C strengths (and weaknesses) of the political party and its promises and policies, that they could appeal to the voters on the basis of their affiliation with the party, but that they can later disconnect themselves entirely from that very party and be able to function as a group of MLAs which no longer owes even a hint of allegiance D to the political party. This is not the system of governance that is envisaged by the Constitution. In fact, the Tenth Schedule guards against precisely this outcome.