Today, on 16/8/08, I arrived for purchasing vrgetables at Azadpur Sabzimandi along with my friend Pappu S/o Shri Shokaran Singh R/o H.No.199, Bholanath Nagar, Near Railway Line, Sabzimandi Shahdara, Delhi. We purchased some vegetables from D Block and we both were going towards main gate from D Block Azadpur Mandi. Then, at around 3-30 a.m., when, we both reached at D Block Corner main road Azadpur Mandi, then, four boys, surrounded us and out of them, two boys, took out amount of Rs.14,800/- placed in my pocket. I and my friend Pappu opposed it. The four boys began to fi ght with us and out of them, two boys, by taking out some sharp weapon, attacked on the chest of Pappu and on my left hand and on my chest and on our screaming, the four boys, snatched the amount from us and ran away from the spot. The police personnel of PCR Van admitted us in BJRM Hospital. The four boys, having common intention, have looted the amount from me and on raising objection by us, with intention to kill us, while attacking by sharp object, have injured us. I will identify if four boys may come in front of me. You have recorded my statement as per my saying. Read over and affi rmed to be correct. Hence, it is requested that legal action may kindly be taken against them.” [Emphasis supplied] 4. Upon the FIR being registered as referred to above, the investigation started. On 17.08.2008 pursuant to the secret information, the three co- accused, namely, Vijay alias Kalia, Pawan Kumar and Sharwan Kumar were arrested from the DDA park, South Azadpur, Delhi. The appellant convict herein came to be arrested on 20.08.2008. 5. In the course of the investigation, the investigating offi cer decided to hold the Test Identifi cation Parade (TIP) of the accused persons. However, it is the case of the prosecution that the appellant convict herein declined to participate in the TIP on the ground that he was already shown to the witnesses in the police station. 6. It is also the case of the prosecution that after the arrest of the appellant convict, he made a statement that he would be in a position to show the weapon of off ence i.e. the ice pick which he had placed in one 894 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. corner of his house. The investigating offi cer is said to have discovered the weapon of off ence i.e. the ice pick at the instance of the appellant convict herein. 7. Upon conclusion of the investigation, the charge sheet was filed for the offences enumerated above. The case was committed to the Court of Sessions as the offences were exclusively triable by the Court of Sessions. The appellant convict herein and the co-accused pleaded not guilty to the charge framed by the trial court and claimed to be tried. 8. In the course of trial, the prosecution led the following oral evidence:- Sr. No.