Lastly, he pointed out that a total amount of Rs.1 crore has already been deposited by the appellants. G 15.Shri R. K. Raizada, learned senior counsel, submitted on behalf of the State that stamp duty payable by the appellants is to be calculated 1 (1968) 2 SCR 892 2 (1996) 8 SCC 664 3 (1971) 7 DLT 319 H 522 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A as per the prevailing market value of the sale deed land on the date of the execution of the sale deed. He submitted that the value of the property fixed by the parties under the agreement for sale has no relevance to the determination of the market value. The learned senior counsel submitted that even the consideration amount shown in the compromise decree has no relevance. He submitted that when a tenant purchases an B immovable property, he becomes full owner of the property, and he takes the property without any encumbrances. The learned senior counsel submitted that the determination of rateable value for the purposes of determination of property taxes is always made on the basis of hypothetical rent which the property may fetch. He submitted that the C rateable value fixed under municipal laws is not the market value for the purposes of the Stamp Act. He would submit that the Assistant Collector, the Appellate Authority, and the High Court have concurrently held that the appellants are liable to pay deficit stamp duty. The said s call for no interference. D 16. As far as the determination of market value is concerned, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants relied upon the decision of Karnataka High Court in the case of The Commissioner of Wealth Tax Mysore, Bangalore v. V.C. Ramachandran4. CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS AND OUR VIEWS E 17. It is not in dispute that stamp duty on a conveyance will be payable as per the market value prevailing on the date of conveyance. In fact, the appellants themselves have relied upon Article 23 of Schedule IB of the Stamp Act as applicable to the State of Uttar Pradesh. They have placed reliance on the said provision in their written submissions filed before the Assistant Collector. Paragraphs 2 to 4 of their written F submissions read thus: “2. The stamp duty payable on a sale deed is governed by Article 23 of Schedule I of the Indian Stamp Act. In the Central Act, Article 23 a stamp duty is payable on the value of the consideration of such conveyance as set forth in the sale deed. The consideration G as contained in the sale deed is Rs.1 lakh and therefore, if the sale deed was governed by the Central Act only, without the UP Amendment the Stamp Duty would have been payable on the amount of Rs.1 lakh. H 4 (1966) 60 ITR 103. SHANTI BHUSHAN (D) THR. LR. & ORS. v. STATE OF U.P. 523 AND ORS. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] 3. However, the Indian Stamp Act in its application to UP has A been amended by the UP (Stamp Amendment Act 1952) and Article 23 of Schedule IB as applicable to UP provides as below:- “Article 23 conveyance (as defined by Section 2 (10) not being a transfer charge or exempt under No.62.