5 is using the platform since 1970 i.e., much prior to the appellant getting the licence and therefore, being a senior licencee, he gets the right to use the platform allotted to him i.e., in front of Shop No. 27. 2.3 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned F common and passed by the Division Bench of the High Court the original writ petitioner – licence holder and owner of Shop No. 27 who is also claiming the right to use the platform in front of Shop No. 27 has preferred the present appeals. 3. Shri P.S. Patwalia, learned Senior Advocate, appearing on G behalf of the appellant(s) has vehemently submitted that the learned Single Judge as well as the Division Bench of the High Court have materially erred in confirming the allotment of the auction platform in question, in favour of original respondent No. 5. 3.1 It is submitted that the appellant herein was granted the H licence in the year 2007, however, so far as respondent No. 5 is GURJIT SINGH (D) THROUGH LRS v. UNION TERRITORY, 1049 CHANDIGARH & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] concerned, he applied for a fresh licence/renewal in the year 2009 A and he was issued a fresh licence in the year 2010 and therefore, as per seniority the appellant herein was entitled to priority. 3.2 It is further submitted that even at the time of submitting the application for fresh licence/renewal in the year 2009, respondent No. 5 submitted an affidavit dated 20.08.2009 deposing that he will B not claim any right over the auction platform. That in fact the licence was issued only after the said affidavit. 3.3 It is next submitted that the High Court has materially erred in observing and holding that carrying on the business in the shop and on the auction platform both are distinct and separate. That the right C to use a particular site in the platform is connected with the right to use the particular corresponding shop in view of the clear policy of the board i.e., “One Site One Shop”. 3.4 It is contended that the appellant herein is doing the business, has the licence and he is allotted shop no. 27 and therefore, he is D entitled to the allotment of the auction platform adjacent to and/or in front of shop No. 27. 3.5 It is further contended that so far as respondent No. 5 is concerned, he is doing business in shop No. 12 therefore, not to permit the appellant(s) to do business on the auction platform which is E adjacent to shop No. 27 and allotting auction platform to respondent No. 5 who is doing business in shop no. 12, just adjacent to shop No. 27 is unreasonable and arbitrary. 3.6 It is next contended that the appellant(s) herein approached the learned Single Judge challenging the co- allotment of the site to F respondent No. 5. That in any case the appellant(s) do not succeed in such challenge, they cannot be worse of compared to the position which they were in prior to filing of the writ petition.