OF CEN. EXC. AHMEDABAD v. M/S URMIN 613 PRODUCTS P. LTD. AND OTHERS [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] substance with other materials or substances. Any reference to goods of a given material or substance shall be taken to include a reference to goods consisting wholly or partly of such material or substance. The classifi cation of goods consisting of more than one material or substance shall be according to the principles of Rule 3. 3. When by application of Rule 2(b) or for any other reason, goods are, prima facie, classifi able under two or more headings, classifi cation shall be eff ected as follows: (a) the heading which provides the most specifi c description shall be preferred to headings providing a more general description. However, when two or more headings each refer to part only of the materials or substances contained in mixed or composite goods or to part only of the items in a set put up for retail sale, those headings are to be regarded as equally specifi c in relation to those goods, even if one of them gives a more complete or precise description of the goods. (b) mixtures, composite goods consisting of diff erent materials or made up of diff erent components, and goods put up in sets for retail sale, which cannot be classifi ed by reference to clause (a), shall be classifi ed as if they consisted of the material or component which gives them their essential character, insofar as this criterion is applicable. (c) when goods cannot be classifi ed by reference to clause (a) or clause (b), they shall be classifi ed under the heading which occurs last in numerical among those which equally merit consideration.” 64. On the strength of the inputs used in the manufacture of the disputed product and the end product which is sought to be classifi ed as ‘chewing tobacco’ by the assessee and ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’ by the Revenue, results in the moot question, as to what test is to be adopted namely, whether sole or principal usage test is to be applied? This Court in Westinghouse Saxby Farmer Ltd.’s case (supra) had an occasion to deal with similar issues and took note of the earlier dicta of this Court rendered in A. Nagaraju Bros. v. State of A.P., 1994 Supp (3) SCC 122 and held there is no ‘one’ single universal test in this matter. 65. Keeping these aspects in mind when the facts on hand are perused it would disclose the product manufactured by the assessee-respondent is 614 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. sold as ‘Gopal zarda’ and both the members of the tribunal namely, technical members and judicial members are ad idem on the issue of the manufacturing process of the goods and the product in question namely, they all agree that tobacco fl avouring substance is added and the judicial member has clearly held that the product is marketed as “fl avoured chewing tobacco”. This addition of scent or fl avour in the ‘chewing tobacco’ was contended to be ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’ by the Revenue, whereas the assessee has taken a stand that by addition of the scent or fl avour, it would not partake the character of the ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’ but continues to be ‘chewing tobacco’.