This is different from holding that a person who has been summoned as per Section 319 Cr.P.C. has a right of being heard in accordance with the principles of natural justice before being added as an accused to be tried along with D other accused. [Para 23][1212-D-G] 2. Further, when a person is summoned as an accused under Section 319 Cr.P.C. which is based on the satisfaction recorded by the Trial Court on the evidence that has emerged during the course of trial so as to try the person summoned as an accused E along with the other accused, the summoned accused cannot seek discharge. It is necessary to state that discharge as contemplated under Section 227 Cr.P.C. is at a stage prior to the commencement of the trial and immediately after framing of charge but when power is exercised the under Section 319 Cr.P.C. to summon a person to be added as an accused in the trial to be tried along F with other accused, such a person cannot seek discharge as the court would have exercised the power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. based on a satisfaction derived from the evidence that has emerged during the evidence recorded in the course of trial and such satisfaction is of a higher degree than the satisfaction which G is derived by the court at the time of framing of charge. [Para 24][1212-G-H; 1213-A-B] 3. Merely because in certain proceedings the persons summoned had been provided an opportunity of being heard cannot be the same thing as stating that it is a mandatory H 1198 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A requirement or a precondition that at the time of summoning a person under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C., he should be given an opportunity of being heard. That is not the mandate of law inasmuch as Section 319 clearly uses the expression “to proceed” which means to proceed with the trial and not to jeopardise the trial at the instance of the person(s) summoned by conducting a B mini trial or a trial within a trial thereby derailing the main trial of the case and particularly against the accused who are already facing trail and who may be in custody. A person who is summoned in exercise of the power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. cannot hijack the trial so to say and deviate from its focus and take it to a tangent C in to bolster his own case in a bid to escape trial. All that is contemplated when a person is summoned to appear is to ascertain that he is the very person who was summoned and if any summoned person fails to appear on the given date. On the appearance of the summoned person, no procedure of an inquiry or opportunity of being heard is envisaged before been added as D an accused to the list of accused already facing trial unless such a summoned person had already been discharged, in which event, an inquiry is contemplated as discussed above.