[2023] 7 S.C.R. 827 827 COAL INDIA LIMITED AND ANR. A v. COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA AND ANR. (Civil Appeal No.2845 of 2017) JUNE 15, 2023 B [K. M. JOSEPH, B. V. NAGARATHNA AND AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, JJ.] Competition Law: Competition Act, 2002 – ss. 2(h), 19(4)(g) and 28 – “Enterprise” – Applicability of the Act – Competition Appellate Tribunal affirmed the findings recorded by the Competition C Commission of India on various facets of abuse of dominant position against the Coal India Limited and its subsidiary company – Whether the Competition Act, 2002 applies to the appellants or not – Held: The appellants are Government Companies – They were created to take the place of the Central Government in the matter of supervising D control and managing the affairs of the mines – The “Sovereign function” of the Government has been excluded from the ambit of s.2(h) – Carrying on business in mining, cannot be described as a sovereign function – Hence, the appellant is a person within the meaning of s.2(h) , therefore comes under the preview of “enterprise” – The appellants being State, have a duty to keep E uppermost, in their minds, the goal in Art.39(b) – There is nothing in the definition which excludes a State monopoly which is even set up to achieve the goals in Art.39(b) – When Parliament enacts laws, it is deemed to be aware of all the existing laws – Parliament was aware of the Nationalisation Act – Therefore the express reference F in s.19(4)(g) of the Act to monopolies created under Statutes as also Government Companies and Public Sector Units for determining existence of dominant position indicates the intention of Parliament to bring State Monopolies, Government Companies and Public Sector units within the purview of the Act – No reason to hold that a State Monopoly being run through the medium of a Government G Company, even for attaining the goals in the Directive Principles, will go outside the purview of the Act – As a matter of fact there may be forums other than the CCI whereunder redress may be sought against action of the appellants – But that by itself cannot result in denial of access to a party complaining of contravention of a law H 827 828 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A which is otherwise applicable – The appellants cannot resist the imposition of standards of fairness and the duty to avoid discriminatory practices when a specialized forum has been created by Parliament under the Act – No merit in the contention of the appellants that the Act will not apply to the appellants for the reason that the appellants are governed by the Nationalisation Act and B that Nationalisation Act cannot be reconciled with the Competition Act – The Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1973 – ss. 5, 11, 28 and 32 – Constitution of India – Art. 39 (b). Competition Act, 2002 – s.28 – The Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1973 – s.32 – Conflict between s.28 of the C Competition Act, and s.32 of the Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act – Under s.32 of the Nationalisation Act, the mining companies cannot be wound up – This stands in contrast to s.28 of the Act which empowers the CCI to divide enterprises abusing dominant position including adjustment of contracts, formation of winding D up of enterprises among other things – Held: Parliament has authored both the Act – There is no question of lack of legislative competence – The words of s.28 of the Competition Act do not admit of reading down the same – If s.28 of the Competition Act is evoked and a direction is given to division, it would be inconsistent with the provisions of the Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act – It is E made apparent by way of abundant caution in s.28(1), that all that the CCI could would be notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force – Parliament has intended, in to ensure the proper implementation of the Act, confer power to division of an enterprise enjoying dominant F power – This would include the appellants as well.