Explanation. - For the purpose of this section “recognised consumer association” means any voluntary consumer association G registered under the Companies Act, 1956 or any other law for the time being in force. 13. Procedure on admission of complaint. — (1) The District Forum shall, on admission of a complaint, if it relates to any goods, — H ALPHA G184 OWNERS ASSOCIATION v. MAGNUM INTERNATIONAL 869 TRADING COMPANY PVT. LTD. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] xxx xxx xxx A (6) Where the complainant is a consumer referred to in sub-clause (iv) of clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 2, the provisions of rule 8 of I of the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) shall apply subject to the modification that every reference therein to a suit or decree shall be construed B as a reference to a complaint or the of the District Forum thereon. 17. Upon a conjoint reading of the aforesaid provisions, Section 2(1)(b)(i) of the 1986 Act would be interpreted to mean “consumers”. C Sub-section (1)(b)(i) to Section 2 of the 1986 Act stands on a distinct and different footing than sub-section (1)(b) (iv), where there are numerous consumers having the same interest. Sub-section (1) (c) to Section 12 of the 1986 Act alone has to be read with sub-section (6) of Section 13 of the 1986 Act which contemplates the procedure on admission of a complaint. The need for the application of I Rule 8 D of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (hereinafter referred to as “CPC”), which speaks of a plaintiff representing the other public as a whole would be required only in a case involving a complaint under Section 12(1)(c) of the 1986 Act. In other words, it does not have any application when similarly placed complainants jointly make a complaint seeking the E very same relief. In such a case, there is no question of I Rule 8 CPC being complied with as they do not represent the others, particularly when there is no larger public interest involved. Such complainants seek reliefs for themselves and nothing beyond. 18. The 2019 Act, contains pari materia provisions found in the F earlier one. Interpreting these provisions, this Court in Brigade Enterprises Ltd. v. Anil Kumar Virmani (2022) 4 SCC 138 has held as follows, “35. A careful reading of the above provisions would show that there is no scope for the contention that wherever G there are more consumers than one, they must only take recourse to 1 Rule 8 CPC, even if the complaint is not on behalf of or for the benefit of, all the consumers interested in the matter. There may be cases where only “a few consumers” and not “numerous consumers” have the same interest. There is nothing in the Act to prohibit H 870 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A these few consumers from joining together and filing a joint complaint. A joint complaint stands in contrast to a complaint filed in a representative capacity.