Furthermore, if the Lieutenant Governor diff ers with the Council of Ministers of GNCTD, he shall act in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Transaction of Business Rules. However, if Parliament enacts a law granting executive power on any subject which is within the domain of NCTD, the executive power of the Lieutenant Governor shall be modifi ed to the extent, as provided in that law. Furthermore, under Section 49 of the GNCTD Act, the Lieutenant Governor and the Council of Ministers must comply with the particular directions issued by the President on specifi c occasions.” 8 The proviso to Article 73 states that the Union of India shall not have executive power on matters over which the State can also enact on unless such power is expressly granted by the Constitution or law of Parliament. The proviso to Article 162 states that on matters over which both the state legislature and Parliament can make laws, the executive power of States shall be subject to and limited by the executive power expressly conferred upon Union of India by a law of Parliament or by the Constitution. GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 463 & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI] The Court held that NCTD has legislative and executive power with respect to services under Entry 41. Since, however, the subjects of Public , Police and Land are excluded from the domain of the Legislative Assembly, this Court observed : “160. […] The legislative and executive power of NCTD over Entry 41 shall not extend over to services related to “public ”, “police” and “land”. However, legislative and executive power over services such as Indian Administrative Services, or Joint Cadre services, which are relevant for the implementation of policies and vision of NCTD in terms of day-to-day administration of the region shall lie with NCTD.” 5. After the of the 2023 Constitution Bench, the President in the exercise of powers under Article 123 of the Constitution promulgated the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Ordinance 2023 by which a provision9 was included in the GNCTD Act 1991 excluding the legislative competence of the NCTD over Entry 41 of the List II. By an dated 20 July 2023, this Court referred the issue on the contours of the power of Parliament to enact a law under Article 239-AA(7) to a Constitution Bench. By the said , the application for the stay of the 2023 Ordinance was dismissed. 6. On 11 August 2023, Parliament enacted the 2023 Amendment Act. The petitioners fi led an interlocutory application10 seeking an amendment to the writ petition challenging the provisions of the 2023 Amendment Act. The constitutional validity of the provisions of the 2023 Amendment Act is pending adjudication before the Constitution Bench. 7. Rule 55(2)(b) of the Transaction of Business of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Rules 199311 requires the Lieutenant Governor to refer a proposal to appoint the Chief Secretary to the Central Government: “(2) Subject to any instructions which may from time to time be issued by the Central Government, the Lieutenant Governor shall make a 9 Section 3A of the 2023 Ordinance 10 IA No.