18. Hudson’s formula, while attained acceptability and is well understood in trade, does not, however, apply in a vacuum. Hudson’s formula, as well as other methods used to calculate claims for loss of off - site overheads and profi t, do not directly measure the contractor’s exact costs. Instead, they provide an estimate of the losses the contractor may 698 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. have suff ered. While these formulae are helpful when needed, they alone cannot prove the contractor’s loss of profi t. They are useful in assessing losses, but only if the contractor has shown with evidence the loss of profi ts and opportunities it suff ered owing to the prolongation. 19. The law, as it should stand thus, is that for claims related to loss of profi t, profi tability or opportunities to succeed, one would be required to establish the following conditions: first, there was a delay in the completion of the contract; second, such delay is not attributable to the claimant; third, the claimant’s status as an established contractor, handling substantial projects; and fourth, credible evidence to substantiate the claim of loss of profi tability. On perusal of the records, we are satisfi ed that the fourth condition, namely, the evidence to substantiate the claim of loss of profi tability remains unfulfi lled in the present case. 20. The First Award was interfered with by the High Court for the reasons noted above. The Arbitrator, in view of such previous determination made by the High Court, could have granted damages to the appellant based on the evidence on record. There was, so to say, none which on proof could have translated into an award for damages towards loss of profi t. A claim for damages, whether general or special, cannot as a matter of course result in an award without proof of the claimant having suff ered injury. The arbitral award in question, in our opinion, is patently illegal in that it is based on no evidence and is, thus, outrightly perverse; therefore, again, it is in confl ict with the “public policy of India” as contemplated by section 34(2)(b) of the Act. 21. For the reasons aforesaid, we fi nd no merit in this appeal. The same stands dismissed. However, cost awarded by the learned Single Judge is made easy. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal dismissed. Divya Pandey