[Para 11][935-A-H; 936- A] G 1.3 If the submission on behalf of the Revenue that in case of search even where no incriminating material is found during the course of search, even in case of unabated/completed assessment, the AO can assess or reassess the income/total income taking into consideration the other material is accepted, H 902 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A in that case, there will be two assessment s, which shall not be permissible under the law. At the cost of repetition, it is observed that the assessment under Section 153A of the Act is linked with the search and requisition under Sections 132 and 132A of the Act. The object of Section 153A is to bring under tax the undisclosed income which is found during the course of search B or pursuant to search or requisition. Therefore, only in a case where the undisclosed income is found on the basis of incriminating material, the AO would assume the jurisdiction to assess or reassess the total income for the entire six years block assessment period even in case of completed/unabated C assessment. As per the second proviso to Section 153A, only pending assessment/reassessment shall stand abated and the AO would assume the jurisdiction with respect to such abated assessments. It does not provide that all completed/unabated assessments shall abate. If the submission on behalf of the Revenue is accepted, in that case, second proviso to section 153A D and sub-section (2) of Section 153A would be redundant and/or re-writing the said provisions, which is not permissible under the law. [Para 12][936-B-E] 1.4 This Court is in complete agreement with the view taken by the Delhi High Court in the case of Kabul Chawla and the E Gujarat High Court in the case of Saumya Construction, taking the view that no addition can be made in respect of completed assessment in absence of any incriminating material. In case of search under Section 132 or requisition under Section 132A, the AO assumes the jurisdiction for block assessment under section F 153A. All pending assessments/reassessments shall stand abated. In case any incriminating material is found/unearthed, even, in case of unabated/completed assessments, the AO would assume the jurisdiction to assess or reassess the ‘total income’ taking into consideration the incriminating material unearthed during the search and the other material available with the AO including G the income declared in the returns. In case no incriminating material is unearthed during the search, the AO cannot assess or reassess taking into consideration the other material in respect of completed assessments/unabated assessments. Meaning thereby, in respect of completed/unabated assessments, no H addition can be made by the AO in absence of any incriminating PRINCIPAL COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, CENTRAL-3 903 v. ABHISAR BUILDWELL P. LTD. material found during the course of search under Section 132 or A requisition under Section 132A of the Act, 1961. However, the completed/unabated assessments can be re-opened by the AO in exercise of powers under Sections 147/148 of the Act, subject to fulfilment of the conditions as envisaged/mentioned under sections 147/148 of the Act and those powers are saved.