It is further contended that the democracy is a B facet of the basic structure of the Constitution.The appointment of Members of the Election Commission is being done on the whims and fancies of the Executive. The object of having an independent Election Commission is defeated. It is further contended that the Election Commission resolves various disputes between various political parties including the Ruling Government and other parties. This means that the C Executive cannot be the sole participator. The practice falls foul of Article 14. Elaborate reference is made to the Constituent Assembly Debates. Elaborating on the powers of the Election Commission, it is pointed out that the power to register a political party under Section 29A of the Representative of the People Act, 1951, has come up for our consideration. D The ruling of this Court in Indian National Congress v. Institute of Social Welfare and Others,2 that the Election Commission acts in a quasi-judicial capacity under Section 29A is relied upon. The Election Commission is clothed under Rules 6 and 8 of the Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) , 1968 to recognise political parties and allot symbols. Rule 15 of the said is pressed into service to E highlight that Election Commission is empowered to take a decision with reference to splintered and rival groups arising within already recognized parties. There is power to withdraw and suspend recognition for breach of duty to follow the model code of conduct or the instructions of the Commission (See Rule 16A of the Symbol ). It is blessed with the F power to enforce the model code of conduct. The Election Commission can, in exercise of powers under Article 324(1), ban a candidate from campaigning. The Election Commission is also empowered to remove star campaigners. Reliance is placed on the various Reports, which we will advert to at a later stage. Still further, support is sought to be drawn from the Second Judges case in Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record G Association and Others vs. Union of India,3and the of this Court declaring the NJAC unconstitutional in Supreme Court Advocates- on-Record Association and Another vs. Union of India4. The learned 2(2002) 5 SCC 685 3(1993) 4 SCC 441 H 4 (2016) 5 SCC 1 ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 31 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Counsel also relies upon the of this Court in Prakash Singh A and Others vs. Union of India and Others,5relating to reforms in the Police Administration. This is besides relying on Vineet Narain and Others vs. Union of India and Another,6 and the Third Judges Case in Special Reference No. 1 of 1998, Re7. It is contended that the Court may, apart from declaring appointment by the Executive of Members as B unconstitutional, direct the constitution of a Committee to recommend the names for appointment on the basis of the Reports, including the recommendations of the Law Commission of India in its Two-Hundred and Fifty Fifth Report. D. SUBMISSIONS BY SHRI JAYA THAKUR, C PETITIONER IN WRIT PETITION (CIVIL) NO.