However, the commercial wisdom of C CoC means a considered decision taken by CoC with reference to the commercial interests and the interest of revival of the corporate debtor and maximization of value of its assets. This wisdom is not a matter of rhetoric but is denoting a well-considered decision by the protagonist of CIRP i.e., CoC. As observed by this Court in K. Sashidhar (supra), the D financial creditors forming CoC ‘act on the basis of thorough examination of the proposed resolution plan and assessment made by their team of experts. The opinion on the subject-matter expressed by them after due deliberations in CoC meetings through voting, as per voting shares, is a collective business decision.’ This Court also observed in K. Sashidhar that ‘there is an intrinsic assumption that E financial creditors are fully informed about the viability of the corporate debtor and feasibility of the proposed resolution plan.’ These observations read with the observations in Essar Steel (supra) with reference to the reasons stated in the report of Bankruptcy Law Reforms Committee of November 2015, make it clear that commercial F wisdom of CoC is assigned primacy in CIRP for it represents collective business decision, which is arrived at after thorough examination of the proposed resolution plan and assessment made with involvement of experts by the body of persons who are most vitally interested in rapid and efficient decision making. It follows as a necessary corollary that to be worth its name, the commercial wisdom of CoC would come into G existence and operation only when all the relevant information is available before it and is duly deliberated upon by all its members, who have direct and substantial interest in the survival of corporate debtor and in the entire CIRP. H M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 905 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 47.1. In light of the aforesaid position of law and its operation in A relation to the decision-making process of CoC, it needs hardly any emphasis that each and every aspect relating to the resolution plan, and more particularly its financial layout, has to be before the CoC before it could be said to have arrived at a considered decision in its commercial wisdom. B 48. From the facts and the proceedings pertaining to the present case, as noticed in detail hereinbefore, it is but clear that in the ninth CoC meeting held on 22.01.2021, the resolution plan submitted by the appellant-resolution applicant was approved with 87.39% of the total voting share of the financial creditors present and voting. However, this C approval came with a significant condition that in view of the dissent by some of the financial creditors, the plan would be sent back to the creditors for further revision so as to make it complaint with Section 30(2) of the Code which provides that the amount paid to the dissenting financial creditors will not be less than the amount paid to such creditors in accordance with Section 53 of the Code in the event of the liquidation D of the corporate debtor.