Thus, Entry 25 of List III of Seventh Schedule under which the Assam Act, 2004, had been enacted was subject to the law made by the Parliament under Entry 66 of List I i.e., IMC G Act, 1956 which is a Central Legislation. vii. Respondent No. 7 placed reliance on Dr. Preeti Srivastava vs. State of M.P., (1999) 7 SCC 120, (“Dr. Preeti Srivastava”) to contend that a State Act cannot lower the H 940 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A standards fixed under the Central Act. That in the said case it was held that only the Medical Council of India could determine the lowering of standards or norms and the extent of the same. Therefore, the State of Assam does not have the legislative competence and authority to enact the Assam Act, which has the effect of lowering down the standards. B viii. Respondent No.7 contended that the in Dr. Mukhtiar Chand was not applicable in the present case. In the said case, it was held that the registration in the State Medical Register relating to modern scientific medicine was a sine qua non to enable persons, who, otherwise did not C possess recognised medical qualification, to practice modern scientific medicine. It was submitted that even if the name of a Diploma Holder was included in the State Register of Rural Health Practitioners as provided under the Assam Act, it will not give them the right to practice modern scientific medicine as per Section 15 of the IMC Act, 1956. D ix. It was further submitted that medical students are required to undergo rigorous teaching and training during the MBBS course which is a five-year course and it is only after they successfully complete the same that they become eligible to get registered in the Indian Medical Register or the State E Medical Register and thereafter, they become legally entitled to practice medicine and treat patients. Reliance was placed on MCI vs. State of Karnataka, (1998) 6 SCC 131, (“MCI”) to submit that Rural Health Practitioners were nothing but half-baked doctors who do not possess F the requisite knowledge in the field of medicine and have also not received proper training. That Rural Health Practitioners have limited knowledge and experience and hence, cannot be permitted to practice modern scientific medicine and administer medical treatment. It was further submitted that if such Diploma holders are permitted to G practice modern scientific medicine, then they would pose a great threat to society and would degrade the standard of health care system in the country. Submissions on behalf of the State of Assam: 9. Learned counsel Sri Ananga Bhattacharyya made the following H submissions on behalf of the State of Assam: BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 941 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] i. That the Preamble to the IMC Act, 1956 discloses that the A said Act is enacted to provide for the reconstitution of Medical Council of India and the maintenance of a Medical Register for India and for matters connected therewith.