The Inquiring Judge had marked the documents filed before him as exhibits. The Inquiring Judge examined each of the documents upon ascertaining the stand of the DGP and also the advocate representing the applicant. In application filed H NARAYAN CHETANRAM CHAUDHARY v. THE STATE OF 1059 MAHARASHTRA before us, extract from the school register was annexed which A showed applicant’s date of birth as 1st February 1982. Before the Inquiring Judge, this Court found that in addition to the documents annexed to the application, a certificate of date of birth issued by the school authority was also furnished by the applicant. The latter was issued on the basis of school register but this certificate was B dated 30th January 2019. [Paras 25, 27][1092-A; 1093-F-H; 1094- A-E] 4. This Court found no flaw in the procedure which has been adopted by the Inquiring Judge. So far as the procedure for making an inquiry by the Court, in this Court’s opinion Section C 9(2) of the 2015 Act does not prescribe scrupulously following trial procedure, as stipulated in the 1973 Code and the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. The requirement to follow the Code is “as far as practicable,” as per Section 103 (2) of the 2015 Act. The legislature, thus, while prescribing the summons trial procedure for inquiry by Board or Committee on age determination of a D juvenile claimant has not mandated any specific procedure for inquiry by the Court. It follows, by implication, that the Court can formulate its own procedure for conducting inquiry on this count. So far as the present case is concerned, this Court had directed inquiry to be conducted by the Inquiring Judge at the first level, E before whom the applicant and the prosecution had sufficient opportunity to present their version. The report of the Inquiring Judge was subsequently examined by us, again giving adequate opportunity to both sides. This Court has ourselves called for the original admission register from the school. The principal-incharge of the school, had given a statement in writing F at the inquiry stage, and the translated version of which appears at page 311 of the Inquiry Report. [Para 28][1094-F; 1095-F-H; 1096-A] 5. The school in question is a government school. The “date of birth certificate” of Niranaram has been issued by the office of G the headmaster of the said school. This certificate has been issued on the letterhead of the State Government carrying the national emblem. The principal of the school has in writing disclosed that the content of the admission register is maintained in ordinary course of business. Hence, in normal course the said register H 1060 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A would satisfy the test specified in Section 35 of the 1872 Act, of being a relevant fact. [Para 33][1105-A-B] 6. As regards authenticity or genuineness of the admission register, which forms the basis of certificate of the applicant’s date of birth, an argument is made that the whole register was B fabricated. His submission is that at the time the extract therefrom was produced before the Inquiring Judge, the same was not paginated.