That cannot be the intention of the legislature. 6.1 As observed hereinabove, the second proviso to section 140(5) of the Act, 2013 is a substantive provision, though it is by way of a E proviso, and the same shall operate and/or depend upon the final to be passed by the Tribunal in the first part of section 140(5). If the interpretation given by the High Court that on subsequent resignation and/or discontinuance of an auditor, proceedings under section 140(5) stand terminated and/or the petition under section 140(5) by the Central Government is no longer maintainable is accepted, in that case, second F proviso to section 140(5) would become nugatory and in no case there shall be any action under the second proviso to section 140(5). If such an interpretation, as interpreted by the High Court, is accepted, in that case, the object and purpose of incorporation of second proviso to section 140(5) shall be frustrated. The object and purpose of second proviso to G section 140(5), as observed hereinabove, is to make the provision more stringent and to provide for consequences for an auditor when such an auditor is found to have been perpetrating a fraud and is removed by the NCLT for such fraud. At this stage, it is required to be noted that under the second proviso to section 140(5) on the final being passed by the Tribunal that the auditor/firm has, directly or indirectly, acted in a H 1008 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A fraudulent manner or abetted or colluded in any fraud by, or in relation to, the company or its directors or officers, he/it shall not be eligible to be appointed as an auditor of any company for a period of five years. The word “any” used in the second proviso to section 140(5) is significant. On the final being passed by the Tribunal, such an auditor not only shall be removed or changed as an auditor of a company, but such an B auditor/firm shall also be ineligible to be appointed as an auditor of any other company for a period of five years. 7. Therefore, on true interpretation and scheme of Section 140(5) of the Act, 2013, once the enquiry/proceedings is/are initiated under first part of section 140(5) of the Act, either suo motu by the Tribunal or on C an application made to it by the Central Government or by any person concerned, it must come to its logical end and irrespective of the fact whether during such enquiry/proceedings the auditor has resigned or not, there must be a final to be passed by the Tribunal on whether such an auditor has, in fact, directly or indirectly, acted in a fraudulent D manner or not. Direction to the company to change its auditor as provided in the first part of section 140(5) is only a consequence to the finding recorded by the Tribunal that the auditor has, directly or indirectly, acted in a fraudulent manner. This is the first consequence of the final under section 140(5) (first part).