A (i) persons who by reason of bodily infirmity are unable without risk or serious inconvenience so to attend: (ii) persons who are in jail under civil or criminal process; and (iii) persons exempt by law from personal appearance in the Court. B [Explanation.—In this sub-section, “India” means India, as defined in clause (28) of Section 3 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897)]. (2) In the case of every such person the Registrar or Sub-Registrar C or Magistrate, as the case may be, if satisfied that the power-of- attorney has been voluntarily executed by the person purporting to be the principal, may attest the same without requiring his personal attendance at the office or Court aforesaid. (3) To obtain evidence as to the voluntary nature of the execution, the Registrar or Sub-Registrar or Magistrate may either himself D go to the house of the person purporting to be the principal, or to the jail in which he is confined, and examine him, or issue a commission for his examination. (4) Any power-of-attorney mentioned in this section may be proved by the production of it without further proof when it purports on E the face of it to have been executed before and authenticated by the person or Court hereinbefore mentioned in that behalf.” 7. According to the plaintiffs and it is not in dispute that the original owner was residing in East Pakistan. According to the plaintiffs, the original land owner executed the PoA in favour of plaintiff No.2 at Kumilla, F Bangladesh. The original PoA is not produced on record. As per Section 32 of the Registration Act, every document to be registered under the Registration Act shall be presented at the proper registration office by some person executing or claiming under the same, or, by the agent of such a person, representative or assign, duly authorised by PoA executed G and authenticated in the manner mentioned in Section 33(1)(c) of the Registration Act. Section 33 of the Registration Act provides that for the purposes of Section 32, only those power of attorneys shall be recognised as are mentioned in Section 33(1). As per Section 33(1)(c) of the Act, if the principal at the time of execution of the PoA does not reside in India, a PoA executed before and authenticated by a Notary Public, or any H MANIK MAJUMDER AND OTHERS v. DIPAK KUMAR SAHA 161 (DEAD) THROUGH LRS. & OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] Court, Judge, Magistrate, Indian Consul or Vice-Consul, or representative A of the Central Government shall be valid. In the present case, as such, the requirement of Section 33(1)(c) of the Act has not been satisfied at all. Section 32 of the Act is to be read along with Section 33(1)(c) of the Registration Act. Only in a case where the execution of the PoA is as per Section 32 read with Section 33(1)(c) of the Act, there shall be B statutory presumption under Section 60 and/or under the provisions of the Registration Act.