In to ensure proper monitoring and supervision of the investigation by the police authorities, the Union Ministry of Home Aff airs 1112 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. shall make available, on deputation, one offi cer of the rank of Police Inspector drawn from the States of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Jharkhand, Maharashtra and NCT of Delhi. The Ministry of Home Aff airs shall also nominate, on deputation, at least fourteen offi cers not below the rank of Superintendent of Police to be in charge of the respective SITs. The investigation by the SITs constituted for the State of Manipur shall also be monitored and supervised by Shri Dattatray Padsalgikar, the offi cer appointed by this Court for the purpose. The following directions are issued in this regard: a. In cases where the FIR relates to a sexual off ence (rape, outraging the modesty of a woman, etc.) in addition to any other crime (murder, grievous hurt, etc. ), the SIT which consists of women offi cers (Inspectors / Sub-Inspectors / PCs as described by the State of Manipur in the extract above) shall be in charge of the entire investigation; b. The SIT will visit each relief camp within the area assigned to it and make it known that it is an impartial body which is accepting complaints of violence (including sexual violence). This is necessary because many survivors / victims may not approach the police machinery of their own accord, especially in the aftermath of sectarian violence which may have resulted in the loss of family members and homes, displacement, and trauma to their own bodies and minds; c. Where sexual off ences are being investigated, the SITs shall follow all prescriptions in law intended to prevent the re- traumatization of women, including the second proviso to Section 161(3) CrPC. The SITs shall comply with the directions issued by this Court with regard to the investigation of sexual off ences including the directions issued in Nipun Saxena v. Union of India7 and XYZ v. State of Madhya Pradesh.8 7 (2019) 2 SCC 703 8 2022 INSC 799 DINGANGLUNG GANGMEI v. MUTUM CHURAMANI MEETEI 1113 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] d. The SITs constituted by the State of Manipur shall not consist exclusively of members belonging to either one of the communities involved in the clashes in Manipur; e. Should the offi cer appointed by this court require any further assistance of supervising offi cers at the DIG level or otherwise, a requisition in that regard shall be submitted to the Union Ministry of Home aff airs for necessary action; f. In the course of monitoring the investigation, Shri Dattatray Padsalgikar will ensure that, depending on the facts of each case, the FIRs are registered by invoking relevant penal provisions. Illustratively, some of the provisions are set out below: Indian Penal Code 1860 S.No. Section Description 1. 117 Abetting commission of off ence by the public or by more than ten persons. 2. 121 Waging or attempting to wage war or abetting waging of war against the Government of India 3.