8 Where, apropos Article 324 powers of the ECI, this Court held “However, it has to be stated this power is not unbridled. Judicial review will still be permissible, over the statutory body exercising its functions aff ecting public law rights.” 9 Where the learned 3-Judge Bench has considered a catena of the precedents relevant to the issue(s) before it. 98 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. maintained a hands-off approach is with the sole salutary objective of ensuring that the elections, which are a manifestation of the will of the people, are taken to their logical conclusion, without delay or dilution thereof. In the context of providing appropriate succour to the aggrieved litigant at the appropriate time10, the learned Single Judge acted rightly. In all fairness, we must note that the learned ASG, during the course of arguments, did not contest the power per se of the High Court to issue the directions it did, except that the same amounted to denying the Appellants their discretion. As stated hereinbefore, we are satisfi ed that in view of the 1968 , the Appellants’ discretion was not unbridled, and rather, it was guided by the 1968 . 38. The reasoning of the learned Single Judge, further expounded by the learned Division Bench, leaves no doubt that the relief sought by R1 was required to be granted and, accordingly, the same was granted by the High Court. The stark factor which stares us in the face is that well before and well in time, by way of the writ petition, R1 had approached the Court of fi rst instance (the learned Single Judge), for the reliefs, which have been found due to them ultimately, and upheld by the Appellate Court (the learned Division Bench). It is the Appellants, who by virtue of sheer non-compliance of the High Court’s s, be it noted, without any stay, can alone be labelled responsible for the present imbroglio. These stark facts cannot be broadly equated with other hypothetical scenarios, wherein the facts may warrant a completely hands-off approach. 39. This case constrains the Court to take note of the broader aspect of the lurking danger of authorities concerned using their powers relating to elections arbitrarily and thereafter, being complacent, rather over-confi dent, that the Courts would not interfere. The misconceived notion being that in the ultimate eventuate, after elections are over, when such decisions/actions are challenged, by sheer passage of time, irreversible consequences would have occurred, and no substantive relief could be fashioned is just that – misconceived. However, conduct by authorities as exhibited herein may seriously compel the Court to have a comprehensive re-think, as to whether the self-imposed restrictions 10 B S Hari Commandant v Union of India, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 413 @ Paragraph 50. UNION TERRITORY OF LADAKH v. JAMMU AND KASHMIR 99 NATIONAL CONFERENCE [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] may need a more liberal interpretation, to ensure that justice is not only done but also seen to be done, and done in time to nip in the bud any attempted misadventure.