The C question of determining the extent can practically arise only in a case in which there are a number of properties and some of them are earmarked for purposes recognised as religious, pious or charitable and others earmarked for the benefit of the waqif or his descendants. It may also arise in a case where a share in a property or a part of a property has been earmarked for the two D purposes. In the present case neither of the two waqfs contain such a direction. The entire property has been dedicated for the purposes recognised as religious, pious and charitable. It may also be possible to say that the property, which has been dedicated for purposes religious, pious or charitable, is the entire extent of the E property. The entire properties under the deeds will, therefore, be deemed to be waqf within the meaning of Section 3(11) of the Waqfs Act.” 53. We would think that the aforesaid view represents the correct approach and the extent of the income, which is set apart for the purpose, F be it religious, pious or charitable, in the facts, cannot detract from the dedication of the whole property. 54. Another contention taken is that vast extents of wakf property had been alienated by the sons of the original wakif and only about 100 bighas which constitute the subject matter of the appeals before us G remained. We are of the view that the argument is beside the point. The fact that the property of the waqf has been dealt with in a manner, which is illegal, or that it was not questioned, cannot deflect us from either finding that there was a valid waqf or that the property which remained of the waqf, must be dealt with in accordance with law. The compromise before the Deputy Director (Consolidation) and the H SABIR ALI KHAN v. SYED MOHD. AHMAD ALI KHAN AND 983 OTHERS [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] based on the same are in the teeth of Section 69 of the 1960 Act, therefore, A the s passed by the Consolidated Officer and Settlement Officer about the Waqf would revive. 55. Two questions remain. The first question, which we must consider is, whether a beneficiary of a waqf can succeed on the strength of the plea of adverse possession in regard to the property of the waqf. B The High Court has proceeded on the basis that a Mutawalli may not be able to acquire title by adverse possession. Equally, a trustee and a co- owner stand precluded in this regard, it is noted. A beneficiary of a waqf, however, being neither a trustee nor a co-owner of waqf property, can acquire title through adverse possession even if it is the property of C the waqf it is found. 56. A beneficiary of a waqf cannot be described as a stranger to the waqf. No doubt, a beneficiary is not to be conflated in his position with a Mutawalli. The Mutawalli is a manager of the waqf.