; and D (xvii) that unsettling the law laid down in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary at a time when the ranking of the country in curbing the menace of money-laundering has improved, will derail the whole process. 86. We have carefully considered the rival contentions. A careful analysis of the arguments advanced by all the three learned senior counsel E appearing for the accused namely Shri Kapil Sibal, Shri C.A. Sundaram and Shri Sidharth Luthra would show that a three-pronged strategy has been formulated in their attack on the initiation of proceedings by the ED. This three-pronged strategy goes as follows: (i) questioning the correctness of the decision in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary and seeking a reference to larger Bench (by Shri Kapil F Sibal); (ii) accepting the decision in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary as correct and trying to demonstrate how the initiation of proceedings in the present case falls foul of the ratio in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (by Shri C.A. Sundaram); and G (iii) relying upon some portions, but attacking some other portions of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary so that any one of these provide an escape route (by Shri Luthra). 32 (2004) 5 SCC 518 33 (2005) 2 SCC 673 H Y. BALAJI v. KARTHIK DESARI & ANR. ETC. 1081 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] 87. In terms of issues, the arguments advanced by all the three A learned senior counsel can be crystallized and formulated into two fundamental questions that may have to be addressed by us. These questions are:- (i) Whether without identifying the proceeds of crime or a property representing the proceeds of crime and without identifying any process B or activity connected to proceeds of crime as required by Section 3, which constitute the foundational/ jurisdictional fact, ED can initiate an investigation and issue summons? (ii) Whether in the light of the fact that notice has been ed in the review petition and a few interim s have been passed in some C proceedings, it is necessary for this Court to tag these appeals along with a review petition or defer the hearing of these matters until a decision is rendered in the review petition and other petitions? 88. Before we find an answer to these two questions, it is necessary to take note of how and why PMLA came into existence and what D geopolitical circumstances compelled India to bring the law. According to United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime34, South Asia, corruption is recognized as a crucial governance and security challenge in South Asia region. UNODC has estimated that corruption costs more than 5% of global GDP (US$2.6 trillion) annually, with estimates of global E money-laundering at around $500 billion (works out to INR 40 lakhs crores) annually. Based upon a study conducted by Pune based Forensic Accounting Company by name “Indiaforensic” way back in the year 2011 on “Ascertaining size of Corruption in India with respect to money laundering”, the Economic Times reported in its Edition dated 17.07.2011 that money laundered out of India in the decade 2001-2010 F could be pegged at Rs.18,86,000 crores.