The present case is one where Respondent No. 2, in collusion with other accused persons, has carried out an elaborate fraud against the Appellants, who are D vulnerable owing to their age and the NRI status. Additionally, the signatures used by Appellant No. 2 during the period between 1990- 2000 are dissimilar, unalike and non-identical from those inscribed on the alleged GPA dated 18.09.1996. In addition, the consideration of the alleged sale deed - Rs. 6.60 crores - is far less than the market value of E the Subject Land, which is stated to be Rs. 50 crores. 14. Ms. Bansuri Swaraj, learned Additional Advocate General appearing on behalf of Respondent No. 1 – State of Haryana, strongly contested the grant of anticipatory bail to Respondent No. 2 and supported the stand taken by the Appellants. It was argued that a strong prima facie case has been made out against Respondent No. 2, and that his F custodial interrogation is vital to the objective of unearthing the larger conspiracy. 15. Shri Maninder Singh, learned Senior Counsel representing Respondent No. 2, vigorously defended High Court’s view and asserted that each and every allegation, contention, and submission made by the G Appellants was factually and legally incorrect. Learned Senior Counsel argued that Respondent No.2 had originally purchased the land in question from the Appellants in the year 1996. However, at that time, there was a third-party lease existing on the land. In to address this, the H 420 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Appellants executed 1996 GPA, which was duly registered at the office of the Sub-Registrar, Kalkaji, Delhi. This GPA has not been disputed in any court of law and has not been challenged by the Appellants up to the time the civil suits were filed, clearly showing that the contestation of its validity was merely an afterthought. Respondent No. 2 had full authorization through the 1996 GPA to execute a registered deed of B conveyance for the property in question and receive consideration for it. On 24.02.2022, Respondent No. 2 sold the land through the exercise of power vested in him by virtue of the 1996 GPA. However, the purchasers have not been included as parties before this Court. The authenticity of the GPA had been verified according to the report of the Sub Registrar, C Kalkaji, dated 13.02.2022 and the sale of the land only took place after the receipt of the verification report. It was only after this that the Appellants began threatening Respondent No. 2 and the purchasers, and subsequently filed the civil suits contesting the validity of the GPA. Furthermore, the High Court has granted anticipatory bail to Respondent No. 2 subject to strict conditions such as providing specimen signatures D to the Investigating Officer and depositing Rs. 1.50 crores. The police have also obtained records from the Sub Registrar’s office and Respondent No. 2 has complied with all the conditions imposed on him by the High Court. C. ANALYSIS E 16. It goes without saying that the alleged offences of forging documents for transferring ownership of land worth crores of rupees are grave in nature.