Documentation is delayed only with F the idea of compelling the allottee to observe the schedule of payment.” (Emphasis supplied) 56. Lastly, there is the of this Court in Industrial Credit and Development Syndicate Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax, G Mysore & Anr.17. The assessee was engaged in the business of hire purchase, leasing and real estate etc. As part of its business, it leased out vehicles to its customers, and thereafter, had no physical connection with the vehicles. What is more, the lessees were registered as the 17 (2013) 3 SCC 541 H 578 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A owners of the vehicles in the Certificate of Registration under the Motor Vehicles Act. The claim of depreciation made under Section 32 of the Act was rejected on the basis that the assessee was not the owner of the vehicles. The Court found from the lease agreement that it was agreed that the assessee was to be the exclusive owner of the vehicle at all points of time. The argument of the Revenue that the name of the B lessee was entered in the Certificate of Registration under Motor Vehicle Act, and therefore, it must be treated as the owner under Section 2(30) was rejected. It was further found that if the lessee was in fact the owner, he would have claimed depreciation, which was not done. It was also found that the entire lease rent was assessed as business income in C the hands of the assessee. The Court went on to hold that in the facts it was the appellant-assessee which could be treated as the owner of the vehicles entitling it to claim the benefit of depreciation under Section 32. 57. This Court is called upon to decide the ambit of the word ‘owner’ in section 69A in the facts before us. This Court agrees with D the High Court that the concept of ‘owner’ cannot be divorced from the context in which the expression is employed. In the case of Jodha Mal (supra), the property undoubtedly stood vested as evacuee property with the custodian in Pakistan. The assessee wanted to claim the benefit of the losses it had made at a time when he had ceased to be the owner. This Court bore in mind the effect of the Act under which the custodian E in Pakistan became the owner. The claim of the assessee in the said case was that the custodian was owner only for the purpose of administration and that the assessee still continued to be the owner in the sense that he had the ultimate right to the property. This Court took a practical view as well noticing that thousands of evacuees who had F left all the properties in Pakistan would be visited with tax even though they had left Pakistan and they did not get a paisa out of those properties and businesses. It was found that for the purpose of Section 9, the owner must be that person who can exercise the rights of the owner, not on behalf of the owner, but in his own right.