Per contra, Sri N. Venkataraman, learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the Department of Revenue contended that the impugned provision is based on a reasonable classification of Sikkim Subjects, as a group, different from migrants/settlers of Indian origin. That such classification was founded on considerations which were H ASSOCIATION OF OLD SETTLERS OF SIKKIM AND ORS. v. 335 UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] designed to maintain peace and harmony within the Sikkimese society, A and therefore prayed that the same may not be interfered with. 35. It was submitted that Sikkim merged with India, as the 22nd State of the Union on 26th April, 1965 and consequently, Article 371-F was introduced in the Constitution of India by way of the Constitution (Thirty-sixth Amendment Act) 1975. That subsequently, by virtue of a B Notification dated 23rd February, 1989 issued by the Department of Revenue, Ministry of Finance, the I.T. Act, 1961 was extended to the State of Sikkim with effect from assessment year 1989-1990. That after the extension of the Act to the state of Sikkim, the Government of Sikkim continued to vacillate on extending co-operation for smooth C implementation of the central direct tax laws in the state and constantly sought extensions for the implementation, on various grounds. In to resolve the continuing impasse, the then Union Minister for Finance, in June 2004 constituted a committee having representation from the Government of Sikkim as well as the Central Government. During the course of deliberations of the said Committee, the then Chief Secretary, D Government of Sikkim identified that Sikkimese society was based on a classification of those Indians of Sikkimese origin who voted in the referendum of 1975, and others who were residents of the erstwhile Kingdom of Sikkim, but had not voted in the referendum as they were not registered ‘Sikkim Subjects.’ Accordingly, it was resolved that such E classification would be maintained for the purposes of determining income tax liability as any other classification would fracture Sikkimese society and lead to unrest and agitations within the society. With the aforesaid background, it was urged that the distinction between Sikkim Subjects and other residents of Sikkim, including migrants/settlers of Indian origin, was based on a reasonable classification. F 36. It was emphasized that this Court had recognized on previous occasions that Sikkim Subjects formed a group which was distinct from other residents of Sikkim. 37. It was next contended that exemption from payment of income tax could not be granted to the entire population of Sikkim simply because G they are domiciled in the State. Therefore, exemption was granted in favour of Sikkim Subjects and such other persons as specified under the Explanation to Section 10(26AAA) of the I.T. Act, 1961, having due regard to tangible social and historical differences between various categories of residents of Sikkim. H 336 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 38. Those migrants/settlers of Indian origin, who may have been residing in Sikkim prior to the coming into effect of the 1961 Regulation, chose not to get themselves registered as Sikkim Subjects by relinquishing their Indian citizenship.