Thus, the jurisdiction of the Revenue Officer in the G cases of partition is concurrent with that of the civil court. Therefore, for the purpose of interpreting Section 121 of the Land Revenue Act, the Court can safely draw an analogy from the provisions contained in XX, Rule 18 C.P.C. which pertain to the procedure to be followed on the passing of the decree for the partition of the property. The said provision reads as under :- H 584 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A “18. Decree in suit for partition of property or separate possession of a share therein.—Where the Court passes a decree for the partition of property or for the separate possession of a share therein, then,— (1) if and in so far as the decree relates to an estate assessed to B the payment of revenue to the Government, the decree shall declare the rights of the several parties interested in the property, but shall direct such partition or separation to be made by the Collector, or any gazetted subordinate of the Collector deputed by him in this behalf, in accordance with such declaration and with the provisions of section 54; C (2) if and in so far as such decree relates to any other immovable property or to movable property, the Court may, if the partition or separation cannot be conveniently made without further inquiry, pass a preliminary decree declaring the rights of the several parties interested in the property and giving such further directions as D may be required.” 29. This Court in case of Shub Karan Bubna Alias Shub Karan Prasad Bubna v. Sita Saran Bubna and Others9, had an occasion to deal with the said provisions contained in XX, Rule 18, and it was observed as under:- E “7. …. In a suit for partition or separation of a share, the court at the first stage decides whether the plaintiff has a share in the suit property and whether he is entitled to division and separate possession. The decision on these two issues is exercise of a judicial function and results in first stage decision termed as F “decree” under 20 Rule 18(1) and termed as “preliminary decree” under 20 Rule 18(2) of the Code. The consequential division by metes and bounds, considered to be a ministerial or administrative act requiring the physical inspection, measurements, calculations and considering various permutations/combinations/ alternatives of division is referred to the Collector under Rule G 18(1) and is the subject-matter of the final decree under Rule 18(2).” 30. If the said analogy is applied to the provisions contained in the Punjab Land Revenue Act pertaining to the Partition, we are of the H 9 (2009) 3 SCC (Civ) 820 JHABBAR SINGH (DECEASED) THROUGH LEGAL HEIRS v. 585 JAGTAR SINGH S/O DARSHAN SINGH [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] opinion that when a decision is taken by the Revenue Officer under A Section 118 on the question as to the property to be divided and the mode of partition, the rights and status of the parties stand decided and the partition is deemed to have completed.