[2023] 14 S.C.R. 62 : 2023 INSC 954 CASE DETAILS IFFCO TOKIO GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD. v. GEETA DEVI AND OTHERS (Special Leave Petition (C) No. 19992 of 2023) OCTOBER 30, 2023 [C.T. RAVIKUMAR AND SANJAY KUMAR, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: After motor vehicle accident, it came to light that the driver of the vehicle had fake driving licence. The High Court opined that the petitioner-insurance company had neither pleaded nor proved that the deceased vehicle owner did not take adequate steps to verify the genuineness of the driving licence and in the absence of such a plea on its part, the Tribunal could not have concluded that there was a breach of the terms and conditions of the insurance policy. Whether of the High Court justifi ed. Motor Vehicle Act, 1988 – Tempo Vehicle driven in rash and negligent manner hit motorcycle of the victim – Victim died – Dependents sought compensation – The Tribunal awarded them compensation and found that the driver of the Tempo had a fake driving licence and opined that the petitioner-insurance company would not be liable to pay the compensation – Tribunal awarded liberty to the petitioner-insurance company to recover the same from owners of the Tempo – However, the High Court held that the petitioner-insurance company did not have the right to recover the compensation from the vehicle owners – Propriety: Held: The petitioner-insurance company did not raise the plea that the owner of the vehicle allowed the said driver to drive the vehicle knowing that his licence was fake – Its stand was that the accident had occurred due to the negligence of the victim himself – Further, the insurance policy did not require the vehicle owner to undertake verifi cation of the driving licence of the driver of the vehicle by getting the same confi rmed with the RTO – Therefore, the claim of the petitioner-insurance company that it 62 IFFCO TOKIO GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD. v. 63 GEETA DEVI has the right to recover the compensation from the owners of the vehicle, owing to a willful breach of the condition of the insurance policy, viz., to ensure that the vehicle was driven by a licenced driver, is without pleading and proof – Also, once a seemingly valid driving licence is produced by a person employed to drive a vehicle, unless such licence is demonstrably fake on the face of it, warranting any sensible employer to make inquiries as to its genuineness, or when the period of the licence has already expired, or there is some other reason to entertain a genuine doubt as to its validity, the burden is upon the insurance company to prove that there was a failure on the part of the vehicle owner in carrying out due diligence apropos such driving licence before employing that person to drive the vehicle – Presently, no evidence has been placed on record whereby an inference could be drawn that the deceased vehicle owner ought to have gotten driving licence of the said driver verifi ed – Therefore, it was for the petitioner-insurance company to prove willful breach on the part of the said vehicle owner – As no such exercise was undertaken, the petitioner-insurance company would have no right to recover the compensation amount from the present owners of the vehicle.