shall be deemed to be so D released under the provisions of Chapter XXXIII for the purposes of that Chapter and does not ipso facto mean that the bail assumes the content and character of bail s on merit, of the kind conceived of in sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 437 or sub-section (1) of Section 439 of Cr.P.C. E 9.4 Thus, as per the law laid down by this Court in the case of Aslam Babalal Desai (supra), (i) release of accused on default bail under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. is not on merits, but on the failure of the investigating agency in completing the investigation and filing the chargesheet within the F stipulated time prescribed therein; (ii) That every person released on bail under Section 167 (2) Cr.P.C. shall be deemed to be so released under the provisions of Chapter XXXIII Cr.P.C., which includes Sections 437(5) and 439(2); G (iii) That the bail in favour of a person, who is released on default bail under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. cannot be cancelled on mere filing of the chargesheet, but can be cancelled on making out a special and strong ground that commission of non-bailable crime is disclosed from the chargesheet. H 760 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 9.5 In the case of Abdul Basit Alias Raju and Ors. (supra) after considering the decision of this Court in the case of Aslam Babalal Desai (supra), it is observed and held in paragraphs 13 and 14 as under:- “13. It is trite that Section 167(2) creates a deeming fiction whereby the release of a person is equated to his release under B Chapter XXXIII of the Code. However, an for release on bail under proviso (a) to Section 167(2) is not an on merits but an -on-default of the prosecuting agency. Such an could be nullified for special reasons after the defect/default has been cured. The accused cannot, therefore, claim any special right to remain on bail. If the investigation reveals that the accused C has committed a serious offence and charge-sheet is filed, the bail granted under proviso (a) to Section 167(2) could be cancelled on an application by the prosecuting agency. 14. Under Chapter XXXIII, Section 439(1) empowers the High Court as well as the Court of Session to direct any accused D person to be released on bail. Section 439(2) empowers the High Court to direct any person who has been released on bail under Chapter XXXIII of the Code be arrested and committed to custody i.e. the power to cancel the bail granted to an accused person. Generally the grounds for cancellation of bail, broadly, are, (i) the E accused misuses his liberty by indulging in similar criminal activity, (ii) interferes with the course of investigation, (iii) attempts to tamper with evidence or witnesses, (iv) threatens witnesses or indulges in similar activities which would hamper smooth investigation, (v) there is likelihood of his fleeing to another country, (vi) attempts to make himself scarce by going underground or F becoming unavailable to the investigating agency, (vii) attempts to place himself beyond the reach of his surety, etc.