Though the language used in section 33 could admit of a little bit of confusion, the crucial words there are “shall appoint in every establishment”. Paraphrased, it implies that while the appropriate Government is making D appointment in every establishment, it ought to reserve a minimum of 3 (three) per cent vacancies for persons or class of persons with disability, of which 1 (one) per cent each shall be reserved for those persons with disabilities of the nature mentioned in the clauses therein, i.e., (i) blindness or low vision, E (ii) hearing impairment, and (iii) locomotor disability or cerebral palsy, and that appointments shall be made on the posts identified for each such disability as in the said clauses. It is, therefore, the statutory duty enjoined by section 33 that there must be appointment of persons with disabilities in every establishment which ought not to be less than 3 (three) per cent but a minimum F of 1 (one) percent of vacancies, available on identified posts for each disability, has to be reserved. The confusion, might have stemmed from the narrow interpretation of the word “appoint”, without realizing that “promotion” is also included within “appointment”. The term “appointment” is quite broad and G includes appointment by ‘direct recruitment’ as well as appointment by way of ‘promotion’. Prior to Rajiv Kumar Gupta’s (case), there was no authoritative pronouncement on the aspect of reservation in promotion. The interpretation of section 33 of the PwD Act, 1995 made by Rajiv Kumar Gupta’s case finds its resonance in Siddaraju’s case. [Para 16][792-E-H; 793-A-C] H RESERVE BANK OF INDIA & ORS. v. A.K. NAIR & ORS. 777 1.2 The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 A expressly makes available benefits of reservation to promotional posts for persons with disabilities in that the first proviso to section 34 ordains that reservation in promotion shall be in accordance with such instructions as are issued by the appropriate Government from time to time. Law within the meaning of Article B 141 of the Constitution of India having been declared by Siddaraju’s and the GoI having implemented the of this Court dated 28th September, 2021 noted above and issued OM dated 17th May, 2022, the same constitutes “instructions” as contemplated by the first proviso to section 34 of the PwD Act, 2016. Such instructions contemplate reservation in promotion to C posts in Group – ‘A’ in the lowest grade. [Para 17][793-C-E] 1.3 When the provisions of the PwD Act, 1995 and the PwD Act, 2016 in relation to reservation in promotion for persons with disabilities are contrasted, it is clear as crystal that what was implicit in the former has been made explicit by the latter. [Para D 18][793-E-F] 1.4 There is no dearth of authority for the proposition that the PwD Act, 1995 not only mandated reservation in appointment but also contemplated reservation in promotion. Any perception and understanding of section 33 of the PwD Act, 1995 not E contemplating reservation in promotion is erroneous and fallacious.