(7) If any person is in the notified place in contravention of D an made under sub-section (4), then, without prejudice to any other proceedings which may be taken against him, he may be removed therefrom by any officer or by any other person authorised in this behalf by the Central Government. (8) Any person aggrieved by a notification issued in respect E of a place under sub-section (1) or by an made under sub- section (3) or sub-section (4) may, within thirty days from the date of the notification or , as the case may be, make an application to the Court of the District Judge within the local limits of whose jurisdiction such notified place is situate— F (a) for declaration that the place has not been used for the purpose of the unlawful association; or (b) for setting aside the made under sub-section (3) or sub- section (4), and on receipt of the application the Court of the District Judge G shall, after giving the parties an opportunity of being heard, decide the question. [10. Penalty for being member of an unlawful association, etc.—Where an association is declared unlawful by a notification issued under Section 3 which has become effective H under sub-section (3) of that section,— ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 549 [M. R. SHAH, J.] (a) a person, who— A (i) is and continues to be a member of such association; or (ii) takes part in meetings of such association; or (iii) contributes to, or receives or solicits any contribution for the purpose of, such association; or B (iv) in any way assists the operations of such association, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, and shall also be liable to fine; and (b) a person, who is or continues to be a member of such association, or voluntarily does an act aiding or promoting in C any manner the objects of such association and in either case is in possession of any unlicensed firearms, ammunition, explosive or other instrument or substance capable of causing mass destruction and commits any act resulting in loss of human life or grievous injury to any person or causes D significant damage to any property,— (i) and if such act has resulted in the death of any person, shall be punishable with death or imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine; (ii) in any other case, shall be punishable with imprisonment for E a term which shall not be less than five years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.] 13. Punishment for unlawful activities.—(1) Whoever— (a) takes part in or commits, or F (b) advocates, abets, advises or incites the commission of, any unlawful activity, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine. G (2) Whoever, in any way, assists any unlawful activity of any association, declared unlawful under Section 3, after the notification by which it has been so declared has become effective under sub-section (3) of that section, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years, or with fine, or with both.