In Kunal Majumdar v. State of Rajasthan, (2012) 9 SCC 320, this Court was dealing with an appeal fi led by a convict sentenced to death. It was noted that the High Court had dealt with the reference in a very casual and callous manner by merely stating that the counsel for the appellant therein pleaded for sympathetic consideration in commuting the death sentence into sentence for life. This Court noticed that there was absolutely MUNNA PANDEY v. STATE OF BIHAR 1057 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] no consideration of the relative merits and demerits of the conviction and the sentence imposed in the reference under Section 366(1) CrPC in the manner in which it was required to be considered. This Court while remitting the matter back to the High Court observed thus:- “16. In a case for consideration for confi rmation of death sentence under Section 366(1) CrPC, the High Court is bound to examine the reference with particular reference to the provisions contained in Sections 367 to 371 CrPC. Under Section 367 CrPC, when reference is submitted before the High Court, the High Court, if satisfi ed that a further enquiry should be made or additional evidence should be taken upon, any point bearing upon the guilt or innocence of the convict person, it can make such enquiry or take such evidence itself or direct it to be made or taken by the Court of Session. The ancillary powers as regards the presence of the accused in such circumstances have been provided under sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 367 CrPC. Under Section 368, while dealing with the reference under Section 366, it inter alia provides for confi rmation of the sentence or pass any other sentence warranted by law or may annul the conviction itself and in its place convict the accused for any other off ence of which the Court of Session might have convicted the accused or a new trial on the same or an amended charge. It may also acquit the accused person. Under Section 370, when such reference is heard by a Bench of Judges and if they are divided in their opinion, the case should be decided in the manner provided under Section 392 as per which the case should be laid before another Judge of that Court who should deliver his opinion and the or should follow that opinion. Here again, under the proviso to Section 392, it is stipulated that if one of the Judges constituting the Bench or where the appeal is laid before another Judge, either of them, if so required, direct for rehearing of the appeal for a decision to be rendered by a larger Bench of Judges. 17. When such a special and onerous responsibility has been imposed on the High Court while dealing with a reference under Section 366(1) CrPC, we are shocked to note that in the [Criminal Murder Reference No. 1 of 2007 under S. 366(1) CrPC, decided on 11-7- 1058 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R.