5 in asking respondents no. 3 and 4 and also the action of B respondents no. 4 in acting upon the request of respondent no. 5 to make entries (in red ink) of arrears of tax due recoverable as land revenue in the revenue record is thus bad in law. For the very same reason, in spite of No Objection issued by the State for getting the sale deed executed is thus in gross violations of the provisions of the Tax Act. C Further the right of the respondent-State to have a first charge on the property of the dealer can be only if there is proper adjudication and determination of the amount due under the Tax Act and in the absence thereof, it cannot be said that the tax is due and payable by the dealer. Till such time, the same D is done, there cannot be any crystallization of charge. The charge of the State is not a floating charge. In the instant case the Bank had already exercised its right and taken possession of the property much prior to the assessment dated 18-01-05 passed by the Assessing E Authority. In fact before the said date the property itself had been advertised to be sold by public auction. No notice of demand was ever issued under Section 14 and 16A before action under section 16 of the Tax Act was taken. Assuming that the first charge stood created prior to the passing of the F of assessment, in our view the provisions of section 35 of the Act would override the inconsistent provisions of section 16B of the Tax Act leading to the only conclusion and that there is no prior charge on the property except for that of the Bank with whom the property was mortgaged. Thus, in our view, looking from all angles the action of the State cannot G be upheld. The creation of 1st charge or status of encumbrance of property was recorded for the 1st time on 11-07-06. The record of rights, i.e. revenue record did not reflect any status of encumbrance of the property or creation of 1st charge in spite H 782 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A of the fact that the respondents were duly informed about the auction and issuance of the sale certificate by the Bank in favour of the petitioner. It was only when the State was satisfied about the non-encumbrance that the permission to transfer the property in the name of the petitioner was accorded. In fact, based on the revenue record the Bank B considered the property to be encumbered and accepted the same as a security. It took over the same and put it to auction as a secured asset which stands purchased by the petitioner as such.” (emphasis ours) C Civil Appeal Nos.9212-9213/2012 11. Punjab National Bank (for brevity “PNB”, hereafter) sanctioned term loan to M/s Superrugs (India) Pvt. Ltd. (for brevity “borrower”, hereafter) for manufacturing carpets. The loan that was provided by PNB to the borrower was secured by mortgage of its factory D premises situated at Baddi Industrial Area, District Solan.Shri R.T. Tejpal and Shri Durga Dass stood as guarantors (for brevity “guarantors”, hereafter).