A medicines are prepared according to classical texts using ‘genuine raw materials’. 29. There is no material on record to support the submission that IMPCL is the only establishment among the establishments mentioned in paragraph 4(vi)(a) that manufacture good quality Ayurvedic drugs. In B fact, paragraph 4(vi)(b) states that 50 percent of the grant-in-aid shall be used to purchase medicines from the units mentioned in the paragraph “keeping in view the need for ensuring quality of AYUSH drugs and medicines.” This would indicate that the need for ensuring quality is subserved by all the sources mentioned there. Besides IMPCL, which is an establishment of the Government of India, paragraph 4(vi)(b) includes C other establishments of the State Governments or co-operative societies. The contention that IMPCL does not have any commercial interest because it is an establishment developed by the Government of India is then equally applicable to other establishments prescribed in paragraph 4(vi)(b). D 30. The argument that the procurement of Ayurvedic drugs from IMPCL would fall within the exceptional circumstances (assurance of quality medicines) is erroneous. The submission of the appellant that IMPCL is the sole producer of quality Ayurvedic medicines is based on surmises and conjectures without any cogent material to support the E claim.15 In fact, the notification of 2 January 2019 issued by the Ministry of AYUSH stipulates that 50 percent of the grant-in-aid has to be used to procure medicines from IMPCL or other Central/State PSUs’ or pharmacies under the State-Governments and co-operatives.It is open to the appellant to procure medicines using any method other than tender, so long as it is not arbitrary. The claim of the appellant is that it deviated F from the rule of tender because IMPCL is the only establishment that produces quality medicines. However, there is no material to substantiate the claim that IMPCL is the only establishment which manufactures ‘quality’ medicines to the exclusion of other establishments mentioned in paragraph 4(vi)(b). The appellant has been unable to discharge the burden G placed on it by producing cogent material demonstrating that the procurement of medicines through nomination is warranted because of the existence of exceptional circumstances bearing on need for quality. The action of the appellants of procuring medicines only from IMPCL to 15 See State of Tamil Nadu v. National South Indian River Interlinking Agriculturist H Association, Civil Appeal 6764 of 2021. M/S IMPCL v. KERALA AYURVEDIC CO OPERATIVE SOCIETY LTD. 499 & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] the exclusion of the other establishments mentioned in paragraph 4(vi)(c) A is arbitrary and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. 31. In the given circumstances, inviting tenders from the entities mentioned in paragraph 4(vi)(b) is the most transparent and non-arbitrary method of allocation that can be undertaken. Hence, the appellant must henceforth purchase Ayurvedic medicines only through a free and B transparent procedure such as tenders. The appellant may deviate from this rule and procure medicines by nomination only if exceptional circumstances exist. In such a situation, the appellant must demonstrate the existence of exceptional circumstances on the basisof cogent material.