This standard is consistent with the principles of good administration which require that state actions must be held to scrupulous standards to prevent misuse of public power and ensure fairness to citizens. d. Consistency and predictability as aspects of non-arbitrariness 39. Another signifi cant development in the jurisprudence pertaining to the doctrine of legitimate expectation is the emphasis on predictability and consistency in decision-making as a facet of non-arbitrariness. In Ram Pravesh Singh (supra), it was held that the doctrine of legitimate expectation applies to a regular, consistent, predictable, and certain conduct. Similarly, in NOIDA Entrepreneurs Association v. NOIDA,29 this Court observed that an executive decision without any basis in a principle or a rule is unpredictable. It was held that such a decision- making process contradicts the principle of legitimate expectation and is antithetical to the rule of law. 40. In a recent decision in State of Bihar v. Shyama Nandan Mishra30, this Court was called upon to determine the validity of the decision of the state government to treat lecturers on par with secondary school teachers of nationalized schools. A two-Judge Bench of this Court held that the decision of the state government was ultra vires the Bihar Non-Government Secondary Schools (Taken over of Control and Management) Act, 1981. Moreover, the Court tested the validity of the government’s decision on the anvil of the doctrine of substantive legitimate expectation. The Court held that the government’s decision led to the denial of substantive legitimate expectations of the lecturers because: (i) the government by artifi cially grouping the lecturers with teachers of nationalized schools belied the expectation of the lecturers to obtain promotion and attain higher positions in the department depending upon inter-se seniority; and (ii) the government’s decision was contrary to the previous representation, lacked any compelling public interest, and was therefore unfair and amounted to an abuse of power. 29 (2011) 6 SCC 508 30 2022 SCC OnLine SC 554 698 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 41. In Shyama Nandan Mishra (supra), the Court also highlighted that regularity, predictability, certainty, and fairness are important facets of governance: “36. Taking a cue from above, where the substantive legitimate expectation is not ultra vires the power of the authority and the court is in a position to protect it, the State cannot be allowed to change course and belie the legitimate expectation of the respondents. As is well known, Regularity, Predictability, Certainty and Fairness are necessary concomitants of Government’s action and the Bihar government in our opinion, failed to keep to their commitment by the impugned decision, which we fi nd was rightly interdicted by the High Court.” (emphasis supplied) 42. In a constitutional system rooted in the rule of law, the discretion available with public authorities is confi ned within clearly defi ned limits. The primary principle underpinning the concept of rule of law is consistency and predictability in decision-making. A decision of a public authority taken without any basis in principle or rule is unpredictable and is, therefore, arbitrary and antithetical to the rule of law.31 The rule of law promotes fairness by stabilizing the expectations of citizens from public authorities.