D 14. Learned counsel appearing for the respondent submitted that there is an inconsistency in the contentions raised by the appellant. If the registration of the appellant is non-existent, the very complaint would become not maintainable. Even assuming that an individual complaint could be taken up, the forum would be that of a District Consumer E Disputes Redressal Commission. As the Hon’ble High Court has not granted any stay of the s passed by the State Registrar and the Registrar General, there is no infirmity in the impugned s. DISCUSSION F 15. The Consumer Protection Act, 1986; 68 of 1986 (hereinafter referred to as “the 1986 Act”) and the Consumer Protection Act, 2019; 35 of 2019 (hereinafter referred to as “the 2019 Act”) have got a laudable objective. The 2019 Act facilitates the consumers to approach the forums by providing a very flexible procedure. It is meant to encourage consumerism in the country. Any technical approach in construing the G provisions against the consumer would go against the very objective behind the enactment. We wish to place reliance on the recent decision of this Court in National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Harsolia Motors, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 409, H 866 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A “21. The Act, 1986 is a social benefit-oriented legislation and, therefore, the Court has to adopt a constructive liberal approach while construing the provisions of the Act. To begin with the Preamble of the Act, 1986 which can afford useful assistance to ascertain the legislative intention, it was enacted to provide for the protection of the interests of consumers. Use of the word B “protection” furnishes key to the minds of makers of the Act. Various definitions and provisions which elaborately attempt to achieve this objective have to be construed in this light without departing from the settled law that a Preamble cannot control otherwise plain meaning of a provision. C 22. In fact, the law meets long felt necessity of protecting the common man from such wrong for which the remedy under ordinary law for various reasons has become illusory. Various legislations and regulations permitting the State to intervene and protect interests of the consumers have become a haven for D unscrupulous ones as the enforcement machinery either does not move or it moves ineffectively and inefficiently for reasons which are not necessary to be stated. 23. The importance of the Act lies in promoting welfare of the society by enabling the consumer to participate directly in the E market economy. A scrutiny of various definitions such as “consumer”, “service”, “trader”, “unfair trade practice” indicates that legislature has attempted to widen the ambit and reach of the Act. Each of these definitions are in two parts, one explanatory and the other inclusive. The explanatory or the main part itself uses expressions of amplitude indicating clearly its wide sweep F within its ambit to widen such things which otherwise would have been beyond its natural import. 24. The provisions of the Act, 1986 thus have to be construed in favour of the consumer to achieve the purpose of enactment as G it is a social benefit-oriented legislation.