A perusal of Section 39 would clearly reveal that a right to compensation is conferred on any person whose property is ‘injuriously G affected’ by any of the provisions contained in the master plan. A person seeking to develop his land and if he falls within the ambit of rule/regulation in question cannot be described as a person whose property is injuriously affected by the provisions of the master plan inter alia. The very language used in Section 39 appears to be incongruous with the raising of any H such claim.It is not as if the parties have in this case raised any such ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1087 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] claim.The contention taken in the case of M/s. Keyaram Hotels is that A Section 39 provides for compensation to persons who are affected in the manner provided in the said provision. The provision actually deals with cases of a person having property, who, with the making of a master plan, inter alia, becomes injuriously affected. The words ‘injuriously affected’ would bear meaning if expounded with reference to a person B who has a property and that property becomes injuriously affected by virtue of the provision of any master plan. Take for instance, the land of a person is found to fall in a zone which is earmarked in the primary residential use zone. The provision in the DCR which forms part of the plan inter alia provides that all uses not specifically permitted under sub- rule (a) and (b) will stand prohibited in the zone. The proviso is only to be C understood as qualifying the ambit of the main provision which itself must be understood has application in cases where a person is injuriously affected by the provision of a master plan interalia. 65. We are reinforced in our view that the contention of the appellants is misplaced with reference to the concept of ‘injuriously D affected’ finding expression in Section 39, having regard to the decision by this Court in Prakash Amichand Shah v. State of Gujarat34. This was also a case relating to town planning.It arose under the Bombay Town Planning Act. We may only refer to paragraph 10 which reads as follows: E “10. Section 69 states that the owner of any property or right which is injuriously affected by the making of a town planning scheme shall be entitled to obtain compensation from the local authority or from any person benefited or partly from the local authority and partly from such person as the Town Planning Officer may in each case determine. It seems obvious that the property F or right which is injuriously affected by the making of a town planning scheme is a property or right other than that acquired for the purposes of the scheme. The property or right affected remains with the owner who is entitled to compensation for such injurious affection. When under the Act a plot of land is taken for the G purposes of a town planning scheme, it cannot be suggested that that land itself is injuriously affected; such a view is unsupportable both as a matter of language and having regard to the scheme of the Act.