The standard of proof for rebutting the presumption is that of preponderance of probabilities. 25.3. To rebut the presumption, it is open for the accused to rely on evidence led by him or the accused can also rely on the B materials submitted by the complainant in to raise a probable defence. Inference of preponderance of probabilities can be drawn not only from the materials brought on record by the parties but also by reference to the circumstances upon which they rely. 25.4. That it is not necessary for the accused to come in C the witness box in support of his defence, Section 139 imposed an evidentiary burden and not a persuasive burden. 25.5. It is not necessary for the accused to come in the witness box to support his defence.” 13. It can thus be seen that this Court has held that once the D execution of cheque is admitted, Section 139 of the N.I. Act mandates a presumption that the cheque was for the discharge of any debt or other liability. It has however been held that the presumption under Section 139 is a rebuttable presumption and the onus is on the accused to raise the probable defence. The standard of proof for rebutting the presumption is that of preponderance of probabilities. It has further been held that to E rebut the presumption, it is open for the accused to rely on evidence led by him or the accused can also rely on the materials submitted by the complainant in to raise a probable defence. It has been held that inference of preponderance of probabilities can be drawn not only from the materials brought on record by the parties but also by reference to the circumstances upon which they rely. F 14. In the said case, i.e. Baslingappa v. Mudibasappa (supra), the learned Trial Court, after considering the evidence and material on record, held that the accused had raised a probable defence regarding the financial capacity of the complainant. The accused was, therefore, acquitted. Aggrieved thereby, the complainant preferred an appeal before G the High Court. The High Court reversed the same and convicted the accused. This Court found that unless the High Court came to a finding that the finding of the learned Trial Court regarding financial capacity of the complainant was perverse, it was not permissible for the High Court to interfere with the same. 15. In the present case, the accused appellant had examined Mr. H Sarsaiyyn, Income Tax Officer, Ward No.18, Circle (II) (5), who RAJARAM S/O SRIRAMULU NAIDU THROUGH L.RS.v. 819 MARUTHACHALAM THROUGH L.RS. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] produced certified copies of the Income Tax Returns of the complainant A for the financial year 1995-96, 1996-97, 1997-98 and 1998-99. The certified copies of the Income Tax Returns established that the complainant had not declared that he had lent Rs.3 lakh to the accused. It further established that the agricultural income also was not declared in the Income Tax Returns. B 16. The learned Trial Court further found that from the income which was shown in the Income Tax Return, which was duly exhibited, it was clear that the complainant(s) did not have financial capacity to lend money as alleged.