(o) “service” means service of any description which is made available to potential users and includes the provision of facilities in connection with banking, financing, insurance, transport, processing, supply of electrical or other energy, board or lodging or both, [housing construction], entertainment, amusement or the H 460 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A purveying of news or other information, but does not include the rendering of any service free of charge or under a contract of personal service.” 26. The word “consumer” is the fulcrum of the Act. Since the Act hinges on the twin concepts of defect in goods or any deficiency in B service, a consumer is one who buys any goods or hires any service. The term “consumer” has, thus, been defined to mean a person who is – (a) a buyer, or (b) with the approval of the buyer, the user, of the goods in question, or C (c) a hirer or person otherwise availing, or (d) with the approval of such aforesaid persons, the beneficiary, of the service or services in question With the condition super added that such buying of the goods or D hiring or availing of any such service, is for a consideration, - (i) paid, or (ii) promised, or (iii) partly paid or promised, or E (iv) covered by any system of deferred payment. 27. However, the word “consumer” so defined does not include a person, who, in case of goods obtains such goods for resale or for any commercial purpose, or who, in case of service, avails of such services, for any commercial purpose. An explanation appended to the above F definition states that the expression “commercial purpose” does not include the use by the buyer of such goods or the person availing such service or services, exclusively for the purpose of earning his livelihood by means of self-employment. 28. It may be noticed that Section 2(1)(m) defines “person” and G includes a firm, whether registered or not, apart from other categories without any distinction, big or small. So, as “services” defined under Section 2(1)(o) includes banking, insurance and if there is deficiency in service in the matter of banking/insurance, etc., subject to the fact that he is a consumer under Section 2(1)(d), remedy is always available to such a consumer to invoke the jurisdiction of the Act, 1986. H NATIONAL INSURANCE CO. LTD. v. HARSOLIA MOTORS 461 AND OTHERS [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] 29. This Court adverted to the concept of “consumer” as defined A under the Act, analysing the definition in the context of the Act, in Lucknow Development Authority v. M.K. Gupta3 held : “3……It is in two parts. The first deals with goods and the other with services. Both parts first declare the meaning of goods and services by use of wide expressions. Their ambit is further enlarged B by use of inclusive clause. For instance, it is not only purchaser of goods or hirer of services but even those who use the goods or who are beneficiaries of services with approval of the person who purchased the goods or who hired services are included in it.