30. That leaves us with the issue with regard to Carrying Cost. 31. In the case of ADANI Power Limited v. Central Electricity Regulatory Commission4, the CERC had come to a conclusion that F there was no provision in the PPA for payment of Carrying Cost for the period from the date of the Change in Law event till the date of approval by the Commission. As such, the Commission had rejected the prayer of the generating company to grant carrying Cost on restitutionary principles from the date of Change in Law till the date of decision. The APTEL, G while reversing the of the CERC and allowing the Carrying Cost, had observed thus: “29. To our mind such adjustment in the tariff is nothing less then re-determination of the existing tariff. 4 2018 SCC OnLine APTEL 5 H 680 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A x. Further, the provisions of Article 13.2 i.e. restoring the Appellant to the same economic position as if Change in Law has not occurred is in consonance with the principle of ‘restitution’ i.e. restoration of some specific thing to its rightful status. Hence, in view of the provisions of the PPA, the principle of restitution and judgement of the Hon’ble Supreme B Court in case of Indian Council for Enviro-Legal Action v. Union of India, we are of the considered opinion that the Appellant is eligible for Carrying Cost arising out of approval of the Change in Law events from the effective date of Change in Law till the approval of the said event by C appropriate authority. It is also observed that the Gujarat Bid- 01 PPA have no provision for restoration to the same economic position as if Change in Law has not occurred. Accordingly, this decision of allowing Carrying Cost will not be applicable to the Gujarat Bid-01 PPA.” D 32. The same came to be challenged before this Court in the case of Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (UHBVNL) and another v. Adani Power Limited and Others5. The court rejected the same and upheld the of APTEL. As such, the contention in this regard needs to be rejected. E 33. This Court, in the case of MSEDCL v. APML and Others(supra), after considering the relevant provisions under the Electricity Act, 2003 with regard to appointment, qualifications and Members of the CEA, CERC and the learned APTEL, held that these bodies are bodies consisting of experts in the field. After considering various s on the issue, this Court observed thus: F “123. Recently, the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Vivek Narayan Sharma v. Union of India has held that the Courts should be slow in interfering with the decisions taken by the experts in the field and unless it is found that the expert bodies have failed to take into consideration the mandatory statutory G provisions or the decisions taken are based on extraneous considerations or they are ex facie arbitrary and illegal, it will not be appropriate for this Court to substitute its views with that of the expert bodies.” 5 (2019) 5 SCC 325 H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 681 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J. ]