E. The parties have agreed to give cooperation to the either party for self construction of rehab building/s by the Samiti for the said occupants and completion of the said Scheme. F. The Samiti has also represented that they hereby undertake to actively assist the Developer in continuation, implementation and completion of the said entire Scheme on the said entire property.” As we can see it is an entirely private arrangement arrived at between the Developer on the one hand and some of the hutment dwellers on the other. SRA has no role to play in it, rather it is an arrangement at the back of SRA and is in defi ance of an already existing rehabilitation scheme, statutorily sanctioned, which was surviving. 15. The towers which the Samiti undertook to construct or to supervise their construction were towers D, E and F, under the said MoU which were then to be occupied exclusively by the members of the Society i.e., SSS. Subsequent to this, the Society was also registered as a public trust on 21.11.2009. In September, 2009, the consent terms which were arrived at in the Court between the developer and defendant nos.1 to 4, 6 to 9 and 16, read as under: “1. …….. SAYUNKTA SANGARSH SAMITI & ANR v. THE STATE OF 735 MAHARASHTRA [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] 2. Plaintiff s confi rm that they have arrived at Memorandum of Understanding dated 23rd June 2009 with one M/s. Sayukta Sangharsh Samiti, a Society registered under the provisions of Maharashtra Cooperative Societies Act and to be registered as Charitable trust under the Bombay Public Trust Act (Proposed) for better and smooth implementation and completion of Slum Redevelopment Scheme under DC Rules 33(10). Hereto annexed and marked as Exhibit “A” is a copy of the said Memorandum of Understanding. 3. Parties confi rm that the said Slum Redevelopment Scheme has been approved vide LOI dated 16th April 2005 bearing Ref. No. SRA/ENG/027/GS/ML/LOI (which may be revised from time to time if required) for development of the property bearing CS NO.1 (Part) and 2 (Part) of Lower Parel Division situate at JR Boricha Marg, Bombay – 400 011. 4. Defendant Nos.1 to 4 and 6 to 8 confi rm that they are lawfully appointed as Trustees of M/s. Sayukta Sangharsh Samiti and have been duly authorized by the said Samiti to sign the Consent Terms and confi rm having signed Memorandum of Understanding as duly authorized by the said Samiti and is fi nal, conclusive and binding upon the said Samiti. 5. Parties confi rm that the Defendant Nos. 7 and 9 are not members of the Samiti but are only will-wishers and supporters of Samiti and have therefore willingly agreed to join in this Consent Terms. 6. Parties agree that they have agreed to resolve all the disputes and diff erences among themselves as recorded in Memorandum of Understanding dated 23.06.2009. 7. Parties agree to adopt, confi rm and approve the Memorandum of Understandings which is annexed hereto. 8.