The issue is decided in favour of the Appellant. G 14.7 Issue No.7:- In line with our dated 28.9.2020 in A.No.116 of 2019 & batch, we hold that the change in law compensation shall be calculated based on the SHR specified in the MERC MYT Regulations, 2011 or the actual SHR whichever is lower and actual GCV of coal as H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 659 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J. ] received at the plant site. The issue is decided in favour A of the Appellant.” 21. Consequently, the APTEL allowed the appeal filed by APML, while rejecting the appeal preferred by MSEDCL. Aggrieved thereby, MSEDCL has preferred the present appeals. B 22. We have heard Shri M.G. Ramchandran, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant-MSEDCL and Shri Sajjan Poovayya, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of respondent No. 1–APML. 23. Shri Ramchandran submitted that both the MERC and APTEL C have grossly erred in holding the deallocation of Lohara Coal Blocks to be a ‘Change in Law’ event. It is submitted that deallocation of coal blocks is a matter between APML and Coal India Limited (for short, “CIL”) and the MSEDCL has nothing to do with the same. It is further submitted that any change to clearances/consents cannot be regarded as ‘Change in Law’. It is submitted that Clause 4.1.1 of the PPA devolves D an obligation and responsibility on APML to obtain and maintain all consents required under the PPA and, as such, mere deallocation of Lohara Coal Blocks could not be treated as ‘Change in Law’. It is further submitted that in Case-1 bidding, the arrangement of fuel was the responsibility of the bidder and, as such, APTEL is not concerned as to E from what sources APML would obtain the coal. It is further submitted that as per the PPA, it was APML’s sole responsibility to transport the coal and, as such, APTEL erred in granting compensation by factoring the additional cost of transportation. 24. As against this, Shri Poovayya submitted that, as consistently held by this Court in the cases of Energy Watchdog (supra), Adani F Rajasthan and Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited v. Adani Power Maharashtra Limited and Others3 [“MSEDCL v. APML and Others”, for short], since the deallocation of Lohara Coal Blocks was on account of inclusion of the said area into Buffer Zone of TATR vide notification of Government of Maharashtra G dated 5th May 2010, which was much after the cut-off date, both MERC and APTEL have correctly held that the said event would amount to ‘Change in Law’. It is submitted that the bid of the appellant was submitted on the basis that Lohara Coal Blocks was allotted to it. 3 2023 SCC OnLine SC 233 H 660 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A However, much after the cut-off date, on account of the notification issued by the State of Maharashtra, the coal block was deallocated and, as such, APML was required to obtain the coal from other sources which incurred additional costs.