As observed hereinabove, “Paville House” was sold for an amount of Rs.33 Crores. The assessee showed gains arising therefrom amounting to Rs.1,21,16,695/- as “long term capital gains” in the computation of their income for AY 2007-08. The working computation of capital gains was accepted by the AO, whereby the cost of removing encumbrances H COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX 7 v. M/S PAVILLE 313 PROJECTS PVT. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] claimed (Rs.10.33 Crores paid to three shareholders pursuant to the A interim award) was taken as “cost of improvement” and the deduction was claimed to remove encumbrances on computation of capital gains. On the balance amount capital gain tax was offered and paid. The assessment was completed on 15.12.2019 by the AO under Section 143(3) of the Income Tax Act (for short “IT Act”) accepting the “long term B capital gains” as per sheet attached in computation of income. 3.2 However, a notice dated 24.10.2011 was issued by the Commissioner of Income Tax-7 under Section 263 of the IT Act to show cause as to why the assessment should not be set aside under Section 263 of the IT Act. The Commissioner vide its dated C 24.11.2011 held that the assessment passed under Section 143(3) of the IT Act was erroneous and prejudicial to the interest of the revenue on the issue relating to deduction of Rs.31.05 Crores claimed by the assessee as cost of improvement while computing long term capital gains. The claim of the assessee that the said payment was made by them towards settlement of litigation, which according to the assessee amounted D to discharge of encumbrances and required to be considered as cost of improvement, was not accepted by the Commissioner as according to him it did not fall under the definition of “cost of improvement” contained in Section 55(1)(b) of the IT Act. According to the Commissioner, the expenses claimed by the assessee neither constituted expenditure that is E capital in nature nor resulted in any additions or alterations that provide an enhanced value of an enduring nature to the capital asset. The Commissioner also held that the payment as contended, was not made by the assessee to remove encumbrances. 3.3 The Commissioner also held that provisions of sections 50A F and 55(1)(b) of the IT Act have not been complied with and the assessment is not framed in consonance with the provisions of the IT Act and thus the assessment was erroneous and prejudicial to the interest of the revenue. Consequently, the Commissioner set aside the assessment passed by the AO with a direction to the AO to recompute the capital gains of the assessee in consonance with the G provisions of the IT Act as discussed in the . 3.4 The assessee approached the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (for short “ITAT”) by way of filing ITA No.16/MUM/2012 against the passed by the Commissioner, passed under Section 263 of the IT Act. The ITAT relying upon the decision of this Court in the case of H 314 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R.