5. Despite ensuring preparation of drugs strictly according to the classical texts, the prices charged by IMPCL compare F favourably with competing brands in most cases, for a few cases the process may be a little higher but as already pointed out there is more reliability in terms of quality assurance because IMPCL does not allow commercial interests over the mandate for preparing medicines strictly according to the G classical texts using genuine raw materials. For instance IMPCL does not use extra sugar or other taste enhancers mainly to make its medicines more popular. 6. In view of the above, you may like to consider meeting the requirements of State Government Dispensaries and Hospitals for medicines manufactured by IMPCL at the rates fixed for H M/S IMPCL v. KERALA AYURVEDIC CO OPERATIVE SOCIETY LTD. 497 & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] CGHS supplies but subject to the local variation in transport A costs. In that case you may like to contact Chairman cum Managing Director, Indian Medicines Pharmaceutical Corporation ltd., (IMPCL), Mohan Distt, Almora, U.P” (emphasis supplied) B 27. On 8 May 2008, the Government of India issued another memorandum stipulating that the medicines produced by IMPCL are according to classical texts and of assured quality. The memorandum mentioned that there is an absence of fully developed pharmaceutical standards to test the quality of Ayurvedic and Unani medicines. The relevant paragraph of the memorandum indicates that: C “(i) The medicines produced by IMPCL are strictly as per classical texts and hence prove quality. (ii) The rates of the medicines produced by the company are reasonable as the same are fixed by the Cost Accounts Branch of the Ministry of Finance; D (iii) In the absence of fully developed pharmaceutical standards for Ayurvedic and Unani Medicines in the country, the CGHS Research Councils is/are not fully equipped to ensure that the purchased medicines are of right quality.” E 28. The letter indicates that there is no methodto determine the ingredients and quality of Ayurvedic drugs. This would mean that there was no method to determine the quality of the medicines produced by IMPCL as well. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare noted that it has decided to purchase Ayurvedic drugs only from IMPCL because the process is fair and is scrutinised by a representative of the Ministry F of Finance. However, the first respondent contends that the medicines procured from IMPCL are vetted by the Ministry of Finance for the limited purpose of undertaking an audit. At this juncture, it is necessary to note that IMPCL has been set up by the Government of India in collaboration with the Government of Uttarakhand. The Government of G India holds 98.11 percent of the shares of IMPCL and 1.89 percent of the shares are held by the State Government. The letter issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare indicates that merely because IMPCL is an establishment in which the Central Government has a major stake, it is assumed thatthere is no ‘commercial interference’ and the H 498 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R.