‘S’ is guilty of an off ence under this section. Explanation 2.—For the purpose of this section,— (i) the expressions ‘obtains’ or ‘accepts’ or ‘attempts to obtain’ shall cover cases where a person being a public servant, obtains or ‘accepts’ or attempts to obtain, any undue advantage for himself or for another person, by abusing his position as a public servant or by using his personal infl uence over another public servant; or by any other corrupt or illegal means; (ii) it shall be immaterial whether such person being a public servant obtains or accepts, or attempts to obtain the undue advantage directly or through a third party.” MANISH SISODIA v. CENTRAL BUREAU OF 507 INVESTIGATION [SANJIV KHANNA, J.]  The existing excise policy was changed to facilitate and get kickbacks and bribes from the wholesale distributors by enhancing their commission/fee from 5% under the old policy to 12% under the new policy. Accordingly, a conspiracy was hatched to carefully draft the new policy, deviating from the expert opinion/views to create an eco-system to assure unjust enrichment of the wholesale distributors at the expense of government exchequer or the consumer. The illegal income (proceeds of crime, as per the DoE) would partly be recycled and returned in the form of bribes.  Vijay Nair, who was the middleman, a go-between, a member of AAP, and a co-confi dent of the appellant – Manish Sisodia, had interacted with Butchi Babu, Arun Pillai, Abhishek Boinpally and Sarath Reddy, to frame the excise policy on conditions and terms put forth and to the satisfaction and desire of the liquor group.  Vijay Nair and the members of the liquor group had meetings on diff erent dates, including 16.03.2021, and had prepared the new excise policy, which was handed over to Vijay Nair. Thereupon, the commission/fee, which was earlier fi xed at minimum of 5%, was enhanced to fi xed fee of 12% payable to wholesale distributor.  The appellant – Manish Sisodia was aware that three liquor manufacturers have 85% share in the liquor market in Delhi. Out of them two manufacturers had 65% liquor share, while 14 small manufacturers had 20% market share. As per the term in the new excise policy - each manufacturer could appoint only one wholesale distributor, through whom alone the liquor would be sold. At the same time, the wholesale distributors could enter into distribution agreements with multiple manufacturers. This facilitated getting kickbacks or bribes from the wholesale distributors having substantial market share and turnover. 508 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R.  The licence fee payable by the wholesale distributor was a fi xed amount of Rs.5,00,00,000/- (rupees fi ve crores only). It was not dependant on the turnover. The new policy facilitated big wholesale distributors, whose outpour towards the licence fee was fi xed.  The policy favoured and promoted cartelisation. Large wholesale distributors with high market share because of extraneous reasons and kickbacks, were ensured to earn exorbitant profi ts.  Mahadev Liquor, who was a wholesale distributor for 14 small manufacturers, having 20% market share, was forced to surrender the wholesale distributorship licence.