The Court laid emphasis on part B (iii) of the prayer in the suit, which stated as follows: B “B. That this Hon’ble Court be pleased to and decree the Defendant to specifically perform the said agreement arrived at on March 27, 2019 for sale of the 50% shareholding of the Defendants in the Plaintiff No. 6 as reduced into writing and as recorded by the email dated March 28, 2019 of the C Defendant No.2 inter alia by: *** (iii) doing or causing to be done all acts, deeds, matters and things and to sign, execute and register all deeds, documents and writings as may be necessary for the transfer of the said D 50% shares of the Agarwal Group to the Plaintiff Nos. 1 to 5 and/or to their nominees free of all claims of the Defendants.” (emphasis supplied) And held thus: E “34. I have, therefore, no hesitation in holding that absent a written statement or denial of averments in the plaint and by submitting to a decree in terms of prayer clause (B)-(iii), the price payable was inclusive of the loan inasmuch as after payment of the agreed price or agreed consideration and transfer of the shares, the Agrawals would not have any F further claims”. (emphasis supplied) 6. On appeal, by way of the impugned , the Division Bench concurred with the single judge. The Court held that the single G judge’s discretion of looking into the pleadings in no way constituted going ‘behind the decree’, relying on a catena of s, and paid emphasis on the email exchange between the parties, particularly the one made on 29.03.2019, on the bifurcation of the amount (as stipulated above in paragraph 3 above), which was also replicated in Kothari’s suit (at paragraph 12 of the suit), and held that the total consideration of H 504 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 36.75 crores was thus inclusive of the loan amount: “20. It does seem to us in conclusion that the approach of the Agrawals in contesting the nature of the decree after submitting to it, without any denial or traverse of the plaint’s averments, is perhaps a piece of cleverness that should not be B countenanced by any equity-minded court. The Agrawals knew perfectly well what the Kotharis were saying in paragraph 12 of the plaint. They knew exactly what the Kotharis meant when they said that the email of 28th March 2019 was in terms of the oral agreement of the day before. Any ambiguity about this is eliminated by the Kotharis’ email of 29th March C 2019 at page 545, which explicitly set out in paragraph 3 what ‘consideration’ meant. To this, too, there is no denial. To say now that the decree is not what it was but something else is a case of not of the Kotharis but of the Agrawals wanting the court to go behind the decree. It is an attempt to D alter the decree completely to something it never intended to be.” (emphasis supplied) Hence, the present appeal.