The bunch of the above writ petitions were partially allowed but the appellant was not accorded any relief insofar as his appointment to the higher judicial service of the State under direct recruitment quota was concerned. 416 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 3. Before adverting to the two legal issues which have been addressed by Shri Rakesh Dahiya in assailing the impugned and , we consider it appropriate to briefl y narrate the facts leading to the fi ling of the writ petition and now the appeal arising therefrom. 4. The Punjab & Haryana High Court on 18.05.2007 issued a notifi cation for the selection/recruitment of 22 offi cers in the Haryana Superior Judicial Service by direct recruitment from the Bar, out of which, 14 were of general category, 5 of the scheduled caste and 3 of the backward class. The selection was to be made in accordance with the provisions of the Haryana Superior Judicial Service Rules, 2007 within the 25 per cent quota for direct recruitment from the Bar. 5. The appellant was one of the candidates, who applied for the post along with the other candidates who preferred the connected writ petitions. The appellant, despite having successfully qualifi ed the written examination and the interview and having secured the 14th position in the merit list, was not appointed. 6. Pursuant to the above notifi cation dated 18.05.2007, the written examination was held in February 2008 and the interviews of the successful candidates were held on 08.04.2008 and 09.04.2008. The fi nal result was displayed on the website of the High Court on 15.07.2008 and the appellant was placed at serial no.14 of the merit list of the general category candidates. In spite of the fact that 14 general category posts for direct recruitment were advertised and the appellant was within the fi rst 14 general category candidates who successfully qualifi ed the written test and the interview, he was not given appointment, whereas the fi rst 13 candidates in of merit were appointed. Out of these 13 candidates, one of the candidates, namely, Jitender Kumar Sinha joined the service but later resigned. 7. It is in the above factual background that the appellant invoked the writ jurisdiction of the High Court seeking his appointment against the 14th post of general category candidate, inter alia, on the allegation that the said post could not be kept vacant, more particularly, in an arbitrary manner. It is also contended that out of the 13 candidates appointed, one of them after joining had resigned and, therefore, in any case the appellant could have been adjusted against the said vacancy. SUDESH KUMAR GOYAL v. STATE OF HARYANA & ORS. 417 [PANKAJ MITHAL, J.] 8. Shri Dahiya, in the light of the ratio laid down by the Apex Court in Shankarsan Dash v. Union of India (1991) 3 SCC 47, has argued that though he is conscious that the appellant by selection itself has not acquired any indefeasible right to be appointed, nonetheless, his right for appointment cannot be defeated by adopting an arbitrary approach.