On the death of Rafiuddin Khan, disputes arose about the family properties between C Rashiduddin Khan, his brother, and Motashim-ud-Daula and Bashir-ud- Daula (Sir Asman Jah) the two sons of Sultanuddin Khan, another brother of Rafiuddin Khan. Before these quarrels were settled, Motashim-ud- Daula and Rashiduddin Khan died. Eventually in 1882 A.D., an award was madeby Sir Salar Jung,between Asman Jah on the one side and Rashibuddin Khan’s two sons, Khurshid Jah and Vikar-ul-Umara on the D other, as a result of which certain estates called Paigah Taluqas were awarded to Asman Jah. The remaining Paigah Taluqas of the family were divided between Khurshid Jah and Vikar-ul-Umara as a result of the award of Mr. Ridsdale. There was a partial division of the family property in 1878 A.D. also. As a result of these arrangements, the original E Paigah Estate become divided into three separate estates known as the Asman Jahi Paigah, Khurshid Jahi Paigah and Vikar-ul-Umrahi Paigah. 13. Thereafter, Asman Jah, Khurshid Jah and Vikar-ul-Umara remained in possession of their respective Paigahs until their deaths. These Paigah grantees, were not the absolute owners of the estates. In F fact, the Jagirs in Hyderabad State were neither in the nature of Zamindaries of Madras State nor of Taluqdaris of U.P. While proprietary rights vested in the Zamindars of Madras and Taluqdars of Oudh, the Jagirdars in Hyderabad were entitled only to the usufructs of revenue from the estate for life. The grant, in law, on the death of Jagirdar would revert to the Crown and would be made as a fresh grant to the G new Jagirdar. The Paigah estates with which this case is concerned, was no exception to this. In fact, since they were burdened with the obligation to maintain Paigah troops, they were liable to be resumed by the Nizam if he so willed. The Nizam could as well commute the military burden into an equivalent money payment and require such payment on H 292 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A pain of resuming the Paigah Jagir. He was, at any time entitled to state that he does not require troops but requires money in their stead. 14. Besides, Paigahs like Jagirs were inalienable and impartiable save with the consent of the Nizam. Therefore, the above-mentioned partitions required the consent of the Nizam. In fact, several partitions B which took place, obviously had the implied consent of the Nizam. On 12th Rajab 1337 H. (12-4-1919) the Nizam appears to have ed that the Paigah Jagirs were not to be further divided. 15. But the fact that the Paigah Jagirs as they stood at that time were not to be physically divided, did not prevent such members of the C family as are legally entitled thereto, from dividing the shares of the income of the Jagirs. 16. A special feature of the Paigah, as also of Jagirs and Inams in Hyderabad State was that possession of the estate was given to a single person as the Paigah holder (in case of Paigahs) who, in addition to his own shares, was entitled in respect of the management, a specific D share in the income of the estate and this right was called Haqe Inthezam or right of management.