First, we propose to examine the personal file and character roll of the appellant. As per the material placed on record, the APARs of C the appellant reflect that over the past several years, his integrity was being regularly assessed as “Beyond doubt” and this remained the position till as late as 31st July, 2019, when his work performance was assessed for the period from 1st April, 2018 to 31st March, 2019 and found to be upto the mark. In his APARs for the past one decade, till the D period just prior to the of his premature retirement, the respondents were consistently grading the appellant as “Outstanding”. No adverse entries were made by his superiors in the APARs of the appellant insofar as his work performance was concerned. No aspersion was cast either on his conduct or character during all this period. As per the service records, his efficiency and integrity remained unimpeachable throughout E his career. The inference drawn from the above is that the appellant’s service record being impeccable could not have been a factor that went against him for the respondents to have compulsorily retired him. 27. Coming next to the stand taken by the respondents that several complaints were received against the appellant that had cast a cloud on F his integrity, it is noteworthy that the respondents have referred to nine complaints against the appellant, stated to be pending in the Vigilance Directorate that have been pithily summarized by the Tribunal in a tabulated format in para 30 of its dated 6th March, 2019. Juxtaposed against the said tabulated statement of complaints listed by G the respondents, is a separate tabulation of the response of the appellant to each of the said complaints. For ready reference, the two tables of contents are extracted below :- H 50 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Response of the Appellant B C D E F G H CAPTAIN PRAMOD KUMAR BAJAJ v. UNION OF INDIA 51 AND ANOTHER [HIMA KOHLI, J.] Response of the Appellant A B C D E F G H 52 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A B C D E 28. As can be seen from the above, out of the aforesaid nine complaints, four complaints mentioned at Sr. Nos. 2, 6, 7 and 8 had already been closed by the department in the year 2016- 2017. With regard to the complaint listed at Sr. No.1, is stated to have been levelled F by another officer of the department against the appellant, relating to harassment and interference in work. The Tribunal has noted the submission of the appellant, which has gone unrefuted that the Anti- Corruption Bureau of the Central Bureau of Investigation22 had at a later date, arrested the said officer on charges of corruption. The appellant G has also stated in the remarks column that no explanation had ever been called for from him on the said complaint, status whereof is shown as “Under examination”. In respect of the complaints at Sr. Nos.