Act in the absence of any cogent evidence D to show that the cheque was not issued in the discharge of a debt. 23. In the case of Kalamani Tex and another v. P. Balasubramanian (supra), the learned Trial Court had dismissed the complaint. In appeal, at the behest of the complainant, the same was allowed and the accused were convicted for the offence punishable under Section 138 of the N.I. Act. In an appeal at the behest of the E original accused, this Court while affirming the of the High Court observed thus: “18. Considering the fact that there has been an admitted business relationship between the parties, we are of the opinion that the defence raised by the appellants does not inspire confidence or F meet the standard of “preponderance of probability”. In the absence of any other relevant material, it appears to us that the High Court did not err in discarding the appellants’ defence and upholding the onus imposed upon them in terms of Section 118 and Section 139 of NIA.” 24. It can thus be seen that in the facts of the said case, this Court G found that the defence raised by the appellants/accused did not inspire confidence or meet the standard of “preponderance of probability”. 25. In the present case, we are of the considered opinion that the defence raised by the appellant satisfies the standard of “preponderance of probability”. H RAJARAM S/O SRIRAMULU NAIDU THROUGH L.RS.v. 821 MARUTHACHALAM THROUGH L.RS. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 26. Insofar as the reliance on the of this Court in the A case of Rohitbhai Jivanlal Patel v. State of Gujarat and Anr. (supra) is concerned, in the said case, the learned Trial Court had acquitted the accused, the High Court, in appeal, reversed the acquittal and convicted the accused for the offence punishable under Section 138 of the N.I. Act. Affirming the of the High Court, this Court held that merely B by denial or merely by creation of doubt, the accused cannot be said to have rebutted the presumption as envisaged under Section 139 of the N.I. Act. This Court held that unless cogent evidence was led on behalf of the accused in defence of his case, the presumption under Section 139 of the N.I. Act could not be rebutted. As such, the said also would not be applicable to the facts of the present case. C 27. In that view of the matter, we are further of the considered view that the High Court was not justified in reversing the of acquittal of the appellant. 28. That leaves us to consider the Civil Appeals. Insofar as the Civil Appeals are concerned, the High Court, by two different s D and s, has reversed the s and s of the learned Trial Court dismissing the suits, thereby decreeing them. It is a settled proposition of law that the standard of proof in criminal proceedings differs with that in civil proceedings. 29. A distinguishing fact between the criminal proceedings and the civil proceedings in the present case is that, while in the criminal E proceedings the complainant had failed to produce the promissory notes, in the civil proceedings, the complainant had proved the promissory notes.