It would also reveal that as per their understanding also, the present Rules of the Estate Office, would not permit to mention in the sale deed that the possession of which floor/portion/area has been B given the purchaser. In any case, what is to be found is the real intention behind the transaction. When the transaction clearly shows that it is being entered into for the purpose of constructing three different apartments on each floor and also mentions that the same is not permissible under the existing rules, the intention of the parties is to construct three different units which are disintegrated. This is nothing else but C fragmentation. In our view, it is an attempt to by-pass the statutory prohibition. 117. It will also be relevant to refer to an undertaking which the owner is required to furnish in an application for obtaining the occupation certificate: D “UNDERTAKING OF OWNER ………. 6. I/We do hereby certify that buildings will be used for residential purposes as per allotment letter and its use will not be changed or E converted into Apartments without obtaining written permission from the competent authority.” 118. The application which is to be made in the said format is still in vogue. In the teeth of such an undertaking and the specific stand of Chandigarh Administration that it does not permit construction of F apartments, it is difficult to appreciate as to how building plans have been sanctioned which ex-facie show that they are nothing else but apartments. 119. It is thus clear that the modus operandi of the developers is, in effect, resulting into apartmentalization of the buildings. What is not G permissible in law after the repeal of 2001 Rules on 1st October 2007, and enactment of Rule 16 of the 2007 Rules, is indirectly being permitted under the guise of sale of shares and subsequent MoUs. It is also to be noted that though an attempt was made in the draft CMP- 2031 to reintroduce the provision for apartments, after considering the objections, it was decided to delete the same from the final CMP-2031. As already H 660 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A stated hereinabove, on account of such transactions, number of sites have been purchased through the aforesaid modus operandi; buildings were demolished and three apartments were constructed thereon. 120. The High Court in the impugned though holds that it is not permissible to construct apartments in view of repeal of the 2001 B Rules, goes on to hold that the said would not amount to apartmentalization, inasmuch as there is no sub-division of a building duly recognized by the Estate Officer along with the proportionate share in common areas and common facilities. It holds that by virtue of sale of share(s) by a co-owner and thereafter, the purchaser/vendee occupying a specific portion of the building on the basis of an internal arrangement/ C understanding, “sub-division of building” as contemplated under the 2001 Rules does not take place. In our considered view, the said reasoning is not sustainable in the teeth of Rule 16 of the 2007 Rules.