166. That the petitioners seek, what many of us may deem to be the 132 Entry 5, List III of the Constitution of India. SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1515 OF INDIA [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] normal, or accepted next step in life upon attaining a certain age, and perhaps take for granted, is not lost on us. Their desire, for social acceptability, in the manner that has been historically known – through the social recognition that marriage aff ords– and the lack of which causes them feeling of exclusion and hurt, is one that as individuals, especially those donning the robes of justice, we can certainly have deep empathy with. However, we are deeply conscious, that no matter how much we empathize with the outcome sought, the means to arriving at such a destination, must also be legally sound, and keep intact, the grand architecture of our Constitutional scheme. For if we throw caution to the wind, we stand the risk of paving the way (wherein each brick may feel justifi ed) to untold consequences that we could not have contemplated. While moulding relief, as a court we must be cognizant that despite being empowered to see the capabilities of the law in its grand and majestic formulation, we must not be led aground because we are blinded, by its glow. 167. The petitions are disposed of in the above terms. Pending applications (if any) are disposed of. PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J. 1. I am conscious of the ordeals that arise from a multiplicity of judicial opinions in cases involving constitutional questions. Yet, I consider it worthwhile to pen the present opinion, given the signifi cant nature of questions involved. Polyvocality in the exercise of the adjudicatory function may not necessarily be viewed with discomfort; if complemented by judicial discipline, it is truly refl ective of the diversity of judicial thought. 2. The constitutional questions for which we seek answers in the present set of petitions are two-fold: (a) the status of the right to marry for LGBTQ+ couples and (b) depending upon the answer to the fi rst, the remedy that must ensue. With respect to the fi rst, the petitioners assert that not only do they have the right to marry under the Constitution, but also that through an interpretative process such a right must be read into the existing legislative framework governing marriages. The respondents, oppose both the foundations upon which the petitioners seek to establish their right, and at the same time they remind us of the judicial limitations on the issuance of positive directions for enforcement of such a right. 151 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 3. I had the privilege of traversing through the opinions of the learned Chief Justice, Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Justice Ravindra Bhat. I am afraid I am unable to agree with the opinions of the Chief Justice and Justice Kaul. I am in complete agreement with the reasoning given and conclusions arrived at by Justice Bhat.