Secondly, it has been argued that the impugned of his pre-mature retirement is F punitive in nature and has been passed solely to deprive him of an opportunity to be appointed as Member ITAT, a post for which he was selected by the Selection Committee headed by a sitting Judge of the Supreme Court and his name was placed at Serial No.1 in the All India Ranking, as long back as in the year 2014. This selection of the appellant G was reiterated by a subsequently constituted Selection Committee in the year 2018, but did not reach fruition due to persistent obstructions created by the respondents, who withheld his vigilance clearance without a valid reason and subsequently placed his name in the “Agreed List”, followed by initiation of a disciplinary enquiry against him on baseless charges which was not taken to its logical conclusion, as he was prematurely H 40 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A retired in September, 2019. Lastly, it was urged that the High Court has completely overlooked the fact that all the Annual Performance Assessment Reports9 of the appellant over the past 30 years were blemishless. In fact, the appellant was graded as ‘Outstanding’ and his integrity was assessed as ‘Beyond Doubt’ for theimmediately preceding 10 years’ APARs, after he was promoted to the post of Commissioner, B Income Tax in the year 2012. SUBMISSIONS MADE BY THE COUNSEL FOR THE UNION OF INDIA 11. Refuting the allegations levelled by the appellant and defending C the impugned , Mr. Sanjay Jain, learned Additional Solicitor General10 who appeared for the respondents – Union of India urged that the impugned is a well-reasoned one and does not deserve interference; that the of compulsory retirement was passed in the case of the appellant after duly considering his entire service record; that the material relied upon by the respondents for passing an D under FR 56(j), was carefully considered by the Tribunal before dismissing the Original Application filed by the appellant, as meritless and that the allegations of institutional malice and bias levelled by the appellant are ill-founded. Learned ASG contended that unlike departmental enquiries, the scope of an enquiry under FR 56(j) is fairly limited and the standard E of adjudication is prima facie a subjective opinion as to the suitability of an officer to continue in service, keeping in mind public interest. No stigma can be attached to an employee who is compulsorily retired, as compulsory retirement does not amount to dismissal or removal. The appellant is still entitled to all retiral benefits and also entitled to be considered for other appointments. It was stated that a chargesheet F was pending against the appellant for major penalty proceedings which had been unsuccessfully challenged by him before the Tribunal. Citing several decisions of this Court on the limited scope of interference in an of compulsory retirement, it was submitted on behalf of the respondents – Union of India that courts should ordinarily refrain from G returning findings on merits of the allegations against the concerned officer.