G 172. It is also necessary to point out that code is a self-contained code. Therefore, any provision that restricts related-party Financial Or Operational Creditor actions is stated in the code. Thus, the Adjudicating Authority / NCLT/NCLAT cannot further limit the rights of Related Party Financial or Operational Creditors by way H 836 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A of interpretation. Furthermore, restrictions on the related party rights under CIRP under Code and Regulation are provided at different places. Therefore, its scope cannot be exceeded further by way of interpretation. 173. Thus, it is clear that IBC treats related parties as a B separate category for specified purposes, excluding from the CoC under Section 21 and disqualifying them from being Resolution Applicants under section 29A. However, the IBC does not treat Related Party as a separate class for any other purpose. Therefore, a rationale nexus must exist for any classification between the object sought to achieve C the classification and sub-classification. Therefore, the Related Party financial or operational creditor cannot be discriminated against under the Resolution Plan, denying their right to get payments under the Resolution Plan only on being a Related Party. It is also made clear that by getting D only payment under the Resolution Plan, related party creditors could in no way sabotage the CIRP.” 19.8. The Appellate Tribunal, while concluding on its findings and reiterating its observations on several issues including those noticed above, held that increase in RP’s fees with retrospective effect was not a prudent E decision of CoC; the possibility of an impact on the decision of RP for submission of the resolution plan before the Adjudicating Authority without approval of CoC cannot be ruled out. The Appellate Tribunal disapproved the passed by the Adjudicating Authority for the reasons: (a) existence of a valid and accurate valuation report was a sine qua non for the CoC to exercise its commercial wisdom and observation of the F Adjudicating Authority that Regulation 35 of the CIRP Regulations contemplates sharing of only fair value and liquidation value figures on obtaining confidentiality undertaking from the members of the CoC was incorrect; (b) the compliance with statutory requirements in regulating a matter of practice and procedure was mandatory and observation of G Adjudicating Authority that a statutory provision regulating a matter of practice or procedure would generally be regarded as directory and not mandatory was erroneous; (c) non-publication of notices of Form G, inviting EOI, was a material irregularity in exercise of the powers by resolution professional; (d) the resolution applicant was ineligible to submit the resolution plan; (e) the revised resolution plan was filed before the H M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 837 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] Adjudicating Authority without laying it before the CoC for approval A violating Sections 30(2) and 30(3) of the Code and thereby, vitiating the entire CIRP and rendering the resolution plan as void ab initio-; and (f) the related party financial or operational creditor could not have been discriminated by denying their right to get payments under the resolution plan only on being a related party.