M/S. DAKSHIN GUJARAT VIJ COMPANY LTD. v. M/S. GAYATRI 379 SHAKTI PAPER AND BOARD LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] in a CGP fl uctuates, provided that the minimum ownership requirement of 26% in aggregate is not being breached. Further, a shareholder may hold 30% of shares of the CGP for 3 months, 40% of shares for 4 months, and 50% of the shares for the balance 12 months. The weighted average shareholding method is applied by taking average shareholding held by particular shareholder for the year for the purpose of calculating proportionate electricity required to be consumed by it in terms of the second proviso of Rule 3(1)(a). 48. We agree with the reasoning and logic, that weighted shareholding and proportionate consumption of electricity is the fair, equitable and the correct method to determine whether the essential requirements of the second proviso to Rule 3(1)(a) are satisfi ed. Issue III Whether a company set up as a Special Purpose Vehicle48 for generating electricity is an ‘association of persons’ which must meet the proportionality requirement specifi ed in the second proviso to Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules. 49. This brings us to the last issue and question – whether a company set up as a SPV, in view of clause Rule 3(1)(b) of the Rules, is absolved from meeting the eligibility criteria specifi ed in paragraphs (i) and (ii) of Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules read with second proviso to Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules. This argument was raised and accepted in Tamil Nadu Power49 on the following grounds: “255. We have analysed the submissions of the parties on the issue of treatment of an SPV as an AOP. As seen before, Rule 3 of the Rules deals with the requirements to be fulfi lled to qualify as a captive. In the said rule, SPV as a CGP is given under Rule 3 (1)(b). Further, it is also seen that Rule 3(1)(a)(i) has two provisos contemplating the manner in which the requirements to qualify as a CGP is to be fulfi lled by a registered Co-operative society and an AOP. It is also seen that the said two provisos do not relate to Rule 3(1)(b) which deals with a SPV. 48 For short, “SPV”. 49 Supra note 6. 380 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 256. We agree with the submission put forward by the Appellant that second proviso to Rule 3(1)(a) is a stand-alone provision and as such does not relate to Rule 3 (1)(b). The Parliament in its wisdom has created an intelligible diff erentia under Rule 3, between a SPV and an AOP. It is clear from a reading of Rule 3 that second proviso to Rule 3(1)(a) which exclusively deals with an AOP, lays down that the captive user (s) shall hold not less than 26% ownership of the plant in aggregate and shall not consume less than 51% of the electricity generated, determined on an annual basis, in proportion to their ownership of the power plant. 257.