A High Court correctly found that both dealership agreements established a Principal-to-Principal relationship and recorded that a solitary sentence in para 1 of the decision in Mohd. Ekram Khan ought not to be construed as the dealer was an agent of the manufacturer. Therefore, we do not approve of the observations made in paragraph 21 and 22 of the of the learned Single Judge of the Rajasthan High Court in the aforesaid B case and the said is liable to be overruled. 58. We further place reliance on the decision of this Court in Govind Saran Ganga Saran vs. Commissioner of Sales Tax, AIR 1985 SC 1041 while analysing Article 265 of the Constitution while noting as follows: C “The components which entered into tax are well known. The first is the character of the imposition known by its nature which transpires attracting the levy. The second is a clear communication of the person on whom the levy is imposed and which is obliged to pay the tax. The third is rate at which D the tax is imposed and the fourth is the measure or value to which the rate is applied for computing the tax liability”. Obviously, all the four components of a particular concept of tax has to be inter related having nexus with each other. Having identified tax event, tax cannot be levied on a person unconnected E with event, nor the measure or value to which rate of tax can be applied can be altogether unconnected with the subject of tax, though the contours of the same may not be identified.” 59. Reliance was placed on behalf of the Revenue on Dhampur Sugar Mills Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Trade Tax, U.P., F (2006) 5 SCC 624, wherein the question was, whether, the adjustment of the price of molasses from the amount of licence fee would amount “to sale” within the meaning of the Uttar Pradesh Trade Tax Act, 1948. The facts therein were that the concerned company owned and possessed a sugar mill. A deed of licence was executed by the said company in favour of the G appellant therein (Dhampur Sugar Mills Ltd.) pursuant whereto and in furtherance whereof, the appellant therein executed a performance guarantee to ensure performance of the said deed of licence. It was agreed to by and between the parties that a major portion of the licence fee would be paid in the shape of H molasses. It was contended by the appellant therein that in M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1341 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] view of the consideration for the right to use the said sugar mill A i.e. the licence fee, the appellant therein was required to hand over molasses to the said company for an amount equivalent to the licence fee and such a transaction would not constitute a sale of molasses so as to attract the provisions of the Act. 60. The precise question for consideration therein was whether B the transaction involved a transfer of property or a transfer of a right to use any goods or not.