Same line of reasoning has been followed in the cases of Ram Narain -vs- State of Uttar Pradesh [(2015) 17 SCC 699] and Upendra Pradhan -vs- Stae of G Orissa [(2015) 11 SCC 124]. The State has relied on the case of Pawan Kumar Gupta (supra)on this point, resisting the Court’s intervention at this stage. The accused in that case had accepted the age determination report made by the Investigating Officer and this was recorded in the of the concerned Magistrate. As per the said report the accused was not a juvenile. The same plea was raised again at the appellate H 1090 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A stage before the High Court which was rejected, referring to the passed by the Magistrate. In connection with review petition before this Court, the plea of juvenility was raised again, and this was not entertained by this Court. In the said it has been held that once the plea of juvenility is rejected from the stage of Magistrate, the High Court and subsequently the Supreme Court, the convict cannot be permitted to B reagitate that plea. In the applicant’s case, juvenility plea has been raised for the first time before this Court, albeit after dismissal of his review petition against his conviction and sentence having been upheld by this Court. 21.It is a fact that the juvenility plea was raised in Writ Petition C (Criminal) No. 126 of 2013 and this writ petition was dismissed in limine. But this dismissal would not operate as res judicata so far as the present application is concerned. Relief under Article 32 of the Constitution is discretionary in nature and the of this Court dismissing that petition is not supported by reason. A petition under Section 9 (2) of the 2015 D Act contemplates statutory remedy, plea for which can be raised at any stage. In our opinion, on juvenility plea, if a writ petition is dismissed in limine, such would not foreclose the option of an accused (or a convict) to make plea for juvenility under sub-section (2) of Section 9 of the 2015 Act. E 22. We shall, accordingly, proceed to examine his claim of juvenility, which has been sustained by the Inquiring Judge in the aforesaid report. In the case of Murari Thakur (supra) a two-Judge Bench of this Court declined to entertain juvenility plea in an appeal in which the appellants had been convicted under Sections 302/34 of the 1860 Code. Such a plea was raised before this Court at the appellate stage. A two-Judge F Bench of this Court opined that this point could not be raised at that stage because it was neither taken before the Trial Court nor before the High Court. It was further observed in this that the question of age of the appellant accused was a question of fact on which evidence, cross-examination etc. was required and therefore it could not be allowed G to be taken up at a late stage. This was a case under the 2000 Act, but under the said Act also, provisions of Section 7A thereof is similar to Section 9(2) of the 2015 Act.