The main objective of the UAPA is to make powers available for dealing with activities directed against the integrity and sovereignty of India. He has taken us to the preamble and the objects and reasons for enactment of the UAPA. It is submitted that to achieve the object and purpose for which the UAPA has been enacted, Section 10(a)(i) provides that where an association is declared unlawful by a notification C issued under Section 3 which has become effective under sub-section (3) of that Section, a person, who is and continues to be a member of such association shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, and shall also be liable to fine. It is submitted that therefore so long as Section 10(a)(i) stands a person who is or D continues to be a member of such association shall be liable to be punished. It is submitted that Section 10(a)(i) does not require any further overt act and/or mens rea. It is submitted that mere membership of a declared unlawful association, declared unlawful under Section 3 is sufficient to warrant the prosecution and the conviction. E 3.2 It is submitted that under the provisions of the UAPA, 1967 before an organization/association is declared as unlawful under Section 3 of the UAPA the procedure as required under the UAPA namely Section 3 of the UAPA is required to be followed. It is submitted that even thereafter and after any association/organization is declared as unlawful under Section 3 of the UAPA, such association which has been declared F unlawful by a Notification issued under sub-section (1) of Section 3, within 30 days from the date of the publication of the notification, the Central Government is required to refer to the Tribunal for the purpose of adjudicating whether or not, there is sufficient cause for declaring the association unlawful. It is submitted that as per Section 4(2) on receipt of G a reference under sub-section (1) of 4, the Tribunal shall thereafter call upon the association affected by notice in writing to show cause within 30 days from the date of the service of such notice, why the association be not declared unlawful? It is submitted that thereafter and after considering the cause, if any, shown by the association or the office- bearers or members thereof, the Tribunal is required to hold an inquiry in H ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 521 [M. R. SHAH, J.] the manner specified in Section 9 and after calling for such further A information as it may consider necessary from the Central Government or from office-bearer or member of the association, the Tribunal shall decide whether or not there is sufficient cause for declaring the association to be unlawful and thereafter may pass such as it may deem fit either confirming the declaration made in the notification or B cancelling the same. It is submitted that the of the Tribunal made under sub-section (3) shall have to be published in the Official Gazette.