14. At this juncture, it would be condign to look into the real D dictionary meaning of “further investigation”. The dictionary meaning of ‘further’ (when used as an adjective) is additional; more; supplemental’. ‘Further’ Investigation therefore is the continuation of the earlier investigation and not a fresh investigation or reinvestigation to be started ab initio wiping E out the earlier investigation altogether. Therefore, it is pellucid that for granting permission to conduct ‘further investigation’ an investigation must be pending or to put it in short, some proceeding must be pending before the concerned court. It is also a settled principle of law that after filing a final report under sub-clause (2) of Section 173 of the said code, while F matter is pending, the investigating officer can collect some more materials so as to strengthen the accusation made against the concerned accused. 15. As adverted to earlier, in the instant case, the main contention of the petitioners is that already investigation has G been done against the accused 1 and 2 and a closure report has been filed before the Principal Special Judge for CBI Cases, Chennai and the same has been accepted and consequently, First Information Report has been dosed. Under the said circumstances, to H STATE THROUGH CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. 177 HEMENDHRA REDDY & ANOTHER. ETC. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] grant permission either to conduct ‘further investigation’ or A ‘reinvestigation’ does not arise. Xxx xxx xxx 20. After lapse of four years from passing the mentioned suprain the year 2013, the respondent, as petitioner, has filed B Crl.M.P.No.3833 of 2013, on the file of the Principals Special Court for CBI Cases, Chennai, herein, it is prayed to permit the petitioner therein to re-open and further investigation the above case. Xxx xxx xxx C 23. The learned Special Public Prosecutor has advanced his entire argument only on the basis of the passed in Criminal Original Petition No.6371 of 2014. In fact, at the time of passing the in Crl.O.P.No.6371 of 2014, the decision mentioned supra has not been brought to the knowledge of this court. Under the said circumstances, this D court has erroneously ratified the permission granted by the Principal Special Judge for CBI cases, Chennai. Therefore, on the basis of the passed, in Crl.O.P.No.6371 of 2014 by this court, we cannot come to a conclusion that the passed by the Principal Special Judge for CBI Case, Chennai, E is valid in law. Further, it has already been pointed out that the said has been passed even without power. Since the said is totally alien to law, the subsequent proceedings are also bad in law. 24. The present petitions have been filed praying to quash F the final report filed in Calendar Case No.13 of 2015. Since the permission granted to the respondent for conducting re- investigation or further investigation by the Principal Special Judge for CBI Cases, Chennai is totally illegal and since the subsequent proceedings are also entirely bad in law, it is needless to say that the final report filed thereon is also both G factually and legally not sustainable.