One of the two conditions is that the auction-purchaser who applies under Rule 95 of XXI of CPC for delivery of possession, must possess a sale certificate issued under Rule 94 of XXI of CPC. Once there is a confirmation of an auction sale in accordance with sub- rule (1) of Rule 92 of XXI of CPC, the Executing Court, in the F absence of the prohibitory of a superior Court, is under an obligation to issue a sale certificate to the auction-purchaser in accordance with Rule 94 of XXI of CPC. However, the law does not provide for a specific time limit within which, a certificate under Rule 94 of XXI of CPC should be issued. In a given case, there can be a long G procedural delay in issuing the sale certificate for which the auction purchaser cannot be blamed. In the present case, the delay is of more than six months. With greatest respect to the decision of this Court in the case of Pattam Khader Khan2, prima facie, we are unable to agree with the view that an application under Rule 95 of XXI can be H 3 (2010) 8 SCC 24 BHASKER & ANR. v. AYODHYA JEWELLERS 973 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] made even before the certificate of sale is granted to the auction- A purchaser in accordance with Rule 94 of XXI of CPC. 13.Therefore, in our prima facie view, the of confirmation of sale under sub-rule (1) of Rule 92 of XXI of CPC does not give a cause of action to the auction-purchaser to apply for possession by invoking Rule 95 of XXI of CPC. He cannot make such an B application unless the Executing Court issues a sale certificate. Though CPC does not permit an application under Rule 95 of XXI to be filed before the sale certificate is issued, Article 134 of the Limitation Act proceeds on the footing that cause of action becomes available to the auction-purchaser to apply for possession on the basis of the C of confirmation of sale made under sub-rule (1) of Rule 92 of XXI of CPC. 14. Therefore, there is an apparent inconsistency between the provisions of Rule 95 of XXI of CPC and Article 134 of the Limitation Act. The question is whether the rule of purposive interpretation D can be used to set right the inconsistency or anomaly. We may note here that even if the delay is on the part of the Executing Court in the issue of the sale certificate, the delay in filing an application under Rule 95 of XXI cannot be condoned as Section 5 of the Limitation Act is not applicable to the applications filed under XXI. E 15. In paragraphs 20 and 21 of the decision of this Court in the case of AFCONS Infrastructure Limited and Anr. v. Cherian Varkey Construction Company Private Limited and Ors.3, the issue of purposive interpretation has been discussed in detail. The said two paragraphs read thus: “20. The principles of statutory interpretation are well settled.