In the case on hand, it is the case of the appellant convict that he along with other co-accused was shown to the witnesses not only prior to the conduct of the TIP but even before the identifi cation in the Court. 53. In Ravindra Laxman Mahadik v. State of Maharashtra, 1997 CriLJ 3833, in a case involving Section 395 of the CrPC, it was opined:- “10. I fi nd merit in Mr. Mooman’s submission that it would not be safe to accept the identifi cation evidence of Manda Sahani. Manda Sahani in her examination-in-chief stated that on the place of the incident, there was no light. In her cross-examination (para 6) she stated that it was dark at the place of the incident but, slight light was emanating from the building situate on the shore. The distance between the building and the place where Manda Sahani and her husband were looted has not been unfolded in the evidence. The learned trial Judge has observed that the evidence of Vinod Sahani is that the incident MUKESH SINGH v. THE STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 923 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] took place at a distance of about 100 ft from the Gandhi statue, where the meeting was held. What he wanted to convey was that hence there must have been light at the place of incident. In my view, on the face of the defi nite statement of Manda that it was dark as there was only slight light, and bearing in mind that the incident took place at 9.30 p.m. in the month of February, 1992, it would not be safe to conclude that there was suffi cient light on the place of the incident enabling Manda Sahani to identify the appellant.” 54. In Kanan & Ors. v. State of Kerala, AIR 1979 SC 1127, this Court held:- “…It is well settled that where a witness Identifi es an accused who is not known to him in the Court for the fi rst time, his evidence is absolutely valueless unless there has been a previous T. I. parade to test his powers of observations. The Idea of holding T. I. parade under Section 9 of the Evidence Act is to test the veracity of the witness on the question of his capability to identify an unknown person whom the witness may have seen only once. If no T. I. parade is held then it will be wholly unsafe to rely on his bare testimony regarding the identifi cation of an accused for the fi rst time in Court. …” [Emphasis supplied] 55. In Sidhartha Vashisht @ Manu Sharma v. State (NCT of Delhi), (2010) 6 SCC 1, this Court noticed the importance of TIP and logic behind it. It is the practice not borne out of procedure but out of prudence. In this case, this Court has exhaustively examined the entire case law on the subject. It was observed:- “254. Even a TIP before a Magistrate is otherwise hit by Section 162 of the Code.