Even if the State Government is on its own enquiry satisfied that the workmen are not bonded and B are not compelled to provide forced labour and are living and working in decent conditions with all the basic necessities of life provided to them, the State Government should not baulk an enquiry by the Court when a complaint is brought by a citizen, but it should be anxious to satisfy the Court and through the Court, the people of the country, that it is discharging its constitutional obligation C fairly and adequately and the workmen are being ensured social and economic justice. …” 92. Therefore, three major breakthroughs happened, the first in Kharak Singh, the second in Satwant Singh and Maneka Gandhi (supra) and the third in Bandhua Mukti Morcha (supra). The first D breakthrough was the opinion, though of a minority, that physical restraint was not a necessary sine qua non for the deprivation of personal liberty and that even a psychological restraint may amount to deprivation of personal liberty. The second breakthrough was the opinion in Satwant Singh and Maneka Gandhi that the right of locomotion and to travel E abroad are part of the right to personal liberty. The third breakthrough was the opinion in Bandhua Mukti Morcha that the State owed an obligation to take corrective measures when there was an infraction of Article 21. 93. In National Human Rights Commission vs. State of F Arunachal Pradesh & Anr.96, this Court was confronted with a situation where private citizens, namely, the All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union held out threats to forcibly drive chakmas, out of the State. The National Human Rights Commission itself filed a writ petition under Article 32. While allowing the writ petition and issuing directions, this Court indicated the role of the State in the following words: G “20. …Thus the State is bound to protect the life and liberty of every human being, be he a citizen or otherwise, and it cannot permit any body or group of persons, e.g., the AAPSU, to threaten 96 (1996) 1 SCC 742 H 686 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A the Chakmas to leave the State, failing which they would be forced to do so. No State Government worth the name can tolerate such threats by one group of persons to another group of persons; it is duty-bound to protect the threatened group from such assaults and if it fails to do so, it will fail to perform its constitutional as well as statutory obligations. Those giving such threats would be B liable to be dealt with in accordance with law. The State Government must act impartially and carry out its legal obligations to safeguard the life, health and well-being of Chakmas residing in the State without being inhibited by local politics. …” 94. In Mr. ‘X’ vs. Hospital ‘Z’97, the appellant had accompanied C a patient to the hospital for treatment and offered to donate blood, for the purpose of surgery. Before allowing him to donate blood, samples were taken from “X”.