The Full Bench of the Kerala High Court accordingly answered the question. Being aggrieved, the assessees approached this Court. It was argued before this Court by the assessees that co-operative societies which are registered under the said Act are entitled to deductions under KSCARDB v. THE ASSESSING OFFICER, TRIVANDRUM 355 AND ORS. [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Section 80P. That the insertion of sub-section (4) to Section 80P of the Act had not led to any change insofar as the assessees therein were concerned. That the moment a co-operative society is registered under the said Act, whatever be its classifi cation, so long as it provides credit facilities to its members, it is entitled to a deduction contained in Section 80P(2)(a)(i) of the Act. A distinction was said to be drawn between eligibility for deduction, and whether the whole of the amounts of profi ts and gains of business attributable to any one or more such activities under the sub-section could be given. On the other hand, in the said case, it was argued on behalf of the revenue that a society undeserving of any deduction cannot get a deduction contrary to what has been sought to be achieved by Section 80P(4) of the Act. That the of this Court in Citizen Co-operative Society Ltd. was correctly read by the Full Bench of the Kerala High Court which is to the eff ect that the Assessing Offi cer must assess the real facts of a case in to conclude as to whether activities of a primary agricultural credit society were, in fact, being carried out in the assessment year in question for which such an entity must adduce facts to show that it is in fact carrying on its business as a primary agricultural credit society in the assessment year in question. If it was unable to discharge such burden then such a society cannot avail of any deduction under Section 80P of the Act. This Court considered the defi nition of co-operative society under clause (19) of Section 2 of the Act in the context of Section 80P of the Act, specially in light of sub-section (4) thereof as well as Sections 3 and 56 of the BR Act, 1949 and the provisions of State Act, 1969 as well as the bye-laws of some of the societies and observed in paragraph 18 as under: “18. It is important to note that though the main object of the primary agricultural society in question is to provide fi nancial assistance in the form of loans to its members for agricultural and related purposes, yet, some of the objects go well beyond, and include performing of banking operations “as per rules prevailing from time to time”, opening of medical stores, running of showrooms and providing loans to members for purposes other than agriculture.” Further, this Court referred to various s of this Court including Citizen Co-operative Society Ltd. as discussed in paragraphs 24 to 24.5 of the and held that Full Bench of the Kerala High Court had not 356 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R.