Accordingly, it was held that existence of an arbitration agreement means an arbitration agreement which satisfi es the requirements of both the Arbitration Act and the Contract Act. In the succeeding paragraphs, this Court sought to reinforce its conclusion. In the process, it referred to various precedents of this Court including Garware Wall Ropes (supra). 221. Paragraph 147.1 clarifi es that it is referring to Garware Wall Ropes (supra) only for the purposes of establishing the correlation between existence and validity of an arbitration agreement. The relevant paragraph of Garware Wall Ropes (supra) refers to United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Hyundai Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd.175 in which the arbitration clause was triggered only if one of the parties admitted or accepted its liability. In that case, since the relevant party (the insurer) did not accept its liability, the court held that the arbitration clause did not exist in law although it existed in fact. Garware Wall Ropes (supra) relied on Hyundai Engg. (supra) to hold, albeit incorrectly, that an unstamped agreement would not exist as a matter of law until the underlying instrument is duly stamped. We are of the opinion that Vidya Drolia (supra) did not, in any manner, determine the eff ect of an unstamped or insuffi ciently stamped underlying contract on an arbitration agreement. It referred to Garware Wall Ropes (supra) only to buttress its interpretation that an arbitration agreement does not exist if it is invalid or illegal, which has been clarifi ed in the above segments of this . 222. Signifi cantly, a two-Judge Bench of this Court in Career Institute Educational Society v. Om Shree Thakurji Educational Society176 clarifi ed that Vidya Drolia (supra) referred to Garware Wall Ropes (supra) only “to interpret the word ‘existence’, and whether an ‘invalid’ arbitration agreement can be said to exist” The two-Judge Bench further clarifi ed that Vidya Drolia (supra) did not decide the issue of the eff ect of an unstamped or insuffi ciently stamped underlying contract on the arbitration clause. The relevant extract is as follows: “3. The judgement in Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading Corporation did not examine and decide the issue of eff ect of unstamped or under- 175 (2018) 17 SCC 607 176 2023 SCC OnLine SC 586 119 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. stamped underlying contract on the arbitration agreement. As this issue and question has not been decided in Vidya Drolia (supra), the decision is not a precedent on this question.” 223. We agree with these observations in Career Institute Educational Society (supra). Vidya Drolia (supra) did not deal with the issue of the eff ect of an unstamped or insuffi ciently stamped instrument on the existence or validity of an arbitration agreement. Therefore, the reasoning in Vidya Drolia (supra) does not lead to the conclusion that Garware Wall Ropes (supra) was rightly decided either on the aspect of examination and impounding of unstamped or insuffi ciently stamped instrument with respect to arbitration proceedings, or the validity of on arbitration agreement contained in an unstamped or insuffi ciently stamped underlying contract.