It cannot be argued that a subsequent purchaser, who steps into the shoes of the original allottee of a housing project in which the builder has not honoured its commitment to deliver the fl at within the stipulated time, should not expect even reasonable time for the performance of builder’s obligation. Such an argument, if accepted, would lead to a situation where a large number, possibly thousands of fl at buyers, waiting for their promised fl ats or residences would be left without any relief. Such a conclusion would be arbitrary. In these cases, it would be fair to assume that the subsequent purchaser had knowledge of the delay, but such knowledge cannot be extended to accept the submission that such delay shall continue indefi nitely based upon an a priori assumption. The equities have to be properly moulded. 10 2021 SCC OnLine SC 479. EXPERION DEVELOPERS PVT. LTD. v. HIMANSHU 1131 DEWAN AND SONALI DEWAN [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] 17. As these aspects and questions are essentially factual, albeit have not been ascertained and addressed in the present case, we would pass an of remand to the National Commission to examine the issue in light of the dictum laid down by this Court. Upon the facts being fi rst ascertained, the legal principles have to be applied. 18. There is yet another and a stronger reason why we are inclined to pass an of remand. For this purpose and for the sake of convenience, we would reproduce the observations by the National Commission in Pawan Gupta (supra) on the merits for rejecting the claim made by the builder/developer (the appellant) for the increase of the sale area. These are as under: “The complaints have been fi led mainly for two reasons. The fi rst is that the opposite party has demanded extra money for excess area and second is the delay in handing over the possession. In respect of excess area, the complainant has made a point that without any basis the opposite party sent the demand for excess area and the certifi cate of the architect was sent to the complainant, which is of a later date. The justifi cation given by the opposite party that on the basis of the internal report of the architect the demand was made for excess area is not acceptable because no such report or any other document has been fi led by the opposite party to prove the excess area. Once the original plan is approved by the competent authority, the areas of residential unit as well as of the common spaces and common buildings are specifi ed and super area cannot change until there is change in either the area of the fl at or in the area of any of the common buildings or the total area of the project (plot area) is changed. The real test for excess area would be that the opposite party should provide a comparison of the areas of the original approved common spaces and the fl ats with fi nally approved common spaces/ buildings and the fl ats.