The Bank does not undertake any liability or responsibility to procure any F permission/licence etc. in respect, of the property offered for sale or for any dues like water/service charges of the MIDC, transfer fees, electricity dues and charges for fresh power connection, Local Authority, or Nazul/NIT dues, in respect of the said property and the same shall be solely and exclusively borne and paid by the G Purchaser.” 217. The first respondent applied for a fresh electricity connection for the premises. The appellant-MSEDC refused the request of the first respondent by a letter dated 9 September 2005 on the ground that the arrears of electricity charges of the earlier owner were pending, and the H 742 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A first respondent was liable to clear them in light of Condition 23 of MSEB Conditions of Supply. The Bombay High Court by its impugned dated 12 December 2005 held that Condition 23 was inapplicable and directed the appellant to grant a fresh connection to the first respondent, if otherwise eligible. The High Court observed that Condition 23 intended to apply to voluntary acts of the original consumer by which he transfers B the benefit of his agreement with the Board. 218. The appellant filed a Special Leave Petition challenging the impugned judgement. The appellant has argued that the concept of voluntariness is not a sine qua non for Condition 23 of the MSEB Conditions of Supply. In the reply filed by the respondent, it has been C urged that it is not a necessary party to the present petition since it had sold the premises in dispute to Rajaram Steel Industries Pvt Ltd by a deed of assignment dated 29 March 2006. 219. The High Court in the impugned has based its decision on the MSEB Conditions of Supply 1976. What is the effect of D the respondent applying for a fresh electricity connection after the enactment of the Maharashtra Electricity Supply Code on 20 January 2005 was not considered. The relevant date to determine the applicability of the statutory provisions governing conditions of supply of electricity is the date on which the auction purchaser applies for an electricity E connection. 220. The application by the respondent in which it sought a fresh electricity connection has not been placed on record. At the same time, from the deed of assignment and sale placed on record, it emerges that the sale of the premises and possession was given after 20 January 2005. The permission to sell was granted to the bank only on 23 February F 2005. The physical possession of the premises was given to the respondent only on 21 March 2005. A fresh connection of electricity supply could not have been requested even before the sale was confirmed in favour of the respondent. Accordingly, the relevant statutory provision governing this case is the Maharashtra Electricity Supply Code 2005. G 221. In terms of Regulation 10.5, any charge for electricity or any sum other than a charge for electricity due to the distribution licensee which remains unpaid by a deceased consumer or the erstwhile occupier/ owner of any premises shall be a charge on the premises transmitted to the legal representatives / successors-in-law or transferred to the new H K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 743 ORS.