This Court has previously approved of the use of the proportionality test to evaluate the validity of certain kinds of executive action, including in Om Kumar v. Union of India32 and Teri Oat Estates (P) Ltd. v. UT, Chandigarh33. The proportionality test E may well be applicable to other cases where executive overreach is alleged. b. The principles of natural justice have not been violated 85. The appellants submit that the Union and State Governments have violated the principles of natural justice by failing to provide the F OAT Bar Association and the litigants before the OAT with an opportu- nity to be heard before abolishing the OAT. They argue that this violates Article 14 of the Constitution. 86. The decision to establish, continue or abolish the OAT is in the nature of a policy formulated and implemented by the State Government G (acting with the Union Government under the Administrative Tribunals Act). The public at large does not have a right to be heard before a policy is formulated and implemented. The process of consultation with 32 AIR (2000) SC 3689 33 (2004) 2 SCC 130 H 790 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A the public, with experts, and with other stakeholders may be desirable and would facilitate a participatory democracy. However, each member of the class that would be impacted by a policy decision cannot be af- forded an opportunity of hearing. This would not only be time consuming and expensive, but deeply impractical. B 87. BALCO Employees’ Union (Regd.) v. Union of India34 con- cerned the validity of the decision of the Union of India to disinvest and transfer 51% shares of Bharat Aluminium Company Limited. The peti- tioner in that case (the union of the company’s employees) inter alia submitted that it had a right to be heard before and during the process of disinvestment. This Court rejected this argument, observing that: C “57. … As a matter of good governance and administration whenever such policy decisions are taken, it is desirable that there should be wide range of consultations including considering any representations which may have been filed, but there is no provision in law which would require a hearing to be granted before taking D a policy decision. In exercise of executive powers, policy decisions have to be taken from time to time. It will be impossible and impracticable to give a formal hearing to those who may be affected whenever a policy decision is taken. One of the objects of giving a hearing in application of the principles of natural justice is to see E that an illegal action or decision does not take place. Any wrong may adversely affect a person and it is essentially for this reason that a reasonable opportunity may have to be granted before passing of an administrative . In case of the policy decision, however, it is impracticable, and at times against the public interest, to do so, but this does not mean that a policy decision which is F contrary to law cannot be challenged.