LCIA Arbitration Rules: “Article 23. Jurisdiction and Authority 23.1 The Arbitral Tribunal shall have the power to rule upon its own jurisdiction and authority, including any objection to the initial or continuing existence, validity, effectiveness or scope C of the Arbitration Agreement.” 4. SIAC International Arbitration Centre Rules, 2016: “Article 28. Jurisdiction of the Tribunal 28.1 If any party objects to the existence or validity of the D arbitration agreement or to the competence of SIAC to administer an arbitration, before the Tribunal constituted, the Registrar shall determine if such objection shall be referred to the Court. If the Registrar so determines, the Court shall decide if it is prima facie satisfied that the arbitration shall proceed. The arbitration shall be terminated if the Court is not so satisfied. E Any decision by the Registrar or the Court that the arbitration shall proceed is without prejudice to the power of the Tribunal to rule on its own jurisdiction. 28.2 The Tribunal shall have the power to rule on its own jurisdiction, including any objections with respect to the existence, F validity or scope of the arbitration agreement. An arbitration agreement which forms part of a contract shall be treated as an agreement independent of the other terms of the contract.” 5. Arbitration Institute of SCC Rules: G “Article 11. Decisions by the Board The Board takes decisions as provided under these Rules, including deciding: (i) whether the SCC manifestly lacks jurisdiction over the dispute pursuant to Article 12 (i); H 458 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Article 12(i). Dismissal The Board shall dismiss a case, in whole or in part, if: (i) the SCC manifestly lacks jurisdiction over the dispute;…” 60. Thus, the approach of the reputed arbitral institutions worldwide B would show that there is express recognition of the principle of Kompetenz- Kompetenz and role of Courts is limited to preliminary prima facie examination. A reading of the above rules would also show that arbitral institutions have recognized the prima- facie test to determine the existence of the arbitration agreement. Discussing the rules of the major international arbitral institutions, William Park in an article titled C “Challenging Arbitral Jurisdiction: The Role of Institutional Rules”49 writes: “ On occasion, however, arbitrations have been filed without even minimal indicia of consent to the arbitral process. No document seems to exist saying the respondent actually agreed to arbitrate D with the claimant. In such instances, efficiency will be served by early consideration of a respondent’s argument that the case should not proceed. To this end, the ICC Rules permit the ICC Court to consider obvious jurisdictional defects, with arbitration going forward only to the extent the ICC Court is prima facie satisfied that an arbitration agreement may exist.” E 61. Thus, the objective behind the prima-facie test while referring a party to arbitration, is to also ensure that a non-consenting party is not bound to the process of arbitration and the doctrine of party autonomy is upheld with minimal intervention of Courts.