The arbitrator quantifi ed the claim by taking recourse to the Emden Formula. The learned arbitrator also referred to other formulae, but, as noticed hereinbefore, opined that the Emden Formula is a widely accepted one. 104. It is not in dispute that MII had examined one Mr D.J. Parson to prove the said claim. The said witness calculated the increased overheads and loss of profi t on the basis of the formula laid down in a manual published by the Mechanical Contractors Association of America entitled “Change s, Overtime, Productivity” commonly known as the Emden Formula. The said formula is said to be widely accepted in construction contracts for computing increased overheads and loss of profi t. Mr D.J. Parson is said to have brought out the additional project management cost at US$ 1,109,500. We may at this juncture notice the diff erent formulas applicable in this behalf. BATLIBOI ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERS LTD v. 453 HINDUSTAN PETROLEUM CORP. LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] (a) Hudson Formula: In Hudson’s Building and Engineering Contracts, Hudson Formula is stated in the following terms: “Contract head offi ce overhead × Contract sum × Period of delay” and profi t percentage Contract period In the Hudson Formula, the head offi ce overhead percentage is taken from the contract. Although the Hudson Formula has received judicial support in many cases, it has been criticised principally because it adopts the head offi ce overhead percentage from the contract as the factor for calculating the costs, and this may bear little or no relation to the actual head offi ce costs of the contractor. (b) Emden Formula: In Emden’s Building Contracts and Practice, the Emden Formula is stated in the following terms: “Head offi ce overhead and profi t × Contract sum × Period of delay” 100 Contract period Using the Emden Formula, the head offi ce overhead percentage is arrived at by dividing the total overhead cost and profi t of the contractor’s organisation as a whole by the total turnover. This formula has the advantage of using the contractor’s actual head offi ce overhead and profi t percentage rather than those contained in the contract. This formula has been widely applied and has received judicial support in a number of cases including Norwest Holst Construction Ltd. v. Coop. Wholesale Society Ltd. [ Decided on 17- 2-1998, [1998] EWHC Technology 339] , Beechwood Development Co. (Scotland) Ltd. v. Mitchell [ Decided on 21-2-2001, (2001) CILL 1727] and Harvey Shopfi tters Ltd. v. Adi Ltd. [ Decided on 6-3-2003, (2004) 2 All ER 982 : [2003] EWCA Civ 1757] . (c) Eichleay Formula: The Eichleay Formula was evolved in America and derives its name from a case heard by the Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals, Eichleay Corporation. It is applied in the following manner: Step 1 454 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. Contract billings × Total overhead for = Overhead allocable contract period to the contract Total billings for contract period Step 2 Allocable overhead = Daily overhead rate Total days of contract Step 3 Daily contract × Number of days = Amount of overhead rate of delay unabsorbed overhead” This formula is used where it is not possible to prove loss of opportunity and the claim is based on actual cost.