Ltd. wherein he and his wife Sushma Rastogi were the main promoters vide sale deed dated 12.12.2013. 3.8 M/s Sushma Constructions Pvt. Ltd. fi led an eviction suit against the respondent No.1 in the Court of Judge, Small Causes/ Additional District Judge, Court No.16, Kanpur Nagar registered as Small Causes Suit No.309 of 2014. Apart from respondent No.1, no other person was impleaded as defendant in the said suit. The Trial Court, vide dated 15.07.2015, dismissed the said suit. Aggrieved by the said dated 15.07.2015, M/s Sushma Constructions Pvt. Ltd. preferred a Revision under section 25 of the Provincial Small Causes Courts Act, 1887 before the High Court registered as SSC Revision no.279 of 2015. The High Court, vide dated 19.07.2018, primarily on the basis of the concession given by the opposite party therein i.e. Pankaj Rastogi (respondent No.1 herein)allowed the said Revision and a direction was issued to respondent No.1 to hand over peaceful possession of the shop in question within a period of 30 days. It was also provided that as per the agreed terms, if the possession is handed over within 30 days, the plaintiff M/s Sushma Constructions Pvt. Ltd. would not press for recovery of rent. The concession recorded and the operative portion of the passed by the High Court are reproduced hereunder: 920 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. “Accordingly, the impugned dated 15.07.2015 passed by the learned Judge Small Causes Court/Additional District Judge, Court No.16, Kanpur Nagar in S.C.C. Suit No.309 of 2014, M/s Sushma Construction Pvt. Ltd. vs. Pankaj Rastogi stands set aside and the suit fi led by the plaintiff stands allowed in toto. However, at this stage, learned counsel for the defendant-respondent submitted that as categorically stated in paragraph 7 of the counter affi davit that the defendant – respondent is not at all in a position to pay even a single penny as his business has been closed, therefore, liability to pay the arrears to set aside. On this statement, the learned counsel for the plaintiff -revisionist very fairly submits that in case the peaceful possession is handed over by the defendant-respondent within 30 days from today, he shall not press for any recovery of the arrears of rent. Accordingly, as jointly agreed between the parties, the defendant-respondent is directed to handover the peaceful possession of the shop in question within a period of thirty days from today. In case such possession is handed over within 30 days, the plaintiff -revisionist shall not press for any recovery of the rent. It is also made clear that any delay or deliberate avoidance on the part of the plaintiff in taking possession when handed over by the defendant would be taken against the spirit of the present . Learned counsel for the defendant undertakes to send a copy of this to his client. The plaintiff is also permitted to serve a certifi ed copy on the defendant respondent No.1 personally as well as by registered post/ courier services for necessary compliance. It is further made clear that in case possession is not handed over within thirty days from today, the plaintiff shall be at liberty to execute the same.