Looking to the factual prism, we are clear that the respondent’s application under Section 438, CrPC should not have been entertained, as he was a proclaimed off ender. We may note that in Lavesh v State (NCT of Delhi), (2012) 8 SCC 730, this Court was categoric against grant of anticipatory bail to a proclaimed off ender. In the same vein, following Lavesh (supra) is the decision in State of Madhya Pradesh v Pradeep Sharma, (2014) 2 SCC 171, where this Court emphasised that a proclaimed off ender would not be entitled to anticipatory bail. Of course, in an exceptional and rare case, this Court or the High Courts can consider a plea seeking anticipatory bail, despite the applicant being a proclaimed off ender, given that the Supreme Court and High Courts are Constitutional Courts. However, no exceptional situation arises in the case at hand. Following Pradeep Sharma (supra), in Prem Shankar Prasad v State of Bihar, 2021 SCC OnLine SC 955, this Court was unequivocal that the High Court therein erred in granting anticipatory bail ignoring proceedings under Sections 82 and 83, CrPC. In Abhishek v State of Maharashtra, (2022) 8 SCC 282, this Court concluded: ‘68. As regards the implication of proclamation having been issued against the appellant, we have no hesitation in making it clear that any person, who is declared as an “absconder” and remains out of reach of the investigating agency and thereby stands directly at confl ict with law, ordinarily, deserves no concession or indulgence. By way of reference, we may observe that in relation to the indulgence of pre-arrest bail in terms of Section 438 CrPC, this Court has repeatedly said that when an accused is absconding and is declared as proclaimed off ender, there is no question of giving him the benefi t of Section 438 CrPC. [For example, Prem Shankar Prasad v. State of Bihar, (2022) 14 SCC 529: 2021 SCC OnLine SC 955] …’ 17. Accordingly, in view of the discussions made hereinabove, the Impugned granting anticipatory bail to the respondent is set aside. The respondent shall surrender before the Court concerned within four 714 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. weeks from today and may seek regular bail which will be considered on its own merits without being prejudiced by the present . 18. The appeal stands allowed in the aforesaid terms. Pending applications stand consigned to records. As far as the submission of the State is that the Impugned is the basis for co-accused to obtain anticipatory bail, it is for the State to take steps, if so advised, in accordance with law, in that behalf. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal allowed. Nidhi Jain