25. Before delving further into the discussion of Section 16 (c) of the Act, we would like to trace a bit of history of the said provision. The F old Specific Relief Act of 1877 did not contain any express provision regarding the averment of readiness and willingness as being necessary in a suit for specific performance, but this was the law of the land. As early as 1928, Their Lordships of the Privy Council in Ardeshir H. Mama vs Flora Sassoon7, while taking note of the fact that there was G an absence of an express provision in Indian law regarding readiness and willingness, held that the requirements of Indian and English law in this matter are the same. 7 AIR 1928 PC 208 H 814 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 26. In the present case, the High Court while discussing Section 16 (c) of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 (hereinafter referred to as ‘Act’), observed that it is necessary for the Plaintiff to perform his part of the contract from the date of contract till the date of hearing. The High Court also stated that it is fairly well settled that mere stipulation of time would not make time the essence of the contract and in case of sale of B immovable property normally the time may not be essence of the contract. It was also stated that the explanation to Section 16 (c) of the Act provides that there must be pleading by the Plaintiff that he was always ready and willing to perform his part of contract. The High Court then noted that a specific plea was taken by the Plaintiff in her plaint that she was C ready and willing to perform her part of the contract. Moreover, PW1 (Plaintiff’s husband who testified on her behalf) categorically stated that he and the Plaintiff were ever ready to perform their part of contract with regard to the payment of the balance sale consideration, but the Defendants failed to perform their part of the obligations. At this juncture, the High Court took note of a very crucial fact that the aforementioned D part of the evidence (with regard to the Plaintiff’s readiness and willingness) was not challenged by the counsel appearing for Defendant No.s 1 to 3 in the Trial Court, and when a fact has been stated by witness and the same has not been challenged, it can be said that such a fact is admitted. PW2 (scribe of the sale agreement) categorically stated E that it was agreed that the extent of land would be measured for the purpose of calculation at the time of the execution of the sale deed. Therefore, it was observed that the recitals in the sale agreement coupled with the evidence of PW1 and PW2 shows that the extent of land has to be measured within three months, and unless the land is measured and demarcated, it would be impossible for the Plaintiff to get a sale deed F executed, and as such, the question of paying the balance sale consideration does not arise.