Having applied the specifi c criteria outlined hereinabove to the present factual matrix, it is our considered view that the Appellant’s case warrants an of stay on his award of conviction, though partially. 16. It remains uncontested that the foundation of the New FIR, which is the origin point of the present proceedings, rests solely on a general statement and involved the rekindling of the Old FIR, in which the Appellant had already been acquitted. Though the aforementioned gang chart projects the Appellant as a repeat off ender, the fact remains that he has not been convicted in any prior case, apart from the case presently under consideration. In this context, the detailed circumstances elaborated 6 (2007) 1 SCC 673, para 15. AFJAL ANSARI v. STATE OF UP 981 [SURYA KANT, J.] hereinabove, serve as compelling reasons to advocate for the suspension of the Appellant’s conviction and the consequent disqualifi cation. 17. We say so primarily for the reason that the potential ramifi cations of declining to suspend such a conviction are multifaceted. On the one hand, it would deprive the Appellant’s constituency of its legitimate representation in the Legislature, since a bye-election may not be held given the remainder tenure of the current Lok Sabha. Conversely, it would also impede the Appellant’s ability to represent his constituency based on the allegations, the veracity whereof is to be scrutinised on a re-appraisal of the entire evidence in the First Criminal Appeal pending before the High Court. This would potentially lead to de facto incarceration of the Appellant for a period of four years under the UP Gangsters Act and an additional six-year disqualifi cation period, even if he is eventually acquitted, which would eff ectively disqualify him from contesting elections for a period of ten years. 18. It is essential to emphasize that while the Appellant did not enumerate any material facts regarding irreversible consequences in his application fi led before the High Court, seeking the suspension of conviction, this principle can be traced to the statutory provisions outlined in Section 8 of the RPA. The High Court or this Court however, while exercising their Appellate jurisdictions, are well empowered to take judicial notice of these consequences. Additionally, the Respondent also does not contest the fact that if the conviction is not stayed, the Appellant would not only face disqualifi cation as a Member of the Eighteenth Lok Sabha but would also incur disqualifi cation to participate in future elections for Parliamentary or State Legislative seats. Taking into consideration the consistent legal position adopted in this regard, the severity of these outcomes underscores the urgency and gravity of the matter at hand. 19. In this context it is crucial that we also address the fi nal issue which is before us for consideration, i.e., the question of relevance of ‘moral turpitude’ in the present circumstances. While contemplating to invoke the concept of ‘moral turpitude’ as a decisive factor in granting or withholding the suspension of conviction for an individual, there is a resounding imperative to address the issue of depoliticising criminality.