(2) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (1),where the State Government has not notifi ed in the Offi cial Gazette the area for grant of reconnaissance permit or prospecting licence or mining lease, as the case may be, and two or more persons have applied for a reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or a mining lease in respect of any land in such area, the applicant whose application was received earlier, shall have a preferential right to be considered for grant of reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease, as the case may be, over the applicant whose application was received later: Provided that where an area is available for grant of reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease, as the case may be, and the State Government has invited applications by notifi cation in the Offi cial Gazette for grant of such permit, licence or lease, all the applications received during the period specifi ed in such notifi cation and the applications which had been received prior to the publication of such notifi cation in respect of the lands within such area and had not been disposed of , shall be deemed to have been received on the same day for the purposes of assigning priority under this subsection. Provided further that where any such applications are received on the same day, the State Government, after taking into consideration the matters specifi ed in sub-section (3), may grant the reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease, as the case may be, to such one of the applicants as it may deem fi t. (3) The matters referred to in sub-section (2) are the following:- (a) any special knowledge of, or experience in, reconnaissance operations, prospecting operations or mining operations, as the case may be, possessed by the applicant; (b) the fi nancial resources of the applicant; (c) the nature and quality of the technical staff employed or to be employed by the applicant; (d) the investment which the applicant proposes to make in the mines and in the industry based on the minerals; (e) such other matters as may be prescribed. 286 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 19573, which states that in cases where the State Government has not notifi ed in the Offi cial Gazette an area for grant of reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence for mining lease, and two or more persons had applied for the permit, licence or mining lease, the person whose application received earlier in point of time shall have preferential right for grant of permit, licence or lease over the person whose application was received later. The states that WBMDTCL is very much interested in mining Dolomite and Limestone in the area and has confi rmed the said fact in writing vide letter dated 05.06.2014. 2.8. The Respondent No. 1 - M/s. Chiranjilal (Mineral) Industries of Bagandih challenged the dated 09.07.2014 passed by the Joint Secretary, Commerce and Industries Department, West Bengal in Writ Petition No. 21358 (W) of 2014 before the High Court of Calcutta.