3. Earlier, defendant nos. 8 to 12 were impleaded as defendants in the Title Suit vide dated 15.09.1989. These defendants had 1 Alias “Bidurkarta”. H 360 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A purchased portions of land vide the sale deeds executed by the Managing Director of M/s. Hotel Khosh Mahal Limited. The sale deed in favour of the defendant no.8, marked as Exhibit-E, dated 17.07.1985, is prior to the institution of the suit in question, which was filed on 19.06.1986. 4. Maharani Chandratara Devi was the sixth wife of the late B Maharaja Birendra Kishore Debbarma. She was not survived by her children who had predeceased her. Maharani Chandratara Devi did not enter the witness box and depose as a witness. Maharani Chandratara Devi had expired soon after filing of the suit on 27.12.1988. 5. Smriti Debbarma was substituted as the plaintiff, as the legal representative of Maharani Chandratara Devi, who had inherited the C Schedule ‘A’ property and other properties in terms of the Will, marked as Exhibit-4, dated 15.10.1985 of Maharani Chandratara Devi. The Will has not been probated, and was disputed by the defendants before the trial court2. Smriti Debbarma, had expired during the pendency of the present appeal and is now represented by her legal representatives. D 6. By dated 23.11.1996, the suit was decreed holding that the plaintiff had right, title and interest in the Schedule ‘A’ property, as amended, and the plaintiff was entitled to khas possession of the Schedule ‘A’ property after evicting all the defendants and was entitled to remove all obstructions. Further, any transfer and/or conveyance of E any portion of the Schedule ‘A’ property made by late Bidurkarta and defendant nos. 1 to 7 was illegal and void. Directions were issued to make correction in the records of the office of the Sub-Registrar, Municipal Holdings etc. by deleting the names of M/s. Hotel Khosh Mahal Limited and/or defendant nos. 8 to 12, and that the name of the plaintiff should be recorded in all records relating to the Schedule ‘A’ F property. The defendants, their agents etc. were restrained from entering into the Schedule ‘A’ property and creating any sort of disturbance in the peaceful possession of the plaintiff over the same. The Survey Report (Exhibit-I) was directed to form part of the decree. 7. However, the trial court did not grant and therefore, is deemed G to have rejected the prayer of the plaintiff for a decree in respect of the Schedule ‘B’ property. The plaintiff did not challenge the decree of the 2The trial court accepted the genuineness of the will propounded by Smriti Debbarma. It appears this finding was challenged in the first appeal filed before the High Court of Gauhati and the appeal was allowed, albeit the question of the genuineness of the will H has not been examined. SMRITI DEBBARMA (DEAD) THROUGH LEGAL REPRESENTATIVE 361 v. PRABHA RANJAN DEBBARMA [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] trial court dismissing her suit in respect of the Schedule ‘B’ property.