After referring to the decision of this Court in National Textile Corporation (Maharashtra South) Ltd. vs. Standard Chartered Bank14 and the decisions of the Bombay and Calcutta High Court, the High Court held in the impugned that an issue of fraud, if raised in a claim petition, can be gone into by the Executing Court. After C so holding, the High Court first came to the conclusion that the report of the Bailiff dated 19.04.1996 as though possession of the land was taken, was fraudulent. After so holding in paragraph 203, the High Court opined in paragraph 208 that if fraud is borne out from the record of the Court itself, there is no necessity for a separate and specific pleading. To come D to the said conclusion, the High Court drew inspiration from the decision of this Court in Lachhman Dass vs. Jagat Ram and Others15, wherein this Court held that where collusion between the parties is apparent on the face of the record, the absence of specific pleading was immaterial. The High Court then proceeded to hold that specific boundaries and survey numbers of the properties were not indicated in the Plaint Schedule E but the Receiver curiously identified those properties and that when the land in Survey No.172, Hydernagar was in the possession of third parties/ pattadars for a long time, from a period prior to 1948, the attempt of the plaintiff to get a decree behind their back was fraudulent and that therefore the preliminary decree as regards the lands in Hydernagar F village was void ab initio. The High Court also found that there was suppression of facts in Application Nos. 994 of 1995 and 266 of 1983 and that such suppression was sufficient to uphold the plea of fraud. 105. But the difficulty with above finding of the High Court is that none of the parties to the preliminary decree challenged the same on the G ground that it was vitiated by fraud. Though persons obstructing execution and making claims in terms of XXI, Rules 97 to 101 CPC are also entitled to attack the decree on the ground of fraud, such claim petitioners are obliged to make pleadings as to how fraud is borne out by the records. 14 (2000) 10 SCC 592 H 15 (2007) 10 SCC 448 M/s TRINITY INFRAVENTURES LTD. & ORS. ETC. v. M. S. 339 MURTHY & ORS. ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] 106. We must remember that persons obstructing or resisting the A execution of a decree for possession may fall under different categories. An obstructionist may be one claiming to have been put in lawful possession by one of the parties to the decree itself. An obstructionist may also be a person claiming independent title in himself. 107. In fact, an application under XXI Rule 97 CPC is to B be filed by the decree-holder (or purchaser in execution of the decree), as can be seen from the statutory provision. XXI Rule 97 reads as follows: “97.