The ASG urges that such arguments ignore the discussion which clearly states that the word “is” can have present, past, or future meaning depending on the context in which it is used. In fact, Article 3(2) of the DTAAs also gives prominence to the context, as it clearly talks about meaning of a treaty term in accordance with domestic tax law at the time of applying the tax treaty unless the context otherwise requires. Counsel contends that the MFN clause clearly demonstrates that the other country is required to be an OECD member as on the date of the signing of the treaty and not on any future date. Thus, when Slovenia, Lithuania, or Columbia entered into respective DTAAs with India, they had to have been members of OECD at that time, for Netherlands, France, and Switzerland to claim parity of treatment. 18. It was lastly argued that the notifications, which amended existing DTAAs in respect of the three countries, reveal two aspects: one, that they were issued because of benefi ts granted to countries, other than Netherlands, France and Switzerland; two, that such subsequent notifi cations were triggered by the lowering of rate, or treatment of certain kinds of income (dividends, interest and royalties and fee for technical services) and their defi nitions. These notifi cations were preceded by negotiations, communications and letters, exchanged between India and the other country. In many cases, the amending notifi cation granted one benefi t, while denying other benefi ts (granted to other, third countries, whose DTAAs conferred such benefi ts after Netherlands or France or Switzerland’s DTAAs were entered into). This clearly showed that such notifi cations were necessary, ASSESSING OFFICER CIRCLE (INTERNATIONAL TAXATION) 2(2)(2) 1155 NEW DELHI v. M/S NESTLE SA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] and that there could not be any automatic applicability of such benefi ts given to other OECD members. B. Contentions of the assessees/Respondents 19. Mr. Poros Kaka, Mr. P. Chidambaram, Mr. S. Ganesh and Mr. Percy Pardiwala, learned senior counsel; Mr. Lovkesh Sawhney, and Mr. Mukesh Bhutani, learned counsel, appeared for the respondent assessees. It was submitted that when the DTAA and the Protocols – including the MFN clause contained in the concerned Article of the Protocol was already notifi ed under section 90(1) and it has come into force, there is further no legal requirement to notify any subsequent amendment to the DTAA which becomes operative automatically as a consequence of the trigger of the MFN clause to the DTAA. Counsel urged that Section 90 only requires notifi cation of a treaty or protocol, and does not mandate each clause of such agreement to be further notifi ed separately. A plain reading of Section 90 of the Act demonstrates that it does not require each article or paragraph thereof of an already notifi ed agreement to be further notifi ed separately if the amendment is as a consequence of a self-operative MFN clause. Undoubtedly if the amendment is as a consequence of a bilateral negotiation, then, a separate notifi cation is required.