The power under Para 5(1) is limited to the application of the Governor’s decision to H ADIVASIS FOR SOCIAL AND HUMAN RIGHTS ACTION v. 383 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] apply an Act or making modification or creating exceptions. A Though the power is legislative to some extent, that is confined to applicability, modification, or creating exceptions concerning the Act of Parliament or the State. While Para 5(2) confers the power of independent legislation, the Governor has plenary power of framing regulations for the peace and good governance of a B Scheduled Area. He is the repository of faith to decide as to the necessity. The Governor is empowered by Para 5(3) to repeal or amend any Act of Parliament or State Legislature, following the procedure prescribed therein, in exercise of making regulations as provided under Para 5(2) of Schedule V. The aspect of power was considered in Ram Kirpal Bhagat v. State of Bihar [Ram C Kirpal Bhagat v. State of Bihar, (1969) 3 SCC 471 : 1970 SCC (Cri) 154] thus : (SCC pp. 478-80, paras 21-23) “21. The second question which falls for consideration is whether the Bihar Regulation I of 1951 is in excess of the Governor’s powers. The contentions were: first, that the Regulation I of 1951 D could not at all have been made; secondly, that Regulations deal with the subject-matter and did not mean power to apply law and thirdly, the power to extend a law passed by another legislature was said to be not a legislative function, but was a conditional legislature. The legislation, in the present case, is in relation to E what is described as Scheduled Areas. The Scheduled Areas are dealt with by Article 244 of the Constitution and the Fifth Schedule to the Constitution. Prior to the Constitution, the excluded areas were dealt with by Sections 91 and 92 of the Government of India Act, 1935. The excluded and the partially excluded areas were areas so declared by in Council under Section 91 and under F Section 92. No act of the Federal Legislature or of the Provincial Legislature was to apply to an excluded or a partially excluded area unless the Governor by public notification so directed. Sub-section (2) of Section 92 of the Government of India Act, 1935 conferred power on the G Governor to make regulations for the peace and good government of any area in a Province which was an excluded or a partially excluded area and any regulations so made might repeal or amend any Act of the Federal Legislature or the Provincial Legislature or any existing Indian law which was for the time being applicable to the area in H 384 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A question. The extent of the legislative power of the Governor under Section 92 of the Government of India Act, 1935 in making regulations for the peace and good government of any area conferred on the Governor in the words of Lord Halsbury “an utmost discretion of enactment for the attainment of the objects pointed to.” (See Riel v. R. [Riel v. R., (1885) LR 10 AC 675 B (PC)], AC p.