It is submitted that the assessee never declared the manufacture of ZST and even otherwise no testing of the product is carried out despite the request made by the assessee. It is submitted that the particulars furnished by the assessee classifying the product as ‘zarda’ under CET SH 2403 9930 would by itself not make the product as such and as has been contended by the revenue, it would be the product which was manufactured by the assessee which would matter for determination of duty. Hence, the assessee has prayed for dismissal of the appeal. DISCUSSION AND FINDINGS 127. We have heard Smt. Nisha Bagchi, appearing for the appellant- Revenue, and Ms. Seema Jain appearing for the respondent-assessee. 128. A valiant attempt was made by Ms. Nisha Bagchi to contend that the tribunal erred in appreciating the fact that the onus of establishing the change in classifi cation was on the assessee and it ought not to have looked into the IS glossary to arrive at a conclusion that the product manufactured by the respondent-assessee was ‘chewing tobacco’. Hence, she has prayed for setting aside the of the tribunal. Per contra, learned counsel for the assessee has supported the of the tribunal. 650 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 129. Having heard learned advocates appearing for the parties we notice that the tribunal has assigned the following reason for accepting the plea of the assessee: - “Admittedly in the present case the appellants have marketed their product as chewing tobacco and not as Jarda scented tobacco. Revenue has neither disputed the manufacturing process undertaken by the appellant which shows non-use of any scent or perfume in the product nor have made any enquiries from the dealers, shopkeepers or the ultimate consumers of the product. No evidence of procurement of Perfume or Scent as raw material and then use in the product stands produced by the. Revenue. No employee of the assessee was examined so as to establish that perfume being used for manufacture of their fi nal product. As such the said factor of marketing of the goods as chewing tobacco leads us to inevitable conclusion apart from other reasons as discussed above, that the product in question is admittedly chewing tobacco and not Jarda scented tobacco.” 130. The aforesaid conclusion arrived at by the tribunal is just and proper based on appreciation of factual matrix which would not call for interference. Hence the appeal is dismissed. VII. COMMISSIONER OF CENTRAL EXCISE & ST ALWAR V. TARA CHAND NARESH CHAND [C.A NO.959 OF 2019] BRIEF FACTS 131. In the last group, in this batch of appeals before this Court, the Revenue is calling in question the dated 28.03.2018 passed by CESTAT in Excise Appeal No.51953 of 2017 whereunder the dated 27.09.2017 passed by the Commissioner of Central Excise classifying the product manufactured by the respondent-assessee as ‘chewing tobacco’ falling under CET SH 2403 9910, as against the claim of the Revenue of the said product falling under CET SH 2403 9930.