As a matter of fact, in the case of renewable power, the state commission had approved a model PPA. Further, the tariff terms and conditions to the extent decided C are by the Central Commission and not by the State Commission. These are incorporated in the model PPA. Neither the commission, nor the contesting respondents, during the hearings in the present appeals, were able to point out any provision in the PPA in the present case, which conflicted with any provision of the model PPA, or any express regulation. Furthermore, it was not established how in the absence of any reference D to the Multi Year Tariff Regulations, they were applicable to PPAs relating to renewable energy sources. 48. This court is also of the considered view, that in the absence of specific norms prescribing prior approval of PPAs like in the case of provisions of Regulation 21 of the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory E Commission (Multi Year Tariff) Regulations, 2019; Regulation 45 of the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission Comprehensive (Conduct of Business) Regulations 2001 and Regulation 36 of the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Distribution Licensee) Regulations, 2013, the respondent’s arguments on this aspect cannot be accepted. In these circumstances, the findings of APTEL, not based on any stipulated F obligations under provisions of the state regulations, requiring approval of the state commission, for its operation, cannot be sustained. Whether change in the REC Regulations obliged revision of the PPA in this case G 49. In Emco Ltd (supra), the parties had entered into a PPA on 09.12.2010 for the sale and purchase of solar power. The PPA was modified on 07.05.2011 in view of certain difficulties in the location of the unit. When the PPA was entered into, the tariff was applicable. The PPA was thus entered into during the control period of the first tariff . The second tariff came into force on 27.01.2012. It H GUJARAT URJA VIKAS NIGAM LIMITED v. RENEW WIND 701 ENERGY (RAJKOT) PVT. LTD. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] granted certain concessions to purchase and availing of the benefit of A accelerated depreciation under the income tax and did not grant such benefits to purchasers and tariff payable to power purchasers which did not avail of the benefit of accelerated depreciation. The respondent Emco had not availed accelerated depreciation. Despite that, it approached the Gujarat State Commission, seeking a determination of the tariff afresh, B contending that the position had changed. This court noticed that the power purchaser had contended that notwithstanding that it entered into a PPA during the control period, it was not obliged to sell power to the distributor for a price specified in the PPA and was legally entitled to seek fixation of separate tariff. The Court rejected the contention after noticing the arguments. The relevant extracts of the (In Emco C Ltd.) are as below: “11. The case of the first respondent is that notwithstanding the fact that it entered into a PPA during the “control period” specified in the First Tariff , it is not obliged to sell power to the appellant for the price specified in Article5.2 of the D PPA and is legally entitled to seek (from the second respondent) fixation of a separate tariff.