(b) construction activities relating to projects of Department of Atomic Energy or Defence requirements for which foreshore facilities are essential such as, slipways, jetties, wharves,quays; H 266 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A except for classified operational component of defence projects. Residential buildings,office buildings, hospital complexes, workshops of strategic and defence projects in terms ofEIA notification, 2006.; (c) construction, operation of lighthouses; B (d) laying of pipelines, conveying systems, transmission line; (e) exploration and extraction of oil and natural gas and all associated activities and facilities thereto; (f) Foreshore requiring facilities for transport of raw materials, C facilities for intake of cooling water and outfall for discharge of treated wastewater or cooling water from thermal powerplants. MoEF may specify for category of projects such as at (f), (g) and (h) of para 4; (g) Mining of rare minerals as listed by the Department of Atomic D Energy; (h) Facilities for generating power by non-conventional energy resources, desalination plants and weather radars; (i) Demolition and reconstruction of (a) buildings of archaeological and historical importance, (ii) heritage buildings; and buildings under E public use which means buildings such as for thepurposes of worship, education, medical care and cultural activities;” 28. Since Clause 2 of paragraph-4 provides that the activities described thereunder would require clearance from MoEF, the question F would arise as to whether for the other activities, which are permissible, does it require clearance? Paragraph-4.2 provides the answer.It provides for the procedure for clearance of permissible activities.Various formalities have to be undergone. Originally, the 2011 notification did not provide for any ex post facto approval. It is in the year 2018, i.e., on 09.03.2018 that paragraph-4.3 came to be inserted in the 2011 G Notification. It read as follows: “4.3 Post facto clearance for permissible activities.- (i) all activities, which are otherwise permissible under the provisions of this notification, but have commenced construction H without priorclearance, would be considered for regularisation only K.T.V. HEALTH FOOD PVT. LTD. v. UNION OF INDIA AND 267 ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] in such cases wherein the project applied for regularization in the A specified time and the projects which are in violation of CRZ norms would not be regularised; (ii) the concerned Coastal Zone ManagementAuthority shall give specific recommendations regarding regularisation of such proposals and shall certify that there have been no violations of B the CRZ regulations, while making such recommendations; (iii) such cases where the construction have been commenced before the date of this notification without the requisite CRZ clearance, shall beconsidered only by Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, provided that the request for such C regularisation is received inthe said Ministry by 30th June, 2018.” (Emphasis supplied) 29. It will at once be noticed that thereunder violation of ‘norms’ would disentitle a person to post facto clearance. The norms are laid D down in Paragraph-8. Paragraph-8 provided for regulation of activities permissible under the 2011 Notification. It declares that the development or construction activities in different categories of CRZ shall be regulated by the concerned CZMA in accordance with the following norms.