Until 1963, no one taking a constitutional oath was required to swear that they would “uphold the sovereignty and integrity of India”. But, the Constitution (Sixteenth Amendment) Act, 1963 expanded the C forms of oath to ensure that “every candidate for the membership of a State Legislature or Parliament, and every aspirant to, and incumbent of, public office” – to quote its Statement of Objects and Reasons – “pledges himself . . . to preserve the integrity and sovereignty of the Union of India.” Thus, by the Constitution (Sixteenth D Amendment) Act, 1963, “the sovereignty and integrity of India”, was included as an additional ground of restriction on the right guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a). 22. Having seen the history of evolution of clause (2) of Article 19, let us now turn to the first question. E Two parts of Question No.1 23. Question No.1 is actually in two parts. The first part raises a poser as to whether reasonable restrictions on the right to free speech enumerated in Article 19(2) could be said to be exhaustive. The second part of the Question raises a debate as to whether additional restrictions F on the right to free speech can be imposed on grounds not found in Article 19(2), by invoking other fundamental rights. First part of Question No.1 24. The judicial history of the evolution of clause (2) of Article 19 which we have captured above shows that lot of deliberations went into G the articulation of the restrictions now enumerated. The draft Report of the Sub-Committee on Fundamental Rights itself underwent several changes until the Constitution was adopted in November, 1949. In the form in which the Constitution was adopted in 1949, the restrictions related to (i) libel; (ii) slander; (iii) defamation; (iv) contempt of court; H 632 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (v) any matter which offends against decency or morality; and (vi) any matter which undermines the security of the State or tends to overthrow the State. 25. After the 1st and 16th Amendments, the emphasis is on reasonable restrictions relating to, (i) interests of sovereignty and integrity B of India; (ii) the security of the State; (iii) friendly relations with foreign states; (iv) public ; (v) decency or morality; (vi) contempt of court; (vii) defamation; and (viii) incitement to an offence. 26. A careful look at these eight heads of restrictions would show that they save the existing laws and enable the State to make C laws, restricting free speech with a view to afford protection to (i) individuals (ii) groups of persons (iii) sections of society (iv) classes of citizens (v) the Court (vi) the State and (vii) the country. This can be demonstrated by providing in a table, the provisions of the Indian Penal Code that make some speech or expression a punishable offence, thereby impeding the right to free speech, the heads of restriction under D which they fall and the category/class of person/persons sought to be protected by the restriction: Table of Provisions under IPC restricting freedom of speech and expression E F G H 48 Subject matter of challenge pending before this Court.