As a matter of fact, no additional consideration was required to be paid by the respondent except the interest for the interregnum period of which reference has been made under the impugned and that became the subject matter of challenge at the instance of the Authority in the instant appeal. D 7. Notices were issued by this Court on 4th January, 2012 and after hearing the parties, leave was granted on 5th September, 2014. 8. It reveals from the record that at one point of time, it was informed to this Court that there is a possibility of settlement of dispute between the parties, which reflects from the of this Court dated E 27th August, 2019, but later, it reveals from the dated 4th May, 2022, that counsel for the respondent on instructions informed this Court that the circle rate fixed by the State Government in reference to the subject land in question is not viable and is much higher than the market value of the subject property as on that day for commercial use. As no settlement was arrived at between the parties, the matter was finally F heard and arguments stood concluded on 13th April, 2023. 9. Learned counsel for the respondent informed this Court that on 16th March, 2023, although it was not reflected in the , the respondent was called upon as to whether the prevalent circle rate in reference to the subject property in question is acceptable, the appellant Authority G can be called upon to examine, but we find from the record that there was no such as referred to by the respondent’s learned counsel, the fact is that whatever circle rate prevalent at the relevant point of time of which we have made a reference, was not considered to be viable by the respondent and once this amicable resolution has failed, the matter was being heard on merits. H GWALIOR DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY AND ANR. v. 503 BHANU PRATAP SINGH [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] 10. Shri Sanjay Hegde, Senior Advocate appearing for the A appellants, submits that undue indulgence was granted to the respondent and the last instalment which was to be made over by the respondent by 31st October, 1999 was finally paid by 25th August, 2005. Although, in the ordinary course, since the conditions of bid were not complied with by the respondent (successful bidder), the auction ought to have been B cancelled, but the Authority after due deliberations, in the peculiar facts and circumstances, granted indulgence to the respondent and taking into consideration the fact that the last instalment was deposited by him on 25th August, 2005, with a break-up of principal amount and the component of interest thereof, the lease deed was duly executed between the parties without demur, obviously with the consent of the parties, as they are C signatories to the document/instrument for 18262.89 sq. meters which was executed on 29th March, 2006. 11. Learned senior counsel further submits that the auction proceedings which were initiated at the first instance on 13thMarch, 1997, finally culminated into execution of the lease deed without demur for D 18262.89 sq.