Otherwise also, there was no evidence on record to establish that at any point in time, proximate or not to the probable time of occurrence, Neeraj was noticed in the vicinity. Thus, in absence of any link evidence, the chain of circumstances was not complete as to warrant conviction of Neeraj. Hence, the High Court’s acquitting Neeraj F does not call for interference. Discussion and Analysis 23. We have considered the rival submissions and perused the record. Before we proceed further, it would be apposite to remind ourselves that this is a case where there is no eyewitness account of the G murder. Prosecution seeks to bring home the charge levelled on the accused by relying on certain circumstances. As to when on strength of evidence circumstantial in nature conviction can be lawfully sustained, the law is well settled — the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should, in the first instance, be fully established; these circumstances should be of a definite tendency unerringly pointing H 740 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A towards the guilt of the accused; the circumstances taken cumulatively should form a chain so far complete that there is no escape from the conclusion that within all human probability the crime was committed by the accused; the circumstances should be consistent only with the hypothesis regarding the guilt of the accused; and they must exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved. Further, the B circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established meaning thereby that they ‘must’ or ‘should’ and not ‘may be’ established (See:Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v.State of Maharashtra5). 24. In addition to the above, while dealing with a criminal trial, a C Court must not be oblivious of the most fundamental principle of criminal jurisprudence, which is, that the accused ‘must be’ and not merely ‘may be’ guilty before the Court proceeds to convict him. In Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade & Another v. State of Maharashtra6, this Court, elaborating upon the above principle, observed that the mental distance between D ‘may be’ and ‘must be’ is long and divides vague conjectures from sure conclusions. 25. Adding on to the aforesaid legal principles, in Devi Lal v. State of Rajasthan7, a three-judge Bench of this Court held that in a case based on circumstantial evidence where two views are possible, one pointing to the guilt and the other to his innocence, the accused is E entitled to the benefit of one which is favourable to him. The relevant portion of the is extracted below:- “18. … Though the materials on record hold some suspicion towards them, but the prosecution has failed to elevate its case from the realm of “may be true” to F the plane of “must be true” as is indispensably required in law for conviction on a criminal charge. It is trite to state that in a criminal trial, suspicion, howsoever grave, cannot substitute proof. 19. … in the case of circumstantial evidence, two views G are possible on the case of record, one pointing to the guilt of the accused and the other his innocence.