It is the case on behalf of the appellants F that the High Court has materially erred in relying upon and/or following the decision of this Court in the case of Lalita Kumari (supra), while holding that at the stage of considering the application under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., the Magistrate has no jurisdiction to verify the truth and veracity of the allegations. It is submitted that however the said decision G shall not be applicable in a case where the Magistrate exercises the powers under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. It is submitted that in the case of Lalita Kumari (supra), this Court was considering the powers of the police officer under Section 154 Cr.P.C. and to register the FIR. It is submitted that the powers exercised by the Magistrate at the stage of H 158 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Section 156(3) Cr.P.C shall not be and/or cannot be equated with the powers to be exercised by the police officer under Section 154 Cr.P.C. 8. On the other hand, it is the case on behalf of the original complainant as well as the State that as mandated by this Court in the case of Lalita Kumari (supra), at the stage of registering the FIR, B neither the Magistrate nor the police officer has any jurisdiction to verify the truth and veracity of the allegations and/or consider the truthfulness of the allegations. According to the respondents, what is required to be considered at that stage is, whether the allegations in the complaint/ application disclose commission of any cognizable offence or not. Therefore, the main issue posed for the consideration of this Court is, C whether in the facts and circumstances of the case, the learned CJM was justified in verifying the truth and veracity of the allegations at the stage of deciding the application under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. and whether at that stage the Magistrate is required to apply judicial mind or not? D 9. Article 21 of the Constitution protects lives and personal liberties of both the victim and those accused of having committed an offence. For this reason, the procedure established by law should be construed in the manner that the text of the statute ensures right to seek investigation to redress injustice and uncover crime by recourse to expeditious, fair E and impartial procedure. Concomitantly, the law in application should protect blameless against those informants who levels false allegations and abuse the law causing distress, humiliation and damage to reputation. Relevant legal provisions of Chapter XII of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. F 10. The Code vide Chapter XII, ranging from Section 154 to Section 176, deals with information to the Police and their power to investigate. Section 154 deals with the information relating to the commission of a cognizable offence and fiats the procedure to be adopted when prima facie commission of a cognizable offence is made out. Section 156 authorises a police officer in-charge of a Policestation to investigate any G cognizable offence without the of a Magistrate.