733 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] has never giveneffect to the declaration that Congress shall, A under some circumstances, make any law abridging the freedom of speech. Insofar as the second apparent difference is concerned, para 17 of Shreya Singhal is extracted as under: “17. So far as the second apparent difference is B concerned, the American Supreme Court has included “expression” as part of freedom of speech and this Court has included “the press” as being covered under Article 19(1)(a), so that, as a matter of judicial interpretation, both the US and India protect the freedom of speech C and expression as well as press freedom. Insofar as abridgement and reasonable restrictions are concerned, both the US Supreme Court and this Court have held that a restriction in to be reasonable must be narrowly tailored or narrowly interpreted so as to abridge or restrict only what is absolutely necessary. It is only D when it comes to the eight subject-matters that there is a vast difference. In the US, if there is a compelling necessity to achieve an important governmental or societal goal, a law abridging freedom of speech may pass muster. But in India, such law cannot pass muster E if it is in the interest of the general public. Such law has to be covered by one of the eight subject-matters set out under Article 19(2). If it does not, and is outside the pale of Article 19(2), Indian courts will strike down such law.” F In Shreya Singhal, there was a challenge to Section 66-A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, which was struck down as being violative of Article 19(1)(a) and was not saved under Article 19(2) on the ground of vagueness and not providing manageable standards and clear guidance for citizens, authorities and courts for drawing a precise G line between allowable and forbidden speech, expression or information. When a law uses vague expressions capable of misuse or abuse without providing notice to persons of common intelligence to guess their meaning, it leaves them in a boundless sea of uncertainty, conferring wide, unfettered H 734 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A powers on authorities to curtail freedom of speech and expression arbitrarily. 12.7. Thepresent cases, however, are not really concerned with restrictions on the right to freedom of speech being imposed by the State. These cases are concerned with the content B of Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution, inasmuch as the grievance sought to be ventilated by the petitioners is, whether, there could be an inherent constitutional restriction on freedom of speech and expression on the citizens vis-à- vis other citizens. These cases are not with regard to reasonable restrictions that could be imposed by the State C on the freedom of speech and expression, rather, what would be the content of free speech that should not be exercised as a right by an individual citizen which would not in any way give riseto a cause of action to another citizen to seek a remedy.