Apparently, the Government seems to be uncertain as to the relevant circumstances to be taken into consideration, and that appears to be the reason why they have used the disjunctive word “or” in the impugned .” (Emphasis supplied) 564 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 36. Thus, the decision of this Court referred to above while dealing with the conferment of powers under sub-section (3)of Section 3 of the National Security Act, makes it clear that the conferment of power has to be specifi c either with regard to the circumstances prevailing or likely to prevail and not for both. In that case, even the dated 06.01.1990 of the State Government conferring the power on the Commissioner of Police recorded the satisfaction of the Government of Maharashtra that having regard to the circumstances prevailing or likely to prevail in the Greater Bombay Police Commissionerate, it was necessary that during the period commencing on January 30, 1990 and ending on April 21, 1990, the Commissioner of Police shall exercise the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of Section 3 of the Act. The same was not approved by this Court. 37. Section 3(2) of the Gujarat Prevention of Anti-social Activities Act, 1985 (for short, ‘PASA’), which is pari materia to Section 3(2) of the Act 1986 with which we are concerned, fell for consideration before a two-Judge Bench of this Court in the case of Navalshankar Ishwarlal Dave v. State of Gujarat, reported in AIR 1994 SC 1496, wherein the contention raised on behalf of the detenu that the blanket power of delegation under sub-section (2) of Section 3 of the PASA could be said to be a negation of satisfaction on the part of the State Government which was likely to be abused by the District Magistrate or the Commissioner of Police. While repelling such contention, this Court observed:- “3. Section 3(2) of PASA empowers the State Govt. that having regard to the circumstances prevailing or likely to prevail in any area within the local limits of the jurisdiction of a District Magistrate and the Commissioners of Police, by an in writing direct that District Magistrate, the Commissioner of Police, may also, if satisfi ed the existence of conditions envisaged in sub-sec. (1) of S. 3 to exercise the powers of the State Govt. to detain any person. The contention of Shri Ganesh, the learned counsel for the appellants is that the blanket power of delegation is a negation of satisfaction on the part of the State Govt. and likely to be abused by the District Magistrate or the Commissioner of Police. The Legislature entrusted the power to the PESALA NOOKARAJU v. THE GOVERNMENT OF 565 ANDHRA PRADESH & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] State Govt. and if need be only selectively but not blanket delegation is permissible. After the issue of the notifi cation in 1985 no review thereafter was done. The of delegation made by the State Govt. without application of mind was, therefore, illegal and invalid and the sequator detention made became illegal.