It is stated that delimitation of these four States was deferred due to security reasons. Section 10A of the Delimitation Act, 2002 permitted such a course to be adopted. Though these four States were a part of the notification dated 6th March 2020, it is stated in G the letter dated 22nd February 2021 that there were number of petitions pending in this Court as well as in the Manipur High Court concerning delimitation exercise in North-Eastern States and that in the Court cases, discrepancies in census figures of 2001 in relation to these States were pointed out. In fact, it is stated that a number of notices have been issued regarding the said discrepancies. Therefore, the said letter was H HAJI ABDUL GANI KHAN & ANR. v. UNION OF INDIA & 547 ORS. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] issued with the approval of the competent authority in which it was A stated that it may not be conducive to grant an extension for the process of delimitation in the four North-Eastern States. The term of the Chairman of the Delimitation Commission constituted under the first impugned notification dated 6th march 2020 was to expire on 5th March 2021. In view of the aforesaid letter, while extending the term of the Chairman B by one more year by the second impugned notification dated 3rd March 2021, the said four States were excluded. Thus, in effect, the term of the Delimitation Commission constituted under the notification dated 6th March 2020 was extended by a period of one year only in relation to the Union territory of J & K. By the third impugned notification, the period was further extended by a period of two months. Section 10A of the C Delimitation Act, 2002 itself permits the postponement of the exercise of delimitation in certain contingencies. Moreover, the position and the status of the newly created Union Territory of J&K under the Constitution is completely different from the four North-Eastern States. In its applicability to the Union Territory of J & K, Sections 4 and 9 of the D Delimitation Act, 2002 stand amended by requiring readjustment to be carried out on the basis of the census figures of 2011. In case of the North Eastern States, there is no such amendment. Therefore, two unequal cannot be treated as equals. Hence, the argument based on the violation of Constitutional provisions including Article 14 deserves to be rejected. E 38. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioners did not dispute that the draft of delimitation was issued on 14th March 2022. The final was issued on 5th May 2022 which was brought into force with effect from 20th May 2022. While accepting that he has not challenged these subsequent s, the learned counsel submitted that F the petitioners cannot challenge the said in view of sub-Section (2) of Section 10 which lays down that every such shall have the force of law and shall not be called in question in any Court. In fact, the learned Solicitor General by relying upon a decision of the Constitution Bench in the case of Megharaj Kothari2 urged that the intention of the G legislature is that once an passed by the Delimitation Commission is published in accordance with sub-Section (1) of Section 10, the same are treated as law, which cannot be questioned in any Court.