c. The name of the third respondent was sponsored by the District Employment Offi cer in view of the requisition made by the appellant. Through the letter dated 17th April, 1995, the appellant had explicitly stated that the educational requirement for Postal Assistant will be intermediate education from a recognised board. It was neither mentioned in the advertisement nor in the aforesaid letter that candidates with “vocational streams” would be excluded. As such, the third respondent had fulfi lled the requisite criteria; UNION OF INDIA v. UZAIR IMRAN & ORS. 1143 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] and denying him an appointment is against the settled law that rules of the game cannot be changed during the recruitment process. d. Even otherwise, the certifi cate of the third respondent issued by the Board of High School and Intermediate Education, Uttar Pradesh (“said Board”, hereafter) on 24th July, 1991 clearly manifests that he was a student of the ‘Regular’ stream and could not have been disqualifi ed on the ground that he had pursued education at the 10+2 level in the vocational stream. 8. Asserting that the impugned s and s are free from legal infi rmities and stressing on the concurrent fi ndings recorded therein, Mr. Yadav submitted that the appeal is devoid of any merit and, consequently, warrants outright dismissal. 9. We have heard counsel for the parties and perused the materials on record. 10. The submission of Mr. Yadav that the Amendment Rules were not published in the offi cial gazette is without any substance. It appears that the Amendment Rules were duly published in the Gazette of India dated 15th February, 1992, a copy whereof has been produced by Ms. Bhati. She is, therefore, right in her contention that the Amendment Rules became operational on and from 15th February, 1992, much before the process for recruitment had commenced. 11. It is true that neither in the letter dated 17th April, 1995 requisitioning names of eligible candidates from the Employment Exchange nor in the advertisement dated 12th June, 1995 inviting applications from eligible candidates was it mentioned that the candidates clearing the requisite examination conducted by a recognized University or Board through vocational stream would stand excluded. However, nothing much turns on it. Law is well-settled that if qualifi cations mentioned in an advertisement inviting applications are at variance with statutorily prescribed qualifi cations, it is the latter that would prevail. Profi table reference in this connection may be made to the decisions of 114 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. this Court in Malik Mazhar Sultan v. U.P. Public Service Commission5 and Ashish Kumar v. State of Uttar Pradesh6. 12. It is observed that the Tribunal or the High Court did not have the occasion to advert to the certifi cate issued in favour of the third respondent and proceeded to decide the Original Application, the Writ Petition and the Review Applications without any reference to the Amendment Rules because of inept handling of the case by the appellant.