The allotment of this share is not a processual step devised merely for the purpose of working out some other conclusion. It has to be treated and accepted as a concrete reality, something that cannot be recalled just as a share allotted to a coparcener in an actual partition cannot 350 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. generally be recalled. The inevitable corollary of this position is that the heir will get his or her share in the interest which the deceased had in the coparcenary property at the time of his death, in addition to the share which he or she received or must be deemed to have received in the notional partition.” 29. In its 174th Report titled “Property Rights of Women: Proposed Reforms Under the Hindu Law” (5 May 2000). The Law Commission of India noted that “the exclusion of daughters from participating in the ownership of coparcenary property merely by reason of their sex is unjust”. By the time that the Law Commission submitted its report, it noted that Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, and Karnataka had incorporated amendments that would ensure that in a joint Hindu family governed by Mitakshara law, the daughter of a coparcener shall by birth become a coparcener in her own right in the same manner as a son (see paras 3.1 and 3.2.1). Kerala, the Law Commission noted, had gone a step further and abolished the right to claim any interest in any property of an ancestor during his or her lifetimebased on the mere fact that he or she was born in the family. “The report of the Law Commission led to the amendments of 2005 in the HSA 1956. 30. Section 6 of the HSA 1956 was substituted by Act 39 of 2005. The HSA 2005 commenced on 9 September 2005. Section 6 (1) as amended provides as follows: “6. Devolution of interest in coparcenary property.—(1) On and from the commencement of the Hindu Succession (Amendment) Act, 2005, in a Joint Hindu family governed by the Mitakshara law, the daughter of a coparcener shall,— (a) by birth become a coparcener in her own right in the same manner as the son; (b) have the same rights in the coparcenary property as she would have had if she had been a son; (c) be subject to the same liabilities in respect of the said coparcenary property as that of a son, and any reference to a Hindu Mitakshara coparcener shall be deemed to include a reference to a daughter of a coparcener: Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall aff ect or invalidate any disposition or alienation including any partition or testamentary disposition of property which had taken place before the 20th day of December, 2004.” REVANASIDDAPPA & ANR. v. MALLIKARJUN & ORS. 351 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] The Statement of Objects and Reasons accompanying the introduction of the Bill noted that: “Statement of Objects and Reasons… Section 6 of the Act deals with devolution of interest of a male Hindu in coparcenary property and recognises the rule of devolution by survivorship among the members of the coparcenary.