According to Rule 7, when a session of the Vidhan Sabha is prorogued, the Secretary shall issue a notifi cation in the Gazette and inform the Members. Rule 7A postulates that on the prorogation of the House, all pending notices, other than notices of intention to move for leave to introduce a Bill, shall lapse. Rule 14 provides that the sitting of the Vidhan Sabha is duly constituted when it is presided over by the Speaker or any other Member competent to preside over a sitting under the Constitution or the Rules. Rule 14A provides that subject to the provisions of Article 174, there shall be three Sessions in a fi nancial year, namely, the Budget Session, Summer/Monsoon Session and Winter Session of the Assembly and that the total number of sittings in all the Sessions put together shall not be less than forty. Rule 16 provides as follows: “Subject to the provisions of the Constitution and these Rules the Vidhan Sabha (Assembly) may be adjourned from time to time by its own : Provided that a motion for adjournment of the Vidhan Sabha (Assembly) to a day or sine die shall not be made except in consultation with the Speaker: Provided further that the Speaker may, if it is represented to him by the Minister that the public interest requires that the Vidhan Sabha (Assembly) should meet at any earlier time during the adjournment and if he is satisfi ed that the public interest does so require, give notice that he is so satisfi ed, and call a meeting of the Vidhan Sabha (Assembly) before the day to which it has been adjourned or any time after it has been adjourned sine die.” 34. Rule 16 indicates that the Vidhan Sabha may be adjourned by its own from time to time. This is however subject to the provisions of the Constitution and the Rules. In terms of the fi rst proviso, a motion for adjournment either to a day or sine die requires consultation with the Speaker. Signifi cantly, in terms of the second proviso, the Speaker is empowered in public interest to call a meeting of the Vidhan Sabha earlier than the date to which it has been adjourned or at any time after it has been adjourned sine die. Therefore, it is clear that the Rules of STATE OF PUNJAB v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY TO THE GOVERNOR OF 797 PUNJAB AND ANOTHER [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Procedure expressly recognize a situation where the Speaker reconvenes a sitting of the Vidhan Sabha which has been adjourned sine die but not prorogued. 35. The provision empowering the Speaker to reconvene a sitting of the Vidhan Sabha on any date after it has been adjourned sine die is not unique to the Rules of Procedure of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha. A review of the Rules of Procedure of State Legislatures for various states indicates that almost all of them contain an identical or similar provision. By way of illustration, to name a few, the Rules of Procedure for the State Legislatures of Rajasthan,9 Haryana,10 Tamil Nadu,11 Kerala,12 and West Bengal13 expressly permit the Speaker to call a sitting of the House any time after it has been adjourned.