The same is pending consideration before the competent court. 7. Aggrieved by the aforesaid charge-sheet, the appellant invoked D the jurisdiction of the High Court on 5th October, 2018 by applying under section 482, Cr. PC. He sought quashing thereof as well as the criminal proceedings against him on the grounds that the said charge sheet discloses no offence and the present prosecution has been instituted with mala fide intention for the purposes of harassment. E 8. Having held that a prima facie case for grant of interim relief was set up, the High Court, vide interim dated 15th November, 2018, directed that no coercive action be taken against the appellant, pending consideration of the application under section 482, Cr. PC. 9. However, upon a contested hearing, the High Court found no F material irregularity in the charge-sheet or the procedure followed by the Court below in taking cognizance, and proceeded to dismiss the appellant’s application under section 482, Cr. PC vide the impugned and . The High Court held that, at this stage, it cannot be concluded that a cognizable offence has not been disclosed, as the allegations are factual in nature and would require leading of evidence G by the parties. Relying on the decision of this Court in Mohd. Allauddin Khan vs. The State of Bihar and Ors.4, the High Court emphasized that at the stage of discharge and/or while exercising the powers under 3 C.S. No. 07 of 2017 4 (2019) 6 SCC 107 H RAMESH CHANDRA VAISHYA v. THE STATE OF UTTAR 649 PRADESH & ANR. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] section 482, Cr. PC, the court has limited jurisdiction and it cannot A appreciate the evidence in to determine whether, prima facie, a case has been made out against the accused. The High Court noted that without evidence, it is not possible to ascertain the veracity of the allegations at this stage; the application for quashing of a charge-sheet or criminal proceedings under section 482 Cr. PC, therefore, cannot B sustain. 10. Appearing on behalf of the appellant, Ms. Shukla, learned counseladvanced the following submissions: a. The first F.I.R., which was registered after a delay of six days, is an afterthought and creates serious doubts over C the allegations of the complainant. b. The charge-sheet was filed on the very next day of registration of the first F.I.R., without conducting proper investigation. The charge-sheet fails to take note of the second F.I.R. registered at the instance of the appellant D and the medical report. c. The complainant, being an influential person in the village, maliciously initiated criminal proceedings against the appellant with an ulterior motive to scuttle the already pending civil dispute in the civil court between the parties. E d. The Police did not act on the appellant’s complaint. The second F.I.R. dated 18th February, 2016 was registered only after an was passed on the appellant’s application under section 156(3), Cr. PC by the Magistrate. e. State of Haryana and Ors. vs. Bhajan Lal and Ors.5 F was placed in support of the contention that if the contents of the F.I.R., taken on their face value, does not make out any case against the appellant, such an F.I.R.