If the concurrence of the State Government was given before the convening of the Constituent Assembly for framing the Constitution of the State, it had to be placed before the Assembly for its decision. c. Article 370 also expressly recognizes: i. in clause (b)(i) “the Instrument of Accession governing the accession of the State to the Dominion of India”; ii. the convening in the future of a Constituent Assembly “for the purpose of framing the Constitution of the State” (clause (2)); iii. the recommendation in terms of the proviso to clause (3) had to be of the Constituent Assembly of the State “referred to in clause (2)” meaning thereby that it was that Constituent Assembly whose recommendation was envisaged to be necessary for the exercise of the Presidential power under the substantive part of clause (3); and 194 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. iv. that the Government of the State would be the Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir acting on the advice of the Council of Ministers “for the time being in offi ce” under the Maharaja’s proclamation dated 5 March 1948; d. Article 370 has used four distinct phrases in regard to the role of the State Government or, as the case may be, of the Constituent Assembly of the State antecedent to the adoption of certain action by the President, namely: i. consultative role. The expression consultation with the Government of the State is used in sub-clauses (b)(i) and the fi rst proviso to sub-clause (d); ii. concurrence of the State Government on certain matters (the expression as used in sub-clause (b)(ii) and the second proviso to clause (d)); iii. placing the concurrence of the State Government before the Constituent Assembly if it was granted before the convening of the Assembly, for its decision; and iv. the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly of the State under the proviso to clause (3) formed for the purpose of framing the Constitution of the State. 318. The use of distinct phrases – consultation, concurrence, decision and recommendation indicates that each of these phrases has been intended by the framers to have a distinct connotation. Consultation postulates the seeking of the view of the State government. Concurrence postulates an act of affi rmative acceptance of the proposal or, in other words, the agreement of the State government. A decision postulates the conclusion reached by the Constituent Assembly on the concurrence granted by the State government before its convening. Recommendation in the proviso to clause (3) would postulate the view of the Constituent Assembly being forwarded to the President before the exercise under Article 370(3). 319. Article 370 has used the expression “exceptions and modifi cations” at two distinct places: fi rst, in sub-clause (d) of clause (1); and second in clause (3). In both cases, the power to specify exceptions and modifi cations IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 195 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] is entrusted to the President; in the case of sub-clause (d) in relation to the application of the other provisions of the Constitution in relation to the State and in clause (3), if the President s that the provisions of Article 370 shall cease to be operative.