B 7. So far as issue no. (ii) is concerned, learned Tribunal held that the appellant Company has failed to satisfy the conditions of clause (4) of Schedule III to the Regulations and was not eligible to claim exemption from payment of fee over the period for which the erstwhile individual Srikant Mantri has paid the fees. C 8. Hence, appeals have been preferred by the appellant Company as well as by the Board against the self-same impugned of the Tribunal dated 9th August, 2007. 9. The main thrust of submissions advanced by learned counsel for the appellant is that Srikant Mantri, in the first instance, was the sole proprietor of the firm M/s. Govind Prasad Shrikant & Co. which was D registered with the Board since 30th January, 1992. Under Para 4 to Schedule III, it applies for conversion of membership to a corporate entity and membership of the old entity, i.e., M/s. Govind Prasad Shrikant & Co. (SEBI Registration No. INB030054715) was converted into a corporate entity w.e.f. 1st April, 1998. Accordingly, the appellant fulfils E the pre-conditions as indicated in para 4 of Schedule III annexed to the Regulations and this is the apparent error which has been committed by the Board in the first instance and the factual matrix has not been appreciated by the Tribunal as well. 10. Learned counsel further submits that para 4 was added to F Schedule III pursuant to Board’s policy to corporatize individual stock brokers, and to institutionalize the stock broking activity and further submits that the interpretation ought to be in consonance with the intent and purport of the policy to which para 4 was added to Schedule III. 11. Learned counsel further submits that in the case of conversion, G the individual registration has been converted into a corporate registration and, therefore, the exemption for the payment of fees is available and further submits that para 4 to Schedule III does not contemplate two registrations. The Explanation to para 4, by a deeming fiction, mandates a continuity from the erstwhile membership to the converted membership qua the payment of fees and further submits that the law, therefore, H GPSK CAPITAL PVT. LTD. (FORMERLY KNOWN AS MANTRI FIN. LTD.) v. 741 THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] mandates that in a case of conversion, no fresh fee will be collected A from the converted corporate entity. In the facts and circumstances, the finding returned by the Tribunal needs to be interfered with by this Court. 12. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent, while supporting the finding returned by the Board and affirmed by the Tribunal submits that the material which has come on record has been appreciated at two B stages by the Board as well as by the Tribunal. It remains uncontroverted that Srikant Mantri transferred his membership card of CSE to the appellant Company and he was not a whole time Director therein but only a Director and the corporate entity is entitled to claim exemption from the payment of registration fee only if the individual or partnership C membership had been converted into a corporate entity.