10. Further, it is required to consider when the document becomes chargeable with duty—during its execution or when it is produced before the Court. 11. The word ‘chargeable,’ as defi ned under Section 2(6), means chargeable under the Act in force at the date of the execution of the instrument. The crucial date which determines the law in force is the date of execution of the instrument, and the stamp duty is to be charged with reference to the date of execution. For stamp duty, the relevant date is the date of execution and not the date of adjudication or the date of presentation and registration of the document. 12. Entry 44 of List III of the Constitution of India is Stamp duties other than duties or fees collected by means of judicial stamps, but not including rates of stamp duty. Under Entry 44 of List III, the power to levy stamp duty on all documents is concurrent. But the power to prescribe “the rate” of such levy is with the Parliament and subjected to the same with the State Legislature. The State Legislature is competent to levy the stamp duty under Entry 44 of List III and prescribe rates of duty under Entry 63 of List II. 13. However, if the instrument falls under the categories mentioned in Entry 91 of List I, the power to prescribe the rate would be only with the Parliament, and for all other instruments or documents, such power would be with the State legislature under Entry 63 of List II. 14. Instruments chargeable with duty is defi ned under Section 3of the Act, which denotes that every instrument mentioned in the Schedule, subject to exceptions or exemptions, shall be chargeable with duty of the amount 300 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. which is indicated in that Schedule as the proper duty thereof. From time to time, amendments have been carried out in the Stamp Act, and Schedule I-A, as applicable to the State of Madhya Pradesh, was inserted.3 This Schedule specifi es the stamp duty that must be paid on specifi c instruments. Importantly, instruments not mentioned in the Schedule are not subject to duty. 15. Article 23 of Schedule 1A of the Stamp Act deals with conveyances. The defi nition of “conveyance” is contained in Section 2(10) of the Stamp Act which reads as under: “(10) ‘Conveyance.’—’Conveyance’ includes a conveyance on sale and every instrument by which property, whether movable or immovable, is transferred inter vivos and which is not otherwise specifi cally provided for by Schedule I;” At the time of execution of an agreement to sell (1988), the conveyance was subjected to stamp duty and Article 23 stood as: “23. Conveyance, not being a transfer charges or exempted under Article No.62: Where market of the property which is the subject matter of conveyance- does not exceed Rs. 50 Four percent of such market value subject to a minimum of One Rupee does not exceed Rs. 10,000 Seven percent of such market value exceed Rs.