That apart, there is the tariff regulatory commission which has the mandate for fi xing the rates for sale and purchase of electricity by the distribution licensee. Thus it was noted that there is an inbuilt mechanism to ensure permissible profi t both to the generating companies and to the distribution licensees. Therefore, it was held by the High Court that the assessee’s generating unit could not claim any benefi t under Section 80-IA of the Act computing the profi ts and gains on the basis of the rate chargeable by the distribution 516 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. licensee from the consumer and that the benefi t could only be claimed on the basis of the rates fi xed by the tariff regulatory commission for sale of electricity by the generating company. Facts being clearly distinguishable, this decision can be of no assistance to the revenue. 33. Before parting with this issue, we may mention that reliance placed by Mr. Rupesh Kumar, learned counsel for the revenue on the defi nition of the expression “market value” as defi ned in the explanation below sub- section (6) of Section 80 A of the Act is totally misplaced inasmuch as sub- section (6) was inserted in the statute with eff ect from 01.04.2009 whereas in the present case we are dealing with the assessment year 2001-2002 when this provision was note even borne. 34. That being the position, we have no hesitation in answering this issue in favour of the assessee and against the revenue. EXERCISE OF OPTION TO ADOPT WRITTEN DOWN VALUE METHOD. 35. We may now take up the fi rst of the three additional issues. As we have noted at the very outset, the issue is or the question raised by the revenue is whether the Tribunal could ignore compliance to the statutory provisions relating to exercise of option to adopt Written Down Value (WDV) method in place of the straight line method while computing depreciation on the assets used for power generation. This issue has been raised by the revenue in Civil Appeal No. 13771/2015 (CIT Vs. M/s Jindal Steel and Power Ltd.) in the following manner: Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the High Court was justifi ed in upholding the of the Tribunal that compliance to statutory provisions of exercising option to adopt WDV method in place of straight line method prescribed under the statutory provision on the assets used for power generation can be waved in the case of the assessee? 36. This issue arises in the case of the respondent-assessee M/s Jindal Steel and Power Ltd., Hisar for the assessment year 2001-2002. While dealing with the core issue, we have already made a brief description of the status of the assessee. It is, therefore, not necessary for a repetition of the same. What is however discernible from the assessment dated 26.03.2004 passed under Section 143(3) of the Act is that the assessee COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX v. M/S JINDAL STEEL & POWER 517 LTD.