246 SUPR[E2M02E3 ]C 9O US.RCT.R R. E2P4O6 R: T2S023 INSC 91[2023] 9 S.C.R. A K.T.V. HEALTH FOOD PVT. LTD. v. UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. CIVIL APPEAL NO.3626 OF 2020 B FEBRUARY 01, 2023 [K. M. JOSEPH, B. V. NAGARATHNA AND J. B. PARDIWALA, JJ.] Environment Protection Act, 1986 – 2011 Notification issued under the 1986 Act – Respondent No.1 granted ex post facto C clearance to the appellant purportedly invoking paragraph-4.3 of the aforesaid Notification, for laying of pipeline for the transfer of edible oil from the Chennai Port to the storage terminal tank and for the establishment of the storage transit terminal – NGT held that the activity of putting up a storage tank transit terminal being contrary to the 2011 Notification was illegal as the storage terminal D was not located ‘in’ the Chennai Port, in which case alone, it would have been permissible under the permitted activities of Coastal Regulation Zone II – Construction of the storage facility and the pipeline were directed to be removed, environmental compensation imposed – Appellant inter alia contended that CRZ-II being less E sensitive than CRZ-I, in CRZ-I, the “storage of edible oil inter alia is permitted within the notified ports” while, in CRZ-II, storage of non-hazardous cargo such as edible oil, fertilizers and foodgrain is permitted ‘in notified ports’ – And since the word ‘within’ which is used in CRZ-I is not employed in regard to the similar activity in CRZ-II and instead the word ‘in’ is used, they must receive a different F meaning – Held: Objects of the notification include guarding against the dangers of natural hazards in coastal areas and the sea level rise due to global warming – The coastal regulation appears to be based on considerations which appear to accommodate conflicting interests premised on considerations of what is felt as indispensably G necessary and the nature of the zone in question – Words ‘within’ and ‘in’ cannot include what is outside the port – The maker of the notification has not even contemplated the activities in question in a ‘port area’ – A storage tank cannot be permitted outside the port limits – If the same is allowed, it will introduce chaos – Question would arise as to up to what distance from the port area it would be H 246 K.T.V. HEALTH FOOD PVT. LTD. v. UNION OF INDIA AND 247 ORS. considered as the ‘in the port area’ – The 2011 Notification cannot A receive an interpretation which would leave matters of moment to be afflicted with the vice of uncertainty – As far as the pipeline is concerned, it is located in a zone where it is permitted activity – As to whether the pipeline can continue to be used if the storage tanks are demolished is a matter which must engage the attention of the B authorities – Appellants may approach the relevant District Coastal Zonal Management Authority – Appellants given six months period to demolish the storage tanks to comply with the impugned of the NGT – Appellant in the first appeal to pay the compensation ed within a month – Major Port Trust Act, 1964 – s. 35 – Customs Act – ss.2(11), (12), (13), 7(a), 57 – Indian Ports Act, 1908 C – National Green Tribunal Act, 2010.