The doctrine provides that a non-signatory may be bound by an arbitration agreement where the parent or holding company, or a member of the group of companies is a signatory to the arbitration agreement and the non-signatory entity on the group has been engaged in the negotiation or performance of 77 ibid, para 28. 78 (2019) 7 SCC 62 [2019 INSC 700]. 79 ibid, para 12. 80 (2020) 12 SCC 767 [2019 INSC 881]. COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 739 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] the commercial contract, or made statements indicating its intention to be bound by the contract, the non-signatory will also be bound and benefi tted by the relevant contracts. 10.6. The circumstances in which the “group of companies” doctrine could be invoked to bind the non-signatory affi liate of a parent company, or inclusion of a third party to an arbitration, if there is a direct relationship between the party which is a signatory to the arbitration agreement; direct commonality of the subject-matter; the composite nature of the transaction between the parties. A “composite transaction” refers to a transaction which is interlinked in nature; or, where the performance of the agreement may not be feasible without the aid, execution, and performance of the supplementary or the ancillary agreement, for achieving the common object, and collectively having a bearing on the dispute. 10.7. The group of companies doctrine has also been invoked in cases where there is a tight group structure with strong organisational and fi nancial links, so as to constitute a single economic unit, or a single economic reality. In such a situation, signatory and non-signatories have been bound together under the arbitration agreement. This will apply in particular when the funds of one company are used to fi nancially support or restructure other members of the group.” 48. Finally, in ONGC v. Discovery Enterprises Pvt Ltd,81 while the decision on whether the non-signatory was a party was remitted to the arbitral tribunal, the Court undertook a comprehensive review of the academic literature and judicial pronouncements on the issue. The court compendiously concluded the following: “40. In deciding whether a company within a group of companies which is not a signatory to arbitration agreement would nonetheless be bound by it, the law considers the following factors: (i) The mutual intent of the parties; (ii) The relationship of a non-signatory to a party which is a signatory to the agreement; 81 Discovery Enterprises (supra). 740 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. (iii) The commonality of the subject-matter; (iv) The composite nature of the transaction; and (v) The performance of the contract. 41. Consent and party autonomy are undergirded in Section 7 of the 1996 Act. However, a non-signatory may be held to be bound on a consensual theory, founded on agency and assignment or on a non- consensual basis such as estoppel or alter ego...” 49. What emerges from the aforementioned precedents is that: i. The Group of Companies doctrine was adopted and applied in Indian arbitration jurisprudence in Chloro Controls (supra), where the Court read the doctrine into the phrase “claiming through or under” in Section 45.