[2023] 10 S.C.R. 387 : 2023 INSC 606 387 VINOD KUMAR & ORS. A v. DISTRICT MAGISTRATE MAU & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 5107 of 2022) JULY 07, 2023 B [B. R. GAVAI AND J. B. PARDIWALA, JJ.] National Highways Authority Act, 1956: s. 3H – Deposit and payment of amount – Compulsory acquisition – Apportionment of compensation – Land of the appellants acquired for public purpose C – Determination of the compensation payable to landowners by the Special Land Acquisition Officer-SLAO – Dispute by respondents regarding the apportionment of the compensation between themselves and the appellants – Competent authority, SLAO determined the shares of parties in the subject land and the appellants were satisfied with the same – However, the respondents D challenged the same before the District Magistrate by invoking s.3G (5) – District Magistrate granted higher shares in favour of the respondents – Writ application by the appellants – Dismissed by High Court – Correctness of – Held : When it comes to resolving the dispute relating to apportionment of the amount determined E towards compensation, it is only the Principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction which can do so – Principal Civil Court means the Court of the District Judge – Dispute being of the nature triable by the Civil Court that the law steps in to provide for that to be referred to the decision of the Principal Civil Court – Thus, the passed by the District Magistrate is quashed and set aside – SLAO to refer F the dispute to the Principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction in accordance with sub-clause (4) of s. 3H of the Act. Interpretation of Statutes – Rule of interpretation – Literal rule – Explained. G Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 In the instant case, the High Court seems to have completely misread the provisions of the National Highways Authority Act, 1956. It fell into error as it failed to apply the well settled principle of law that for construing a legal provision, the H 387 388 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A first and foremost rule of construction is the literal construction. All that the Court has to see at the very outset is what does the provision state. If the provision is unambiguous and from the provision the legislative intent is clear, the Court need not call into aid the other rules of construction of statute. The other rules of construction are called into aid only when the legislative intent B is not clear. [Para 24][402-B-C] 1.2. The first and foremost principle of interpretation of a statute in every system of interpretation is the literal rule of interpretation. The other rules of interpretation, the mischief rule/ purposive construction, etc. can only be resorted to when the C plain words of a statute are ambiguous or lead to no intelligible results or if read literally would nullify the very object of the statute. Where the words of a statute are absolutely clear and unambiguous, recourse cannot be had to the principles of interpretation other than the literal rule.