It is pertinent to note that the 1st respondent was very much present at the time of such announcement. As per Rule 19(vii) of the Bye-Law of the Party, the General Council Meeting should be convened every year or as and when the Co-Ordinator and the Joint Co-Ordinator consider it necessary by giving 15 F days notice in advance of the meeting. The quoram for the meeting shall be 1/5th of the total number of Members of the General Council. If 1/5th of the members of the General Council requests the Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator to convene the Special General Council Meeting, they should do so within 30 days on G receipt of such representation. It would be appropriate to extract 19(vii) of the Bye-Law both in Tamil and English version. Rule 19(vii) reads as follows: - Part vii: - The General Council Meeting shall be convened once in a year or whenever it is considered necessary by the H THIRU K. PALANISWAMY v. M. SHANMUGAM & ORS. 1147 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator by giving 15 days notice A in advance of the date of meeting. The quoram for the meeting shall be one-fifth of the total number of members of the General Council. If one-fifth of the members of the General Council request the Co-ordinator and Joint Co- ordinator to convene the Special Meeting of the General Council, B the Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator should do so within 30 days of the receipt of such a requisition. On a reading of Rule 19(vii), it could be seen that the first part deals with the regular General Council Meeting which should be convened once in a year and in respect of the General Council C Meeting convened at the instance of the Co-Ordinator and the Joint Co-Ordinator. For conducting such meeting, the first part of Rule 19(vii) stipulates giving 15 days notice in advance of the date of meeting. Rule 19(vii) does not provide for any written notice for convening a meeting. The second part of Rule 19(vii) D deals with the quoram for the meeting, which shall be 1/5th of the total number of members of the General Council. For convening the Special General Council Meeting at the request of 1/5th of the Members of the General Council, the same should be convened within 30 days of the receipt of such a requisition by the Co- ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator. The second part does not provide E for giving any notice to the members of the General Council. For a requisitioner’s meeting of the General Council, Rule 19(vii) does not provide for any notice unlike the regular General Council Meeting, which requires 15 days of advance notice. The Tamil version of the Bye-Laws clearly demarcates the difference F between a regular General Council Meeting and a Special General Council Meeting based on requisition of members. The Tamil Version of the Bye-Law refers to the regular meeting and states “Merpadi Kuttathirku 15 Natkkal Mun Arivippu Kudukka Vendum”, while there is no such stipulation for the Special Meeting called by the requisitioners.