A Court may bear this aspect in mind. Thereupon, Shri Gagan Sanghi, would point out that even in the certified copy, the factum of payment of the stamp duty must be entered. The said aspect, in fact, engaged the attention of this Court in SMS Tea Estates(supra). 94. Reference has been made to Jupudi Kesava Rao (supra), to B contend that a copy of an instrument, cannot be treated as an instrument under the Stamp Act for the purpose of Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act. A copy cannot be impounded under Section 33, it is pointed out. Therefore, Section 33, which mandates impounding of an unstamped instrument, would not apply to a certified copy, which is permitted to be produced under the Scheme. Reliance has been placed on paragraphs- C 13 and 14 of Jupudi Kesava Rao (supra): “13. The first limb of Section 35 clearly shuts out from evidence any instrument chargeable with duty unless it is duly stamped. The second limb of it which relates to acting upon the instrument will obviously shut out any secondary evidence of such instrument, D for allowing such evidence to be let in when the original admittedly chargeable with duty was not stamped or insufficiently stamped, would be tantamount to the document being acted upon by the person having by law or authority to receive evidence. Proviso (a) is only applicable when the original instrument is actually before E the Court of law and the deficiency in stamp with penalty is paid by the party seeking to rely upon the document. Clearly secondary evidence either by way of oral evidence of the contents of the unstamped document or the copy of it covered by Section 63 of the Indian Evidence Act would not fulfil the requirements of the proviso which enjoins upon the authority to receive nothing in F evidence except the instrument itself. Section 25 is not concerned with any copy of an instrument and a party can only be allowed to rely on a document which is an instrument for the purpose of Section 35. “Instrument” is defined in Section 2(14) as including every document by which any right or liability is, or purports to be G created, transferred, limited, extended, extinguished or recorded. There is no scope for inclusion of a copy of a document as an instrument for the purpose of the Stamp Act. 14. If Section 35 only deals with original instruments and not copies Section 36 cannot be so interpreted as to allow secondary evidence of an instrument to have its benefit. The words “an instrument” in H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 363 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Section 36 must have the same meaning as that in Section 35. A The legislature only relented from the strict provisions of Section 35 in cases where the original instrument was admitted in evidence without objection at the initial stage of a suit or proceeding.