Under the principle, the Court will see that the legislature and the administrative authority “maintain a H proper balance between the adverse effects which the RAMESH CHANDRA SHARMA v. STATE OF UTTAR 459 PRADESH [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] legislation or the administrative may have on the rights, A liberties or interests of persons keeping in mind the purpose which they were intended to serve”. The legislature and the administrative authority are, however, given an area of discretion or a range of choices but as to whether the choice made infringes the rights excessively or not is for the Court. B That is what is meant by proportionality. 29.The above principle of proportionality has been applied by the European Court to protect the rights guaranteed under the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, 1950 and in particular, for C considering whether restrictions imposed were restrictions which were “necessary” — within Articles 8 to 11 of the said Convention [corresponding to our Article 19(1)] and to find out whether the restrictions imposed on fundamental freedoms were more excessive than required. (Handyside v. UK [(1976) D 1 EHR 737] ). Articles 2 and 5 of the Convention contain provisions similar to Article 21 of our Constitution relating to life and liberty. The European Court has applied the principle of proportionality also to questions of discrimination under Article 14 of the Convention (corresponding to Article 14 of our Constitution). (See European Administrative Law by J. E Schwarze, 1992, pp. 677-866). 30. On account of a Chapter on Fundamental Rights in Part III of our Constitution right from 1950, Indian Courts did not suffer from the disability similar to the one experienced by English Courts for declaring as unconstitutional legislation F on the principle of proportionality or reading them in a manner consistent with the charter of rights. Ever since 1950, the principle of “proportionality” has indeed been applied vigorously to legislative (and administrative) action in India. While dealing with the validity of legislation infringing G fundamental freedoms enumerated in Article 19(1) of the Constitution of India — such as freedom of speech and expression, freedom to assemble peaceably, freedom to form associations and unions, freedom to move freely throughout the territory of India, freedom to reside and settle in any part H 460 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A of India, — this Court has occasion to consider whether the restrictions imposed by legislation were disproportionate to the situation and were not the least restrictive of the choices. The burden of proof to show that the restriction was reasonable lay on the State. “Reasonable restrictions” under Articles 19(2) to (6) could be imposed on these freedoms only B by legislation and Courts had occasion throughout to consider the proportionality of the restrictions. In numerous s of this Court, the extent to which “reasonable restrictions” could be imposed was considered. In Chintamanrao v. State of M.P. [1950 SCC 695 : AIR 1951 SC 118 : 1950 SCR 759] C Mahajan, J.