As per Clause 2(m), the information provided in the E-Auction Process Information Document should be read together with the provisions of the Code and the Regulations. In the event of a confl ict between the E-Auction Process Information Document and the Code or the Regulations, provisions of the Code or the Regulations, as the case may be, would prevail. Mandate of Clause 2(r) is that the successful bidder would have to take over possession of the movable assets being sold under the E-auction within 15 days from the date of the complete payment to the Liquidator without any damage to the premises where the assets were kept. 19.1. Clause 3 of the E-Auction Process Information Document deals with disclaimer. While Clause 3 (a) says that the said document has been issued by the Liquidator for general information purposes only; sub-clause (b) clarifi es that the said document is not a statutory document; it has not been approved or registered with any regulatory or statutory authority of Government of India or any State Government. Further, nothing relating to the E-Auction Process Information Document should be construed as legal, fi nancial, accounting, regulatory or tax advice by the Liquidator. Clause 3 (f) declares that by procuring a copy of the E-Auction Process Information Document, the recipient accepted the terms of the disclaimer, which forms an integral part of the E-Auction Process Information Document. As per Clause 3(i), E-Auction Process Information Document is neither an agreement nor EVA AGRO FEEDS PRIVATE LIMITED v. PUNJAB NATIONAL 881 BANK AND ANR. [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] an off er by the Liquidator to the prospective bidders or any other person. Objective of the E-Auction Process Information Document is to provide interested parties with information that may be useful to them in making their bids. Clause 3(k) declares that the Liquidator has absolute right to accept or reject any or all bids or adjourn/postpone/cancel the E-auction or withdraw any asset/property or portion thereof from the E-auction at any stage without assigning any reason thereof. As per Clause 5(m), the highest bid on the E-auction shall supersede all the previous bids of the respective bidders. However, the bidder of the highest off er/bid does not get any right to demand acceptance of his bid. 20. On 21.07.2021, appellant received a congratulatory e-mail from the second respondent i.e., the Liquidator. The language of this e-mail is quite important. Appellant was informed that it had won the auction for the subject property. The winning bidders’ had been prepared and the item was listed on the appellant’s web page. If the appellant had any queries, it was advised to contact the auction administrator. When the appellant requested Respondent No.2 for issuance of allotment letter in respect of the subject property, it received an e-mail from the Respondent No.2 on 21.07.2021 itself at 17:56 pm. Appellant was informed that in terms of Clause 3 (k) of the E-Auction Process Information Document, he had cancelled the E-auction held on 20.07.2021. Appellant was informed that the Liquidator would come up with a fresh E-auction for sale of the subject property.