That territorial jurisdiction assumes paramount importance as the off ender, unlike the defendant in a civil suit instituted as per the Civil Procedure Code, 1908, has no role to play as far as the conferment of jurisdiction of a Court is concerned. That, in Dashrath Rupsingh Rathod vs. State of Maharashtra, (2014) 9 SCC 129, it was observed that Section 177 of the CrPC postulated that every off ence shall ordinarily be inquired into and tried by a Court within whose local jurisdiction it was committed. ii. Elaborating on the scheme of the CrPC, Dr. Singhvi submitted that Chapter II of the CrPC distributes adjudicatory duties amongst Magistrates and Courts as per territorial jurisdiction. Section 14 of the CrPC specifi cally determines the jurisdiction of local Magistrate(s). The provisions granting power to take cognizance (Section 157) or power to investigate (Section 156), are in accordance with the concept of ‘ordinary place of inquiry and trial,’ as stated in Chapter XIII of the CrPC. iii. Therefore, the Court under whose territorial jurisdiction the offence was committed becomes the Court of competent jurisdiction to pass all s, including bail and anticipatory bail. That the language of Section 167(2) mandating a judicial for the detention of an accused beyond 24 hours, mentions ‘nearest Magistrate’ and not Magistrate of competent jurisdiction. The nearest Magistrate, while possessing the power to extend PRIYA INDORIA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA AND ORS. 539 ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] custody up to 15 days, does not have the power to grant bail as the same power is reserved only for the Magistrate who is competent to commit the case for trial. In this regard, learned senior counsel submitted that the power of ‘the High Court or the Court of Session’ to grant pre-arrest anticipatory bail under Section 438 of CrPC cannot be invoked by a Court which does not have territorial jurisdiction. It was further contended that a proper construction of the word ‘the’ prefi xed to both High Court and Sessions Court in the text of Section 438 of CrPC would mean the High Court or the Sessions Court having the competent jurisdiction. It was contended that the word ‘the’ cannot be given so liberal a construction that it becomes indistinguishable from ‘any.’ iv. Learned senior counsel apprised this Court that even after the introduction of the provision of anticipatory bail in the CrPC in 1973, many States, such as Uttar Pradesh, did not have the said provision for decades altogether. It was further pointed out that practical diffi culties such as forum shopping may arise from the treatment of anticipatory bail as analogous to a fundamental right. The diffi culty would arise if a High Court would grant pre-arrest bail for an off ence committed in a State where the provision for anticipatory bail does not exist. This may lead to a situation where the High Court or the Court of Session would not have the advantage of the stance of the investigating agency or the assistance of the public prosecutor while adjudicating applications for grant of anticipatory bail.