of the right to privacy. Courts are therefore required to acknowledge A that children are not to be regarded like material objects, and be subjected to forensic/DNA testing, particularly when they are not parties to the divorce proceeding. It is imperative that children do not become the focal point of the battle between spouses. The Rights to Privacy, Autonomy and Identity of Children B under The Convention on Rights of Child: 18. In 1989, the United Nations Organisation drew up the Convention on Rights of Child with a view to provide special protection to children, proclaiming that “childhood is entitled to special care and assistance.” The Declaration, inter-alia, recognises that a child, C for full and harmonious development of his or her personality, should grow up in a family environment, in an atmosphere of happiness, love and understanding. The Declaration further emphasises the importance of family, as the “fundamental group of society and the natural environment for the growth and well-being of all its members and D particularly children.” 19. Article 19 of the Convention protects children against all forms of violence, neglect, and abuse; Article 24(3) protects children against traditional practices that are prejudicial to a child’s health; and Article 37 protects children against torture and cruel, inhuman, and degrading E treatment. Complementing these provisions is a child’s right to privacy, which extends to the physical and psychological integrity of a child.Importantly, violations of a child’s bodily integrity that reach the threshold of torture or cruel inhuman degrading treatment will never be justifiable, given the absolute prohibition on such treatment. Thus, a violation of this prohibition will always constitute a violation of a child’s F right to privacy. However, the right to privacy has a residual application in those cases where there is an interference with a child’s physical and/ or psychological integrity that does not reach the threshold for torture or cruel, inhuman, and degrading treatment.In such circumstances the question becomes whether the interference with a child’s integrity is lawful and non-arbitrary. G 20. The Convention accommodates and protects parental rights with respect to the upbringing of their Children, vide Article 5. However, this deference to parental wishes is subject to the strict caveat that such rights are exercised for the purpose of providing guidance and assistance to a child. Thus, unless a parent can demonstrate on the basis of objective H 720 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A evidence that an interference with a child’s bodily integrity is intended to benefit the health and development of a child, the interference will not be justified. If any interference with the right to privacy or bodily integrity of a child is to be justified, it must be established that there is objective evidence that establishes a nexus between the measure and aim; that there is no reasonably available alternative which would have minimized B the interference with the child’s right. Applying the said principles enumerated in the Convention, to the facts of the present case, we are unable to accept that conducting a DNA test of a child, as a means to prove adultery on the part of the appellant-wife, is with a view to provide guidance and assistance to a child, as required under the Convention.