We would not read the provisions of the Hindu Marriage Act, their underlying intent, and any C fundamental specific issue of public policy, as barring this Court from dissolving a broken and shattered marriage in exercise of the Constitutional power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India. If at all, the underlying fundamental issues of public policy, as explained in the s of V. Bhagat (supra), Ashok Hurra (supra), and Naveen Kohli (supra), support the view that it would be in the best interest of all, D including the individuals involved, to give legality, in the form of formal divorce, to a dead marriage, otherwise the litigation(s), resultant sufferance, misery and torment shall continue. Therefore, apportioning blame and greater fault may not be the rule to resolve and adjudicate the dispute in rare and exceptional matrimonial cases, as the rules of evidence E under the Evidence Act are rules of procedure. When the life-like situation is known indubitably, the essence and objective behind section 13(1)(i-a) of the Hindu Marriage Act that no spouse should be subjected to mental cruelty and live in misery and pain is established. These rules of procedure must give way to ‘complete justice’ in a ‘cause or matter’. Fault theory can be diluted by this Court to do ‘complete justice’ in a particular case, F without breaching the self-imposed restraint applicable when this Court exercises power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, as elucidated in the s referred to above.49 31.At this juncture, we would refer to two s authored by one of the members of this bench (Sanjay Kishan Kaul, J.) in Munish G 49 Explanation to Section 9 of the Hindu Marriage Act, which reads, “Where a question arises whether there has been reasonable excuse for withdrawal from the society, the burden of proving reasonable excuse shall be on the person who has withdrawn from the society”, partially mitigates the rigors to Section 23(1)(a) of the Hindu Marriage Act and, consequently, the fault theory. H 206 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A Kakkar v. Nidhi Kakkar50 and Sivasankaran v. Santhimeenal51. In Munish Kakkar (supra), the parties had been engaged in multifarious litigations, including divorce proceedings, for almost two decades. Yet, they opposed divorce by mutual consent. The respondent - wife was based in Canada, to where she had shifted, and was statedly taking medication for depression. The appellant - husband complained of B loneliness and lack of co-habitation, causing mental and physical torture. Several attempts to mediate, and efforts made by counsellors, psychologists, the panchayat and even the courts did not yield results. In these circumstances, this Court exercised the power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, recognising the futility of a completely C failed and broken down marriage. While observing that there was no consent of the respondent - wife for grant of divorce, the Court felt that there was no willingness on her part either to live with the appellant - husband. What was left in the marriage were bitter memories and angst, which increased with the passage of time, as the respondent - wife was reluctant to let the appellant - husband live his life by getting a decree of D divorce.