[2023] 4 S.C.R. 669 669 SHIVA KUMAR @ SHIVA @ SHIVAMURTHY A v. STATE OF KARNATAKA (Criminal Appeal No. 942 of 2023) MARCH 28, 2023 B [ABHAY S. OKA AND RAJESH BINDAL, JJ.] Penal Code, 1860 – ss.366, 376 and 302 – Power to impose modified punishment – Appellant convicted u/ss. 366, 376 and 302 IPC – Trial Court sentenced the appellant to undergo rigorous imprisonment for the rest of his life – High Court dismissed the C appeal preferred by the appellant challenging the conviction and sentence – In appeal before the Supreme Court, appellant contended that in view of the law laid down by the Constitutional Bench in the case of Union of India v. V. Sriharan alias Murugan & Ors., a modified sentence can be imposed only by the Constitutional Courts and not D by the Sessions Courts – Held: The Constitution Bench in the case of V. Sriharan case held that power to impose a modified punishment of providing any specific term of incarceration or till the end of convict’s life as an alternative to death penalty, can be exercised only by the High Court and the Supreme Court and not by any other inferior Court – Trial Court could not have directed that the E appellant shall not be released till the rest of his life – Even in a case where capital punishment is not imposed, the Constitutional Courts can always exercise the power of imposing a modified or fixed-term sentence by directing that a life sentence shall be of a fixed period of more than fourteen years – In the given circumstances F of the case, a fixed-term sentence for a period of thirty years imposed. Partly allowing the appeal, the Court HELD : 1. While imposing a life sentence, if it is directed that the accused shall not be released for a specific period, it G becomes a modified punishment. In such a case, before the expiry of the fixed period provided, the power to grant remission under Cr.P.C. cannot be exercised. [Para 7][674-B] 2. What is held by the Constitution Bench, cannot be construed in a narrow perspective. The Constitution Bench has H 669 670 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A held that there is a power which can be derived from the IPC to impose a fixed term sentence or modified punishment which can only be exercised by the High Court or in the event of any further appeal, by the Supreme Court and not by any other Court in this country. In addition, the Constitution Bench held that power to impose a modified punishment of providing any specific term of B incarceration or till the end of convict’s life as an alternative to death penalty, can be exercised only by the High Court and the Supreme Court and not by any other inferior Court. [Para 11][676- F-G] 3. When a Constitutional Court finds that though a case is C not falling in the category of ‘rarest of the rare’ case, considering the gravity and nature of the offence and all other relevant factors, it can always impose a fixed-term sentence so that the benefit of statutory remission, etc.