xiii. This court is alive to the feelings of being left out, experienced by the queer community; however, addressing their concerns would require a comprehensive study of its implications involving a multidisciplinary approach and polycentric resolution, for which the court is not an appropriate forum to provide suitable remedies. XI. Postscript 150. We have the benefi t of the fi nal draft by the learned Chief Justice, which contains Section E ‘responses to the opinion of the majority’ as well. Similarly, we have the benefi t of perusing the separate opinion of Sanjay Kishan Kaul, J. While it would not be necessary to deal pointedly with the responses of my learned brothers, certain broad aspects are addressed in the following paragraphs, to clear the air or dispel any misunderstanding. 151. The learned Chief Justice in his response seeks to highlight that the Court has in the past exercised its powers under Article 32 in respect of enforcement of various fundamental rights and cited certain precedents. A close look at each of them would reveal that in almost all cases, the Court enforced facets of personal liberty, or an aspect that was the subject of legislation. The allusion to cases dealing with subjects, particularly, incarceration of persons with mental disabilities (Sheela Barse126), the right to speedy trial (State of Punjab v. Ajaib Singh127), legal aid (Manubhai Pragji 126 1993 Supp (1) SCR 561 127 1995 (1) SCR 496 150 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Vashi128 etc. are directly concerned with personal liberty. The reference to cases dealing with clean environment, is also a facet of Article 21. In fact, there are enacted laws in the fi eld of environment protection. The allusion to the directions in PUCL v. UOI129 is pertinent; in that , the Court in fact issued a series of directions to the State, operationalizing existing government schemes, and issuing consequential directions, to mitigate large-scale loss of grains, by directing that they be distributed/channelized by the State, into the PDS system. The other decision, State of H.P. v. Umed Ram Sharma130 was a case where the High Court had directed speedy implementation and construction of a road which had been sanctioned by the State but had been left incomplete. It was held that direction was not to supervise the action but only to the apprise state of the inaction to bring about a sense of urgency. The court also observed importantly that it is primarily within the domain of the executive to determine the urgency and manner of priorities of the need of any law. This court by its even observed that there was nothing wrong in such directions, since a sanction for the road had been obtained but there was tardy implementation of the same. 152. That certain fundamental rights have positive content, or obligation, is not disputed – in fact, in paragraph 57 this has been elaborated; exception was instead taken to the approach suggested by the learned Chief Justice, of tracing the right to union from a conjoint reading of multiple Articles (clauses of Article 19, 25 and 21), as necessitating the creation of a legal status to the relationship (a result of the obligation to “accord recognition”) and enunciation of a bouquet of entitlements fl owing from this [see paragraph 336(i)].