The passed by the High Court is in line with the said notifi cation. Hence, the present appeal deserves to be dismissed. 5. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the material placed on the record. 6. The short question which requires consideration by this Court is, the date from which the respondent establishment, which is undisputedly carrying on the business of a pathological laboratory, will be covered under the Act. 7. (i) Section 1(4) of the Act provides that the Act shall apply to all factories (including factories belonging to the Government) other than seasonal factories. Proviso to the aforesaid section provides that this sub- section does not apply to the factory or establishment belonging to or under the control of the Government whose employees are otherwise in receipt of benefi ts substantially similar or superior to the benefi ts provided for under the Act. (ii) Section 1(5) of the Act provides that the appropriate Government may, in consultation with the Corporation and where the appropriate Government is a State Government, with the approval of the Central Government, can extend the provisions of the Act by issuing a notifi cation in the offi cial gazette, to any other establishment or class of establishments. (iii) The term “factory” has been defi ned under Section 2(12) of the Act. The same as existed at the relevant time, included any premises and part thereof in which manufacturing process is being carried on with or without the aid of power. The only diff erence being that the number of persons required to be working in the establishment with the aid of power was 10 or more whereas in cases without the aid power, the number required was 20 or more. It did not include a mine subject to the operation of the Mines Act, 1952 or a railway running shed. (iv) The term “manufacturing process” has been defi ned in Section 14 (AA) of the Act to give it a meaning as assigned to it in the Factories 6 Dated 06.09.2007 E.S.I. CORPORATION, REP. BY THE REGIONAL DIRECTOR v. 163 M/s. ENDOCRINOLOGY AND IMMUNOLOGY LAB [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] Act, 1948. The same is defi ned under Section 2(k) of the Factories Act, 1948 which is reproduced herein below: “2(k) “manufacturing process” means any process for – (i) making, altering, repairing, ornamenting, fi nishing, packing, oiling, washing, cleaning, breaking up, demolishing, or otherwise treating or adapting any article or substance with a view to its use, sale, transport, delivery or disposal, or (ii) pumping oil, water, sewage or any other substance; or (iii) generating, transforming or transmitting power; or (iv) composing types for printing, printing by letter press, lithography, photogravure or other similar process or book binding; or (v) constructing, reconstructing, repairing, refi tting, fi nishing or breaking up ships or vessels; or (vi) preserving or storing any article in cold storage; “ 8. On a perusal of the aforesaid provisions in the Act, it can safely be concluded that the establishment of the respondent will not be covered under the provisions of Section 1(4) of the Act as it will not fall within the defi nition of a “factory”, since no manufacturing process is carried on therein.