Thus, the registration requirement did not apply. Further, in accordance with the pre-qualifi cation requirements, the appellant’s manufacturing facilities were duly examined and approved by BHEL, and the bid was approved after due consideration and satisfaction of BHEL, the tendering authority. The Union Government by its subsequent OM dated 8 February 2021 has diluted the rigours of the earlier Procurement dated 23 July 2020 by stipulating that the earlier shall not aff ect the procurement of goods and services per se. 34. In this view of the matter, we are of the considered view that the Division Bench which was considering an appeal against a of a Single Judge rejecting the writ petition ought to have proceeded with circumspection. 35. It is settled law that in contracts involving complex technical issues, the Court should exercise restraint in exercising the power of judicial review. Even if a party to the contract is ‘State’ within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution, and as such, is amenable to the writ jurisdiction of the High Court or the Supreme Court, the Court should not readily interfere in commercial or contractual matters. This principle has been reiterated in a recent of this Court. Justice J B Pardiwala, speaking for the Bench in Tata Motors Limited v. BEST held: “48. This Court being the guardian of fundamental rights Is duty- bound to Interfere when there Is arbitrariness, irrationality, mala fi des, and bias However, this Court has cautioned time and again that courts should exercise a lot of restraint while exercising their powers of judicial review In contractual or commercial matters This Court Is normally loathe to Interfere In contractual matters unless a clear-cut case of arbitrariness or mala fi des or bias or Irrationality Is made out One must remember that today many public sector undertakings compete with the private industry The contracts entered Into between private parties are not subject to scrutiny under writ jurisdiction. No doubt, the bodies which are State within the meaning of Article 12 of 170 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. the Constitution are bound to act fairly and are amenable to the writ jurisdiction of superior courts but this discretionary power must be exercised with a great deal of restraint and caution. The courts must realise their limitations and the havoc which needless Interference in commercial matters can cause. In contracts Involving technical issues the courts should be even more reluctant because most of us in Judges’ robes do not have the necessary expertise to adjudicate upon technical Issues beyond our domain. The courts should not use a magnifying glass while scanning the tenders and make every small mistake appear like a big blunder. In fact, the courts must give fair play In the Joints’ to the government and public sector undertakings In matters of contract. Courts must also not Interfere where such interference will cause unnecessary loss to the public exchequer. 5 36. The Court ought to defer to the discretion of the tender inviting authority which, by reason of having authored the tender documents, is best placed to interpret their terms.