The first was dismissed in limine by an dated 16 August 2005. The second was an appeal filed by the Union of India. Before this appeal could be adjudicated on merits, the Union Government issued a notification on 17 February 2006 E abolishing the TNAT. On 28 March 2017, this Court dismissed the ap- peal for having become infructuous. It observed that the question of law had been kept open. 26. The TNAT Abolition Case (supra) does not hence consti- tute a precedent which binds this Court. The proceedings arising from F the TNAT Abolition Case (supra) in appeal before this Court, too, do not have a bearing on the approach to be adopted while deciding the merits of the issues before us because the question of law was ex- pressly kept open. ii. The Writ Petitions instituted before the Orissa High Court G were maintainable 27. The State of Odisha has interrogated the maintainability of the Writ Petitions instituted by the appellants before the Orissa High 14 2005 SCC OnLine Mad 333- “TNAT Abolition Case” H 764 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Court (which led to the impugned ) on the ground that the rights of the petitioners were not impacted by the abolition of the OAT. 28. The appellants are the OAT Bar Association, Cuttack and the Odisha Retired Police Officers’ Welfare Association. Both associations are registered under the Societies Registration Act 1860. Section 6 of B the Societies Registration Act 1860 authorizes registered societies to sue and be sued. Both the appellants are therefore organizations which are entitled to approach the High Court under Article 226 of the Consti- tution. 29. Both appellants have also alleged that an existing legal right of C theirs was violated. As held by this Court in Ghulam Qadir v. Special Tribunal (2002) 1 SCC 33, the existence of a legal right of the petitioner which is alleged to have been violated is the foundation for invoking the jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226: “38. There is no dispute regarding the legal proposition that the rights under Article 226 of the Constitution of India can be enforced D only by an aggrieved person except in the case where the writ prayed for is for habeas corpus or quo warranto. Another exception in the general rule is the filing of a writ petition in public interest. The existence of the legal right of the petitioner which is alleged to have been violated is the foundation for invoking E the jurisdiction of the High Court under the aforesaid article. The orthodox rule of interpretation regarding the locus standi of a person to reach the court has undergone a sea change with the development of constitutional law in our country and the constitutional courts have been adopting a liberal approach in dealing with the cases or dislodging the claim of a litigant merely F on hypertechnical grounds. If a person approaching the court can satisfy that the impugned action is likely to adversely affect his right which is shown to be having source in some statutory provision, the petition filed by such a person cannot be rejected on the ground of his not having the locus G standi.