Limited to square off the liabilities/borrowing of RHC Holdings Limited and Ranchem Private Limited. The accused Malvinder Mohan Singh and Shivinder Mohan Singh cannot avail the loan in their 100% holding company against the FDs of REL as it requires approval of related party transaction committee from the board of REL. Therefore, this arrangement was done with the connivance of the bank offi cials who facilitated this transaction by passing the SOP of their own. Moreover, loans were extended from time to time and eventually the security has been invoked by the Lakshmi Vilas Bank thus causing wrongful loss to the complainant Company to the tune of Rs. 791 crores approximately. 218 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. From the investigation conducted so far, the supplementary charge sheet has been prepared against LVB Bank (Now DBS Bank India Limited) and bank offi cials namely (1) Anjani Kumar Vermam, (2) S. Venkatesh, (3) Pradeep Kumar and (4) Parthsarathi Mukherjee (without arrest) and accused persons Malvinder Mohan Singh, Shivinder Mohan Singh, Sunil Godhwani, Hemant Dhingra, Kavi Arora and company RHC Holding Pvt. Limited, M/s Ranchem Pvt. Limited as they acted in connivance with each other being members of a well- planned conspiracy and interacted with each other and committed acts of commission and of omission in furtherance of the conspiracy to cheat the complainant company. Hence, this charge sheet against the accused persons, company and Bank u/s 409/120B IPC has been prepared by putting their names in column no. 11. It is therefore, respectfully prayed that this supplementary charge sheet may kindly be treated as part of main chargesheet against the said accused and the entire oral and documentary evidence as refl ected in the lists of PWs, and documents enclosed herewith may also be treated as supplement to the main chargesheet. 17. Refer Notice Served Yes No: Date Acknowledgement to be placed 18. Dispatched on: -sd-” 34. It is, therefore, clear that the criminal liability of the individuals now attributed to DBS are actions of (1) Anjani Kumar Verma, (2) S. Venkatesh, (3) Pradeep Kumar and (4) Parthsarathi Mukherjee. They were all offi cials of LVB. Their individual responsibility and accountability in criminal law, is and remains unaffected by the amalgamation. Therefore, there is in fact, no involvement of DBS Bank, revealed in the charge sheet filed by the Delhi Police. In completely ignoring these aspects and proceeding on a rather superficial basis, the High Court, in our considered opinion fell into error. 35. There is no gainsaying that the power to quash a criminal investigation or proceedings should not be lightly exercised. Yet, to RELIGARE FINVEST LIMITED v. STATE OF NCT OF 219 DELHI & ANR. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] refuse recourse to that power, in cases that require or may demand it, is being blind to justice, which the courts can scant afford to be. In the present context, the public’s confidence in the banking industry was at stake, when RBI stepped in, imposed the moratorium and asked DBS to take over the entire functioning, management assets and liabilities of the erstwhile LVB.