This was followed, later, in another five judge bench decision (Commissioner of Customs (Import), Mumbai vs. Dilip Kumar and Company & Ors4). In the present case, the situation is peculiar, because the grant of exemption, and the terms of such relief (in terms of time, D and monetary limits) are unambiguous. However, the procedure for calculation of the monetary limit is not prescribed at all. Therefore, the present case is not one of ambiguity, but instead, one of a clear gap, which if not construed appropriately, would defeat the intention of the notification. 18. It has often been held – in the context of rules of procedures E that they are meant to facilitate, not supplant justice. In Sangram Singh v. Election Tribunal, Kotah & Anr5 this court stated: “16. ...It is procedure, something designed to facilitate justice and further its ends: not a penal enactment for punishment and penalties; not a thing designed to trip people up. Too F technical a construction of Sections that leaves no room for reasonable elasticity of interpretation should therefore be guarded against (provided always that justice is done to both sides) lest the very means designed for the furtherance of justice be used to frustrate it.” G 19. Again, in Ghanshyam Dass v. Dominion of India6 the court elaborated upon the idea and intent of “adjective law” in dealing with Section 80 of the Civil Procedure Code: 4 2018 (9) SCC 1 5 (1955) 2 SCR 1 H 6 (1984) 3 SCC 46 THE STATE OF GUJARAT & ORS. v. MULTIPLEX ASSN. OF 127 GUJARAT THROUGH ITS PRESIDENT [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] “12. In the ultimate analysis, the question as to whether a A notice Under Section 80 of the Code is valid or not is a question of judicial construction. The Privy Council and this Court have applied the Rule of strict compliance in dealing with the question of identity of the person who issues the notice with the person who brings the suit. This Court has however B adopted the Rule of substantial compliance in dealing with the requirement that there must be identity between the cause of action and the reliefs claimed in the notice as well as in the plaint. As already stated, the Court has held that notice under this Section should be held to be sufficient if it substantially fulfils its object of informing the parties concerned of the C nature of the suit to be filed. On this principle, it has been held that though the terms of the Section have to be strictly complied with, that does not mean that the notice should be scrutinized in a pedantic manner divorced from common sense. The point to be considered is whether the notice gives sufficient D information as to the nature of the claim such as would the recipient to avert the litigation.” 20. Sugandhi v. P. Rajkumar7also leaned in favour of substantial justice when it had to deal with complaint of breach of procedural law.