However, the court cannot be oblivious to the statutory presumption permissible to be raised under Section 20 of PC Act with regard to the motive of the accused. Section 20 reads as under: - “20. Presumption where public servant accepts any undue advantage. — Where, in any trial of an off ence punishable under section 7 or under section 11, it is proved that a public servant accused of an off ence has accepted or obtained or attempted to obtain for himself, or for any other 2 (2023) 4 SCC 731 P. SARANGAPANI (DEAD) THR. LR PAKA SAROJA v. 439 STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] person, any undue advantage from any person, it shall be presumed, unless the contrary is proved, that he accepted or obtained or attempted to obtain that undue advantage, as a motive or reward under section 7 for performing or to cause performance of a public duty improperly or dishonestly either by himself or by another public servant or, as the case may be, any undue advantage without consideration or for a consideration which he knows to be inadequate under section 11.” 11. In view of the above, once the undue advantage i.e., any gratifi cation whatever, other than the legal remuneration is proved to have been accepted by the accused, the Court is entitled to raise the presumption under Section 20 that he accepted the undue advantage as a motive or reward under Section 7 for performing or to cause performance of a public duty improperly or dishonestly. No doubt, such presumption is rebuttable. The Constitution Bench in Neeraj Dutta(supra), also had dealt with the issue of presumption under Section 20 of the Act and held as under: - “88.7. (g) Insofar as Section 7 of the Act is concerned, on the proof of the facts in issue, Section 20 mandates the court to raise a presumption that the illegal gratifi cation was for the purpose of a motive or reward as mentioned in the said Section. The said presumption has to be raised by the court as a legal presumption or a presumption in law. Of course, the said presumption is also subject to rebuttal. Section 20 does not apply to Sections 13(1)(d)(i) and (ii) of the Act.” 12. In the instant case the pre-trap and post-trap proceedings were duly proved by the prosecution by examining the concerned witnesses, who had duly supported the case of prosecution. Both the courts below have recorded the fi ndings that the prosecution had proved beyond reasonable doubt the conscious acceptance of the tainted currency by the accused and also the recovery of tainted currency from the appellant. Therefore, the burden had shifted on the appellant to dispel the statutory presumption under Section 20 of the said Act, and prove that it was not accepted as a motive or reward for the performance of his public duty, which the appellant had failed to dispel. The explanation off ered by the appellant did not tally with the statement of the complainant recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C.