E (3) If the Magistrate or Court finds that a prima facie case is made out against the accused and he is incapable of entering defence by reason of mental retardation, he or it shall not hold the trial and the accused to be dealt with in accordance with Section 330.” F Section 105 Evidence Act “105. Burden of proving that case of accused comes within exceptions.—When a person is accused of any offence, the burden of proving the existence of circumstances bringing the case within any of the General Exceptions in the Indian Penal G Code, (45 of 1860), or within any special exception or proviso contained in any other part of the same Code, or in any law defining the offence, is upon him, and the Court shall presume the absence of such circumstances. 15 Substituted by the Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment) Act, 2008, Act No. 5 H of 2009 (w.e.f. 31.12.2009). PREM SINGH v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 855 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] Illustrations A (a) A, accused of murder, alleges that, by reason of unsoundness of mind, he did not know the nature of the act. The burden of proof is on A. *** *** **” B 20. As noticed, in regard to the mental status of the appellant, two-fold submissions have been made in the present appeal. One concerning his mental incapacity at the time of commission of crime and second, as regards the legality and validity of trial where the investigating agency and the prosecution did not project the factors relating to mental C incapacity of the appellant and the Trial Court did not adopt the procedure envisaged by Section 329 CrPC. These submissions are founded on the facts that the appellant was addicted to alcohol and was admitted to the rehabilitation centre for de-addiction. It has also been underscored that the family members of the appellant got him discharged from the rehabilitation centre against advice and without letting him complete the D course for rehabilitation to its expected duration. The submissions carry several shortcomings and could only be rejected in the facts of the present case. 21. It remains trite that the burden of proving the existence of circumstances so as to bring the case within the purview of Section 84 E IPC lies on the accused in terms of Section 105 of the Evidence Act; and where the accused is charged of murder, the burden to prove that as a result of unsoundness of mind, the accused was incapable of knowing the consequences of his acts is on the defence, as duly exemplified by illustration (a) to the said Section 105 of the Evidence Act. As noticed, F the mandate of law is that the Court shall presume absence of the circumstances so as to take the case within any of the General Exceptions in the Indian Penal Code, 1860. The principles of burden of proof in the context of plea of unsoundness of mind had been stated by this Court in the case of Dahyabhai Chhaganbhai Thakkar (supra) in the following terms: - G “7.The doctrine of burden of proof in the context of the plea of insanity may be stated in the following propositions: (1) The prosecution must prove beyond reasonable doubt that the accused had committed the offence with the requisite mens rea, and the burden of proving that always rests on the prosecution from the H 856 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R.