H 682 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Since all the conditions set out under Rule 26 of CCS (Pensions) Rules, 1972 are satisfied by the applicant, the stand of the respondents to deny the applicant to withdraw her resignation is not reasonable in these circumstances apart from being contrary to law. B 6. Going through the in Nirmal Verma’s case (supra), I find that the Hon’ble High Court of Delhi in a similar manner allowed the case of petitioner therein taking into consideration the rule position and directed the respondents to process the request of the petitioner for withdrawal of her resignation and also to allow her to join back her duties. Hence, adopting C the same ratio as laid down by the Hon’ble High Court of Delhi in Nirmal Verma’s’ case (supra), I allow the instant OA with a direction to the respondents to process the case of the applicant for withdrawal of her resignation and allow her to join duty as Assistant Teacher and the intervening period be D also decided as per existing rule with consequential benefits. However, the respondents are at liberty to proceed with the pending chargesheet, if any, as per rules. No costs.” (quoted verbatim from the paper book) 8.The High Court in the impugned, observing that no enquiry E was conducted against respondent and even vigilance clearance was granted to her before accepting her resignation, rejected the writ petition filed by the appellant authorities. 9. Before us, on behalf of the appellant, Ms. Divan, learned Additional Solicitor General has cited a decision of the Delhi High Court F in the case of Directorate of Education -vs- Manisha Sharma in W.P. (C) 8494/2015 decided on 28th November 2019. The Division Bench of the High Court in this judgement, had referred to the decision in the case of Nirmal Verma (supra) and observed: – “14. The Court is unable to agree with the reasoning in Nirmal G Verma v. MCD (supra) that since there was no misconduct on the part of the candidate, she should be permitted to withdraw her resignation. What was not noticed in Nirmal Verma v. MCD (supra) is the fact that the resignation had already been acted upon and that Rule 26(4), in any event, did not stand attracted.” H THE GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI & ORS. v. KAMLESH 683 RANI BHATLA [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] 10.Rule 26 of the CCS (Pension) Rules, 1972 stipulate:- A “26. Forfeiture of service on resignation.- (1) Resignation from a service or a post, unless it is allowed to be withdrawn in the public interest by the appointing authority, entails forfeiture of past service. B (2) A resignation shall not entail forfeiture of past service if it has been submitted to take up, with proper permission, another appointment, whether temporary or permanent, under the Government where service qualifies. (3) Interruption in service in a case falling under sub-rule C (2), due to the two appointments being at different stations, not exceeding the joining time permissible under the rules of transfer, shall be covered by grant of leave of any kind due to the Government servant on the date of relief or by formal condonation to the extent to which the period is not covered by leave due to him.