17. Such a decision lies exclusively within the domain of the Executive. It is for the State to take a call as to whether the circumstances demand that a decision be taken to extend the age of superannuation in respect of a set of employees or not. It must be assumed that the State would have weighed all the pros and cons before arriving at any decision to grant extension of age. As for the aspect of retrospectivity of such a decision, let us not forget, whatever may be the cut-off date fi xed by the State Government, some employees would always be left out in the cold. But that alone would not make the decision bad; nor would it be a ground for the Court to tread into matters of policy that are best left for the State Government to decide. The appellants herein cannot claim a vested right to apply the extended age of retirement to them retrospectively and assume that by virtue of the enhancement in age ed by the State at a later date, they would be entitled to all the benefi ts including the monetary benefi ts fl owing from G.O. dated 9th April, 2012, on the ground of legitimate expectation. 18. Pertinently, similar pleas as taken by the respondents-employees herein were raised in the case of NOIDA (supra) where the employees had sought to invoke the principles of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation for increasing the age of superannuation retrospectively and were shot down as inapplicable. For taking this view, reliance was placed on Monnet Ispat and Energy Limited. Vs. Union of India13 wherein this Court had opined that if a communication issued was a proposal or a mere recommendation, the principle of promissory estoppel will not apply for the simple reason that for invoking the said principle, there must be a promise and based on the said promise, the party concerned ought to have acted to its prejudice. In the NOIDA case (supra), this Court had outrightly turned down the argument advanced by the respondent–employees therein that the Doctrine of Legitimate Expectation would come into play. It was held that the said doctrine cannot have a place when enhancement of the age of superannuation is “a public function” that is governed by the provisions of 13 (2012) 11 SCC 1 DR. PRAKASAN M.P. AND OTHERS v. STATE OF KERALA 305 AND ANOTHER [HIMA KOHLI, J.] the Statute and the relevant service regulations. The position is the same in the present case. 19. No doubt, the appellants were the fi rst to raise the battle cry when they fi led not one, but two writ petitions in the High Court for extending them the benefi t of G.O. dated 14th January, 2010. But it is a matter of record that there was no positive granted in their favour throughout. Even in the present proceedings, no interim was passed in favour of the appellants who have superannuated in the meantime. The clock cannot be put back for them by reading retrospectivity in the G.O.