Accordingly, a complaint was lodged on 13.04.2000 in FIR No.60/2000 under Sections 376, 452, 506 IPC. E 4. The learned Additional Sessions Judge (Adhoc), Fast Track Court, Amritsar examined ten prosecution witnesses. It is to be noted that the only eye witness, who is the brother of the prosecutrix Pargat Singh has not been examined on behalf of the prosecution. 5. The Trial Court and the High Court rendered conviction against F appellant under all the Sections, with the major punishment of seven years rigorous imprisonment for the offence punishable under Section 376 IPC. SUBMISSIONS OF THE APPELLANT: 6. Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that there is no G recovery of the weapon allegedly used. The non-examination of Pargat Singh would make the case of prosecution doubtful. There was no external injury found on the prosecutrix. The inordinate delay in filing the complaint has not been taken note of. If PW4 was conscious about the reputation of his daughter being tarnished, he would not have given the complaint belatedly. At best, it could be a case of a relationship turning sour and H 988 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A not approved by the family. The High Court erred in recording that the appellant took co-accused persons to the residence of the uncle of the prosecutrix to commit the offence punishable under Section 376 IPC, even when it was not the case of the prosecution. The fact that the parties have compromised the matter in the year 2013 is also to be kept in mind. The High Court being the appellate forum has dealt with the B matter in a cursory manner without properly analysing the evidence on record. Moreover, even the maternal uncle of the prosecutrix namely Satnam Singh has not been examined. SUBMISSIONS OF THE RESPONDENT: 7. Learned counsel appearing for the State submitted that the C findings being concurrent and in the absence of any perversity, there is no need for any interference. Subsequent arrangements between the parties will not have any bearing and, in any case, it is not permissible under law. Both the Courts have rightly relied upon the evidence of PW4 and PW6. In the absence of any enmity or motive, the evidence of D PW6 has been correctly found favourable. DISCUSSION: 8. The prosecutrix PW6 did not allege that the offence punishable under Section 376 IPC was committed at her uncle’s residence. Admittedly, there is delay of 28 days in giving the complaint. The reasons E assigned cannot be accepted as it defies reason and logic. If the intention of PW4 was to suppress the occurrence, there is no need to give the complaint subsequently. He did give a complaint which was not even registered. Strangely, the complaint was given by PW4 who was not present on both the occasions. Further, to commit the offence punishable F under Section 376 IPC no sane person would take two accomplices, that too after committing a similar offence earlier. The best person to depose would have been the uncle of the prosecutrix Satnam Singh.