Paragraph 7 of the dated 10.03.2016 framed the question for determination and the same is reproduced hereunder: “7. The provisions of Section 6A(1), extracted above, do indicate that for offi cers of the level of Joint Secretary and above a kind of immunity has been provided for. Whether there can be a deprivation of such immunity by a retrospective operation of a of the Court, in the context of Article 20 of the Constitution of India, is the moot question that arises for determination in the present case.” 6. As the of reference also briefl y deals with the necessary facts and also the reasons for referring the issue to the Constitution Bench, it would be appropriate to reproduce the complete dated 10.03.2016. It reads as follows: “1. A prosecution under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 was sought to be questioned by the respondent accused on the basis of the provisions contained in Section 6A(1) of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 which was brought in by an amendment in the year 2003. Section 6A(1) of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 is in the following terms: “6A. Approval of Central Government to conduct inquiry or investigation.-(1) The Delhi Special Police Establishment shall not conduct any inquiry or investigation into any off ence alleged to have been committed under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (49 of 1988) except with the previous approval of the Central 10 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Government where such allegation relates to- (a) the employees of the Central Government of the Level of Joint Secretary and above; and (b) such offi cers as are appointed by the Central Government in corporations established by or under any Central Act, Government companies, societies and local authorities owned or controlled by that Government.” 2. The Delhi High Court before whom the challenge was brought answered the question by holding that the respondent accused was entitled to the benefi t of the said provision. Accordingly, the High Court took the view that the matter required fresh consideration for grant of previous approval under Section 6A(1) of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946. Aggrieved, the C.B.I. is in appeal before us. 3. We have heard the learned counsels for the parties as also the respondent who appears in person. 4. The provisions of Section 6A(1) of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 has been held to be unconstitutional being violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Subramanian Swamy versus Director, Central Bureau of Investigation and another [(2014) 8 SCC 682]. The of the Constitution Bench is however silent as to whether its decision would operate prospectively or would have retrospective eff ect. Though a large number of precedents have been cited at the Bar to persuade us to take either of the above views, as would support the case of the rival parties, we are of the considered view that this question should receive the consideration of a Constitution Bench in view of the provisions of Article 145(3) of the Constitution of India.