Section 167 of the CrPC also speaks only about investigation and not about cognizance by the Magistrate. Therefore, once a final report has been filed, that is G the proof of completion of investigation and if final report is filed within the period of 180 days or 90 days or 60 days from the initial date of remand of accused concerned, he cannot claim that a right has accrued to him to be released on bail for want of filing of sanction . [Para 44][33-A-D] H 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 1.3 It is evident that the of sanction passed by the competent authority can be produced and placed on record even after the filing of the chargesheet. It may happen that the inordinate delay in placing the of sanction before the Special Court may lead to delay in trial because the competent court will not be able to take cognizance of the offence without a valid B sanction on record. In such an eventuality, at the most, it may be open for the accused to argue that his right to have a speedy trial could be said to have been infringed thereby violating Article 21 of the Constitution. This may at the most entitle the accused to pray for regular bail on the ground of delay in trial. But the same C cannot be a ground to pray for statutory/default bail under the provisions of Section 167(2) CrPC. [Para 47][34-C-E] 1.4 The maximum period of 180 days which is being granted to the investigating agency to complete the investigation in the case wherein the prosecution is for the offence under the UAPA D is not something in the form of a package that everything has to be completed including obtaining of sanction within this period of 180 days. The investigating agency has nothing to do with sanction. Sanction is altogether a different process. Sanction is accorded, based on the materials collected by the investigating agency which forms the part of the final report under Section 173 E CrPC. The investigating agency gets full 180 days to complete the investigation. To say that obtaining of sanction and placing the same along with the chargesheet should be done within the period of 180 days is something which is not only contrary to the provisions of law discussed, but is inconceivable. [Para 49][35- F D-F] 1.5 It is very much necessary that the evidence collected by the investigating agency in the form of chargesheet is thoroughly looked into and thereafter, the recommendations are made. The investigating agency gets full 180 days to complete G the investigation and file its report before the competent court in accordance with Section 173(2) of the CrPC. The submission that the investigating agency may have to adjust the period of investigation in such a manner that within the period of 180 days, the sanction is also obtained and placed before the court is absolutely unpalatable. [Para 53][37-E-G] H JUDGEBIR SINGH @ JASBIR SINGH SAMRA @ JASBIR 5 v. NATIONAL INVESTIGATION AGENCY 1.6 Once the chargesheet has been filed within the stipulated A time, the question of grant of statutory/default bail does not arise.