A would not have any effect on the liability of the Bank i.e. the guarantor. Under Section 128 of the Contract Act, 1872, the liability of the surety is coextensive with that of the principal debtor unless it is otherwise provided by the contract. A surety is no doubt discharged under Section 134 of the Contract Act, 1872 by any contract between the B creditor and the principal debtor by which the principal debtor is released or by any act or omission of the creditor, the legal consequence of which is the discharge of the principal debtor. But a discharge which the principal debtor may secure by operation of law in bankruptcy (or in C liquidation proceedings in the case of a company) does not absolve the surety of his liability (see Jagannath Ganeshram Agarwale v. Shivnarayan Bhagirath [1939 SCC OnLine Bom 65 : AIR 1940 Bom 247] ; see also Fitzgeorge, In re [Fitzgeorge, In re, (1905) 1 KB 462]).”” D (Emphasis supplied) LITIGANT CANNOT TAKE ADVANTAGE OF ITS OWN WRONG (NULLUS COMMODUM CAPERE POTEST DE INJURIA SUA PROPRIA) 61. This Court while upholding the validity of Section 32A, IBC E (Manish Kumar’s case) has held that “The provision is carefully thought out. It is not as if the wrongdoers are allowed to get away.” That is a very important object and the same should not be permitted to be defeated by accepting the argument that permits the Signatory/ Director to enjoy the fruits of their own wrong. F 62. In an interesting case titled Goa State Cooperative Bank Limited v. Krishna Nath A. and Others reported in (2019) 20 SCC 38, the facts were that the liquidation proceedings were required to be completed within a fixed number of years, but failed. Thereafter the borrowers claimed in the recovery suit that now no recovery could be made. This Court held that the defaulters cannot take benefit of their G own action. The disbursement of loan in an arbitrary manner and failure to recover was the very fulcrum on the basis of which the winding up of the Society was ed. I quote the relevant observations as under:- “21. It is apparent that on the termination of the liquidation proceedings, liability of the members for the debts taken by H AJAY KUMAR RADHEYSHYAM GOENKA v. TOURISM 1037 FINANCE CORP. OF INDIA LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] them does not come to an end. There is no such provision in A the Act providing once winding-up period is over, the liability of the members for loans obtained by them which is in their hands, and for which recovery proceedings are pending shall come to an end. No automatic termination of recovery proceedings against the members is contemplated. On the B other hand, on completion of the period fixed to liquidate the Society, final report has to be submitted as to the amount standing to the credit of the Society in liquidation after paying off its liabilities including the share or interest of members.