The power to compound interest as part of restitution cannot be disputed, otherwise there can never be restitution.” G 21.1. A few other referred paragraphs of the said decision may also be reproduced, which read as under: - “177. This Court in Alok Shanker Pandey v. Union of India [(2007) 3 SCC 545] observed as under: (SCC p. 547, paras 8 and 9) H 1146 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A “8. We are of the opinion that there is no hard-and-fast rule about how much interest should be granted and it all depends on the facts and circumstances of each case. We are of the opinion that the grant of interest of 12% per annum is appropriate in the facts of this particular case. However, we are also of the opinion that since interest was not granted to B the appellant along with the principal amount, the respondent should then in addition to the interest at the rate of 12% per annum also pay to the appellant, interest at the same rate on the aforesaid interest from the date of payment of instalments by the appellant to the respondent till the date of refund on this C amount, and the entire amount mentioned above must be paid to the appellant within two months from the date of this . 9. It may be mentioned that there is misconception about interest. Interest is not a penalty or punishment at all, but it is D the normal accretion on capital.” 178. To do complete justice, prevent wrongs, remove incentive for wrongdoing or delay, and to implement in practical terms the concepts of time value of money, restitution and unjust enrichment noted above—or to simply levelise—a convenient approach is E calculating interest. But here interest has to be calculated on compound basis—and not simple—for the latter leaves much uncalled for benefits in the hands of the wrongdoer. 179. Further, a related concept of inflation is also to be kept in mind and the concept of compound interest takes into account, by reason of prevailing rates, both these factors i.e. use of the money F and the inflationary trends, as the market forces and predictions work out. 180. Some of our statute law provide only for simple interest and not compound interest. In those situations, the courts are helpless and it is a matter of law reform which the Law Commission must G take note and more so, because the serious effect it has on the administration of justice. However, the power of the Court to compound interest by way of restitution is not fettered in any way. We request the Law Commission to consider and recommend necessary amendments in relevant laws.” H M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR. v. ANITA 1147 MERCHANT [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 21.2. The observations aforesaid, as occurring in the referred A decision in the case of Alok Shankar Pandey (supra) make it clear that there could be no hard and fast rule as to how much interest should be granted and it would depend on the facts and circumstances of each case.