All eventualities where the councillor can be said to have any financial connection with the work of the Zilla Parishad were sought to be included, with the object of discouraging the practice of financial patronage that is inherently beneficial to the elected representatives. [Para 16][799- E E-F] 1.3. This was not even a situation where the appellant’s son was carrying on any existing contractual work. It was only soon after the election of the appellant that his son was registered as a contractor. He had no other contracts in that area or F otherwise. The only contract awarded to him was the one where the funds flowed to the Gram Panchayat from the Zilla Parishad of which the appellant was a member. The appellant had attempted to justify this situation by claiming that his son was registered as a contractor soon after the appellant’s election as he had just completed his studies. This fact raises further suspicions about G the appellant’s interest in his son’s business. [Para 20][800-E-G] 1.4. The Zilla Parishad, Dhule issued a work to the Aarave Gram Panchayat for the repair of roads on 09.06.2020. This document, and the Zilla Parishad’s counter affidavit, reveal H 792 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A that the funds flowed from the State Government to the Zilla Parishad, and in turn to the Gram Panchayat. This is notwithstanding the translation of the resolution dated 26.01.2020 adduced by the appellant, whereby an impression is sought to be given as if the Gram Panchayat was willing to spend its own funds on the project. In any case, this translation has been seriously B disputed by respondent no. 3. The issuance of the work dated 09.06.2020 by the Zilla Parishad itself shows the Zilla Parishad’s supervisory and sanctioning role in the contract, which falls within the wide ambit of Section 16(1)(i) of the said Act. [Para 21][800-G; 801-A-B] C 1.5. Probity in such financial transactions should be the rule rather than the exception. The appellant had a greater responsibility as a father to make sure that his son does not enter into a contract that is sanctioned by the Zilla Parishad itself. The finding of fact by courts below that nothing had been placed on D record to show even a separation of residence between the son and the father, other than a ration card purporting to show that the son was living with his grandmother. This was neither here nor there, more so when the son had just completed his education. [Para 22][801-C-D] E 1.6. That sufficient opportunities were made available to the appellant to present his arguments. There cannot be a birthright to seek adjournments, especially when the Divisional Commissioner was mandated to decide the issue of appellant’s disqualification within a period of ninety days from respondent no.3’s application, as per Section 40(2) of the said Act. The F Divisional Commissioner thus rightly treated the appellant’s written submissions as his defence. [Para 23][801-E] 1.7. The consequential disqualification would take effect from the date of the .