Because of the conspicuous gap of around 26 minutes between the end of the welding work and the occurrence of fi re, it would be illogical according to Mr. Goswami to attribute the welding work to be the cause for the fi re. With this projection, the claimants contend that there was no negligence on the part of the insured and the cause of fi re was rightly attributed to an electrical short-circuit. 26. It was further argued that multiple reports from diff erent govt. departments as well as independent surveyors supported the conclusion that the fi re had occurred on account of a short-circuit. In addition, it was also pointed out that no welding took place during the GI sheet roofi ng work as those would melt during welding. Instead, nuts & bolts were used in the GI roofi ng work. 27. On the aspect of the violation of insurance policy conditions, it was argued that roof repair work was being carried out to address the water leakage issue from the warehouse roof. Thus, there was no alteration of the insured premises which would have increased the fi re risk. The insured therefore never violated the general condition. 28. On the issue of remission of customs duty, it is argued that the benefi t of Sections 22 & 23 of the Customs Act 1962 was only available to importers and not those who hold such goods in trust for their clients. In addition, undertaking obtained from the claimant stating that they would not claim a remission or abatement on the customs duty payable (Annexure R-4) was also placed on record. It is accordingly submitted that the remission and abatement of duty available does not benefi t the claimants and the said amount (Rs. 2,13,00,061/-) may directly be paid to the Customs Department. 29. The learned counsel for the claimants relied on Canara Bank vs. United India Insurance Company3 to contend that the insurance company 3 (2020) 3 SCC 455. NEW INDIA ASSURANCE CO. LTD. & ORS. v. M/S. MUDIT 1037 ROADWAYS [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] cannot escape its liability if there is nothing to prove that the fi re was caused by the insured itself, irrespective of what the cause of fi re was. Reliance was also placed on Khatema Fibres Ltd. vs. New India Assurance Co. Ltd. & Anr.4 to argue that the surveyor’s report was not sacrosanct and therefore, could be departed from, if needed. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION 30. We have reviewed both parties’ arguments and carefully examined the multiple reports from various agencies, civic authorities, the insurance company, and surveyors. CONTENTIONS BEYOND THE LETTER OF REPUDIATION 31. The relevant portion of the letter of repudiation is reproduced below: “... ... ... ... the insured premises not aff ected due to alleged fi re. The above mention premises where the loss occurred due to alleged fi re is not insured under the Policy. Thus the alleged loss dogs (sic) not fall within the purview of the policy... ... ... ...