In our considered opinion, when the· learned arbitrator had already, in clear terms, stated the date of conversion would be as per the original agreement dated 29.06.1982, the same could not have been changed. That apart, we do not see any justifi cation to change the rate of interest as has been determined by the learned arbitrator. It needs no special emphasis to state that while dealing with an appeal from an rejecting an application under Section 34 and the principles relating to arbitration. The High Court would not have passed such an terming it as “mid-way approach”. In view of the aforesaid, we allow the appeals and set aside both the s passed by the High Court. Needless to emphasize, 400 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. whatever the directions given in the award by the learned arbitrator shall govern the fi eld. The amount that has been deposited before this Court in pursuance of the dated 08.12.2014 be refunded to the appellant. There shall be no as to costs.” 2.5. After the of this Court, the respondent RCCPL initiated execution proceedings. The learned Single Judge decided the same vide dated 26.05.2017 and directed for payment to be made in Indian Rupees and the date of conversion from US Dollars to Indian Rupees to be the date of agreement i.e. 26.09.1982. The respondent RCCPL preferred an appeal before the Division Bench. By the impugned dated 17.12.2019, the Division Bench had allowed the appeal, set aside the passed by the Single Judge and had referred the question of law to this Court. That is how the present appeals are before us, one fi led by NPCCL and other by RCCPL. 3. The counsel for the parties have not raised any issue with regard to contents of the agreement or the award or the proceedings undertaken till the impugned by the Division Bench had been passed referring the question under Article 134A of the Constitution. The agreement is thus binding on the parties. The award has attained fi nality and the s passed in the multiple rounds of the litigations are also not in issue. Thus, we have to proceed on the basis of the material on record and answer the question requiring this Court to determine the date of conversion of US Dollars into Indian Rupees. 4. We have gone through the contents of the agreement, the award and the passed by this Court on 24.02.2015 allowing the appeal of the NPCCL and issuing directions. 5. This Court in the dated 24.02.2015, relevant part of which is already extracted above, clarifi ed the following: i) The date of conversion would be as per the original agreement dated 29.06.1982. ii) The change of rate of interest by the Division Bench by reducing it from 12 percent to 6 percent terming it as midway approach NATIONAL PROJECTS CONSTRUCTION CORP. LTD. v. ROYAL 401 CONSTRUCTION COMPANY PVT. LTD. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] was not sustainable as it was beyond the scope of section 37 of the 1996 Act.