In The Law Lexicon, The Encyclopedic Law Dictionary (2nd Edn., 1997, p. 764) the words have been conferred the following meaning: “From time to time.— … ‘as occasion may arise’…. The words ‘from time to time’ mean that an adjournment may be made as and when the occasion requires and they will not mean adjournment from one fi xed day to another fi xed day. … ‘The words “from time to time” are words which are constantly introduced where it is intended to protect a person who is empowered to act from the risk of having completely discharged his duty when he has once acted, and therefore not being able to act again in the same direction.’ The meaning of the words ‘from time to time’ is that after once acting the donee of the power may act again; and either independently of, or by adding to, or taking from, or reversing altogether, his previous act.” 51. In Black’s Law Dictionary (5th Edn., p. 601), it has been defi ned as follows: “From time to time.—Occasionally, at intervals, now and then.” 52. In Stroud’s Judicial Dictionary (5th Edn., Vol. 2, p. 1071), it has been stated as follows: V. SENTHIL BALAJI v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY 891 DEPUTY DIRECTOR AND ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] “From time to time.— … ‘as occasion may arise’ (as per William, J., Bryan v. Arthur [(1839) 11 Ad & E 108 : 113 ER 354] Ad & E at p. 117).” (emphasis supplied) While authorizing the detention of an accused, the Magistrate has got a very wide discretion. Such an act is a judicial function and, therefore, a reasoned indicating application of mind is certainly warranted. He may or may not authorize the detention while exercising his judicial discretion. Investigation is a process which might require an accused’s custody from time to time as authorised by the competent Court. Generally, no other Court is expected to act as a supervisory authority in that process. An act of authorisation pre-supposes the need for custody. Such a need for a police custody has to be by an of a Magistrate rendering his authorisation. 54. The words “such custody as such Magistrate thinks fi t” would reiterate the extent of discretion available to him. It is for the Magistrate concerned to decide the question of custody, either be it judicial or to an investigating agency or to any other entity in a given case. 55. Interpreting the words “such custody”, the Law Commission in its 37th Report, while dealing with the pari materia provisions under the CrPC, 1898, has observed that the Magistrate is having wide powers as there is no express restriction under Section 167(2). It can be given to any investigating agency and, therefore, not meant to have a narrow interpretation by restricting it to the police alone. “481. A suggestion of the Ministry of Defence may be noted regarding custody under section 167. Under sections 167(2) and 344, a Magistrate is empowered to remand an accused to any custody, that is to say, he can remand him to other than police custody.