On the contrary, in the said cases, the purpose of payments was traceable to diff erent subject matters and accordingly, this Court held that the payments could be apportioned. However, in the present case, the licence issued under Section 4 of the Telegraph Act is a single licence to establish, maintain and operate telecommunication services. Since it is not a licence for divisible rights which conceives of divisible payments, apportionment of the licence C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 393 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] fee by holding that the entry fee paid is towards establishment and therefore, capital, while the licence fee paid as a percentage of gross revenue is towards operation and maintenance and therefore, Revenue, is without legal basis. ix. Reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in CIT vs. Jalan Trading Co. Pvt. Ltd., (1985) 4 SCC 59 (“Jalan Trading Co.”) to submit that in the said case this Court had an occasion to consider an annual payment in the form of profi t sharing towards the right to carry on business. That in the said case, this Court concluded that the annual payment of 75% profi t share would still be a payment that was capital in nature, as the same was paid as consideration under a deed of assignment for the right to carry on business. That this judgement will squarely apply to the facts of the present case since the annual payment based on AGR is only towards licence fees and merely because it is paid on the annual gross revenue, the payment cannot be construed as a revenue expenditure. With the aforesaid submissions, it was prayed that these appeals fi led by the Revenue be allowed and the impugned s of the High Courts of Delhi, Bombay and Karnataka, following the of the Division Bench of the High Court of Delhi dated 19 December, 2013, be set aside and it be declared that the annual payment is in the nature of a capital expenditure. 7.2. Per contra, learned senior counsel, Sri Ajay Vohra, appearing on behalf of the respondent-assessees in Civil Appeal No. 11130 of 2016, supported the of the Division Bench of the High Court of Delhi dated 19 December, 2013 and submitted that the said was passed based on a correct appreciation of the facts of the case and the law and therefore, the same would not call for any interference by this Court. It was further submitted as follows: i. That on a bare reading of the said provision and the mode of amortisation of expenses, it is patently clear that the same would be applicable only if the following cumulative conditions are satisfi ed: a) the expenditure is capital in nature; 394 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. b) the expenditure is incurred by an assessee on acquisition of the right to operate telecom services; c) the expenditure represents payment actually made to obtain a licence. Thus, for attracting the provisions of Section 35ABB, it is necessary that the expenditure under consideration must be capital in nature and is incurred for acquiring or obtaining a licence, which gives the right to the assessee to operate telecom services.