9. Upon conclusion of recording of the oral evidence, the further statement of the appellant convict was recorded by the Trial Court under Section 313 of the CrPC. The appellant convict stated as under:- “I am innocent. I have been falsely implicated. I was not living in the house from where the dead body was recovered. I was residing in a rented house situated in Mali Tola. I executed a deed in favour of my brother Fuchan Pandey relating to an parental house situated at Thatheri Tola and my brother Fuchan Pandey was living in the house from where the dead body was recovered.” 10. Upon appreciation of the oral and documentary evidence on record, the Trial Court recorded a fi nding that the appellant herein was guilty of the off ence he was charged with. The Trial Court treated the case as one falling under the category of “rarest of the rare cases” and sentenced the appellant to death. 11. The appellant herein being aggrieved with the and of conviction and capital sentence passed by the Trial Court went in appeal before the High Court. The High Court dismissed the appeal fi led by the appellant convict and confi rmed the capital sentence imposed by the Trial Court in the Death Reference No. 4 of 2017. 12. In such circumstances referred to above, the appellant convict is here before this Court with the present appeals. SUBMISSIONS OF THE APPELLANT 13. Dr. Aditya Sondhi, the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant convict, made the following submissions:- “1 . Case purely of circumstantial evidence 1.1 The case against the Appellant, Munna Pandey is based only on the last seen evidence and the conduct of the Appellant and hence entirely circumstantial in nature. It is a well established principle settled by this Hon’ble Court that in cases of circumstantial evidence, the circumstances against the accused ought to be conclusive in nature 1016 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. and there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused. 2. Failure to conduct medical examination u/s 53A CrPC is fatal to the case of the prosecution. 2.1 Medical examination of the accused u/s 53A of CrPC is required in cases of rape. Even though the Appellant was taken to the hospital for the treatment of his injuries incurred during the time of arrest, he was not subjected to any such medical examination where his samples were collected for the purpose of DNA examination. 2.2 In cases of rape where the victim is dead and the off ence is sought to be established only by circumstantial evidence, medical evidence assumes great importance. The failure of the prosecution to subject the appellant to medical examination is fatal to the prosecution’s case. (Chotkau v State of Uttar Pradesh 2022 SCC Online SC 1313 para 81,82) 2.3 If no DNA examination is conducted and if no reasonable explanation is provided by the prosecution for not conducting a DNA examination, adverse consequences would fall on the prosecution.