Jignesh touched survivor on her private parts, breast, A abdomen he held survivor’s neck and threatened that he will kill her removed own clothes and survivor’s clothes forcefully and inserted his genitalia penis in the vulvo once. After that survivor pushed Jignesh and ran away from room. There was history of sexual assault physical assault verbal B assault….” 5.1. Dissatisfied with the manner in which the Investigating Officer was conducting the investigation, the appellant/prosecutrix states that she submitted an application dated 10.08.2022 to the Additional Commissioner of Police, West Region imploring him to ensure that the C investigation is carried out properly and the respondent No. 2/accused is arrested. 5.2. On 10th August, 2022, the police moved an application before the learned ACMM for cancellation of the bail granted to the respondent No. 2/accused having regard to the fact that the provision of Section D 376 IPC has been added to the subject FIR vide application dated 8th August, 2022. The said application was allowed and vide dated 23rd August, 2022, the learned ACMM cancelled the bail granted to the respondent/accused on 6th April, 2022. 5.3. On 06th September, 2022, the Supplementary Statement of E the appellant/prosecutrix was recorded by the police wherein she stated as follows :- “…..I straightaway refused to oblige him but he got up from the bed and forcefully pushed me onto the bed. He touched my chest and posterior inappropriately and pulled up posterior the gown F worn by me. I screamed and requested him to not to do such things with me but he held me by my neck and threatened to kill me. At that time out of grave fear I was completely petrified and was unable to think anything. Thereafter he removed his shirt buttons, removed his pants and tried to disrobe me. In the ensuing scuffle my gown tore near my neck and breasts. G During the struggle he pulled down my nickers, pulled out his member and penetrated it inside my private part…….” 5.4. On 17th September, 2022, the respondent No.2/accused filed an application9 under Section 438 Cr.P.C. seeking anticipatory bail in 9 Anticipatory Bail Application No. 1367 of 2022 H 1120 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A respect of the subject FIR before the court of the Learned Additional Sessions Judge, Borivali Division, Dindoshi (Borivali Division), Goregoan, Mumbai. After noting the submissions made by the respondent No.2/ accused, counsel for the State and counsel for the appellant/prosecutrix who had moved an intervention application in the matter, the learned Additional Sessions Judge rejected the anticipatory bail application of B the respondent No. 2/accused with the following observations :- “12 It is pertinent to note that in the application filed under section 438 of Cr.P.C. the applicant has averred several facts which appear to be aptly unusual and strange. Though the applicant has contended that he is the victim of honey-trap which was arranged C by the victim with her friends, in Para. No. 8 of the application the applicant has contended that he is lifetime member of the Club Emerald, where he used to go for recreation and fitness.