The NCT Ordinance amends the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act 1991 [“GNCTD Act”]. The Preamble to the Ordinance states that Parliament has exclusive and plenary jurisdiction with respect to the national capital in view of Articles 239-AA(3)(b) and 239-AA(7): F “AND WHEREAS, keeping in mind various reports of various Commissions and since Delhi is the capital city of the nation, the Constitution retained certain exclusive and plenary jurisdiction in the Parliament while incorporating Article 239-AA in general and Article 239-AA(3)(b) read with Article 239-AA(7) in particular. G […] AND WHEREAS for the purpose of giving effect to Article 239(l) read with Article 239AA and in exercise of powers of Article 239AA(3)(b) and Article 239AA(7) of the Constitution of 1 Civil Appeal No. 2357 of 2017 H GOVERNMENT OF NATIONAL CAPITAL TERRITORY OF 495 DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. India, which includes the power to supplementing the A provisions under Article 239-AA including the power to make suitable amendments thereof, an Ordinance namely the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Ordinance, 2023 is proposed to provide for a comprehensive scheme of administration of services deployed in the functioning B of NCTD and other allied issues thereby balancing the local and domestic interests of the people staying in the NCTD with the democratic will of the entire nation reflected through the President of India.” (emphasis supplied) C 2. The NCT Ordinance inserts Section 3A in the GNCTD Act 1991. Section 3A stipulates that notwithstanding anything contained in any , , or decree of any Court, the Legislative Assembly shall have the power to enact laws as prescribed in Article 239-AA, except with respect to Entry 41 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the D Constitution. The provision excludes Entry 41 of List II from the legislative competence of NCTD in addition to Entries 1,2, and 18 of List II which are excluded by Article 239-AA. In effect, Section 3A amends Article 239- AA. 3. In addition to excluding the legislative power of NCTD with E respect to Entry 41 of List II, the NCT Ordinance also establishes a new scheme for the distribution of executive power over services between the Union of India and the Government of NCTD. A brief overview of the scheme is provided below: (i) The President shall constitute any authority, board, commission or statutory body in and for NCTD, or appoint F or nominate any office bearer or member to the body. [Section 45D] (ii) The National Capital Civil Service Authority [“Authority”] is constituted. The Authority shall consist of the Chief Minister of NCTD, the Chief Secretary of the Government G of NCTD, and the Principal Home Secretary of the Government of NCTD. Decisions shall be taken by a majority of votes of the members present and voting. [Section 45E] H 496 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A (iii) The authority has the power, inter alia, to recommend transfers and postings of Group A officers and officers of DANICS serving in the affairs of NCTD (excluding those serving in connection with Entries 1,2,18 of List II), recommend on all matters connected with and falling under the subject of ‘vigilance’ and ‘non-vigilance’ for the purpose B of disciplinary proceedings, to make recommendations on transfer and postings, and on the suitability of officers on postings.