This is apre-funding collection and imposed for the facility to be provided by the assessees and tobe used for funding B of project cost which ultimately would result in creation of better facilities and amenities for passengers. The assessees entered into agreements for the purpose of its operation, management and development of airports (OMDA). In terms of such OMDAs, assessees are responsible for the development, design, upgradation of airport. It is for this purpose that they have been permitted to collect UDF from the passengers. C 12. It is further submitted that the assessees are authorized to collect UDF by the Ministry of Civil Aviation which granted approval under Section 22A of the AAI Act. Once it is clear that the purpose and object of the UDF is for funding or financing the costs of upgradation, expansion or development of the major Airports, only the rate of fees D are determined by the Airport Economic Regulatory Authority. The upgradation or development of an airport results in better infrastructure and services to passengers. Collection of the DF could facilitate and provide better services to the passengers who would be the recipient of the airport service. Therefore, the amount cannot be called a tax or levy, E but is actually a collection for service, and consequently liable to service tax. 13. The revenue argues that the definition of airport service is wide and includes any service provided or to be provided by any person in the airport. It is a taxable service. Further, without payment of such F levy, passengers cannot enter the airport nor can have access to the plane. Thus, the UDF collected by DIAL is covered by the definition of “airport service” and would be liable to payment of service tax. The impugned has failed to appreciate this submission and hence, the same is liable to be set aside. G 14. It was argued that the decision of this court in the case of Consumer Online Foundation v Union of India5 had expressed the view that DF appeared to be in the form of tax or cess, but wasnot a legally collected tax. It was argued that Section 22 Aprovided for the 5 2011 (5) SCR 911 H 332 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A “levy” of DF, but the rate at which the said levy was to be collected had not been prescribed by framing of a separate rule by the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority (AERA) as amended by the 2008 Act. This court held that the collection of UDF by the assessees prior to the notification issued by AERA was considered to be levied and collected without the authority of law. It further found that the levy and collection B of UDF by the two airport concessionairesat the rates fixed by the Central Government (by two letters dated 9.2.2009 and 27.2.2009) respectively were ultra vires the AAI Act, and were not saved by Section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897. 15. It is submitted that in the above decision, there is no clear C finding that DF is a tax or cess and the same was held tobe ultra vires the AAI Act on the ground that the rate could not have been fixed by the Central Government, but only by making a rule by AERA which has notbeen done.