It is the obligation of the Executing Court to issue the sale certificate as per Rule 94 of XXI of CPC. In practice, we often notice a substantial delay in issuing the sale certificate. In this case, the delay is of more than six months. In H 970 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A many cases, there is a procedural delay in issuing the sale certificate for which no fault can be attributed to the auction purchaser. 9.Paragraphs 11 and 12 of the decision of this Court in the case of Pattam Khader Khan2 read thus: “11. 21 Rule 95 providing for the procedure for delivery of B property in occupation of the -debtor etc., requires an application being made by the purchaser for delivery of possession of property in respect of which a certificate has been granted under Rule 94 of 21. There is nothing in Rule 95 to make it incumbent for the purchaser to file the certificate C along with the application. On the sale becoming absolute, it is obligatory on the court though, to issue the certificate. That may, for any reason, get delayed. Whether there be failure to issue the certificate or delay of action on behalf of the court or the inaction of the purchaser in completing the legal requirements and formalities, are factors which have D no bearing on the limitation prescribed for the application under Article 134. The purchaser cannot seek to extend the limitation on the ground that the certificate has not been issued. It is true though that for delivery of possession cannot be passed unless sale certificate stands issued. It is manifest E therefore that the issue of a sale certificate is not “sine qua non” of the application, since both these matters are with the same court. The starting point of limitation for the application being the date when the sale becomes absolute i.e. the date on which title passed, the evidence of title, in the form of sale certificate, due from the court, could always F be supplied later to the court to satisfy the requirements of 21 Rule 95. See in this regard Babulal Nathoolal v. Annapurnabai [AIR 1953 Nag 215 : ILR 1953 Nag 557] , which is a pointer. It therefore becomes clear that the title of the court auction-purchaser becomes complete on the confirmation G of the sale under 21 Rule 92, and by virtue of the thrust of Section 65 CPC, the property vests in the purchaser from the date of sale; the certificate of sale, by itself, not creating any title but merely evidence thereof. The sale certificate rather is a formal acknowledgement of a fact already accomplished, stating as to what stood sold. Such act of the court is pristinely a ministerial H BHASKER & ANR. v. AYODHYA JEWELLERS 971 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] one and not judicial. It is in the nature of a formalisation of the A obvious. 12. Such being the state of law on the subject, we fail to see how the High Court could have come to the conclusion that even though the sale becomes absolute on confirmation under 21 Rule 92 CPC effectively passing title, the same can only be complete B when evidenced by a sale certificate issued under 21 Rule 94, and that unless the sale certificate is issued, limitation cannot start for the purpose of an application under 21 Rule 95 CPC, vis-à-vis, Article 134 of the Limitation Act, 1963.