Therefore, the general power is available under Section 56 for the authority to make regulations for the administration of the affairs of the authority. In particular sub- section (2) thereof provides that despite the generality of the power D given in sub-section (1) specific power has been given by way of regulations as enumerated thereunder. Clause (i) which is a residuary clause provides for any other matter which has to be or may be prescribed by the regulations.” 10. An identical question came to be considered by this Court in E the case of K.K. Bhalla v. State of M.P., reported in (2006) 3 SCC 581. While dealing with the powers of the State Government under the Madhya Pradesh Act, which is pari materia to Section 41 of the Act, 1973, in paragraph 62, it is observed and held as under: “62. Furthermore, in terms of Section 73 of the 1973 Act, the F power of the State Government to issue direction to the officers appointed under Section 3 and the authorities constituted under the Act is confined only to matters of policy and not any other. Such matters of policy yet again must be in relation to discharge of duties by the officers of the authority and not in derogation thereof.” G 11. In the case of Poonam Verma v. Delhi Development Authority, (2007) 13 SCC 154, while dealing with the pari materia provision under the Delhi Development Authority Act (Section 41 of the DDA Act), this Court has observed and held in para 13 as under: H 914 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A “13. Having failed to establish any legal right in themselves as also purported deficiency in services on the part of the respondent before competent legal forums, they took recourse to remedies on administrative side which stricto sensu were not available. It has not been shown as to on what premise the Central Government can interfere with the day-to-day affairs of the respondent. Section B 41 of the Act, only envisages that the respondent would carry out such directions that may be issued by the Central Government from time to time for the efficient administration of the Act. The same does not take within its fold an which can be passed by the Central Government in the matter of allotment of flats by C the Authority. Section 41 speaks about policy decision. Any direction issued must have a nexus with the efficient administration of the Act. It has nothing to do with carrying out of the plans of the authority in respect of a particular scheme.” 12. Under the circumstances, in exercise of powers under Section D 41 of the Act, 1973, the State could not have issued the s permitting/ allowing the Development Authorities to levy the charges/fees other than provided under Section 15(2-A) of the Act, 1973. At this stage, it is required to be noted that the levy of fees/charges provided under Section 15(2-A), all of them have been specifically defined under Section 2 of the Act, 1973.