All this showed that power to deal with land acquisition subject flowed down to Secretary/Deputy Secretary of the Revenue Department or any other of ficial who was F declared/appointed/designated so ex-officio for the purpose and once such appointed ex-officio Secretary (Revenue Commissioner) was asked to dispose of land acquisition matters by the Minister-in-charge under Rule 2-A of supplementary instructions, he assumed the jurisdiction to deal with such G matters and all his actions and decisions become that of the Government.” 25. The question of delegation of such power has been answered in Gajanan (supra) as under: H 116 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A “33A. Mr. Asudani’s reliance on AIR 1957 Mad 48 to suggest that Minister’s to empower ex-officio Secretary (Revenue Commissioner) was invalid as it was not a Government and that such power could not be delegated by him is wholly misconceived. It is true that a Minister’s instruction or direction does not partake the character of a Government unless B formalised in conformity with the Rules of Business but in the present case no such Government was required to be passed to vest the requisite power in the Revenue Commissioner. It is also fallacious to contend that the Minister could not delegate such power because Governor alone could C do that. Once Governor himself had empowered the Minister to ask the Secretary to deal with and dispose of any item of business under the rules, it tantamounted to delegation of power by the Governor himself. We are also not impressed by the submission that such power could be delegated only to “a Secretary” perhaps implying Secretary of the Department. This D overlooks a situation where a department may have more than one Secretary and the Minister could delegate the power to any of them.” 26. In the instant case Collector has exercised the power of appropriate Government and Deputy Collector has forwarded the E objections and submitted the report to the Collector and Collector has exercised the power under section 6, I find no impropriety in the same.” 12.3 In the instant case also, when the Collector has exercised the power of the appropriate government and a declaration under section F 6 of the Act has been issued after considering the report on the objections under Section 5A of the Act, the High Court has seriously erred in quashing and setting aside the entire acquisition proceedings on the aforesaid ground. 13. So far as the third ground on which the scheme and the entire G acquisition proceedings have been set aside, namely, the huge and big chunk of land out of the total land sought to be acquired by the Development Authority which has been released, is concerned, it is required to be noted that out of the total land acquired, 68.11% of the land has been developed and 31.89% has not been developed due to interim s passed by the Courts. Even otherwise, it is required to be H INDORE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY v. BURHANI GRIH NIRMAN 117 SAHAKARI SANSTHA MARYADIT SNEH NAGAR [M. R. SHAH, J.]