However, on account of the objections of the residents of Chandigarh, the 2001 Rules were repealed so as to prevent further apartmentalization. However, it is clear from the modus operandi as could be seen from the various documents placed on record that the builders/developers are, in fact, continuing to do the same thing which E was permissible under the 2001 Rules and became impermissible after repeal thereof. The result of the of the High Court is that, though the construction of apartments is prohibited, still the construction of a building and converting it into apartments would not be impermissible since the same would not be apartments within the meaning of the 2001 Rules. F VII. REPORT OF THE BOARD OF “INQUIRY AND HEARING”: 57. It will further be relevant to note that Chandigarh Administration has notified the CMP-2031. It will be relevant to note that in the draft CMP-2031, there was a provision for apartments. For considering the G objections to the provisions made in the draft CMP-2031, the said Board, consisting of Senior Officers of the Chandigarh Administration, was constituted on 10th November 2013. The report of the said Board would reveal that Chandigarh was conceived as “Garden City” and in view of the socio-economic conditions and living habits of the people, vertical H and high-rise buildings were ruled out. It would further reveal that Le RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 629 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] Corbusier incorporated principles of light, space and greenery in the A plan and used human body as the metaphor. It would also reveal that Chandigarh has been planned as a low-rise city and has been so developed that even after sixty years of its inception, its original concept has been retained to a large extent. The said Board, while submitting its report, has laid down certain guiding principles, which are thus: B “GUIDING PRINCIPLES The objections received by the Administration have been considered by the Board of Inquiry keeping in view the following guiding principles: C 1. Chandigarh being the capital of Punjab and Haryana is an administrative city and has to be retained as such. Industrial growth in the city needs to be limited to ensure its economic sustainability. 2. Chandigarh has heritage value and it is important to preserve and maintain the integrity of the original concepts and D planning postulates of sun, space and verdure. 3. The northern sectors of Chandigarh (Corbusian in Chandigarh) should be preserved in their present form as far as possible. As far as re-development of some specific pockets is concerned, that can be done keeping proper E perspective in mind. Any redevelopment in northern sectors (Phase-1) should only be done keeping the recommendations of the Expert Committee on Heritage in mind. 4. The Architectural Controls should be holistically reviewed, F if at all. Any policy in this regard should be universal and for all times to come (till is reviewed) to avoid any arbitrariness & discrimination. 5. Chandigarh being a landlocked city and land being scarce, available land pockets be utilized for govt.