However, she gave another certificate after treating him as an in-patient to the effect that he could stand trial thereafter. C 24. The Court of Sessions and the High Court rendered the conviction on merits. The plea of insanity was also taken. It was accordingly rejected on the ground that PW6, the brother of the grandfather of the appellant, did not find any abnormality and that his mother has not been examined. Further, PW10 being the doctor who D physically examined the accused after the incident, stated that the accused was mentally well. 25. However, the evidence of the Government doctor who deposed as AW1 and DW1 was brushed aside, so also the evidence of DW2, who was the uncle of the accused, and clearly spoke about the earlier E treatment received by the accused. The evidence of AW2 was not even taken note of. The conduct, though subsequent, of the appellant, was ignored. 26. Before this Court, a report was called for from the District and Sessions Judge, Bhiwani as the medicine prescription and other F documents could not be deciphered, and there was no discussion on the prior treatment given. We are of the view, that the aforesaid exercise would not have been warranted, had the evidence of AW2, which could be deciphered from the records furnished before us, been brought to the notice of the Court. In the report, it was stated that it could not be confirmed that the appellant was suffering from schizophrenia. We may G note that the statements of the doctors were recorded after 16 years of the occurrence. In fact, they had also found it difficult to remember the nature of the treatment given to the appellant. In any case, that is a material which actually will go in favour of the appellantas the factum H 840 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A of treatment is not in dispute, particularly when it is corroborated by the evidence of AW2 on more than one occasion. 27. We may also add that this report merely records the statements of the doctors who have not been examined before the Court. Suffice it to say, that the evidence of the Government doctor as DW1 who B withstood cross-examination ought to have been accepted. The mere fact that the appellant subsequently became fit to face the trial is sufficient enough to render an of acquittal as it is indicative of his prior insanity. We do feel that both the Trial Court and the High Court were influenced by the nature of the act while ignoring the condition of the appellant and the fact that the burden on the accused is one of C preponderance of probability. We have also been informed that the appellant has recovered fully and mixed well with the society. 28. For the aforesaid reasons, we are unable to give our imprimatur to the conviction rendered against the appellant as he is certainly entitled to the benefit conferred under Section 84 of the IPC.