28. In our view, there appears substance in the aforesaid submission of the learned counsel for the original petitioner. Moreover, in the instant case after preparing the record of evidence, the Commandant in exercise of his power under Rule 45(2)(iv) of the BSF Rules, 1969, vide dated 05.07.2005, remanded the original petitioner for trial by an SSFC. In these circumstances, the trial had to proceed as per Chapter XI of the BSF Rules, 1969 and, therefore, the statement, if any, recorded during investigation or preparation of the record of evidence could have been used as a previous statement of the witness for the purposes of cross-examining the witness as and when the witness was examined before the Security Force Court. This we say so, because by virtue of Section 87 of the BSF Act, 1968 the general UNION OF INDIA & OTHERS v. JOGESHWAR SWAIN 131 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] rules of evidence as laid in the Evidence Act, 1872, subject to the provisions of the BSF Act, 1968, are applicable to all proceedings before a Security Force Court. Therefore, by virtue of Section 145 of the Evidence Act, 1872, a witness may be cross examined as to previous statements made by him. 29. Insofar as the proceedings against the original petitioner before the SSFC are concerned, a perusal of the record would refl ect that they commenced on 23.07.2005 at the Headquarter of 128 Battalion, BSF. As per record of the proceedings dated 23.07.2005, the charge-sheet was read out and explained to the accused (original petitioner) and the accused was asked whether he is guilty or not of the charge. As per record of the proceedings, the answer of the accused is recorded in following terms: “Ans: Guilty.” After recording the answer as above, it proceeds to record: “** The accused having pleaded guilty to the charge, the court explains to the accused the meaning of charge(s) to which he has pleaded guilty and ascertains that the accused understands the nature of the charge(s) to which he has pleaded guilty. The court also inform the accused the general eff ect of that plea and the diff erence in procedure which will be followed consequent to the said plea. The court having satisfi ed itself that the accused understands the charge(s) and the eff ect of his plea of guilty, accepts and records the same. The provisions of Rule 142(2) are complied with.” 30. Thereafter, the proceeding on the plea of guilty is recorded in following terms: - “The accused No. 959220216; Rank: Constable; Name: Jogeshwar Swain of 128 BN BSF, is found guilty of the charge. The record of evidence is read (translated), explained, marked “K” signed by the Court and attached to the proceedings. Q.- Do you wish to make any statement in reference to the charge or in mitigation of punishment? Ans. The accused says: I have committed an off ence. Please pardon me. I will not repeat in future. 132 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. Q.