[2023] 13 S.C.R. 847 : 2023 INSC 894 CASE DETAILS STATE OF GUJARAT v. DILIPSINH KISHORSINH RAO (Criminal Appeal No. 2504 of 2023) OCTOBER 09, 2023 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT AND ARAVIND KUMAR, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether the High Court was justifi ed in allowing the application for discharge fi led by the accused; and as such whether the of the sanctioning authority is liable to be set aside and consequently, the charge-sheet fi led by Anti-Corruption Bureau is liable to be quashed. Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – ss. 397, 227, 401 – Application for discharge – Principles to be considered: Held: The court must proceed on an assumption that the material brought on record by the prosecution is true and evaluate the said material to determine whether the facts disclose the existence of the ingredients necessary of the off ence alleged – It is necessary to determine whether a case has been made out by the prosecution for proceeding with trial and it would not be necessary to dwell into the pros and cons of the matter by examining the defence of the accused when an application for discharge is fi led – At that stage, the trial judge has to merely examine the evidence placed by the prosecution in to determine whether or not the grounds are suffi cient to proceed against the accused on basis of charge sheet material – Nature of the evidence recorded or collected by the investigating agency or the documents produced in which prima facie it reveals that there are suspicious circumstances against the accused, so as to frame a charge would suffi ce and such material would be taken into account for of framing the charge – If there is no suffi cient ground for proceeding against the accused necessarily, he would be discharged – Furthermore, the defence of the accused is not to be looked into – Submission of the 847 848 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. accused is to be confi ned to the material produced by the investigating agency. [Para 10, 7] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s. 227 – Right of the accused to fi le any material or document at the stage of framing of charge: Held: At the time of framing of the charge and taking cognizance the accused has no right to produce any material and call upon the court to examine the same – No provision in the Code grants any right to the accused to fi le any material or document at the stage of framing of charge – Trial court has to apply its judicial mind to the facts of the case to determine whether a case has been made out by the prosecution for trial on the basis of charge-sheet material only – If the accused is able to demonstrate from the charge-sheet material at the stage of framing the charge which might drastically aff ect the very sustainability of the case, it is unfair to suggest that such material should not be considered or ignored by the court at that stage – Main intention of granting a chance to the accused of making submissions as envisaged u/s.