Otherwise, a blanket of anticipatory bail is bound to cause serious interference with both the right and the duty of the police in the matter of investigation because regardless of what kind of off ence is alleged to have been committed by the applicant, when an of bail comprehends allegedly unlawful activity of any description whatsoever, this will prevent the police from arresting the applicant even if he commits, say, a murder in the presence of the public. Therefore, the Court which grants anticipatory bail must take care to specify the off ence or off ences in respect of which alone the will be eff ective. The power should not be exercised in a vacuum. 12. While adjudicating on a question as to whether the protection granted under Section 438 of CrPC should be limited to a fi xed period so as to enable the person to surrender before the trial Court or not, a Constitution Bench of this Court in Sushila Aggarwal took note of later doctrinal developments as well as reports of the Law Commission of India. In this case, two questions were considered by the Constitutional Bench: 1. Whether the protection granted to a person under Section 438 of CrPC should be limited to a fi xed period so as to enable the person to surrender before the trial Court and seek regular bail? 2. Whether the life of an anticipatory bail should end at the time and stage when the accused is summoned by the Court? 12.1. Regarding the fi rst question, this Court held that the protection granted to a person under Section 438 of CrPC should not invariably be limited to a fi xed period; it should enure in favour of the accused without any restriction on time. Normal conditions under Section 437(3) read with Section 438(2) of CrPC should be imposed. If there are specifi c facts or features in regard to any off ence, it is open for the Court to impose any appropriate condition (including fi xed nature of relief, or its being tied to an event), etc. 12.2. As regards the second question referred to this Court, it was held that the life or duration of an anticipatory bail does not end normally at the time and stage when the accused is summoned by the Court, or when charges are framed, but can continue till the end of the trial. Again, if there 556 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. are any special or peculiar features necessitating the Court to limit the tenure of anticipatory bail, it is open for it to do so. 12.3 The following clarifi cations were also issued which are to be borne in mind while dealing with an application under Section 438 of CrPC: “a) When an application is made seeking anticipatory bail, it should be based on concrete facts (and not vague or general allegations) relatable to one or other specifi c off ence. The application should contain bare essential facts relating to the off ence, and why the applicant reasonably apprehends arrest, as well as his side of the story.