44. We have traced the history and development of Hindu Law from a Full Bench decision of the Bombay High Court, in the case of Badrinarayan Shankar Bhandari and Others v. Omprakash Shankar Bhandari reported in AIR 2014 Bom 151 (FB). D Old Hindu Law 45. Before the enactment of the Principal Act, Hindus were covered by shastric and customary law which varied from region to region. Principally, there were two schools of Hindu Law in India i.e. Dayabhaga which was prevalent in eastern part of India i.e. Bengal and E the adjoining areas and Mitakshara which was prevalent in the rest of India. Under the Mitakshara School of Hindu Law, woman in a joint Hindu family had merely a right of maintenance/ sustenance but had no right of inheritance to property. The basis of Hindu joint family was a common male ancestor and the properties of the family were held as a F coparcenary property with male member of the family having a right to the property by virtue of birth and their interest in the coparcenary property would keep varying depending upon the death or a birth of a male in the joint Hindu Family. The property of a male coparcener on his death used to pass by survivorship in the Mitakshara School of Hindu Law. No female is a member of the coparcenary though, she is a member G of the joint Hindu family. The coparcenary would normally consist up to four degrees i.e. the common ancestor (coparcener), his son, grandson and great grandson. 46. Under the Dayabhaga School of Hindu Law, the daughters also got equal share along with their brothers. Under the Dayabhaga H PRASANTA KUMAR SAHOO & ORS. v. CHARULATA SAHU 45 & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] School property is transmitted by Succession and not by Survivorship. In A this School, a female could be a coparcener. So far as the Dayabhaga School was concerned, there was no concept of a coparcenary property and every member of a Hindu family would hold property in his/her own right and was entitled to dispose of the property as he/she deems fit either by gift or Will. There was no concept of passing of property by B survivorship nor did a Hindu male in Dayabhaga School acquire rights to property merely by virtue of his birth. Consequently, women had a right equal to the rights to that of men belonging to the family in the Dayabhaga School of Hindu Law. 47. The earliest legislation with regard to right of female inheritance C was made in 1929 called the Hindu Law of Inheritance Act, 1929. This Act conferred inheritance right to three female heirs- son’s-daughter, daughter’s-daughter and sister. Thus, bringing about restrictions on the exclusive Rule of Survivorship. The next legislation was the Hindu Women’s Right to Property Act 1937. This Act enabled the widow to succeed along with the son of the deceased in equal share to the property D of her deceased husband. However, the widow was entitled only to limited estate in the property i.e.