(p. 392) F XXXXXXXX 18. In a recent decision of this Court in National Agricultural Coop. Marketing Federation of India Ltd. v. Union of India [(2003) 5 SCC 23] it has been held that there is no fixed formula for the expression of legislative G intent to give retrospectivity to an enactment. Every legislation whether prospective or retrospective has to be subjected to the question of legislative competence. The retrospectivity is liable to be decided on a few touchstones such as: (i) the words used must expressly provide or clearly imply retrospective H 780 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A operation; (ii) the retrospectivity must be reasonable and not excessive or harsh, otherwise it runs the risk of being struck down as unconstitutional; (iii) where the legislation is introduced to overcome a judicial decision, the power cannot be used to subvert the decision without removing the statutory basis of the decision. There is no fixed formula for the expression of B legislative intent to give retrospectivity to an enactment. A validating clause coupled with a substantive statutory change is only one of the methods to leave actions unsustainable under the unamended statute, undisturbed. Consequently, the absence of a validating clause would not by itself affect the retrospective C operation of the statutory provision, if such retrospectivity is otherwise apparent. XXXXXXXX 20. In Bengal Immunity Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar [(1955) 2 SCR 603 : AIR 1955 SC 661] , Heydon case [(1584) 3 Co Rep 7a : 76 D ER 637] was cited with approval. Their Lordships have said: (SCR pp. 632-33) “It is a sound rule of construction of a statute firmly established in England as far back as 1584 when Heydon case [(1584) 3 Co Rep 7a : 76 ER 637] was decided that— E ‘… for the sure and true interpretation of all statutes in general (be they penal or beneficial, restrictive or enlarging of the common law) four things are to be discerned and considered— 1st. What was the common law before the making of the F Act. 2nd. What was the mischief and defect for which the common law did not provide. 3rd. What remedy Parliament hath resolved and appointed G to cure the disease of the Commonwealth, and 4th. The true reason of the remedy; and then the office of all the judges is always to make such construction as shall suppress the mischief, and advance the remedy, and to suppress subtle inventions and evasions for continuance of the mischief, H and pro privato commodo, and to add force and life to the cure INCOME TAX OFFICER v. VIKRAM SUJITKUMAR BHATIA 781 [M. R. SHAH, J.] and remedy, according to the true intent of the makers of the A Act, pro bono publico.’ “ 10.6 It is the case on behalf of the Revenue that Section 153C is a machinery provision, which has been inserted with the purpose of carrying out the assessment of persons other than the searched person under Section 132 of the Act, 1961.