This is because they were armed: a fact which shows pre-meditation on their part. Moreover, they both attacked Vrindawan on the head, which is a vital part of the body, thus taking undue advantage of their situation. G 23. Again, on the question of whether the facts of this case are covered by the first exception to Section 300, i.e., that the accused/ appellants did what they were accused of (which is to attack and inflict grave injuries that led to the death of Vrindawan), because of their loss of self-control, on account of a grave and sudden provocation – the H answer must be the same, which is that the provision (Exception 1 to PRASAD PRADHAN & ANR. v. THE STATE OF 259 CHHATTISGARH [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] Section 300) cannot be attracted. Apart from a long-standing pre- existing A dispute, what caused “sudden” provocation to the appellants, has not been shown by them. Neither did they lead any evidence, to fall within Exception 1, nor did the evidence on record substantiate such a contention. Speaking of what is grave and sudden provocation, this court in K.M. Nanavati v. State of Maharashtra13 explained the standard of reasonableness for applying the “grave and sudden” provocation, in the B following manner: “84. Is there any standard of a reasonable man for the application of the doctrine of “grave and sudden” provocation? No abstract standard of reasonableness can be laid down. What a reasonable man will do in certain C circumstances depends upon the customs, manners, way of life, traditional values etc. ; in short, the cultural, social and emotional background of the society to which an Accused belongs. In our vast country there are social groups ranging from the lowest to the highest state of civilization. It is neither possible nor desirable to lay down any standard with D precision: it is for the court to decide in each case, having regard to the relevant circumstances. It is not necessary in this case to ascertain whether a reasonable man placed in the position of the Accused would have lost his self-control momentarily or even temporarily when his wife confessed to him of her illicit intimacy with another, for we are satisfied on E the evidence that the Accused regained his self-control and killed Ahuja deliberately. 85. The Indian law, relevant to the present enquiry, may be stated thus: (1) The test of “grave and sudden” provocation is whether a reasonable man, belonging to the same class of society as the Accused, placed in the situation in which the F Accused was placed would be so provoked as to lose his self- control. (2) In India, words and gestures may also, under certain circumstances, cause grave and sudden provocation to an Accused so as to bring his act within the First Exception to Section 300 of the Indian Penal Code. (3) The mental G background created by the previous act of the victim may be taken into consideration in ascertaining whether the subsequent act caused grave and sudden provocation for committing the offence.