In the said suit, Plaintiff moved an application to fi le a copy of the agreement to sell,among other documents, as secondary evidence. 3. Initially, the said application was allowed by the 4th Additional District Judge vide dated 17.07.2001. But when Defendant sought review of this , the Court vide its dated 16.12.2003 reviewed it and held that secondary evidence of an agreement to sell could not be allowed as it was not executed on a proper stamp, thus barred under section 1 Hereinafter referred to as ‘Stamp Act’ 2 (1971) 1 SCC 545 (2-Judge Bench) 298 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 35 of the Stamp Act. While holding so, it relied on the decision of this Court in Jupadi Kesava Rao (supra). 4. Subsequently, the Plaintiff fi led a writ petition before the High Court of Madhya Pradesh challenging the review and the constitutional validity of Section 35 of the Stamp Act. The High Court, vide the impugned dated 30.11.2009 in W.P. No. 741/2004, upheld the validity of the said section and the of the Review Court. 5. The present appeal is preferred against this of the High Court. 6. Learned Senior Counsel Dr. Menaka Guruswamy, for the Appellant- Plaintiff , submits that the prohibition of Section 35 of the Stamp Act is not applicable as there was no requirement for either party to have paid stamp duty at the time of execution (before the 1989 Amendment) of the agreement to sell. Thus, the Plaintiff ought to have been permitted to lead a copy of the agreement to sell as secondary evidence under Section 65 of the Evidence Act. 7. Respondent no.2/Defendant, in its counter affi davit, has stated that a copy of an original document that is unstamped or defi ciently stamped can neither be impounded nor validated or admitted as secondary evidence. Once the original document is inadmissible under the Stamp Act, the photocopy or any other copy cannot be allowed as secondary evidence. ISSUE 1 8. To adjudicate this issue, it is pertinent to reproduce Section 35 of the Stamp Act: “Section 35- Instruments not duly stamped inadmissible in evidence, etc.- No instrument chargeable with duty shall be admitted in evidence for any purpose by any person having by law or consent of parties authority to receive evidence, or shall be acted upon, registered or authenticated by any such person or by any public offi cer, unless such instruments are duly stamped: Provided that- (a) any such instrument (shall] be admitted in evidenceon payment of the duty with which the same is chargeable or, in the case of an instrument insuffi ciently stamped, of the amount required to make up such duty, together with a penalty of fi ve rupees, or, when ten times VIJAY v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 299 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] the amount of the proper duty or defi cient portion thereof exceeds fi ve rupees, of a sum equal to ten times such duty or portion; ××××” 9. It is evident from a bare perusal of the section that it prohibits admission in evidence of instruments that are chargeable with duty unless they are “duly stamped.” Duly stamped as defi ned under Section 2(11) of theStamp Act means that the instrument bears a stamp and that such stamp has been affi xed or used in accordance with law for the time being in force in India.