The ‘cause of action’ arose when the appellant insisted and compelled the respondents/allottees to make payment, but did not furnish the details and particulars to enable the respondents/allottees to ascertain the actual allocated sale area. One would not expect the allottee or the consumer to challenge the demand, which is in terms of the contract between the parties, and is therefore not questionable. In such cases, no ‘cause of action’ arises. Further, the onus to justify and substantiate the claim and calculations of increased sale area was, and is on the appellant. In the context of the present case, it is an accepted position that the sale deeds were executed with the respondents between the period from 13.04.2018 to as late as 09.01.2020. In view of the aforesaid, the complaints fi led by the respondents cannot be dismissed on the ground of being barred by limitation under Section 69 of the Act. We also observe that the consumer forums have the power to condone the delay when suffi cient cause is shown, even after two years of the ‘cause of action’ having arisen. While no application for condonation of delay was fi led, the National Commission could have always granted an opportunity to the respondents. 15. At the same time, we should notice the argument raised by the appellant on acquiescence and estoppel, as the respondents are seeking a refund of the amount paid without any demur or protest about four years after the payments were made. Therefore, it is submitted that the plea of defi ciency of service is hit by the legal bar of acceptance and ones’ previous action and conduct. It is highlighted that the conveyance deeds were executed by the appellant on the respondents/allottees upon making full payment, including the payments with regard to the increased area, and such payment, it is submitted, was voluntary and without reservation. It is also argued by the appellant that it is not even the case of the respondents that they/original allottees had made payments under some threat, coercion or duress. Therefore, it does not lie in the mouth of the respondents to say, EXPERION DEVELOPERS PVT. LTD. v. HIMANSHU 1129 DEWAN AND SONALI DEWAN [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] rather, they were estopped from saying four years after the execution of the conveyance deeds in their favour that there was no actual increase in the sale area and the demand raised by the appellant in that regard was not justifi ed or was illegal. 16. Similar issues had arisen before this Court in Wing Commander Arifur Rahman Khan and Aleya Sultana and Others v. DLF Southern Homes Private Limited and Others9. This Court accepted the argument by the consumers that execution of a deed of conveyance by a fl at buyer would not preclude a consumer claim for compensation for delayed possession in a case where the allottees were not given an option, but were rather told that the possession would not be given and the conveyance deed would not be executed without the acceptance of the off er of possession terms.