3. Heard Mr. P.S. Patwalia, learned senior counsel appearing for C the appellants, Ms. Archana Dave Pathak, learned counsel for Respondent Nos. 1 and 2 and Mr. Vikas Singh, learned senior counsel for the private respondents. FACTS IN BRIEF: 4. Two advertisements were issued on 05.09.2015 to fill up the D posts for Supervisor Instructor (Engineering Trade and Non-Engineering Trade) and Supervisor Instructor (Employability skill). The aforesaid two categories of posts carrying similar eligibility criteria in the nature of qualification with a difference in the respective degree required, including the sub-categories in the Engineering Group, such as Automobile, E Chemical, Electrical, Mechanical, Marine etc. with a total of 13. 5. Prior to the issuance of the advertisement, the Departmental Selection Committee (for short ‘the Selection Committee’) on 03.09.2015 resolved its procedure for the recruitment process. Accordingly, out of 300 marks, cut-off marks were fixed at 60% equivalent to 180 marks F for General Category; 57% equivalent to 171 marks for Socially and Educational Backward Class and 55% equivalent to 165 marks for Schedule Caste and Schedule Tribe. It was amplified that any candidate scoring less than the cut-off marks would not be entitled for selection and appointment. G 6. Clause (1) of the Advertisement in clear terms speaks about the horizontal reservation meant for females, ex-servicemen and physically handicapped. We shall reproduce the aforesaid clause: “(1)… * The posts for the females are reserved as per 33% which shall H 548 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A be set off against the respective categories. If for the reserved post of the female candidate, if no suitable candidate is available then, the said post shall be filled by the male candidate of the same category. * The posts are reserved by 10% of the total posts for the ex- B serviceman. The same shall be set off against the respective category. if no suitable ex-serviceman candidates are available then, the said post shall be filled by the other suitable candidate of the respective category. * The appointment of the physically handicapped having physical C defect from 40% to 4%, shall be kept as 3% in the aforesaid posts as per the rules of the Government. The selection of the most suitable handicap candidate shall be selected by keeping in to the notice that, the disability is not coming in the way of educational work in I.T.I. If the suitable candidate having physical disability is not available then, the said posts shall be filled with the D other suitable candidates of the respective category.” 7. Thus, for the above said three special reservations, it is made abundantly clear that in the event of inadequate candidates in each sub- category, the unfilled seats would be filled by the other eligible candidates. 8. The decision made by the Selection Committee was once again E reiterated in the advertisement under Clause (5) which deals with the selection process. “(5)…That means, out of total 300 marks, cut-off marks 60%. i.e. 180 marks shall be for General Category.