In the context of Certificate of various categories (i) Caste Certificate issued as per rules in the prescribed format by the Competent Authority will have to be produced for B reservation in the Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe, Other Backward Class and Highly Backward Class. (ii) …… (iii) Certificate issued as per rules in the prescribed format by the Competent Authority shall have to produce in the event of applicant C belongs to Economic Weaker Section. …. “22. Other Important Instructions :- (1)-(2) ………. D (3) It would be mandatory for the applicants to submit all concerning original documents/certificates, on the basis of which they raise any claim on being demanded by the Rajasthan High Court or concerned Appointing authority. (4) …….” E 8. The instructions indicated that in terms of Clause 6(i) & (iii) read with Clause 22(3), the applicants who claim the benefit of reservation, such certificate/document has to be produced on demand by the High Court or concerned Appointing authority. Thus, it is clear that there is no requirement to furnish the caste certificate of the category claiming F benefit of reservation either at the stage of filling the application form or at any lager stage, however, it has to be produced on demand by the recruiting authority. It may be noticed that the reservation for MBC (NCL) and EWC are for the first time introduced in the instant selection process held pursuant to an advertisement dated 22nd July, 2021. G 9. The relevant requirement was notified by the respondent to be furnished by the applicant claiming reservation against reserved vacancies OBC-NCL, MBC-NCL or EWS category as the case may be, with the stipulation that the certificate must be of the period not prior to one year of the last date of submission of application i.e. 31st August, 2021 for the H 596 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A first time by its notice dated 04th August, 2022 of which reference has been made. The extract of the documents demanded by the respondent in reference to the certificate relating to category, is reproduced as under:- “(iii) Certificate relating to category a. OBC/MBC (Non Creamy Layer) certificate issued not prior B to one year from the last date of submission of the application form i.e. 31.08.2021. b. In case OBC/MBC (Non Creamy Layer) certificate is issued between 31.08.2018 and 30.08.2020, an affidavit in prescribed format along with caste certificate has to be C produced. c. In case of EWS category – Income & Asset required for seeking reservation in EWS category must not be issued prior to 01.04.2021. In case Income & Asset Certificate issued between D 01.04.2020 and 31.03.2021, an affidavit in prescribed format along with certificate has to be produced. d. SC/ST/OBC/MBC/EWS certificate, as the case may be must not have been issued after the last date of submission of the application form i.e. 31.08.2021.” E (emphasis supplied) 10. It is not the case of the respondent that either of the appellant does not belong to the respective reserved category i.e.