(6) The provisions of sub-section (5) shall not apply to legal proceedings in relation to such transactions as may be notified by the Central Government in consultation with any financial sector regulator. C (7) The for liquidation under this section shall be deemed to be a notice of discharge to the officers, employees and workmen of the corporate debtor, except when the business of the corporate debtor is continued during the liquidation process by the liquidator.” D 22. According to the of this court K. Shashidhar v. Indian Overseas Bank19 the Adjudicating Authority is, “obligated to initiate liquidation process under Section 33(1) of the I&B Code.” It was also held that the Parliament did not empower the Adjudicating Authority “with the jurisdiction or authority to analyse or evaluate the commercial decision of the CoC much less to enquire into the E justness of the rejection of the resolution plan by the dissenting financial creditors.” Thus, on occurrence of any eventuality specified under Section 33, the liquidation process has to begin, as a matter of course – there is no choice in the matter. Again, in Committee of Creditors of Essar Steel India Limited v. Satish Kumar Gupta & F Ors.,20 this court rejected the argument that the NCLT possessed any discretionary jurisdiction with regard to initiation of liquidation proceedings, upon an interpretation of Sections 30, 31(2) and 60(5)(c) of IBC. 23. Upon initiation of liquidation, a liquidator has to be appointed, to carry out the liquidation process and manage other affairs of the G corporate debtor. The RP,appointed to conduct the resolution process, is ordinarily appointed as liquidator. The powers and duties of liquidator 19K. Shashidhar v. Indian Overseas Bank, 2019 (3) SCR 845. 20Committee of Creditors of Essar Steel India Limited v. Satish Kumar Gupta & Ors., H 2019 (16) SCR 275. PASCHIMANCHAL VIDYUT VITRAN NIGAM LTD. v. RAMAN 1241 ISPAT PRIVATE LIMITED & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] are prescribed by Section 3521 of the IBC. It includes verification of A claims of creditors, evaluation of assets of the corporate debtor, carrying on the business of the corporate debtor, taking into consideration the assets of the corporate debtor, etc. The liquidator has to issue a public announcement within 5 days from appointment in a prescribed format; the purpose of public announcement is to call upon creditors and others B persons to submit their claims in relation to the corporate debtor. The creditors of the corporate debtor have to send their claims within 30 days from the initiation of the liquidation process. After the receipt of the claims, the liquidator has to verify the claims submitted by the creditors (Section 39). The liquidator may also ask the creditors to submit any evidence in relation to their claims for the purpose of verification. The C liquidator is empowered to either admit or reject the claims on the basis of due verification. If the liquidator rejects or admits a claim of a creditor, the same has to be communicated to the creditor as well as the corporate debtor within 7 days from such decision (Section 40).