Section 106 of the Evidence Act clearly lays down that when any fact is specially within the knowledge of a person, the burden B approving that fact is upon him namely, on such person. This Court in a case of State of Rajasthan Vs. Kashiram5 has held: “16. The most important circumstance that the respondent was last seen with the deceased on 3-2-1998 whereafter he had disappeared and his house was found locked and that he had C offered no explanation whatsoever, was disposed of by the High Court in one short paragraph observing that there was nothing unusual if the accused was seen in the company of his own family members in his house. On such reasoning, the High Court held that the circumstantial evidence relied upon by the prosecution was not strong enough to sustain the conviction of the respondent. D Accordingly, the High Court allowed the appeals preferred by the respondent and declined the death reference made by the trial court for confirmation of the sentence of death.” “23. It is not necessary to multiply with authorities. The principle is well settled. The provisions of Section 106 of the Evidence Act E itself are unambiguous and categoric in laying down that when any fact is especially within the knowledge of a person, the burden of proving that fact is upon him. Thus, if a person is last seen with the deceased, he must offer an explanation as to how and when he parted company. He must furnish an explanation which appears F to the court to be probable and satisfactory. If he does so he must be held to have discharged his burden. If he fails to offer an explanation on the basis of facts within his special knowledge, he fails to discharge the burden cast upon him by Section 106 of the Evidence Act. In a case resting on circumstantial evidence if the accused fails to offer a reasonable explanation in discharge of the G burden placed on him, that itself provides an additional link in the chain of circumstances proved against him. Section 106 does not shift the burden of proof in a criminal trial, which is always upon 5 (2006) 12 SCC254 H 418 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A the prosecution. It lays down the rule that when the accused does not throw any light upon facts which are specially within his knowledge and which could not support any theory or hypothesis compatible with his innocence, the court can consider his failure to adduce any explanation, as an additional link which completes the chain. The principle has been succinctly stated in Naina Mohd., B Re. [AIR 1960 Mad 218 : 1960 Cri LJ 620]” 16.6 Thus, when PW-10 and PW-14 have in clear terms deposed to have last seen the accused with the deceased, necessarily accused must offer an explanation as to how and when he started living separately and there being no explanation offered necessarily in the chain of C circumstances, the last seen theory propounded by the prosecution to drive home the guilt of the accused requires to be accepted.