In case of any other Union territory, it means the highest Court of criminal appeal for that territory other than the Supreme Court of India. 9.2. Section 2(j) defi nes “local jurisdiction”, in relation to a Court or Magistrate to mean the local area within which the Court or Magistrate may exercise its powers under the CrPC. Section 14 of the CrPC states that the local jurisdiction of a magistrate shall be confi ned to the limits defi ned by the Chief Judicial Magistrate. Section 9 of the CrPC mandates that the State Government shall establish a Court of Session to be presided over by a judge appointed by the High Court. 9.3. A Court of competent jurisdiction is referred to in Section 41A of the CrPC wherein a police offi cer is empowered to arrest a person who fails to comply with a notice for arrest subject to the s of such Court. This is a Court that is competent to try the case. Section 167(2) empowers the nearest Magistrate to authorize the custody of an accused for a period not exceeding 15 days, once he is produced before him, whether it is a Court of competent jurisdiction to try the case or not. If the Magistrate has no jurisdiction to try the case or commit it for trial, and considers further detention unnecessary, he may the accused to be forwarded to a Magistrate having such jurisdiction. Section 156 further postulates that any offi cer in-charge of a police station may investigate any cognizable case which a Court having jurisdiction over the local area within the limits of such station would have power to inquire into or try under the provisions of Chapter XIII. 9.4. Section 177 in Chapter XIII of the CrPC mandates that every off ence shall ordinarily be inquired into and tried by a Court within whose local jurisdiction it was committed. In case of uncertainty or ambiguity regarding the local areas where an off ence is committed, Section 178 postulates that it may be inquired into or tried by a Court having jurisdiction over any of such local areas where the off ence, or part thereof, may have been committed. Section 179 states that when the consequence of the off ending act ensues, it may be inquired into or tried by a Court within 544 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. whose local jurisdiction such thing has been done or such consequence has ensued. 9.5. Having regard of the aforesaid statutory framework, it would be apposite to distillate the core aspects of Section 438 of CrPC pertaining to grant of anticipatory bail which reads as under: “438. Direction for grant of bail to person apprehending arrest.- (1) Where any person has reason to believe that he may be arrested on accusation of having committed a non-bailable off ence, he may apply to the High Court or the Court of Session for a direction under this section that in the event of such arrest he shall be released on bail; and that Court may, after taking into consideration, inter-alia, the following factors, namely:— (i) the nature and gravity of the accusation; (ii) the antecedents of the applicant including the fact as to whether he has previously undergone imprisonment on conviction by a Court in respect of any cognizable off ence; (iii) the possibility of the applicant to fl ee from justice; and (iv) where the accusation has been made with the object of injuring or humiliating the applicant by having him so arrested, either reject the application forthwith or issue an interim for the grant of anticipatory bail; Provided that, where the High Court or, as the case may be, the Court of Session, has not passed any interim under this sub- section or has rejected the application for grant of anticipatory bail, it shall be open to an offi cer in-charge of a police station to arrest, without warrant the applicant on the basis of the accusation apprehended in such application.