The Resolution to allot the shares in 1:1 ratio and the indication that shares, which are not applied for, could be the subject matter of allotment to other shareholders, were all to become operative upon the applications E being considered. The Minutes further reveal that the consideration of the application was to await the increase in the Authorised Capital in a duly constituted meeting of the General Body of shareholders. It is, no doubt, true that the proper way of doing it could have been to pass a Resolution after the shareholders resolved to increase the Authorised Capital. It is F equally true that such a Resolution was passed on 27.01.2010. The question is, as to whether the act of the Board of Directors attracted the opprobrium of it being an act of oppression. We would think that the decisions of the Board of Directors on 18.12.2009, understood as a whole, only means that the G Resolution to issue further capital was to become effective only after the Authorised Capital was duly increased. This is not a case where the Board of Directors had resolved to allot the shares otherwise disregarding the mandate of Section 81 of the Act. What is more shares have been offered on a ratio of 1:1 to the existing H 246 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A shareholders. They were given the choice of refusal or to apply for more or lesser number of shares. This is not a case where the Resolution was to allot the further shares to the Directors or Members of their Group alone. There is a concurrent finding that the decision to go in for increase in capital, viz., Authorised Capital, was not vulnerable to attack. The decision was based on B the advice given by the Bank. The purpose of the Board of Directors to increase the capital has been admittedly found to be bona fide. An incidental gain, namely the change in the shareholding pattern is entirely the inevitable result of the refusal of the respondent’s groups to apply. This Court cannot proceed C on the basis that the appellants foresaw and deliberately planned the whole affair. If only the respondents had applied, the situation would not have happened. [Paras 71, 72][280-E-H; 281-A-E] 1.3 As far as the aspect that, the purported object was shown as generating fresh funds but in place of Rs.90 lakhs only Rs.21 D lakhs was brought in goes, the fact that the paid-up capital was apparently shown as credited by cancelling loans due by the company to the appellants group, should not prevent this Court from overlooking the fact that the debt-equity ratio has undoubtedly been improved. It must be borne in mind that the whole idea was to get funds from the Bank for the expansion of E the company. The case of the respondents that there were loans due to them also may not advance their case. It would have been different if the respondents had applied and sought adjustment of the consideration by cancelling loans given by them to the company and it was rejected.