Therefore, there is no impediment before the appellants to carry out such directions. Placing reliance on the judgement of “Secy., Deptt. of Home Secy., A.P. and Others Vs. B. Chinnam Naidu, (2005) 2 SCC 746”, it is urged that since specifi c requirement to mention about the pending criminal case was not sought in the verifi cation roll, the respondent cannot be held at fault for suppression of material information. 8. Having heard learned counsel for the parties and on perusal of the material placed, it is not in dispute that vide judgement dated 04.06.2012, the learned Judicial Magistrate (First Class), Kakdwip District, South 24 Parganas, acquitted the respondent from the charges of Sections 147/149/447/323/506 of IPC in Criminal Case No. 362/2004. After appreciating the evidence as brought on record, the Court found that the prosecution has hopelessly failed to bring home the guilt and prove the charges against the respondent. On account of acquittal of the accused persons, the objection regarding pendency of criminal case no more subsists. In addition, on perusal of the prosecution story of the said case, the cause of dispute was of egress and ingress to a passage for which the of attachment was passed by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate. As alleged, the accused persons started raising fencing which was opposed by the complainant. For the said incident, FIR against eight accused persons including the respondent was registered. In the said judgement, the name of the respondent was shown as “Mridul Jana” and not his correct name, i.e., 618 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. “Mitul Kumar Jana”. Be that as it may, as discussed above, the prosecution has miserably failed to prove the charges. In our considered view, the said allegations do not constitute any off ence aff ecting moral turpitude and shall not cause any impediment for public employment to a candidate who got selected by the due process of law. 9. In the facts of the case, the other objection raised by the appellant is related to suppression of material information in the verifi cation roll. For analysing the sustainability of the said objection, the language used to ask information in Column No. 12 of verifi cation roll may be relevant and for ready reference, it is reproduced as under; “Have you been arrested, detained or convicted by a court of any off ence if the answer is ‘yes’ the full particulars of the Arrest or detention or conviction and the sentence should be given. Answer: No” 10. Bare perusal of the details of the information sought in the above column indicates that, it was regarding arrest, detention and conviction by a Court in any off ence. In case the answer was ‘yes’, then full particulars of the arrest or detention or conviction and sentence were required to be furnished. In case the answer was in the negative, no other particulars were required to be furnished. In the case on hand, in reply to the information asked the respondent gave the answer as “no”.