An appeal was carried therefrom to the Division Bench, which was partly allowed. That part of the impugned enabling the appellant to continue as the Managing Director was set aside. This was then challenged before this Court. Inter alia, what fell for examination in that case was whether the power under section 389(1) of the Cr. PC could be invoked to stay the conviction. A three-Judge Bench of this Court held that there is no reason why a narrow meaning to section 389(1) should be given. Even otherwise, it was held that the High Courts have the power under section 482 of the Cr. PC to such a stay. This Court further held that although an of conviction by itself is not capable of execution under the Cr. PC, but in certain situations and in a limited sense, an of conviction could be executed, that is to say, when it may result in incurring of some disqualifi cation under other enactments. In such cases, the Court also held that it was permissible to invoke the power under section 389(1) of the Cr. PC for 992 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. staying the conviction. On facts, the Court held that the appellant had not moved the Delhi High Court with clean hands and had attempted to play hide and seek for which the said court could not even apply its mind as to whether the circumstances before it did deserve a stay of the conviction. The reasoning for such conclusions is traceable to paragraphs 16 and 19 of the decision, reading as follows: “16. In certain situations the of conviction can be executable, in the sense, it may incur a disqualifi cation as in the instant case. In such a case the power under Section 389(1) of the Code could be invoked. In such situations the attention of the Appellate Court must be specifi cally invited to the consequence that is likely to fall to enable it to apply its mind to the issue since under Section 389(1) it is under an obligation to support its ‘for reasons to be recorded by it in writing’. If the attention of the Court is not invited to this specifi c consequence which is likely to fall upon conviction how can it be expected to assign reasons relevant thereto? No one can be allowed to play hide and seek with the Court; he cannot suppress the precise purpose for which he seeks suspension of the conviction and obtain a general of stay and then contend that the disqualifi cation has ceased to operate. *** *** 19. That takes us to the question whether the scope of Section 389(1) of the Code extends to conferring power on the Appellate Court to stay the operation of the of conviction. As stated earlier, if the of conviction is to result in some disqualifi cation of the type mentioned in Section 267 of the Companies Act, we see no reason why we should give a narrow meaning to Section 389(1) of the Code to debar the court from granting an to that eff ect in a fi t case.