[Para 26][474-H; 475-A-C] C 1.2 In an appeal against acquittal, the power of the appellate court to re-appreciate evidence and come to its own conclusion is not circumscribed by any limitation. But it is equally settled that the appellate court must not interfere with an of acquittal merely because a contrary view is permissible, particularly, where D the view taken by the trial court is a plausible view based on proper appreciation of evidence and is not vitiated by ignorance/ misreading of relevant evidence on record. [Para 27][475-C-D] 1.3 In the instant case, the prosecution case rested on ocular account as well as on certain circumstances. The ocular account E is provided by PW-3, PW-6 and PW-15. PW-3 and PW-6 were traveling with the deceased, though on a separate scooter. They, therefore, had the opportunity to witness the incident. According to them, while they were traveling on their respective scooters, torch light was flashed at them by men in police uniform. As a result, deceased’s scooter skidded. Thereafter, when gun shots F were fired they escaped and came to the village. On information, a large number of persons from the village arrived at the spot. Neither PW3 nor PW6 could identify any of the three accused. They did not depose that the three policemen involved in the crime were those who were facing trial. Thus, there is no infirmity, G much less perversity, in the view taken by the trial court that the testimony of PW-3 and PW-6 is not of much help to the prosecution qua the three accused facing trial. [Para 28][475-E-G] 1.4 With regard to the testimony of PW-15, detailed reasons have been recorded by the trial court to hold him unreliable and H 466 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A unworthy of credit. Moreover, PW15’s presence is not confirmed by PW3 and PW6. Otherwise also, PW15’s conduct of remaining silent for over a week creates a lingering doubt in the mind as to whether he is a witness set up on advise, particularly, when it is noticed that his first statement was not to the investigating agency but made on an affidavit prepared by a lawyer, who simultaneously B prepared three affidavits identically worded. The trial court noticed all these facts as also that PW-15 was lying when he stated that he went alone to get the affidavit prepared. The trial court also noticed that all the three affidavits were prepared on stamp papers, consecutively numbered, bought from the same vendor C and the affidavits were sworn in quick succession giving rise to a definite conclusion that they were prepared by an advocate. The trial court also noticed that the conduct of PW15 was a bit unusual in the sense that he made no disclosure to anyone including the father of the deceased yet, he straightaway went to swear and dispatch an affidavit by post to a higher officer of the police even D though, by that time, the investigation had been transferred to the CB-CID from the local police and, therefore, there was no threat from the local police.