1 and 5 of the policy, which reads as follows: “l. Notice shall be given in writing to the Company immediately upon the occurrence of any accidental loss or damage and in the E event of any claim and thereafter the insured shall give all such information and assistance as the Company shall require. Every letter claim writ summons and/or process or copy thereof shall be forwarded to the Company immediately on receipt by the insured. Notice shall also be given in writing to the Company immediately the insured shall have knowledge of any impending prosecution F inquest or Fatal Inquiry in respect of any occurrence which may give rise to a claim under this policy, in case of theft or criminal act which may be the subject of a claim under this Policy the insured shall give immediate notice to the police and co-operate with the Company, in securing the conviction of the offender. G xxx xxx xxx 5. The Insured shall take all reasonable steps to safeguard the vehicle insured from loss or damage and to maintain it in efficient condition and the Company shall have at all times free and full access to examine the vehicle insured or any part thereof or any H ASHOK KUMAR v. NEW INDIA ASSURANCE CO. LTD. 1249 [K. V. VISWANATHAN, J.] driver or employee of the insured. In the event of any accident or A breakdown, the vehicle insured shall not be left unattended without proper precautions being taken to prevent further damage or loss and if the vehicle insured be driven before the necessary repairs are effected, any extension of the damage or any further damage to the vehicle shall be entirely at the insured’s own risk.” B m) The State Commission clearly recorded that, soon after the theft of the vehicle on 26.06.2008, the FIR was lodged on 27.06.2008 with the Police and the Insurance Company was informed. It was also recorded that no cogent evidence was produced by the Insurance Company to prove that there was a delay of six days in giving intimation. C Going further, the State Commission recorded that Condition No.1 of the Insurance policy applied only to occurrence of an accident and not to theft cases. Insofar as Condition No.5 was concerned, it was held relying on the s of this Court in National Insurance Company Limited vs. Nitin Khandelwal, [(2008) 11 SCC 259] and Amalendu Sahoo vs. Oriental Insurance Company Limited, [(2010) 4 SCC D 536] that even if there was a breach of that clause, the claim could not have been repudiated in toto and, applying the yardstick in Amalendu Sahoo (supra), 75% of the claim as the admissible amount, on non- standard basis, was awarded. Holding thus, the State Commission dismissed the Appeal of the Insurance Company. E n) Undaunted, the Insurance Company carried the matter in revision to the National Commission. Here, it was primarily argued that the withdrawal of Complaint No. 515 of 2009 foreclosed the Complainant from filing a fresh complaint.