(3) The provisions of this article shall have effect notwithstanding G anything in any other provision of this Constitution or in any other law for the time being in force.” (emphasis supplied) 33. Clauses (1) and (2) of Article 323-A use the expression “may,” indicating that Article 323-A does not compel Parliament to enact a law H to give effect to it. Parliament is entrusted with the discretion to enact a ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 767 UNION OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] law which provides for the adjudication of certain disputes by A administrative tribunals. It is a permissive provision. The provision is facilitative and enabling. 34. However, in certain cases, the power to do something may be coupled with a duty to exercise that power. In Official Liquidator v. Dharti Dhan (P) Ltd. (1977) 2 SCC 166, this Court expounded on when B the word “may” carries with it an obligation to exercise the power conferred by that word in a particular manner: “8. Thus, the question to be determined in such cases always is whether the power conferred by the use of the word “may” has, annexed to it, an obligation that, on the fulfilment of certain legally C prescribed conditions, to be shown by evidence, a particular kind of must be made. If the statute leaves no room for discretion the power has to be exercised in the manner indicated by the other legal provisions which provide the legal context. Even then the facts must establish that the legal conditions are fulfilled … It D is not the conferment of a power which the word “may” indicates that annexes any obligation to its exercise but the legal and factual context of it. … 10. The principle laid down above has been followed consistently E by this Court whenever it has been contended that the word “may” carries with it the obligation to exercise a power in a particular manner or direction. In such a case, it is always the purpose of the power which has to be examined in to determine the scope of the discretion conferred upon the donee of the power. If the conditions in which the power is F to be exercised in particular cases are also specified by a statute then, on the fulfilment of those conditions, the power conferred becomes annexed with a duty to exercise it in that manner.” (emphasis supplied) G 35. In Dhampur Sugar Mills Ltd. v. State of U.P.15, this Court held that the intention of the legislature must be discerned while determining whether a provision is directory or mandatory: 15 (2007) 8 SCC 338 H 768 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A “36. … In our , mere use of word “may” or “shall” is not conclusive. The question whether a particular provision of a statute is directory or mandatory cannot be resolved by laying down any general rule of universal application. Such controversy has to be decided by ascertaining the intention of the legislature and not by looking at the language in which the provision is clothed.