The appellant was arrested on the same day. SUBMISSIONS 4. The learned counsel for the appellant has taken us through the H notes of evidence and findings recorded by the Court Martial as well as NO.15138812Y L/NK GURSEWAK SINGH v. UNION OF INDIA 1143 & ANR. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] by the Armed Forces Tribunal (for short, ‘the Tribunal’). His basic A contention is that the case will be governed by exception 4 to Section 300 of IPC. He submitted that the incident was an outcome of a sudden fight and the appellant acted in a heat of passion. He submitted that only one bullet was fired by the appellant though there were more bullets in the rifle at that time. His submission is that the appellant has not taken B any undue advantage and has not acted in a cruel manner. The learned counsel has taken us through the evidence of the material prosecution witnesses and in particular the evidence of PW-13 Naik Amrik Singh and PW-14 Gunner Gurtej Singh. He would, therefore, submit that this was a case of an offence punishable under Section 304 (Part II) of IPC. He pointed out that the appellant had undergone incarceration for a period C of about 9 years and 3 months. 5. Learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent pointed out that exception 4 to Section 300 will not apply in this case, as it cannot be said that there was a sudden fight. He submitted that the appellant has acted in a cruel manner. He submitted that the conduct of the appellant D has to be judged in the light of the fact that he was on duty as a guard and was a member of a disciplined force. He would submit that no indulgence can be shown to the appellant. 6. The learned counsel appearing for the appellant relied upon decisions of this Court in the case of Prakash Chand v. State of H.P.1 E and Sukhdev Singh v. Delhi State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi)2. OUR VIEW 7. Hawaldar Malkiat Singh is PW-3 who stated that the appellant was not possessing any weapon. PW-8 Naib Subedar Chandrika Prasad deposed that after receiving a call from the operator he rushed to the F place of the incident as he was informed that a sentry has been shot. He instructed the nursing assistant to move quickly and he, along with the nursing assistant, reached the spot in an ambulance. He questioned the appellant. At that time, the appellant told him that an altercation had taken place and he had fired one round. The witness stated in the cross- G examination that while replying to him, the accused may have used the word “galti” meaning thereby that he fired a bullet by mistake. 1 (2004) 11 SCC 381 2 (2003) 7 SCC 441 H 1144 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 8. PW-13 Naik Amrik Singh was posted as a guard commander along with the appellant and deceased. He stated that as the appellant was the senior most, he treated him as second guard commander.