Tribunal. The impugned itself records that the plea of non-compliance of regulation 36A was raised. 93. Non-publication of ‘Form-G’ violates Circular No. IP (CIRP)/ E 006/2018 dated 23.02.2018 issued by the IBBI, which provides the designated website for publication of ‘Form-G’, i.e. invite.rp@ibbi.gov.in. Failure to advertise as mandated to ensure that more Resolution Applicants could come forward directly impacts the maximization of asset value. F 94. Despite violations above about the publication of ‘Form-G’, the Learned Tribunal has approved the Resolution Plan. On pages 142-144 of Vol. of Appeal, sets out a list of provisions that have been complied with. Regulation 36A does not even find a mention in this. G *** *** *** 97. Further, it is well settled that the scope of interference concerning the Successful Resolution Plan is extremely limited in nature. Challenge can only be in respect of grounds as provided in Section 30 (2) or Section 61 (3) of the IBC 2016, which is H 824 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A limited to matters “other than” the enquiry into the autonomy or commercial wisdom of the Committee of Creditors. 98. It is pertinent to mention that an appeal against the approval of the Resolution Plan shall lie under Section 61 (3) of the IBC on the ground, namely, there has been a material irregularity in exercise B of the powers by Resolution Professional during the Corporate Insolvency Resolution period. 99. Further, it is necessary to mention that Regulation 36 A of CIRP Regulations mandates publication of Form-G at the earliest, not later than the 75th day from the insolvency commencement C date, from interested and eligible prospective resolution applicants to submit Resolution Plans. 100. Non-compliance with the above regulatory provision is admitted. It is also important to point out that this entire CIRP was conducted during lockdown when the world faced Covid19 Pandemic. At that time, most people avoided reading the D newspaper under the apprehension of Covid infection. So the publication of ‘Form-G’ for inviting Expression of Interest was essential. It is also important to point out that the Government of India also brought some amendments in the Code considering the impact of the Pandemic. Relevant Regulation about inviting ‘EOI’ E is given below for ready reference;” 19.4. Further, the Appellate Tribunal declared the resolution applicant ineligible to submit a resolution plan in terms of Section 29- A(e) of the Code on account of being disqualified as a director under Section 164(2)(b) of the Companies Act as also because of operation of F Section 88 of the Trusts Act. 19.4.1. As regards the ineligibility in terms of the Trusts Act, it was held that the case of resolution applicant was unambiguously falling within the scope of Section 88 of the Trusts Act, rendering the resolution plan in question as illegal because the trust ‘Sri Balaji Vidyapeeth’ was G already declared ineligible, of which, the resolution applicant was the managing trustee that precluded him from acting as its alter ego during the execution of the resolution plan and obtaining any financial advantage or benefit as being barred under Section 88.