7.1 On control and management of business, few decisions on interpretation of Section 4A of the erstwhile Income Tax Act, 1922 and interpretation of Section 6(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 are required C to be referred to, which are as under: i)In the case of V.V.R.N.M. SubbayyaChettiar (supra), it is observed in paragraph 10 as under: “10. The principles which are now well established in England D and which will be found to have been very clearly enunciated in Swedish Central RailwayCo. Ltd. v. Thompson (Inspector of Taxes) [Swedish Central Railway Co. Ltd. v. Thompson (Inspector of Taxes), 1925 AC 495 : 9 TC 373 (HL)] , which is one of the leading cases on the subject, are: E (1) That the conception of residence in the case of a fictitious “person”, such as a company, is as artificial as the company itself, and the locality of the residence can only be determined by analogy, by asking where is the head and seat and directing power of the affairs of the company. What these words mean have been explained by M. Patanjali F Sastri, J. with very great clarity in the following passage where he deals with the meaning of Section 4-A(b) of the Income Tax Act: “4-A. (b) ‘Control and management’ signifies, in the present context, the controlling and directive power, ‘the head G and brain’ as it is sometimes called, and ‘situated’ implies the functioning of such power at a particular place with some de- gree of permanence, while ‘wholly’ would seem to recognise the possibility of the seat of such power being divided between two distinct and separated places.” H 484 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A As a general rule, the control and management of a business remains in the hand of a person or a group of persons, and the question to be asked is wherefrom the person or group of per- sons controls or directs the business. (2) Mere activity by the company in a place does not B create residence, with the result that a company may be “re- siding” in one place and doing a great deal of business in an- other. (3) The central management and control of a company may be divided, and it may keep house and do business in more C than one place, and, if so, it may have more than one resi- dence. (4) In case of dual residence, it is necessary to show that the company performs some of the vital organic functions incidental to its existence as such in both the places, so that in fact there are two centres of management.” D ii) Thereafter, in the case of Erin Estate (supra), it is observed in paragraphs 6 & 9 as under: “6. There is no doubt that the question raised for our decision is a question of law. Whether or not the appellant is a resident firm E under Section 4-A(b) would depend upon the legal effect of the facts proved in the case.