G 10. Per Contra, Mr. Gopal Sankaranarayanan, Senior Advovate and Mr. Joseph Aristotle, AOR, appearing on behalf of the respondents argued that notice was duly served on the Appellant, and it was the Appellant who did not show up in the proceedings. It was also argued that due to the Appellant not showing up, the proceedings were adjourned, H R SUNDARAM v. THE TAMIL NADU STATE LEVEL 1043 SCRUTINY COMMITTEE [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] but even after the adjournment the Appellant did not show up, and hence A the committee had no option but to pass its decision ex-parte. 11. Keeping in mind the submissions of both the parties, at the very outset we would like to state that the right to pensionary benefit is a constitutional right and as such cannot be taken away without proper justification as has been held in the case of State Of Jharkhand & Ors. B vs Jitendra Kumar Srivastava & Anr.1. The relevant paragraph of the is being extracted herein: “15. In State of W.B. v. Haresh C. Banerjee [(2006) 7 SCC 651 : 2006 SCC (L&S) 1719] this Court recognised that even when, after the repeal of Article 19(1)(f) and Article 31(1) of C the Constitution vide Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) Act, 1978 w.e.f. 20-6-1979, the right to property no longer remained a fundamental right, it was still a constitutional right, as provided in Article 300-A of the Constitution. Right to receive pension was treated as right to property. Otherwise, D challenge in that case was to the vires of Rule 10(1) of the West Bengal Services (Death-cum-Retirement Benefit) Rules, 1971 which conferred the right upon the Governor to withhold or withdraw a pension or any part thereof under certain circumstances and the said challenge was repelled by this Court. E 16. The fact remains that there is an imprimatur to the legal principle that the right to receive pension is recognised as a right in “property”…Once we proceed on that premise, the answer to the question posed by us in the beginning of this becomes too obvious. A person cannot be deprived F of this pension without the authority of law, which is the constitutional mandate enshrined in Article 300-A of the Constitution. It follows that attempt of the appellant to take away a part of pension or gratuity or even leave encashment without any statutory provision and under the umbrage of administrative instruction cannot be countenanced.” G 12. Further, in the case of Dr. Uma Agarwal vs. State of U.P.2, this Court held that the grant of pensionary benefits is not a bounty, but 1 (2013) 12 SCC 210 2 (1999) 3 SCC 438, H 1044 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A a right of the employee, and as such cannot be denied without proper justification. 13. At the very beginning, we would like to state that this Court is appalled at the treatment given to the Appellant by the Respondents herein. The Appellant, before applying to the post reserved for ST B candidates supplied all documents required in support of his claim as a ST candidate, and got the documents verified and approved.