We are thus unable to agree with the Appellants that only ADPs with a built-in power source is necessarily required to be classified under ‘Tariff Item 8471 30 10’. In other words, no element of ‘functionality’ is contemplated for the purpose of classifying the Concerned Goods as ‘portable’. E 13. The second aspect deals with the question as to whether mere factum of weighing less than 10 kilograms would be sufficient to classify the Concerned Goods as ‘portable’ or not. In this respect, it may be seen that the CESTAT vide its impugned (s) has relied on the dictionary meaning which defined ‘portable’ as - “that can be easily carried and F not permanently fixed in a place”. It then went on to conclude that the dimensions of the Concerned Goods were not a concern as long as it could be easily lifted and moved. As noted above, a similar argument has been raised by learned senior counsel for the Respondent before us also. G 14. At the outset, we must note that the adjudicating authorities while coming to their respective conclusions, especially the Commissioner of Customs (Appeal) have extensively referred to online sources such 5 Collector of Central Excise, Shillong v Wood Craft Products Limited (1995) 3 SCC 454. H 1132 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A as Wikipedia to support their conclusion. While we expressly acknowledge the utility of these platforms which provide free access to knowledge across the globe, but we must also sound a note of caution against using such sources for legal dispute resolution. We say so for the reason that these sources, despite being a treasure trove of knowledge, are based on a crowd-sourced and user-generated editing model that is not B completely dependable in terms of academic veracity and can promote misleading information as has been noted by this court on previous occasions also.6 The courts and adjudicating authorities should rather make an endeavor to persuade the counsels to place reliance on more reliable and authentic sources. C 15. Moving forward, we must now address the issue at hand, namely, the interpretation of the word ‘portable’ and more so when the reasoning of the CESTAT solely hinges on the aspect of weight. Such an approach is apparently erroneous because despite the fact that the ‘portable’ was not defined under the statute, it was incorporated in ‘Sub-Heading 8471 30’ and was preceded by a single ‘-’, which meant D that classification of goods under the same would be taken as a sub- classification of the ‘Heading 8471’. 16. In other words, ‘portable’ should have been defined in reference to the ADPs instead of relying on dictionary meaning which contains all kinds of hues of associated meanings as held by this Court in CCE v E Krishna Carbon Paper Co.7. The cited decision also explains the correct approach to be taken in case when a word is to be defined in context of any entry under the First Schedule. It thus holds that :– “10.