To this end, Entry 66 of List I has been formulated with the objective of maintaining uniform standards of education in fields of research, B higher education and technical education. Hence, State Legislatures lack legislative competence in the areas of prescription of minimum standards for medical education, authority to recognise or de-recognise an institution, etc. The Assam Act which seeks to regulate such aspects of medical C education is therefore liable to be set aside on the ground that the State Legislature lacks competence to legislate with regard to the aspects enumerated hereinabove. [Para 21][1007-C-G] 2. Although, Entry 25 of List III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India is in the Concurrent List which gives D powers to both the Union as well as the State Legislatures to pass laws on the subject of ‘Education’, it is significant to note that any such law to be made by the State Legislature is subject to, inter alia, Entry 66 of List I or the Union List of the Seventh Schedule. Hence, when there is a direct conflict between a State Law and the Union Law in the matter of coordination and E determination of standards in higher education (Entry 66 of List I) such as in medical education, concerning allopathic medicine or modern medicine, as is in the instant case, where the State Law is in direct conflict with the Union law, the State Law cannot have any validity as the State Legislature does not possess F legislative competence. In other words, the Assam Act and Rules and Regulations made under the said Act, being in conflict with the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (IMC Act, 1956) and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder, the doctrine of repugnancy as such would not apply within the meaning of Article 254 of the Constitution. The finding with regard to the G constitutionality of the Assam Act of 2015 is limited to holding it non-repugnant with the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956. However, this Court is not rendering any finding with regard to H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 921 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. any potential conflict of the provisions of the Assam Act of 2015 A with the National Medical Commission Act, 2019. [Para 24][1014- G-H; 1015-A-C] 3.1 Entry 25 of List III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India deals with the subject education which is in the Concurrent List under which both the Parliament or the Union B Legislature as well as the State Legislatures have legislative competence to legislate. However, Entry 25 of List III is subject to, inter alia, Entry 66 of List I which is the Union List. Entry 66 of List I deals with coordination and determination of standards in institutions for higher education or research and scientific and C technical institutions. Thus, when any law is made under Entry 25 of List III by a State Legislature, the same is always subject to Entry 66 of List I. In other words, if any law made by the Parliament comes within the scope of Entry 66 of List I, then the State Legislation would have to yield to the Parliamentary law.