This Court was of the opinion that the plea of non-submission of the originals at the time of interview is neither related to the qualifi cation nor eligibility and a verifi cation and vigilance report is anyway obtained by the State during probation. Therefore, the production of the original was not a mandatory condition. The stand of the BPSC had materially resulted in the dis-qualifi cation of candidates who were otherwise in the merit list. Therefore, in the facts and circumstances of the case, this Court directed that the rejection of candidature was improper, unjustifi ed and not warranted. 11. This Court granted relief to the eight candidates in the civil appeal of Aarav Jain (supra) by adjusting the available fi ve vacancies in the unreserved category and for the other three candidates belonging to EBC, SC and BC category, it was directed to the State to either adjust them SWEETY KUMARI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR 561 [J. K. MAHESHWARI, J.] against future vacancies which were stated to be available at that time or the State was permitted to borrow three posts from future vacancies, one each in respective categories. It was also held that the power to vary the vacancies of the said advertisement always vests in the employer under the wisdom and discretion of the State. This Court gave weight to the fact that all the candidates secured marks more than the cut-off and, therefore, such meritorious candidates would only be an asset for the institution helping in disposal of cases. This Court further directed to allow to all these eight candidates the benefi ts of increment and other notional benefi ts at par to other selected candidates as per their merits without arrears of salary. 12. In the said appeal, one Jyoti Joshi filed an application for intervention seeking directions for her appointment in implementation of dated 09.02.2022 passed in CWJC No. 7751 of 2020 by the High Court and also sought clarifi cation to the eff ect that the interim dated 23.07.2021 passed in Aarav Jain (supra) has not interfered with her appointment. This Court dismissed the said intervention application vide the passed in Aarav Jain (supra) and denied her the benefi t because she was in the waiting list and not in the merit list. More so, the interim s dated 23.02.2021, 08.10.2021 and 07.02.2022 passed in Aarav Jain (supra), keeping the posts vacant, being prior in time, have also not been brought to the notice of the High Court, before passing of the fi nal dated 09.02.2022. It is apparent that the civil appeals fi led in the case of Aarav Jain (supra) have been decided in favour of the candidates and against the employer and the said wasalready implemented. 13. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and have perused the Bihar Civil Service (Judicial Branch) (Recruitment), Rules, 1955 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Rules’) and the Advertisement No. 6 of 2018. Rule 7(b) of the Rules contemplates that a candidate must satisfy BPSC that his character is such as to qualify him for appointment to the service.