However, facts of the present case neither warrant a direction to conduct a DNA B test of Master “X”, nor do they justify drawing an adverse inference as against the appellant-wife, under Section 114 of the Evidence Act, on her refusal to subject her son to a DNA test. As per Black’s Law Dictionary, 9th Edition, ‘Inference’ means “a conclusion reached by considering other facts and deducing a C logical consequence from them.” ‘Adverse Inference’ is explained as follows: “A detrimental conclusion drawn by the fact-finder from a party’s failure to produce evidence that is within the party’s control. Some courts allow the inference only if the party’s D failure is attributable to bad faith.” The aforesaid meaning would also suggest that inferences, whether adverse or otherwise, are to be drawn by the Court, on consideration of facts and circumstances of each individual cases. Hence, the of this Court in Dipanwita Roy is to be read in the aforesaid context. E In the instant case, there is no dispute about the paternity of Master “X” as even during the course of arguments, Learned Senior Counsel Shri Kapil Sibal admitted that Master “X” was born during the continuous cohabitation of the parties and thus during the subsistence of a valid marriage. The thrust of the submissions of Learned Senior Counsel Shri F Kapil Sibal was that if the appellant herein does not agree to subject Master “X” to a DNA test, then, an adverse inference could be raised against her regarding her adulterous life. What is the nature of the adverse inference that could be raised against the appellant herein? The adverse inference is not with regard to Master “X” being a child born outside wedlock and therefore an illegitimate child. What was contended was G that an adverse inference regarding adultery on the part of the appellant herein could be raised. We cannot accede to such an approach in the matter. The issue of paternity of Master “X” is alien to the issue of adultery on the part of the appellant herein. Master “X “being a legitimate child of the parties herein has nothing to do with the alleged adultery on H 712 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A the part of the appellant herein. Hence, the of this Court in Dipanwita Roy is of no assistance to the respondent herein. The aforesaid case, turns on its own facts and cannot be relied upon as a precedent having regard to the facts of this case. Use of DNA profiling technology as a means to prove adultery: B 11. With the advancement of science, DNA profiling technology which is a tool of forensic science can, in case of disputed paternity of a child by mere comparison of DNA obtained from the body fluid or body tissues of the child with his parents, offer infallible evidence of biological parentage. But, it is not always necessary to conduct a DNA test to C ascertain whether a particular child was born to a particular person, however, the burden of proof is on the husband who alleges illegitimacy.