[Para 40 and 41][800-A-B] 1.5 OM dated 29th December, 2005 having been set aside in Rajeev Kumar Gupta’s case, the first question as to whether modification of paragraph 14 of the OM dated 29th December F 2004 brought about by OM dated 8th December, 2013, would apply retrospectively, does not survive for consideration. Furthermore, Rajeev Kumar Gupta’s case having directed the GoI to extend 3 (three) per cent reservation to the persons with disabilities in all identified posts in Group ‘A’ and Group ‘B’, G irrespective of the mode of filling up of such posts, and the larger Bench in Siddaraju’s case having given its stamp of approval to such decision, the second question also stands squarely answered against the appellants. Finally, the question as to whether the High Court was right in relying upon National Confederation of H 778 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Development of Disabled’s case is no longer res integra having regard to the multiple decisions of this Court on the point affirming the position that reservation in employment contemplated in section 33 of the PwD Act, 1995 covers all posts identified for each of the 3 (three) kinds of disability mentioned therein and is not restricted to Group ‘C’ and Group ‘D’ posts. The view taken B therein is accepted. [Para 42][800-B-F] 1.6 The version of the RBI before the High Court was that there is no provision for reservation in promotional posts in Grade –‘A’ for persons with disabilities; hence, benefit of promotion on a reserved vacancy could not be granted to the respondent. This C was indeed the ostensible reason for which the relaxed standards of assessment available for SC/ST candidates was not extended to persons with disabilities, a fortiori, to the respondent. In other words, the respondent’s claim for promotion on a reserved vacancy for persons with disabilities, upon application of relaxed standards, D could not have been considered in the absence of any identified Group ‘A’ post. That the appropriate Government must make available reservation in the matter of appointment of persons with disabilities in identified posts of Group ‘A’ and Group ‘B’ had been conclusively and authoritatively decided by this Court in Ravi Prakash Gupta’s case and National Federation of the Blind’s E case by the time the impugned and was rendered. That being the position, no valid contention could have been advanced that reservation for persons with disabilities is not available for appointment on Group-‘A’ posts. What remained was whether reservation for persons with disabilities is available F for promotional appointment on Group – ‘A’ posts. That issue has also been given a quietus by Rajiv Kumar Gupta’s case, Siddaraju’s case and Leesamma Joseph’s case. The two big impediments in the path of the respondent, thus, stand removed by reason of a pragmatic and reasonable interpretation of the PwD Act, 1995. [Para 45][801-G-H; 802-A-D] G 1.7 It cannot, however, be gainsaid that when the respondent had participated in the Panel Year 2003 examination, no decision had been rendered by this Court that reservation in promotion is H RESERVE BANK OF INDIA & ORS.