138. One of the major bottlenecks in the smooth functioning of arbitral proceedings is the inability of the parties to ensure the constitution of the arbitral tribunal once the dispute has arisen. To ensure that such disagreement between the parties does not derail the arbitral proceedings, international covenants as well as national laws allow judicial authorities to assist the parties in appointing arbitrators. For instance, Article 1444 of the French Civil Code in the context of domestic arbitration provides that “[i]f a dispute has arisen and problems occur with regard to the constitution of the arbitral tribunal due to the behavior of a party or to the implementation of the appointment method, the arbitrator or arbitrators shall be appointed by the President of the Tribunal de Grande Instance.”139 The said provision further provides that the President shall declare that there is no basis for appointment if the “arbitration clause is manifestly null and void or insuffi cient to constitute an arbitral tribunal.” The basis for providing judicial intervention to the extent of determining the validity of arbitration agreement is to ensure that the courts do not mechanically appoint arbitrators in situations where the arbitration does not have any contractual basis.140 139. Section 11 of the Arbitration Act deals with the appointment of arbitrators. It recognizes the autonomy of the parties to agree upon a procedure for appointment of an arbitrator or arbitrators. Section 11 requires the intervention of the court only when there is a deadlock or failure of the parties to follow the appointment procedure. In the process, Section 11 is meant to give eff ect to the mutual intention of the parties to settle their disputes by arbitration in situations where the parties fail to appoint an arbitrator or arbitrators. In an arbitration with three arbitrators, each party is required to appoint one arbitrator each, and subsequently the two arbitrators will appoint the third arbitrator. Section 11(6) confers 139 Article 1444, French Code of Civil Procedure. 140 Fouchard (n 116) 495 116 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. powers on the Supreme Court and the High Court, as the case may be, on the failure of the parties to comply with the agreed arbitration procedure. Section 11(6) enlists three possible defects in the appointment procedure, namely: fi rst, a party fails to act as required by the agreed procedure; second, the parties or the two appointed arbitrators fail to reach an agreement expected of them under that procedure; or third, a person, including an institution, fails to perform any function entrusted to them or under the agreed procedure. 140. Section 11(6) has had a long and chequered history before this Court, particularly in respect of the nature of function of the Chief Justice or his designate in the appointment of an arbitrator. In SPB & Co. v. Patel Engineering Ltd.,141 a seven-Judge Bench of this Court held that the power exercised by the Chief Justice of India or a Chief Justice of the High Court under Section 11(6) is a judicial power.