A view shared by many E is that State monopolies and public enterprises in India have played a vital role in its developing process, have engineered growth in critical core areas and have performed social obligations. Nonetheless, there is also a recognition, consequent on the adverse financial results and the resultant pumping of budgetary oxygen from the Government treasury to those enterprises, that there is F not only scope for their reformation but also for structural and operational improvements. This recognition has led to the trend towards privatising some of them. This is also a part of the general process of liberalisation and deregulation. Privatisation involves not only divestiture and sale of Government assets but also a gradual G decline in the interventionist role played by them. 3.4.6 State monopolies may lead to certain harmful effects, anti- thetical to the scheme of a modern Competition Policy. They are: A. The dominant power enjoyed by State monopolies may be abused because of Government patronage and support. H COAL INDIA LIMITED v. COMPETITION COMMISSION 855 OF INDIA [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] B. Because of the said patronage, State monopolies may adopt A policies which tantamount to restrictive trade practices. For example, preference to public sector units in tenders and bids, insistence on using public sector services for reimbursement from Government (travelling allowance for Government officials). C. State monopolies suffer from the schemes of administered B prices, contrary to the spirit of Competition Policy.” 47. In paragraph-3.4.7, it is, inter alia, stated that in the interests of the consumer the State Monopolies and Public Enterprises need to be competitive in production of goods and service delivery. Thereafter, it is stated: C “3.4.7 It is well accepted that competition is a key to improving the performance of State monopolies and public enterprises. The oft-noted inefficiency of Government enterprises stems from their isolation from effective competition (Aharoni, Yair, 1986). In the interest of the consumers, State monopolies and public enterprises D need to be competitive in the production and service delivery. While Government should reserve the right to grant statutory monopoly status to select public enterprises in the broad national interest, it is desirable for the Government to always keep in mind that de-regulation of statutory monopolies and privatisation are E likely to engender competition that would be healthy for the market and consumers.” 48. In the summary contained in paragraph-3.5.2, we only notice the following: “3.5.2 Summary F xxx xxx xxx 6. Government should divest its shares and assets in State monopolies and public enterprises and privatise them in all sectors other than those subserving defence and security needs and sovereign functions. All State monopolies and public enterprises G will be under the surveillance of Competition Policy to prevent monopolistic, restrictive and unfair trade practices on their part.” 49. Under the head, the Contours of Competition Policy, in paragraphs-4.2.2 and 4.2.4, we notice the following: H 856 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A “4.2.2 Scope State Monopolies and Government Procurement. In a number of countries, Government enterprises are excluded from the purview of the Competition Law.