H DHEERAJ SINGH v. GREATER NOIDA INDUSTRIAL 129 DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY & ORS. [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] 11. To appreciate the issue at hand and to come to a correct A conclusion, we must analyze the impugned passed by the High Court, to see whether there has been any application of mind by the High Court on the cross objections filed by the appellants herein, and if such consideration has not been taken into account, then to what extent can this Court grant relief. B ANALYSIS 12. 41 Rule 22, which is the governing law in the present case, elaborates on the remedies available to a respondent in the court of first appeal where an original decree has been challenged. An analysis C of the said provision, in our opinion, is essential to adjudicate upon the present case. 13. In cases where the decree passed by the court of first instance is in favor of the respondent in whole, in such circumstance, no remedy exists in favour of the respondent to appeal such decree, since no right D to appeal can be vested onto a party, which is successful. 14. However, in cases where the decree given by the court of first instance, is partly in favour of the respondent, but is also partly against the respondent, two remedies within 41 Rule 22 remain with the respondent, which are (i) To file their cross objections and, (ii) E To support the decree in whole. A third remedy in law also exists, which is the right to file a cross appeal, which will also be discussed in brief. 15. In cases where the opposing party files a first appeal against part or whole of the original decree, and the respondent in the said first F appeal, due to part or whole of the decree being in their favour, abstains from filing an appeal at the first instance, in such cases, to ensure that the respondent is also given a fair chance to be heard, he is given the right to file his cross objections within the appeal already so instituted by the other party, against not only the contentions raised by the other party, G but also against part or whole of the decree passed by the court of first instance. 16. In a similar circumstance, where the other party in the first instance has preferred an appeal, apart from the remedy of cross objections, the respondent can also file a cross appeal within the limitation H 130 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A period so prescribed, which in essence is a separate appeal in itself, challenging part or whole of the original decree, independent of the appeal filed by the other party. The respondent also has the right to fully support the original decree passed by the lower court in full. 17. In the present case at hand, the appellants herein, in the B court of first appeal filed a cross objection. It is the claim of the appellants herein that his cross objection was not considered by the High Court while passing the impugned .