14.6. Learned senior counsel Sri Datar relied upon four decisions which we shall discuss as under: (a) In Travancore Sugars and Chemicals Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Income-tax, (1966) 62 ITR 566 (SC) (“Travancore Sugars and Chemicals Ltd.”), the facts were that three undertakings run by the Government of Travancore were taken over by a company under an agreement wherein the assets of the three undertakings were agreed to be sold by the Government to the new company. Cash consideration for the sale of the assets of the three undertakings was to be paid and also 20% of the annual net profi t subject to a maximum of Rs.40,000/- was to be paid to the Government. The said 20% was later reduced to 10% by an amendment of the terms of the agreement. The question was, whether, the said payment was allowable under Section 10 of the Act. The High Court held that the amount constituted a capital expenditure. However, this Court held that the payment in question was in the nature of revenue expenditure for the following reasons: i) The payment was for an indefi nite period and had no limitation of time attached to it. 430 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. ii) The payment was related to the annual profi ts which fl owed from the trading activities of the appellant-company and had no relation to the capital value of the assets and; iii) The payment was not related to or tied up, in any way, to any fi xed sum agreed between the parties as part of the purchase price of the three undertakings. This Court held that the real nature of the transaction had to be gathered not only from concerned documents but also from the surrounding circumstances. (b) In M/s. Devidas Vithaldas and Co. vs. C.I.T., Bombay City, (1972) 3 SCC 457, (1972) 184 ITR 277 (SC) (“Devidas Vithaldas and Co.”) this Court was dealing with the question regarding acquisition of a running business and whether, the acquisition of goodwill of the business would amount to an acquisition of a capital asset and the purchase price will be a capital expenditure. This Court also considered the question whether, it would make any diff erence whether, the consideration is paid in lump-sum, or at one time, or in instalments, distributed over a defi nite period. It was held that where the acquisition is not of the goodwill itself but for the right to use it, the expenditure would be a revenue expenditure. It was further observed that if the payment is in the nature of royalty it has to be treated as a revenue expenditure. The main reason for holding that the transaction did not amount to the sale of goodwill was that the duration of the payment as also the amount of consideration was indefi nite as they depended on the rise and fall in the profi ts of the business. In the said case, it was observed by a majority of 3:1 that “in distinguishing between capital and revenue expenditure, the courts have applied in diff erent cases diff erent tests.