(2) A creditor may apply under sub-section (1) in relation to any partnership debt owed to him for initiating an insolvency resolution process against— (a) any one or more partners of the fi rm; or (b) the fi rm. (3) Where an application has been made against one partner in a fi rm, any other application against another partner in the same fi rm shall be presented in or transferred to the Adjudicating Authority in which the fi rst mentioned application is pending for adjudication and such Adjudicating Authority may give such directions for consolidating the proceedings under the applications as it thinks just. (4) An application under sub-section (1) shall be accompanied with details and documents relating to— (a) the debts owed by the debtor to the creditor or creditors submitting the application for insolvency resolution process as on the date of application; (b) the failure by the debtor to pay the debt within a period of fourteen days of the service of the notice of demand; and (c) relevant evidence of such default or non-repayment of debt. (5) The creditor shall also provide a copy of the application made under sub-section (1) to the debtor. (6) The application referred to in sub-section (1) shall be in such form and manner and DILIP B JIWRAJKA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS 577 the insolvency resolution process either by himself, or jointly with other creditors or through a resolution professional. Under sub-section (2), a creditor may apply under sub-section (1) in relation to any partnership debt owed to him for initiating a resolution process against any one or more partners of the fi rm; or the fi rm. Section 95(4) stipulates the requirements of an application made by a creditor for the initiation of the insolvency resolution process. The application is governed by the form and manner as prescribed by Rules framed by the Central Government under Section 239. A copy of the application has to be furnished to the debtor. Immediately on the fi ling of an application under Section 94 or Section 95, an interim moratorium operates by virtue of the statutory provisions of Section 967 and the adjudicating authority is required to appoint a resolution professional. 12. Where the application has been filed through a resolution professional, the adjudicating authority has to direct the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India8 to confi rm within seven days that there are no disciplinary proceedings pending against the resolution professional. Thereafter, the Board has to either confi rm the appointment of the resolution professional or to reject it and nominate another resolution professional for accompanied by such fee as may be prescribed. (7) The details and documents required to be submitted under sub-section (4) shall be such as may be specifi ed. 7 “96. Interim moratorium.—(1) When an application is fi led under section 94 or section 95— (a) an interim-moratorium shall commence on the date of the application in relation to all the debts and shall cease to have eff ect on the date of admission of such application; and (b) during the interim-moratorium period— (i) any legal action or proceeding pending in respect of any debt shall be deemed to have been stayed; and (ii) the creditors of the debtor shall not initiate any legal action or proceedings in respect of any debt.