That the expenditure was incurred towards securing a capital asset from which, after extraction, stones could be converted into stock-in-trade. The payment, though periodic, in fact, was neither rent nor royalty but a lump-sum payment in instalments for acquiring a capital asset of enduring benefi t to his trade. In this view of the matter, the High Court treated the outgoings as on capital account. On facts, it was observed that the assessee therein had made a down payment of Rs.96,000/- and for the remaining amount for the acquisition of lease had asked for easy terms. The remaining amount was paid every month but it was not for acquisition of the right from month to month. According to this Court “it was really the entire sum chopped into small payments for his convenience.” Hence, the amount could not be described as a business expense, because the outgoings every month were not to be taken as spent over purchase of stones but in discharge of the entire liability to the jagir. This was because the lease was taken to excavate stones from certain quarries in six villages from the quarry situated therein. The assessee had undertaken not to manufacture cement and not to allow any other person to excavate stones in the area of those six villages. The lease was in the nature of exclusive right and a monopoly. In case of any default of the instalment, the contract would be re-auctioned after one month’s notice to the contractor, who would be responsible for any shortfall but would not have the benefi t of any extra amount. 14.5. Learned ASG also relied upon the in Jalan Trading Co. In the said case, a manufacturing company gave its sole selling agency C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 429 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] to a fi rm, namely, Jalan Trading Company for two years with a right to renew by an agreement under a deed of assignment. The benefi t of the agreement was assigned to the assessee on its payment of 75% of its profi t and commission, remuneration and other moneys received under the said agreement or any further agreement. The assessees therein claimed the payment of 75% of their profi ts in the relevant assessment year as a business deduction. The question was, whether, the payment was a revenue expenditure or a capital expenditure. It was observed, on facts, that the assessee therein was a new company and it had acquired under the contract the right to carry out a business on a long-term basis subject to the renewal of the agreement on payment of 75% of its annual net profi ts. The question was whether the assessee had acquired a capital asset and therefore, the payment was not admissible as a deduction under Section 10(2)(vii) of the Act. On perusing the clauses of the deed of assignment, this Court held that the payment of 75% of the profi ts and commission paid under the said agreement was in the nature of a capital expenditure and the same was not allowable as a deduction under the Act.