the ultimate relief granted or manner of disposal adopted in a given case – Thus, the ratio decidendi of a is binding as a precedent and not the fi nal in the . [Para 13, 17 and 18] Constitution of India – Art. 141 – Binding precedent – Principle and purpose: Held: In terms of Art. 141, the ratio of the is the binding precedent – Ratio decidendi of a is the reason assigned in support of the conclusion – Legal principle underlying the decision would be binding as a precedent for a subsequent case – Thus, while applying a decision to a later case, the court dealing with it has to carefully ascertain the principle laid down in the previous decision – Decision in a case takes its fl avour from the facts of the case and the question of law involved and decided – However, a decision which is not express and is neither founded on any reason nor proceeds on a consideration of the issue cannot be deemed to be law declared, so as to have a binding eff ect as is contemplated u/Art. 141 – Decision applicable only to the facts of the case cannot be treated as a binding precedent – An made merely to dispose of the case cannot have the value or eff ect of a binding precedent – Doctrine of binding precedent helps in promoting certainty and consistency in judicial decisions and enables an organic development of the law besides providing assurance to individuals as to the consequences of transactions forming part of daily affairs. [Para 16, 18, 19 and 22] Judicial discipline – Facet of: Held: Art. 141 states that all the courts in India, are bound to follow the decisions of the Supreme Court – This principle is an aspect of judicial discipline – Constitution of India – Art. 141. [Para 16] Obiter dictum – Meaning and purpose: Held: Obiter dictum is an observation by a court on a legal question which may not be necessary for the decision pronounced by the court – However, the obiter dictum of the Supreme Court is binding u/Art. 141 to the extent of the observations on points raised and decided by the Court in a case – Though the obiter dictum of the Supreme Court is binding on all courts, it has only persuasive authority as far as the Supreme Court itself is concerned. [Para 20] SECUNDRABAD CLUB ETC. v. C.I.T.-V ETC. 983 / – Interpretation of: Held: Words used in a are not to be interpreted as those of a statute – Words used in a should be rendered and understood contextually and are not intended to be taken literally – Decision is not an authority for what can be read into it by implication or by assigning an assumed intention of the judges and inferring from it a proposition of law which the judges have not specifi cally or expressly laid down in the pronouncement – Decision is an authority for what is specifi cally decided and not what can logically be deduced therefrom.