Thereafter, the dead body was taken to the hospital and after leaving the body there, PW-6 lodged the FIR, which was registered as Case Crime No.48/87 at P.S. Sikhera. 3. Another version of the incident was lodged at the instance of one Mahindra Singh on 25.06.1987, which gave rise to Case Crime B No.48A/87. There it was alleged, inter-alia, that on 26.05.1987 a robbery took place in the village wherein one person died. As criminals were regularly visiting the village since then, a constant vigil was maintained by the villagers as well as the police which had been patrolling the area. It was alleged therein that while three police constables were patrolling C the village and people of the village were keeping a watch in the night of 24.06.1987, at about 9.00 pm, a man came and raised an alarm that 5-6 criminals were about to come to the village on motorcycles and scooters. On receiving this information, the villagers and the policemen became alert. At about 9.30 pm, a motorcycle came and stopped a little ahead of Bhatoda turn. Thereafter, two scooters came at a fast speed. When D torch lights were flashed and the scooters were signalled to stop, the rider fired a shot with a view to kill the villagers and the policemen. However, one of the scooters skidded and the other stopped. The criminals however started running away while firing shots. As a result, there was retaliatory fire by the police and the villagers. One of the criminals was E chased and nabbed by the villagers. He was also beaten by them. At that time, from P.S. Sikhera, an Inspector arrived in an Ambassador Car. He interrogated the criminal. Later, several villagers arrived and informed that the person caught is Raj Kumar, Advocate. Thereafter, Raj Kumar was taken to the hospital. At the same time, the spot was searched and two empty shells of cartridges were recovered from the F spot. 4. The investigation of the aforesaid two cases was assigned to CB-CID and later, for further investigation, to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) upon which, CBI registered a case No.RC-5/87- SIU.II. After investigation, CBI submitted a charge-sheet against the G accused persons (the respondents herein) under Section 302 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (in short, “I.P.C.”) After taking cognizance on the police report, the Court of First Additional Sessions Judge, Dehradun charged Anil Kumar, Shyam Bihari and Arshad Ali (the respondents herein) for committing offence punishable under H 470 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Section 302 read with Section 32 I.P.C. The accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 5. During the trial, the prosecution examined 33 witnesses and produced various documentary evidences with regard to GD entries, seizure memos, site plan, forensic reports, autopsy report, etc. Various B material exhibits such as articles seized during investigation were produced and exhibited during trial. 6. After closure of prosecution evidence, the incriminating circumstances appearing in the prosecution evidence were put to the accused for recording their statement under section 313 of the Code.