In these circumstances, where was the occasion for the original petitioner to make confession of his guilt when there was hardly any evidence against him. Admittedly, none had seen him clicking photographs and the lady doctor also did not inculpate the original petitioner though she might have suspected the original petitioner. Further, we notice that while preparing the record of evidence also, plea of guilty of the original petitioner was recorded, which the original petitioner claims to have been obtained under duress and without giving him suffi cient time to refl ect upon the evidence as is the mandate of the proviso to sub-rule (3) of Rule 49 of the BSF Rules, 1969. At this stage, we may remind ourselves that while preparing the record of evidence the statement of last witness was recorded on 29.06.2005 and on that day itself, without giving twenty-four hours’ time for refl ection, as is required by the proviso to sub-rule (3) of Rule 49 of the BSF Rules, 1969, alleged confessional statement of the original petitioner was recorded. In these circumstances, when the original petitioner had raised a plea before the High Court that his confession was involuntary and that in fact no confession was made by him, there was a serious burden on the non-petitioners (i.e., the appellants herein), to satisfy the conscience of the High Court that there had been due compliance of the procedure and that the confession was made voluntarily. More so, when the record of evidence contained no worthwhile evidence regarding the guilt of the original petitioner. In the aforesaid backdrop, the SSFC ought to have advised the original petitioner to withdraw the plea of guilt as per provisions of sub-rule (2) of Rule 142 of the BSF Rules, 1969. 39. In light of the discussion above and also taking into account that the minutes of the proceedings recording the plea of guilty did not bear the signature of the original petitioner, in our considered view, the High Court was justifi ed in fi nding the dismissal of the original petitioner on the basis of the plea of guilty unwarranted and liable to be set aside in exercise of powers under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. The High Court was also justifi ed in not re-opening the proceeding from the stage where the error crept in by noticing that it would serve no useful purpose as there was hardly any evidence on record and nearly a decade had passed since the date of the incident. UNION OF INDIA & OTHERS v. JOGESHWAR SWAIN 137 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] 40. For all the reasons above, we do not fi nd it a fi t case for interference in exercise of our jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India. The appeals are dismissed. Parties to bear their own costs. Headnotes prepared by: Appeals dismissed. Nidhi Jain