The of the learned Single Judge has in fact been given effect to by the official respondents, and therefore, they are actually in service for the past few years. With the aforesaid backdrop, we shall consider the respective contentions. SUBMISSIONS: C 19. Mr. P.S. Patwalia, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants submitted that the Selection Committee did not have a power to reduce the cut-off marks. The Respondent Nos. 1 and 2 cannot be permitted to change the rules of the game after it has begun. The exercise of power, if any, is arbitrary. In any case, the State of Gujarat cannot D usurp the power of the Selection Committee, and in turn the same ought not to have been followed by it. The Division Bench has committed an error in wrongly applying the law to the facts of the case. Learned senior counsel for the appellants has pressed into service the following decisions, while seeking an of reversal. E • Tej Prakash Pathak & Ors. v. Rajasthan High Court & Ors. (2013) 4 SCC 540; • Veerendra Kumar Gautam & Ors. v. Karuna Nidhan Upadhyay & Ors., (2016) 14 SCC 18; • Anupal Singh & Ors. v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors., F (2020) 2 SCC 173; • Ashok Kumar Thakur v. Union of India & Ors. (2008) 6 SCC 1. 20. Ms. Archana Dave Pathak, learned counsel appearing for G Respondent Nos. 1 and 2 and Mr. Vikas Singh, learned senior counsel appearing for the private respondents, submitted that what was done before making the change is a mere publication of the marks obtained. The selection was done subsequently. So long as the power is available with the Selection Committee, and the objective being reasonable, there is no ground for any interference. The appellants do not have a vested H 552 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A right for appointment to a post. The Division Bench has correctly considered the legal issues while upholding the decision of Respondent Nos. 1 and 2, as being a policy decision. One has to see the objective behind the special reservation. Therefore, there is no need for any interference in these appeals. B 21. On a query raised by us, Ms. Archana Dave Pathak, learned counsel appearing for Respondent Nos. 1 and 2 submitted that there are adequate posts available and if a direction is issued, the same would be given effect to by considering either the appellants or the private respondents. It is also acknowledged that filling up of the vacancies are to be made with respect to each of the sub-categories along with the C reservation either vertical or horizontal. The learned senior counsel appearing for both sides have submitted that the issue of inter-se seniority between the appellants and the private respondents would also be considered to avoid any confusion at a later point of time. DISCUSSION: D 22. We are dealing with the recruitment process by which the posts pertaining to each of the separate categories is to be filled up by only one mode, i.e., written examination.