6.2 Insofar as the submission on behalf of the appellants that their C entire services rendered as work charged should be considered and/or counted for the purpose of pension/quantum of pension is concerned, the same cannot be accepted. If the same is accepted, in that case, it would tantamount to regularizing their services from the initial appointment as work charged. As per the catena of decisionsof this D Court, there is always adifference and distinction between a regular employee appointed on a substantive post and a work charged employee working under work charged establishment. The work charged employees are not appointed on a substantive post. They are not appointed after due process of selection and as per the recruitment rules. Therefore, the services rendered as work charged cannot be counted for the purpose E of pension / quantum of pension. However, at the same time, after rendering of service as work charged for number of years and thereafter when their services have been regularized, they cannot be denied the pension on the ground that they have not completed the qualifying service for pension. That is why, the service rendered as work charged is to be F counted and/or considered for the purpose of qualifying service for pension, which is provided under Rule 5(v) of the Rules, 2013. 6.3 Now, insofar as the reliance placed upon the decision of this Courtin the case of Prem Singh (supra) by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants is concerned, the reliance placed upon the G said decision is absolutely misplaced. In the said case, this Court was considering the validity of Rule 3(8) of the U.P. Retirement Benefit Rules, 1961, under which the entire service rendered as work charged was not to be counted for qualifying service for pension. To that, this Court has observed and held that after rendering service as work charged for number of years in the Government establishment / department, denying H UDAY PRATAP THAKUR AND ANR. v. THE STATE OF BIHAR 539 [M. R. SHAH, J.] them the pension on the ground that they have not completed the qualifying A service for pension would be unjust, arbitrary and illegal. Therefore, this Court has observed and held that their services rendered as work charged shall be considered/counted for qualifying service. This Court has not observed and held that the entire service rendered as work charged shall be considered/counted for the quantum of pension/pension. The B decision of this Court in the case of Prem Singh (supra), therefore, would be restricted to the counting of service rendered as work charged for qualifying service for pension. 7. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, present appeals lack merits and the same deserve to be dismissed and are C accordingly dismissed. It is observed and held that the service rendered as work charged after their services have been regularized under the regularization scheme, namely, the Rules, 2013 and the Circular shall be counted for the purpose of qualifying service for pension only as per Rule 5(v) of the Rules, 2013.