4. This would then be published in the Gazettes and upon publication, in accordance with Section 10(2) of the Act, “have the force of law and shall not be called in question in any court”. The readjustment and delimitation provided for in such an shall, in accordance with Section 10(4) of the Act, “apply in relation to every election to the House or to the Assembly, as the case may be, held after the publication in the Gazette of India of that and shall so apply in supersession of the provisions PUBLIC INTEREST COMMITTEE FOR SCHEDULING SPECIFIC 1099 AREAS v. UOI [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] relating to such representation and delimitation contained in any other law for the time being in force or any or notifi cation issued under such law in so far as such representation and delimitation are inconsistent with the provisions of this Act”; and 5. Section 4 (5) of the RP Act states that the extent of Parliamentary constituencies shall be as provided by the Delimitation s under the Act of 2002. However, there is an exception in favour of the States of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Jharkhand, Manipur and Nagaland. So, except the states mentioned in Sections 10A, and 10B, the other states’ parliamentary constituencies and the extents thereof will be determined by s passed under the 2002 Act. The 2006 Delimitation Notifi cation impugned herein is one such in relation to the State of Sikkim. 48. The 2006 Delimitation Notifi cation was made in pursuance of the powers under Sections 10, 9(2) and 4(2) of the Delimitation Act 2002. It delimited constituencies for Parliamentary and Assembly elections in the State of Sikkim. The total number of seats allocated in the House of the People to the State was one and the total number of the seats assigned to the Legislative Assembly was thirty two, out of which two were reserved for SCs, twelve for Sikkimese of Bhutia Lepcha Origin and one for Sanghas. The 2006 Notifi cation additionally specifi ed the Constituencies and their extent for the Legislative Assembly as well as for the Parliament. Issues • The Petitioners have suggested first, that the Delimitation Commission must amend the 2006 Notifi cation to reserve seats for Limboo and Tamangs under Article 332 and second, the Election Commission must use the power under Section 9(1)(aa) to amend the 2008 in accordance with the amendments made to the 2006 by the Delimitation Commission; • Alternatively, the petitioners have suggested that the Election Commission use its powers under Section 11 and Section 9 of the Delimitation Act and the RP Act respectively to correct both the 2006 and the 2008 by reserving seats for the Limboo Tamang STs in accordance with the formula stated in Articles 330 and 332. 110 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 49. Accordingly, the issues that arise before us pertain to the scope of the powers of the two bodies – the Delimitation Commission and the Election Commission to make the above changes and the scope of this Court’s power to make the above directions.