The award on this dispute, thus, does not merit any interference under 228 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. Section 34 of the Act, having regard to the law stated by the Supreme Court in the case of Associate Builders (supra).” 19. In appeal under Section 37 of the Act, the Division Bench of the High Court took a different position. It opined that the construction of the clauses by the Arbitral Tribunal was not even a possible view, and observed as follows: “30. ... What is more appropriate is the well-settled principle that if there are two constructions possible of a contract, then the one that gives effect and voice to all clauses will be preferred over the other that renders one of them otiose or nugatory [Radha Sundar Dutta v Mohd Jahadur Rahim & Ors, AIR 1959 SC 24]. There is some law to suggest that if an Award does not construe the contract as a whole then it is not a possible view and it is perverse [South East Asia Marine Engineering and Constructions Ltd v Oil India Ltd, (2020) 5 SCC 164; Patel Engineering Ltd v North Eastern Electric Power Corporation Ltd, (2020) 7 SCC 167]. As regards the dispute for reimbursement on account of toll tax effected by the Government of Jammu and Kashmir through various Notifications, Chenab Bridge’s case stands on an even stronger footing. This is because toll tax is specifically mentioned in Clause 5.1.2 and the arbitral view amounts to an entire deletion of those two words. This is clearly impermissible.” 20. The principle of interpretation of contracts adopted by the Division Bench of the High Court that when two constructions are possible, then courts must prefer the one which gives effect and voice to all clauses, does not have absolute application. The said interpretation is subject to the jurisdiction which a court is called upon to exercise. While exercising jurisdiction under Section 37 of the Act, the Court is concerned about the jurisdiction that the Section 34 Court exercised while considering the challenge to the Arbitral Award. The jurisdiction under Section 34 of the Act is exercised only to see if the Arbitral Tribunal’s view is perverse or manifestly arbitrary. Accordingly, the question of reinterpreting the contract on an alternative view does not arise. If this is the principle applicable to exercise of jurisdiction under Section 34 of the Act, a Division Bench exercising jurisdiction under KONKAN RAILWAY CORP. LTD v. CHENAB BRIDGE PROJECT 229 UNDERTAKING [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] Section 37 of the Act cannot reverse an Award, much less the decision of a Single Judge, on the ground that they have not given eff ect and voice to all clauses of the contract. This is where the Division Bench of the High Court committed an error, in re-interpreting a contractual clause while exercising jurisdiction under Section 37 of the Act. In any event, the decision in Radha Sundar Dutta (supra), relied on by the High Court was decided in 1959, and it pertains to proceedings arising under the Village Chaukidari Act, 1870 and Bengal Patni Taluks Regulation of 1819.