The C contention of the appellants is that it was filed under section 6 of the Specific Relief Act and while disposing of the Civil Appeal, this Court held against the respondent/ the plaintiff that the suit is not one under Section 6 of the Specific Relief Act. Ergo, according to the appellants, the relief claimed for possession by D the plaintiff/the respondent was not entertainable as he being a person claiming only possessory title and the original defendant No. 2/ the deceased appellant No. 2 being the lawful owner of the suit schedule property. Though the contentions appear to be attractive and acceptable at the first blush the fact is that they are absolutely untenable and rightly held against them, in view of E the materials on record. It is true that the respondent/ the plaintiff had a case that O.S. No. 6456 of 1993 filed under Section 6 of the Specific Relief Act and even after, the in the Civil Appeal he seems to have attempted to resurrect the said question. But this Court is entirely in agreement with the High Court that the F question whether the suit is one under Section 6 of the Specific Relief Act is not now available for consideration as it was held otherwise by this Court in the in the Civil Appeal and as such it had attained finality. On the face of in the Civil Appeal the conclusion that O.S. No. 6456 of 1993 is not one under Section 6 of the Specific Relief Act is not revisitable. G Evidently, even-after holding thus and upon modifying the of the High Court, this Court directed only for fresh disposal of the RFA and in that regard the trial court was directed to record the additional evidence of the defendants and to transmit the same to the High Court along with a report. [Para 25, 26][384- H B-G] SHIVSHANKARA & ANR. v. H.P. VEDAVYASA CHAR 365 1.9 It is evident that on a careful consideration of the A available pleadings of the defendants, the High Court held that they did not disclose their defence in their written statement and at the same time did not even contend therein that they are in possession of the suit property. In such circumstances, when the facts disclose no title in either party, at the relevant time, prior B possession alone decides the right to possession of land in the assumed character of owner against all the world except against the rightful owner. In that context, it is worthy to refer to the maxim “Possessio contra omnes valetpraeter eur cui ius sit possessionis’ (he that hath possession hath right against all but him that hath the very right)”. The High Court is correct in holding C the question of maintainability of the suit in the affirmative and in favour of the respondent herein. [Para 30 & 31][386-C-E, F] 1.10 As regards the abatement the question whether the suit ought to have been held as abated against all the defendants as contended by the appellants for non-substitution and owing to D the failure to implead all the legal representatives on the death of the original third defendant.