However, we need not, in the present case, defi nitively pronounce on the said aspects as these issues and contentions will have to be examined threadbare by the trial court, or in an appropriate case by this Court. 18. The off ence of conspiracy and abetment,in terms of Sections 120/ 120B and Sections107/108 of the IPC, are not applicable to off ences under the PML Act. At the same time, Section 3 of the PML Act is wide and encompassing as it uses the words, “directly or indirectly”, with reference to the person involved, and knowingly assists, or knowingly is a party in an off ence in relation to the concealment, possession, acquisition, use, projecting or claiming the proceeds of crime as untainted property.39 19. We must also record that the DoE has not urged and argued before us the contention that the new liquor policy is vitiated on the ground that retail vends had to be and were auctioned, though the R.D. Committee’s Report dated 13.10.2020 has suggested retail vends should be allotted by lottery.40 Normally, auction and allotment to the highest bidder would be fair and benefi cial for revenue generation, though in certain circumstances allotment by other modes may be more fair and better.41 We will not go into 39 Scope and ambit of these words/expressions has not been examined by us. 40 Relevant portion of the R.D. Committee Report dated 13.10.2020 reads: “1.3.4…. The lottery applications will be against the pool of all 846 vends and will be randomly allotted in wards, NDMC area and airports…”In the written submissions fi led by the prosecution several assertions have been made. 41 In Indian Medicines Pharmaceuticals Corporation Ltd. v. Kerala Ayurvedic Cooperative Society Ltd. And Ors.,2023 SCC OnLine SC 5, this Court held that: “17. This Court has consistently held that government contracts must be awarded by a transparent process. The process of inviting tenders ensures a level playing fi eld for competing entities. While there may be situations which warrant a departure from the percept of inviting tenders or conducting public auctions, the departure must not be unreasonable or discriminatory. In Centre for Public Interest Litigation v. Union of India, the ‘fi rst-cum- serve’ policy was held to be arbitrary while alienating natural resources. However, the Court observed that though auction is ‘preferred’ method of allocation, it cannot be construed to be a constitutional requirement.” MANISH SISODIA v. CENTRAL BUREAU OF 503 INVESTIGATION [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] the said aspect. Neither are we examining whether this plea can be taken by the DoE, in view of Articles 74(2)42 and 163(3)43 of the Constitution of India, as this relates to the wisdom or merits of the choice that every elected government has while formulating a policy.44 However, we should not be understood to mean that no policy decision would fall foul as to be covered as an off ence under Section 7 of the PoC Act. We shall subsequently examine Section 7 of the PoC Act viz. the facts alleged.