The sum so deposited by the contractor shall on the termination of the arbitration proceedings be adjusted against the cost and any amount awarded against the contractor. The remaining amount shall be refunded to the contractor with-in one month from the date of the award.” (Emphasis supplied) 47. The relevant observations from the are as under: “23. Resultantly, the issue of pre-deposit now arises. Counsel for the petitioner has heavily relied upon the passed in M/s ICOMM Tele Ltd. (supra), which has been rightly distinguished by the learned counsel for the respondent … 24. Thereafter, in ‘S.K. Jain Vs. State of Haryana and another’, 2008 AIR (Punjab) 30 the challenge was to the clause of 7% of the total LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 971 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] amount claimed. While placing reliance upon the of the Apex Court in ‘Municipal Corporation, Jabalpur & others Vs. M/s Rajesh Construction Co.’, 2007 (5) SCC 344, the writ petition was dismissed. The said was upheld by the Apex Court in ‘S.K. Jain Vs. State of Haryana and another’ 2009 (2) SCC (Civil) 163 by holding that there is logic in providing the said cap. … 25. In M/s ICOMM Tele Ltd. (supra) the objectionable clause 25 (viii) was struck down which was for 10% deposit. In the event of an award in favour of the claimant, the deposit was to be refunded to him in proportion to the amount awarded with regard to the amount claimed and the balance if any was to be forfeited and paid to the other party. Resultantly, the Apex Court came to the conclusion that nine times of the deposit could be forfeited by the parties who lost in the arbitration proceedings and despite the fact that the party has an award against it. Thus, the clause was held to be wholly arbitrary … 26. It was on such account the observations were made that the pre- deposit would discourage arbitration and the said clause as such was struck down by the distinguishing the passed in S.K. Jain (supra). …” (Emphasis supplied) 48. In the aforesaid decision, a learned Single Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court looked into both the decisions of this Court i.e., S.K. Jain (supra) and ICOMM Tele Limited (supra). The High Court went on to look into the relevant arbitration clause contained in both the decisions of this Court referred to above and thought fi t to follow the dictum as laid in S.K. Jain’s case being a decision rendered by a Bench of three Judges. 49. Garg and Company v. State of Haryana & Ors., CWP Nos. 21840 of 2020, 21857 of 2020 and 21858 of 2020 (O&M) (Civil Writ Petitions) Date of : 08.04.2022 Forum: High Court of Punjab and Haryana (Single-Judge Bench) Nature of the Clause: “33(7). It is also a term of this arbitration agreement that where the party invoking arbitration is the contractor, no reference for Arbitrator 972 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R.