In to attract Note 2 to Chapter 33 the product must G first be cosmetic, that the product should be suitable for use as goods under Headings Nos. 33.03 to 33.08 and they must be put in packing as labels, literature and other indications showing that they are for uses cosmetic or toilet preparation. Contrary to the above in the present case none of H 320 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A the requirements are fulfilled. Therefore, Note 2 to Chapter 33 is not attracted. Again it is without substance the reason given by the authorities that the product contains 2.5% w/v of Selenium Sulfide which is only of a subsidiary curative or prophylactic value. The position is that therapeutic quantity permitted as per technical differences including US Pharmacopoeia is 2.5%. Anything in B excess is likely to harm or result in adverse effect. Once the therapeutic quantity of the ingredient used, is accepted, thereafter it is not possible to hold that the constituent is subsidiary. The important factor is that this constituent (Selenium Sulfide) is the main ingredient and is the only C active ingredient. 30. As rightly contended by the learned Senior Counsel for the appellants that merely because there is some difference in the tariff entries, the product will not change its character. Something more is required for changing the classification D especially when the product remains the same…… *** *** *** 33. The labels which give the warning, precaution and directions for use do make a difference from that of ordinary shampoo which will not contain such warning or precautions for use. Further no E individual would be prepared to say in a social gathering that he or she is using Selsun to get rid of dandruff or other similar diseases whereas nobody would hesitate to state in a similar gathering that he or she is using a particular brand of shampoo for beautifying his or her hair. Thus there are lot of favourable materials to treat the product in question as a F medicine rather than cosmetic. In this connection the reliance placed by the learned counsel for the appellants on a decision of this Court report in case Indian Metals & Ferro Alloys Ltd. v. CCE [(1991) 51 ELT 165 (SC)] can be usefully referred to. In that case this Court held: G “It (the Tribunal) seems to say that, even if the goods manufactured by the appellant had been rightly classified under manufactured by the appellant had been rightly classified under Item 26-AA before 1-3-1975, the introduction of Item 68 makes a difference to the interpretation of Item 26-AA. This is not H COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 321 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] correct. Item 68 was only intended as a residuary item. It covers A goods not expressly mentioned in any of the earlier items. If, as assumed by the Tribunal, the poles manufactured were rightly classified under Item 26-AA, the question of revising the classification cannot arise merely because Item 68 is introduced to bring into the tax net items not covered by the B various items set out in the Schedule.