35. The argument of Shri Pallav Sisodia, learned senior counsel that the purchaser or the customer seeking replacement of a defective D part is distinct and disjunct from the earlier sale of the automobile by the dealer to the customer, cannot be accepted. This is for the simple reason that the dealer discharges his warranty obligation pursuant to the earlier sale of the automobile made by him to the customer which transaction of sale is accompanied by a collateral contract in the form of a warranty. E There cannot be a warranty unless there is a sale of goods in the first place. That is why a warranty is termed as a contract collateral to the main contract of sale. But for the warranty which is a contract collateral to the main contract of sale of an automobile, the dealer would not have replaced the defective part with a spare part from his stock without any consideration from customer. This is obvious because when the defective F part is replaced by another part, no consideration passes from customer to the dealer. This could be contrasted with a situation where the dealer would have sold the same part to any other customer and received a price on the sale as well as collected the tax on the said sale. Since, the dealer does not receive any consideration from the customer who G approaches the dealer during the warranty period for replacement of a defective part and the dealer does so from his own stock of the spare parts, he receives a credit note from the manufacturer of the automobile. What is significant to note is in both of the aforesaid situations, there is transfer of property in the goods from the dealer to the customer. H 1330 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 36. Thus, the bifurcation of the two transactions as suggested by learned senior counsel Sri Sisodia, i.e., one, between the dealer and the customer for the sale of the automobile and the second, between the manufacturer and the dealer, when the dealer is discharging his warranty pursuant to the sale of the automobile, cannot be accepted. B 37. But the issuance of a credit note to a dealer by a manufacturer is only when the dealer replaces a spare part from his stock in the automobile to the customer or has purchased the spare part from the open market for the said purpose and returns the defective part to the manufacturer which is pursuant to the warranty appended as a collateral agreement to the earlier sale of the automobile and the dealer acting on C behalf of the manufacturer. Hence, whether the revenue is right in contending that the credit note issued to the dealer whilst he is discharging his obligation under the warranty is a “sale” and the dealer is liable to pay sales tax on the credit note is the point under consideration. 38. It is also significant to note that there is transfer of property in D the spare part between the dealer and the customer on behalf of the manufacturer under a warranty.