B 5. The case of the prosecution narrated by the Trial Court in its dated 12.03.2021 is as under: “The F.I.R in the instant case had been registered on 14.08.2018, on the basis of written application of informant C Om Prakash Sahni, alleging therein that the informant Om Prakash Sahni on 13-08-2018 at about 01:00 P.M. alongwith his younger brother Manish Kumar, the Block Pramukh, Jandaha reached the Office of Block Pramukh, situated at block Jandaha by their alto car. Informant’s brother went in his chamber. The driver of the B.D.O. came in his car and D told thePramukh that B.D.O. has called him and on such information the Block Pramukh Manish Kumar went to the residence of B.D.O. in the B.D.O’s car. After sometime the Pramukh came back in the same vehicle and as he was heading towards his chamber at about 03:00 P.M., the E accused Jai Shankar Chaudhary and Abhay Kumar came and opened fire on informant’s brother,the Block Pramukh upon the exhortation by accused Ram Babu Sahni to kill him. The informant’s brother fell on the ground and both the accused waving their pistols, fled away on a motorcycle towards Mahua road. The other two accused Ram Babu Sahni and F Binod Chaudhary also fled away from the place of occurrence on one another motorcycle, towards the same direction. The F.I.R. further states that the informant and the Pramukh’s driver namely Anil Kumar alongwith certain others were present at the time of occurrence. They took him to the clinic of doctor Bindu Jha and on his reference, they took the injured G to the Ganpati Hospital, Hajipur, where he was declared dead. Thereafter they took the deceased to Hajipur Sadar Hospital, where the postmortem examination was carried out and the police also reached there and carried out further proceeding. The F.I.R. also states that the election of block pramukh was H 146 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A held on 02-08-2018 and the Pramukh won the election. The informant in the F.I.R. also states that Umesh Singh Kushwaha, M.L.A., Mahnar, Binod Chaudhary s/o Ram Lakhan Chaudhary, Ajeet Kumar s/o Ram Babu Sahni Village Dulaur P.S. Jandaha, Kundan Sahni (Prakhand Shikshak) s/o Ram Nandan Sahni Vill Narharpur, Randhir Kumar S/o Late B Masudan Prasad Singh Vill Narharpur, Ranjeet Kumar S/o Ram Briksh Singh Viii Narharpur, all from P.S. Jandaha and Ajay Thakur (Teacher) Sankul Sadhan Sevi, Jandaha Vill Nari Khurd P.S. Patepur Dist Vaishali had earlier threatened the informant at Bindi Chowk Road (north from Suresh Chowk) C that they would not allow informant’s brother to win the election and in the event, he wins, they would not let him live. The informant also states that these persons threatened him many times and he informed his brother of such fact. The present Prakhand Siksha Padadhikri, Jandaha also threatened that he should communicate to the Pramukh for D not getting involved in the recruitment of Prakhand Shikshak, otherwise he may face dire consequences. The informant is under the belief that all the abovereferred persons in conspiracy, have committed the murder of informant’s brother Manish Kumar.” E 6.