v. EMPLOYER IN RELATION TO THE MANAGEMENT OF THE FCI [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] regularization of their services, while the management of FCI is in appeal A against the direction of reinstatement and payment of 75% of the back wages to the said workmen. While issuing notice on 08.03.2021 in SLP (C) 3656 of 2021 filed on behalf of the workmen, this Court directed that operation of the Division Bench shall remain stayed. Contempt Petition (C) No. 366 of 2021 was instituted alleging disobedience to this B stay and the same was disposed of with certain observations on 26.07.2022. 9. Significantly, para 12 of the impugned Division Bench dated 17.12.2020 records that the learned counsel for the management of FCI did not assail that part of the Award whereby directions were C given for reinstatement and payment of back wages to the extent of 75% and that the management was aggrieved by the Award pertaining to regularization. In fact, the grounds raised by the management in its appeal before the Division Bench related mostly to the aspect of regularization of the services of the workmen and there was only a passing reference to the issue of reinstatement. In any event, in the light D of the clear recording by the Division Bench that the management was not assailing the Award to the extent of directing reinstatement in service and payment of back wages, it is not open to the management to raise the same before this Court. The appeal filed by the management of FCI raising these issues is, therefore, liable to be dismissed on that short E ground. 10. As regards the appeal filed on behalf of the workmen, the only issue raised therein is as to the regularization in service of those workmen and the legality of the Award to the extent of granting such relief. At this stage, we may note that though the learned Judge himself F concluded that there should not have been an of regularization in service by the Tribunal, he chose not to interfere therewith as the workmen, in the meanwhile, had rendered regular service for about 18 years and interference at that stage would be harsh upon them. On the other hand, the Division Bench held that once the Court comes to the G conclusion that a wrong was passed, it would be its sovereign duty to rectify such mistake rather than perpetuate the same. The Division Bench, however, did not consider the decisive features that had weighed with the learned Judge while upholding the Award of the Tribunal, viz., the fact that the management of FCI chose to fully implement the Award during the pendency of the writ petition and the fact that the workmen H 122 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A availed the benefit thereof for 18 years. In this regard, the Office dated 24/26.11.2000 issued by the management, in compliance with the Award, is of relevance. It reads as under: ‘THE FOOD CORPORATION OF INDIA DISTRICT OFFICE: NORTH GANDHI MAIDAN (GAYA) B Ref: No.