The Court observed that the right to initiate criminal proceedings cannot be whittled down because punishing an off ender is in the interests of the society: “This general principle of nearly universal application is founded on a policy that an off ence i.e. an act or omission made punishable by any law for the time being in force [See Section 2(n) CrPC] is not merely an off ence committed in relation to the person who suff ers harm but is also an off ence against society. The society for its ly and peaceful development is interested in the punishment of the off ender. Therefore, prosecution for serious off ences is undertaken in the name of the State representing the people which would exclude any element of private vendetta or vengeance. If such is the public policy underlying penal statutes, who brings an act or omission made punishable by law to the notice of the authority competent to deal with it, is immaterial and irrelevant unless the statute indicates to the contrary. Punishment of the off ender in the interest of the society being one of the objects behind penal statutes enacted for larger good of the society, right to initiate proceedings cannot be whittled down, circumscribed or fettered by putting it into a strait-jacket formula of locus standi unknown to criminal jurisprudence, save and except specifi c statutory exception.” (emphasis supplied) 20. The 1960 Act is a special law enacted to govern co-operative societies in Maharashtra. Section 81 of the 1960 Act casts a public duty on 11 Sheonandan Paswan v. State of Bihar, (1987) 1 SCC 288 12 Ratanlal v. Prahlad Jat, (2017) 9 SCC 340 13 (1984) 2 SCC 500 DHANRAJ N ASAWANI v. AMARJEETSINGH MOHINDERSINGH 307 BASI AND OTHERS [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] the auditor and the Registrar to audit co-operative societies. In pursuance of this objective, Section 81(5B) obligates them to register an FIR in case they discover any fi nancial irregularities in the audit reports of a co- operative society. According to said provision, when the auditor comes to the conclusion in the audit report that any person is guilty of an off ence relating to the accounts or of any other off ences, they are mandated to fi le a specifi c report to the Registrar. Where the auditor has failed to do so, the Registrar is empowered to cause an FIR to be fi led by a person authorized by them in that behalf. The statutory obligation is cast on the auditor and the Registrar because they are the fi rst persons to acquire knowledge about the fi nancial irregularities in a co-operative society in the course of conducting an audit. Since only the auditor and the Registrar are privy to such irregularity, the 1960 Act obligates them to bring the information about the fi nancial irregularity to the knowledge of the police. 21. The respondents have relied on the decision of this Court in Jamiruddin Ansari (supra) to contend that the 1960 Act, being a special law, will prevail over the provisions of the CrPC.