The exercise of the power to call for a trust vote must be guided by the overarching consideration that the formation of satisfaction C by the Governor is not based on extraneous considerations.” 177. This Court also observed that unless there are “exigent and compelling circumstances”, the Governor should not prevent the ordinary legislative process of a no-confidence motion from running its due course. In Shivraj Singh Chouhan (supra), the Speaker accepted the D resignations of only six members who were Ministers of the incumbent Government, and adjourned the Assembly for thirteen days. It was in view of these facts that this Court held there was objective material and relevant reasons for the Governor to call for a floor test. 178. The power of the Governor to summon the House under E Article 174 must be exercised on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. Rule 95 of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly Rules stipulates that a member who wishes to move a motion of no-confidence in the Council of Ministers shall do so by a notice in writing. If the motion is admitted by the Speaker and the Assembly is in session, leave F to move the motion must be granted not later than two days from the date of the notice. However, if the notice is received when the Assembly is not in session, leave to move the motion shall be granted within two days from the commencement of the session. 179. To avert a no-confidence motion, the incumbent Government G may not advise the Governor to convene a session of the Assembly, and the Speaker may adjourn the sitting of the House to prevent voting for granting leave to move a motion of no-confidence. If the Speaker and the Government attempt to circumvent a no-confidence motion, the Governor would be justified in exercising the power under Article 174 without the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. H 958 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 180. The Constitution and the system of governance that it provides is based on representative democracy. This means that each citizen has an active and participatory role in how the governments at various levels function. The elected representatives of the people act on their behalf by enacting laws and overseeing the implementation of policies. This is our chosen path to achieve democracy. Direct and indirect elections and B the candidates who are elected are indispensable to our model of representative democracy. Hence, the Constitution empowers the elected representatives to act on behalf of the people. Consequently, the Governor who despite their constitutional status is unelected, is vested with limited discretionary powers. C 181. The power of the Governor to act without the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers is of an extraordinary nature. The exercise of such powerhas ramifications on parliamentary democracy. Hence, the ambit of the exercise of such power by the Governor must be calibrated to meet the exigencies of situations where the Governor is D satisfied on the basis of objective material that there is sufficient cause to warrant the exercise of their extraordinary power.