Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 – Banking Regulation Act, E 1949 – Reserve Bank of India (Frauds Classification and Reporting by Commercial Banks and Select FIs) Directions 2016 – No implied exclusion of audi alteram partem – The RBI and the lender banks have contended that the Master Directions on Frauds impliedly exclude the right to be heard – Held: The Master Directions on F Frauds do not expressly exclude a right of hearing to the borrowers before action to class their account as frauds is initiated – The principles of natural justice can be read into a statute or a notification where it is silent on granting an opportunity of a hearing to a party whose rights and interests are likely to be affected by the s that may be passed. G Principles/Doctrines – Principles of natural justice – Two fundamental principles of natural justice are entrenched in Indian jurisprudence: (i) nemo judex in causa sua, which means that no person should be a judge in their own cause; and (ii) audi alteram partem, which means that a person affected by administrative, H 478 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A judicial or quasi-judicial action must be heard before a decision is taken – The courts generally favor interpretation of a statutory provision consistent with the principles of natural justice because it is presumed that the statutory authorities do not intend to contravene fundamental rights. B Disposing of the appeals, the Court HELD: Audi Alteram Partem 1. The principles of natural justice are not mere legal formalities. They constitute substantive obligations that need to be followed by decision-making and adjudicating authorities. The C principles of natural justice act as a guarantee against arbitrary action, both in terms of procedure and substance, by judicial, quasi-judicial, and administrative authorities. Two fundamental principles of natural justice are entrenched in Indian jurisprudence: (i) nemo judex in causa sua, which means that no person should be a judge in their own cause; and (ii) audi alteram D partem, which means that a person affected by administrative, judicial or quasi-judicial action must be heard before a decision is taken. The courts generally favor interpretation of a statutory provision consistent with the principles of natural justice because it is presumed that the statutory authorities do not intend to E contravene fundamental rights. Application of the said principles depends on the facts and circumstances of the case, express language and basic scheme of the statute under which the administrative power is exercised, the nature and purpose for which the power is conferred, and the final effect of the exercise of that power. [Para 29][502-E-G] F 2. Chapter VIII of the Master Directions on Fraud provides detailed procedures to be followed by the banks before forming an opinion to proceed with a criminal complaint against the borrowers. Under the said chapter, the lender banks have to report a borrower to the CBI after classifying the borrower’s G account as fraudulent. However, the classification of the borrower’s account does not simpliciter lead to reporting of criminal complaint with the enforcement authorities; it also entails penal consequences for the borrowers as laid down under Clause 8.12.