convenience, whereafter three options in terms of section 24(1) (b) are A open to the High Court for further course of action for taking the suit to its logical conclusion. Once the suit is withdrawn from the court in Nagaland and placed before the High Court at its principal seat in Guwahati, Assam, would not that be a case of an inter-State transfer? The answer cannot possibly but be in the affirmative. The other aspect B requiring consideration in this regard is whether disposal of the civil suit by the Gauhati High Court, if the same were withdrawn from the subordinate court, constitute a transfer from one Civil Court to another Civil Court. The High Courts are Constitutional Courts and not a ‘Civil Court’ in the sense the term is understood, so to encompass a transfer from one Civil Court to another Civil Court. However, if at all such a suit C were withdrawn and finally disposed of by the Gauhati High Court at its principal seat, it would necessarily be in the exercise of its ordinary civil jurisdiction and the procedure to be followed would undoubtedly be guided by the provisions of the CPC. In a sense, the High Court would step into the shoes of the Civil Court from which the suit has been withdrawn. Could the provisions in section 25 of the CPC, in such circumstances, be D cited to abrogate the Constitutional and statutory power of the Gauhati High Court to withdraw a civil suit from a Civil Court in Nagaland and to decide the same? In course of hearing, we had invited the attention of Mr. Balgopal to this situation and sought his response. He could not have and rightly did not dispute that in such a situation, the power vested E in the Gauhati High Court by the Constitution as well as the CPC cannot be abrogated. Thus, exercise of the power that section 24(1)(b)(i) confers on the Gauhati High Court in a given case, would ultimately entail a transfer of the civil suit from the State of Nagaland to the High Court, having its principal seat at Guwahati in the State of Assam. Such a situation is not and cannot be controlled by section 25, and on a F harmonious reading of sections 24 and 25, it has to be held that section 25 does not in all cases fetter the power of a common High Court to inter-State transfer of a suit, appeal or other proceeding. Otherwise, it would be a fallacy to believe that while an inter-State transfer would be permissible in terms of sub-clause (i) but not sub-clause (ii) of clause G (b) of sub-section (1) of section 24. We reiterate, section 25 would essentially have to be read as barring transfer of any suit, appeal or other proceeding from a Civil Court in one State to a Civil Court in another State if such States have their own High Courts but not in the case of a common High Court like the Gauhati High Court.