1 Introduced fi rst in the Protection of Children from Sexual Off ences Rules, 2012 which has since been repealed and substituted by the far more detailed Protection of Children from Sexual Off ences Rules, 2020. 664 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 5. Interpreters, translators, special educators, experts and support persons.– […] (6) Support person may be a person or organisation working in the fi eld of child rights or child protection, or an offi cial of a children’s home or shelter home having custody of the child, or a person employed by the DCPU: Provided that nothing in these rules shall prevent the child and child’s parents or guardian or other person in whom the child has trust and confi dence from seeking the assistance of any person or organisation for proceedings under the Act.” Clearly delineating the scope of assistance to be rendered by a support person, the Rules also stipulate that if the CWC, in contravention of its duties fails to appoint one, or for whatever reason, the child victim and their family wish to engage someone else, they are free to seek assistance from a qualifi ed support person externally [ref: proviso to Rule 5(6)]. Termination of their services, for whatever reason, is also covered under Rule 4(11). 4. A support person is to provide information, emotional and psychological support, and practical assistance which are often crucial to the recovery of the child. This can go a long way in helping them cope with the aftermath of the crime and with the strain of any criminal proceedings – in many ways a support person, acts as guardian ad litem for the child.2 The specifi c roles and responsibilities, that are expected to be fulfi lled are as follows: 4. Procedure regarding care and protection of child.– […] (9) The support person shall at all times maintain the confi dentiality of all information pertaining to the child to which he or she has access and shall keep the child and child’s parent or guardian or other person in whom the child has trust and confi dence, informed regarding the proceedings of the case, including available assistance, 2 Model Guidelines under Section 39 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Off ences Act, 2012, issued by the Ministry of Women and Child Development, Government of India, p. 50.<https://wcd.nic.in/sites/default/fi les/POCSO-ModelGuidelines.pdf> (last accessed on 15.08.2023). BACHPAN BACHAO ANDOLAN v. 665 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] judicial procedures, and potential outcomes. The Support person shall also inform the child of the role the Support person may play in the judicial process and ensure that any concerns that the child may have, regarding child’s safety in relation to the accused and the manner in which the Support person would like to provide child’s testimony, are conveyed to the relevant authorities. (12) The CWC shall also seek monthly reports from support person till the completion of trial, with respect to condition and care of child, including the family situation focusing on the physical, emotional and mental wellbeing, and progress towards healing from trauma; engage with medical care facilities, in coordination with the support person, to ensure need-based continued medical support to the child, including psychological care and counseling; and shall ensure resumption of education of the child, or continued education of the child, or shifting of the child to a new school, if required.