The State B Commission is conferred with wide powers under the statutory framework to provide for different mechanisms in the Electricity Supply Code for recovery of electricity arrears of the previous owner. The recovery of electricity arrears may take effect either by requiring a subsequent owner of premises to clear payment of outstanding dues as a condition precedent for an electricity connection, or by deeming that any amount due to the C licensee shall be a first charge on the assets, or by any other reasonable condition. 109. In exercise of such power, Regulation 10.5 of the Maharashtra Electricity Supply Code 2005 provides that any charge for electricity or any other sum which remains unpaid by an erstwhile owner D constitutes a charge on the property and can be recovered from the transferee subject to the permitted period specified therein. This provision spelt out in the present judgement is a mere illustration of a subordinate rule wherein unpaid electricity dues constitute a charge on property and can be recovered from a subsequent transferee. E 110. Reliance by the auction purchasers on the decisions in India Cement Ltd (supra) or Indian Council of Legal Aid and Advice (supra) render little assistance to their cause. The question in India Cement Ltd (supra)was whether the State Legislature had competence to enact a cess on royalty on mineral rights under Article 246 read with F Entry 49 of List II of the Seventh Schedule. In Indian Council of Legal Aid and Advice (supra),this Court dealt with Rule 9 in Chapter III of Part VI of the Bar Council of India Rules, which barred persons who have completed 45 years of age from enrolment as an advocate. Both these decisions bear little relevance to the issue which has arisen in the present appeals. G 111. The auction purchasers have also relied on the decision in Sha Sukhraj Peerajee (supra). This Court held that Rule 21-A framed by the State Government under Section 19 of the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1939 was ultra vires. In terms of Rule 21-A, a purchaser of a business carried on by a ‘dealer’ could be made liable for arrears of H 700 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A sales tax due from the dealer in respect of transactions of sale which took place before the transfer. This Court held that the rule making power under Section 19 could not be used to enlarge the scope of recovery and payment of tax from some person other than a ‘dealer’ under the Act. Section 10, inserted by the Amendment Act of 1956, provided that the outstanding amount on the date of default was made a charge on the B property of the person liable to pay tax. This Court did not consider the import of Section 10 of the Act since the business was transferred before the amending Act came into force. The ratio of the case is neither helpful nor applicable in the instant case, since this Court was dealing with the specific provisions of the Madras General Sales Tax Act 1939.