(iv) Section 158B(b) defines “Undisclosed Income”: A “undisclosed income” includes any money, bullion, jewellery or other valuable article or thing or any income based on any entry in the books of account or other documents or transactions, where such money, bullion, jewellery, valuable article, thing, entry in the books of account or other document or transaction B represents wholly or partly income or property which has not been or would not have been disclosed for the purposes of this Act, or any expense, deduction or allowance claimed under this Act which is found to be false.” (v) Consequently, post 30-06-1995, Assessing Officers are allowed C to assess: A. Undisclosed income B. For the block period which is 6 years if the search is prior to 01.06.2001 and 10 years post 01.06.2001. D C. At the rate specified in Section 113. D. The explanation to Section 158B(a) also mandated that the assessment made under this Chapter shall be in addition to the regular assessment in respect of each previous year included in the block period. E E. The total undisclosed income relating to the block period shall not include the income assessed in any regular assessment as income of such block period. F. The income assessed in this Chapter shall not be included in the regular assessment of any previous year included in the block F period. (vi) Section 158BB provides the computation mechanism of undisclosed income of the block period which is as follows: (i) What can be taxed under this Chapter is only undisclosed income G of the block period. (ii) This undisclosed income should form part of the total income. However, this chapter permits independent and separate assessment for undisclosed income for the block period and therefore cannot include the total income forming part of the regular assessment. H 910 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A (iii) In other words, both the income forming part of the regular assessment/reassessment falling under Section 143/147 respectively, and the assessment on undisclosed income for block period would constitute together the total income. (iv) However, the streams of assessment are independent and B separate. The regular assessment/reassessment would be under Section 143/147 respectively. Whereas, the assessment of undisclosed income for block period would be a separate assessment under Section 158BC(c). (v) Three things are therefore clear. The spirit of the Income Tax C Act is to tax total income. The regular assessment/reassessment form one stream u/s 143/147 and, the block assessment of the undisclosed income as yet another stream of undisclosed income. (vi) As a result of two separate assessments for computation of total income and taxation on it, Section 158BB allowed the following exclusions in computing the undisclosed income of block period to D be assessed u/s 158BA which are: a. Assessment under Section 143 (assessment), Section 144 (best assessment), and Section 147 (reassessment). b. Where returns have been filed u/s 139 or notices have been E issued u/s 142(1) or u/s 148, but assessments have not been made till the date of search requisition, based on the income disclosed in such returns.