The Judicial Magistrate First Class, Kotdwar, Garhwal, passed the following dated 04.06.2006: “ 04.06.2006 Applicant Virendra Singh had fi led application under section 156(3) Cr.P.C. for passing for registration of First Information Report against accused persons, wherein, applicant has mentioned as under that marriage of daughter of applicant Sudha had been solemnized on 12.12.1997 with Balvir Singh son of late Mahavir Singh, resident of village Ratanpur, Kumbhuchau, Halqa-Saneh, Kotdwar, Garhwal at Uttari Jhandichaur, Police Station Kotdwar and out of their wedlock, one son was born to them. After sometime from solemnization of marriage Balvir Singh and Smt. Maheshwari 820 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. Devi mother of Balvir Singh connived together and started harassing my daughter in diff erent ways and started raising demand of Rs. One lakh cash in dowry. Applicant’s daughter informed applicant about the same through letters. Balvir Singh has been working in a Private Nursing Home in Delhi and he is very well acquainted with medicines. According to the Applicant, Balvir Singh before committing murder of his daughter managed to arrange fake prescription slips which he has kept with him. Despite reluctance of his daughter, on 09.05.07 Balvir left his son at Kotdwar and forcibly took my daughter Sudha who was in healthy condition to Mangolpuri, Delhi. Before leaving, Applicant’s daughter expressed her wish to her uncle over telephone about her reluctance for going to Delhi. On 13.05.07 at about 1.30 o’clock in the night Applicant’s younger brother Harender Singh received information from Delhi over phone that his daughter Sudha has all of a sudden left for her heavenly abode in Mangolpuri. Balvir Singh did not give this information to any of the other family member rather some neighbour gave this information to the younger brother of Harender Singh; Shivcharan, who resides in Delhi. Shivcharan visited Mangolpuri in the night itself, where he came to know that she was in good health on that night and Balvir Singh after the death of the deceased, took her dead body to his home at Ratanpur, Kotdwar by private ambulance without giving information to anyone. When the applicant came to know about this fact, he informed the police of Police Station Kotdwar. There were reddish injury marks apparent on the throat of the applicant’s daughter, due to which the Police initiated inquest proceedings and arranged postmortem of the dead body. On calling for the report from Police Station on the application fi led by applicant, Police Station has submitted that no First Information Report is lying registered at Police Station on the basis of facts mentioned in the application moved by applicant under section 156(3) Cr.P.C Applicant has fi led photocopies of letters written by his daughter and photocopies of applications lodged by him with Inspector Incharge of Police Station Kotdwar and Deputy District Magistrate, Kotdwar in court in support of his application fi led under section 156(3) Cr.P.C. On the basis of documents filed by applicant in support of his application, prima facie off ence seems to be made out.