With great deference, I am unable to persuade H THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX JAIPUR v. PRAKASH 131 CHAND LUNIA (D) THR. LRS. & ANR. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] myself to agree with the view of the Punjab High Court A expressed in Piara Singh’s case, especially when it runs counter to the tests laid down by the Supreme Court in Haji Aziz’s case and in English cases to which the Supreme Court has referred while deciding Haji Aziz’s case. The other contention that this loss should be allowed to be set off against B the income from undisclosed source under section 70 or section 71 was not pressed by Mr. Albal. In view of the above discussion, on both the points on which there was difference of opinion between the two learned judges I am in agreement with the views expressed by Mr. Justice Deshpande.” C 23.3 The decision of the Bombay High Court certainly falls in line with the one rendered in Haji Aziz (supra). The cogent reasons given by taking penalty and confiscation out of the purview of Section 10(1)of the Old Act appears to be the correct view. 24. Commissioner of Income Tax v. Piara Singh,(1980) Supp. D SCC 166 24.1 This Court did not differ with the view expressed by a co- ordinate bench in Haji Aziz(supra). In fact, it gave its approval to the said decision. However, reliance was placed on S.C. Kothari (supra) by drawing a distinction between an infraction of law committed in E carrying out a lawful business, as against one committed in an inherently unlawful business. It was done upon a legitimate anticipation that in an illegal business there will be many pitfalls resulting in expected loss, which cannot be factored into a normal business. 24.2 Law as laid down in Haji Aziz (supra) on both the issues have not been taken note of by inadvertence, particularly the nature of F proceedings involved in the imposition of confiscation or penalty, being proceedings in rem. This Court did not have the benefit of the explanation as available under Section 37 of the Act, while interpreting Section 10(2) of the Old Act, apart from ignoring the word of caution mentioned in BadridasDaga (supra). G 24.3 We would only clarify the position that, in any case, the law as laid down in Piara Singh(supra) may not have any application to a case of deduction of expenditure/loss incurred on account of penalty/ confiscation coming under Section 37(1) of the Act, particularly in light of Explanation 1. H 132 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 25. Dr. T.A. Quereshi v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Bhopal (2007) 2 SCC 759 25.1 This Court merely followed Piara Singh(supra) while making a casual observation on Explanation 1 to Section 37 of the Act. The earlier decisions have not been taken into consideration as we could see B in Piara Singh(supra), but the principle laid down was also not taken note of. In this connection, it has to be remembered that for a precedent to be binding there has to be a conscious consideration of an issue involved.