Dealing specifi cally with whether a distance education course was equivalent to the degree of MA (English) of the appellant university therein, the Court held that no material had been produced before it to show that the distance education course had been recognized as such. 25. In Zahoor Ahmad Rather v. Sheikh Imtiyaz Ahmad (2019) 2 SCC 404, it was held that the State, as an employer, is entitled to prescribe qualifi cations as a condition of eligibility, after taking into consideration the nature of the job, the aptitude required for effi cient discharge of duties, functionality of various qualifi cations, course content leading up to the acquisition of various qualifi cations, etc. Judicial review can neither expand the ambit of the prescribed qualifi cations nor decide the equivalence of the prescribed qualifi cations with any other given qualifi cation. Equivalence of qualifi cation is a matter for the State, as recruiting authority, to determine. 26. Having regard to the above, in our view, the High Court has erred in holding that the diploma/degree in Art and Craft given by the Kurukshetra University is equivalent to two-year Diploma in Art and Craft examination conducted by the Haryana Industrial Training Department or diploma in Art and Craft conducted by Director, Industrial Training and Vocational Education, Haryana.” 41. In view of what has been held by this Court hereinabove, we fi nd that the High Court erred in holding that 18 months Diploma conducted by NIOS through ODL mode is equivalent to the 2 years regular Diploma, particularly so, when there was no material placed on record to even remotely hold that such a qualifi cation was recommended by the Expert Body NCTE. On the contrary, the communication dated 6th September 2019 of NCTE, the directives of MHRD so also the recognition dated 22nd September 2017 clearly go on to show that the 18 months Diploma was provided as a one 620 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. time window to the in-service teachers to acquire the minimum qualifi cations between the 2017 Amendment Act and the outer limit of 1st April 2019. In our considered view, the High Court has totally erred in holding that the 2 years Diploma is equivalent to 18 months Diploma. 42. That leaves us with the reliance placed by the learned counsel for NCTE on the of this Court in the case of Ram Sharan Maurya (supra). There can be no doubt that NCTE, as an expert body, has a right to prescribe the minimum qualifi cations. In the present case itself, by notifi cations dated 23rd August 2010 and 29th July 2011, NCTE has done so. As already discussed hereinabove, recognition dated 22nd September 2017 only provides a window for in-service teachers to complete their course prior to 1st April 2019. As such, the said does not apply to the present case. 43. In the result, we pass the following : (i) The appeals are allowed; (ii) The impugned and dated 14th September 2022 passed by the High Court of Uttarakhand at Nainital is quashed and set aside; and (iii) The writ petitions fi led by the original writ petitioners are dismissed.