D The appellant, a society registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860, invoked the writ jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. The first contention raised in the writ petition was that in the Scheduled Area, except for the members of the Scheduled Tribes, no one has the right to settle down. A contention was raised in the writ petition that every person, who does not belong to Scheduled E Tribe and residing in the Scheduled Area, is an unlawful occupant and, therefore, is disentitled to exercise his right to vote in any constituency in the Scheduled Area. Further contention raised was that every constituency in the Scheduled Area should be declared as a reserved constituency under Articles 330 and 332 of the Constitution of India. It was also F contended that no candidate, other than the candidates belonging to the Scheduled Tribes, should have the right to contest the elections of the Legislative Assembly or the Lok Sabha in the Scheduled Area. 2. Another contention raised in the petition is that in view of sub- clause (1) of Clause 5 of the Fifth Schedule unless there is a specific G notification issued by the Hon’ble Governor of the State applying any particular Central or State law to a Scheduled Area, none of the provisions of the Central or State laws are applicable to that particular Scheduled Area. Therefore, it was urged that the Representation of the People Act, 1950 (for short, ‘the 1950 Act’) and the Delimitation Act, 2002 (for short, ‘the 2002 Act’) are not applicable to the Scheduled Area in the H ADIVASIS FOR SOCIAL AND HUMAN RIGHTS ACTION v. 377 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] absence of any such notification. A Division Bench of the High Court of A Orissa, by the impugned , dismissed the writ petition. Being aggrieved by the decision of the High Court of Orissa, the present appeal has been preferred pursuant to the grant of leave by this Court vide dated 14th February 2012. SUBMISSIONS B 3. The first contention raised by the learned counsel appearing for the appellant is that none of the laws enacted by the Central or the State Legislature are applicable to a Scheduled Area unless there is a specific notification issued under sub-clause (1) of Clause 5 of the Fifth Schedule by the Hon’ble Governor declaring that any particular law will C be applicable to the Scheduled Area. He submitted that Article 244(1) provides that the provisions of the Fifth Schedule shall apply to the administration and control of the Scheduled Areas. Therefore, what is provided in Fifth Schedule shall be considered as a law made by the Constitution of India. His submission is that no law made by the Central D or the State Legislature can be applied to a Scheduled Area in the absence of a specific notification issued by the Hon’ble Governor, and therefore, such law shall be treated as null and void.