The two transfer certificates (Annexures L-2 and L-3 of the report) of Anada and Mukhram also carry the name of Chetanram as their father. Again, so far as the transfer certificate of Mukhram is concerned, there is doubt about its originality. But we find that there is constant and consistent reference to Chetanram as father of Andaram, G Mukhram and Niranaram appearing in all these documents. 19.The State has taken a plea that at the time of inquiry, sufficient time was not available to them to verify this fact. There are several documents where Niranaram has been shown to be the son of Chetanram. After the Inquiry Report was made in 2019, substantial time has lapsed H since we heard the matter. No material was produced by the State to NARAYAN CHETANRAM CHAUDHARY v. THE STATE OF 1089 MAHARASHTRA [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] demonstrate that there was any other Niranaram in Jalabsar or another A Chetanram. It is a fact that the claimant for juvenility has to establish his case. But it has also to be appreciated that a death row convict in prison for over 28 years would be under severe limitations in retracing his school records and other forms of age-proof. In such circumstances, in absence of any contrary evidence we accept the finding in the Inquiry Report B given by the Principal District and Sessions Judge, Pune that Niranaram has to be said to be another name of “Narayan”. Our opinion on this point would not vary even if we reject the certificate of the Sarpanch. That certificate plays a supportive role in determination of the name of the applicant. Moreover, in all these documents, Jalabsar has been shown as the village of which Chetanram and his family were residents, and C this was the place from where he was arrested. In our opinion, the applicant’s original name was Niranaram and the applicant has discharged his part of onus to establish that it is he who has been tried and convicted as Narayan. We accept the finding of the Inquiring Judge on this point. 20. As regards maintainability of the present application under D Section 9(2) of the 2015 Act, in the case of Hari Ram -vs- State of Rajasthan and Another [(2009) 13 SCC 211], which authority was quoted with approval in Abdul Razzaq -vs- State of Uttar Pradesh [(2015) 15 SCC 637], it has been held that claim of juvenility may be raised before any Court which shall be recognised at any stage even E after final disposal of the case. In Vinod Katara -vs- State of Uttar Pradesh [2022 SCC OnLine SC 1204] the rationale for raising belated claim of juvenility has been explained by a two-Judge Bench of this Court. Hari Ram (supra) and Abdul Razzaq (supra) were decisions rendered under the 2000 Act, but so far as 2015 Act is concerned, the same principle ought to apply. Moreover, in proviso to sub-section (2) of F Section 9 of the 2015 Act, it has been specifically stipulated that the juvenility claim may be raised before any Court and shall be recognised at any stage even after final disposal of the case.