iv. The observations in Puranlal Lakhanpal99 case were cited, where it held that the Presidential powers of creating exceptions and modifi cations in applying provisions of the Constitution under Article 370(1)(d) to be of the ‘widest possible amplitude’. These observations were reaffi rmed by the Constitution Bench of this Court in the Sampat Prakash100 case and, thus, could never be considered as mere obiter. v. The compliance of an impossible condition need not be explicitly excused by the provision as per the maxim lex non cogit ad impossibilia. vi. Reading the proviso as a mandatory condition would be impermissible as it would make the exercise of the President’s powers conditional to the approval of an independent, non-constitutional body. The Constitution of India envisaged the President as a continuing institution and the Constituent Assembly of Jammu & Kashmir as an ephemeral one. Thus, the latter’s obsolescence cannot aff ect the powers of the former. The work of the Constituent Assembly had been completed and with that Article 370(3) had worked itself out. vii. There were only two Constitutionally compliant methods of reading Article 370 – a) Reading in an unfettered plenary power of the President 99 (supra) 100 (supra) IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 341 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] under Article 370(3) once the State Constituent Assembly dissolved itself; or b) replacing the Constituent Assembly in Article 370(3) with its successor body. It is the latter one, which has been adopted in the present case, it was urged by the Solicitor General that though this option had been exercised, both options were equally permissible. viii. Article 370(3) of the Constitution consciously used the word ‘recommendation’ by the Constituent Assembly, which is an inferior body to the President of India. Thus, a recommendation of an inferior authority could never be binding on the superior authority, as per Mr. Rakesh Dwivedi. ix. Where the Constitution of India envisaged that the President has to act only on directions of another authority, such contingency has been explicitly expressed. Illustratively, Article 103(1) makes the decision of the President fi nal, but Article 103(2) requires the President to obtain the opinion of the Election Commission and act according to such opinion. In such a scenario, the President has no other discretion and acts on the opinion of the Election Commission. There is no deployment of the language corresponding to the same in Article 370(3) and the term ‘recommendation’ implies that the President is not bound to act on that recommendation. 2. Whether the relationship could be altered by the impugned Executive s. A. C.O. 272 is intra vires. i. When an institution or clause contemplated in Article 370 became otiose, it can be replaced by its successor or next functional equivalent. This alteration can be made through an amendment to Article 367 which was permissible through the exercise of powers under Article 370(1)(d). Such a practice had the legal imprimatur in Mohd. Maqbool Damnoo v. State of Jammu & Kashmir101, where the Constitution Bench of this Court upheld the substitution of Sadar-i-Riyasat for Governor in C.O.