11.7. Further, it has been submitted on behalf of respondent No. 1 that in very many cases, the employees who were drawing or contributing, or had withdrawn the CPF after retirement, were given the liberty of G refunding such amount with interest as was determined in this Court for grant of pension; and with reference to the decision in the case of University of Delhi v. Shashi Kiran and Ors. : 2022 SCC OnLine SC 594, it has been contended that similar treatment may be provided in relation to the employees of the Board for grant of pensionary benefits. H STATE OF ORISSA v. ORISSA KHADI AND VILLAGE INDUSTRIES 1069 BOARD KARAMCHARI SANGH [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 11.8. In the last, learned senior counsel has made a fervent plea A that the case of the employees concerned may be sympathetically considered by this Court and for that matter, by using extraordinary powers under Article 142 of the Constitution, to render complete justice, this Court may call upon the State Government to facilitate grant of pension by recommending the amendment of Regulation 52 so that the employees, B who have toiled on behalf of the Board representing the State Government, would have a secured retired life. 12. Learned counsel appearing for respondent No. 2, the Board, has duly supported the claim made by the employees for pensionary benefits and has opposed this appeal with a few additional submissions. C 12.1. Learned counsel for the Board would submit that promotion of khadi and cottage industries being the constitutional obligation of the State in terms of Article 43 of the Constitution of India, the appellant State has enacted the Act of 1955 and has established the Board. This being essentially State endeavour, the parity claimed by the employees D of the Board with their counterparts in State services could not have been denied. 12.2. It has also been submitted that there are two type of employees in the Board, one being those who have been recruited by the Board and the others being those who come on deputation to the E Board for a particular period of time. While the deputationists who come from State Government are entitled to pension and pension related benefits, the employees who are recruited by the Board have been deprived of the same even though essentially, they are discharging the State functions, as enshrined in Article 43 of the Constitution of India. 12.3. It has further been submitted that not only the deputationists F but even the employees of the Board are governed by the rules applicable to the State Government employees like Service Code, Financial Rules, Record Manual, Pay Scale Rules, Leave Rules, Reservation Rules, Conduct and Discipline Rules etc. Thus, when all other rules applicable to the State Government employees are applicable to the employees of G the Board, it is rather unjust and violative of the principles of fairness envisaged by Article 14 to deny pension to such employees in terms of the Orissa Government Pension Rules.