This cannot be taken as a mere omission as it militates against the core of the prosecution case that deceased Devinder told PW-10 that he was in love with Poonam and that she had promised to meet him in the evening of 25.06.1999 at a fodder room near Katvawala passage and later, upon such eventuality the appellants caused the murder of Devinder by strangulation at the fodder room near Katvawala passage. 23. Bearing in mind the afore-mentioned crucial aspects, now, the evidence of PW-10 has to be analysed so as to consider whether it constitutes positive evidence for applying ‘last seen’ theory and if not, what is the other positive evidence to justify taking of ‘last seen evidence’ as a link in the chain of circumstances in this case. This question has to be addressed in the light of Section 60 of the Evidence Act, 1872 which postulates that oral evidence must be direct in all cases. However, it is inadmissible only KRISHAN KUMAR AND ANR. v. THE STATE OF 875 HARYANA [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] when it proposes to establish the truth of the statement but not the factum of the statement by other persons. There is a fi ne distinction between proving the factum of a statement by other persons and proving the truth of such statement. This position was explained by this Court in the decision in J.D. Jain v. The Manager of SBI7. In para 10 of the , it was held thus: - “The Privy Council in the case of Subramaniam v. Public Prosecutor, (1956) 1 WLR 965 observed, “Evidence of a statement made to a witness who is not himself called as a witness may or may not be hearsay. It is hearsay and inadmissible when the object of the evidence is to establish the truth of what is contained in the statement. It is not hearsay and is admissible when it is proposed to establish by the evidence, not the truth of the statement but the fact that it was made. The fact that it was made quite apart from its truth, is frequently relevant in considering the mental state and conduct thereafter of the witness or some other persons in whose presence these statements are made.” 24. It can be seen that PW-10 had only spoken about the factum of deceased Devinder’s divulgation that he is in love with Poonam and also about her promise to meet him in the evening of 25.06.1999 at the fodder room near Katvawala passage. That apart, the fact is that though he had deposed that he had seen the appellants herein at about 08.30 pm he did not depose, even vaguely, that he had seen either deceased Devinder and Poonam together at any time proximate to the occurrence. We have already taken note of his material omission. Thus, in the light of the aforesaid position, applying Section 60 of the Evidence Act, even if it is taken that evidence of PW 10 is admissible to the extent that deceased Devinder revealed about his love with Poonam and her promise to meet Devinder in the evening of 25.06.1999 to PW-10 the evidence of PW-10 could not be taken as admissible as relates the truth of the said statement.