The State monopoly could not be allowed to operate in a state of inefficiency. It had to set its house in and pull up its socks. It was E specifically contemplated that such State monopolies must fall in line and operate in the midst of forces of competition. He would point out that the Court should keep in mind that an examination of the merits of the case would clearly indicate that the attempt of the appellants is to wriggle out of the situation when its actions have been found to be violative of the Act and the fine questions which have been raised do not actually F even arise on the defense actually set up before the CCI. He poses the question as to whether the appellants could justify the supply of substandard goods and justify it on the high pedestal of a Constitutional goal being imperiled if the same is questioned under the Act. 16. He would point out that there is no challenge mounted to the G vires of the Act. There is no scope for reading down the law in the absence of the challenge. He also relied upon the of this Court in the New Delhi Municipal Council v. State of Punjab &others8 to contend that when the instrumentality of the State proceeds to enter the 8 (1997) 7 SCC 339 H COAL INDIA LIMITED v. COMPETITION COMMISSION 841 OF INDIA [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] commercial field and is carrying on a business activity, it cannot claim A immunity from the laws of the land. Though the said case was delivered in the context of Article 286, he would submit that the principle is apposite. 17. It is submitted that the Act provides for a detailed procedure where information is received or it acts suo motu.Invariably,it calls for a report by the investigation wing. The Constitution of the CCI is sufficient B safeguard as it is composed of people who are experts in various branches of knowledge. Complaints such as abuse of dominant position are gone into at great length, full opportunity is given to the persons concerned to place their objections. It is only when a clear case of abuse of dominant position, inter alia, is found established, that the CCI acts. He would C contend that the appellant is a government company within the meaning of Section 617 of the erstwhile Companies Act. He would point out that it is not the law that such an entity can claim that its acts are placed beyond the pale of scrutiny by reason of the fact that the law under which they operate has been placed in the Ninth Schedule. He would point out that there are three filters provided in the Act insofar as D information relating to abuse of dominant position is concerned. In the first place, an entity must answer the description of an enterprise as contained in Section 2(h) of the Act. Once the said hurdle is crossed, the CCI must ascertain whether the enterprise occupies a dominant position.