While the freedom of conscience subsumes within its fold the right to profess, practice and propagate religion, it is not restricted to this right alone. The rights with respect to religion are one aspect of the freedom of conscience. The fourth component makes the rights codifi ed in Article 25 subject to public , morality, health, and the other provisions of Part III. The right under Article 25 is an individual right because conscience inheres in an individual.210 238. The right under Article 25 is also available to members of the LGBTQ community since it is available to all persons. But what does this freedom entail, beyond religious rights? Black’s Law Dictionary defi nes conscience in the following terms: 210 Indian Young Lawyers Assn. v. State of Kerala & Ors. (2019) 11 SCC 1 136 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. “Conscience. The moral sense; the faculty of judging the moral qualities of actions, or of discriminating between right and wrong; particularly applied to one’s perception and of the moral qualities of his own conduct, but in a wider sense, denoting similar application of the standards of morality to the acts of others. The sense of right and wrong inherent in every person by virtue of his existence as a social entity. …”211 (emphasis supplied) 239. All persons, including members of the queer community, have the right to judge the moral quality of the actions in their own lives, and having judged their moral quality, have the right to act on their in a manner they see fi t. This attribute is of course not absolute and is capable of being regulated by law. In the segment of this on the right to life and liberty, this Court noticed that the meaning of liberty is – at its core – the ability to do what one wishes to do and be who one wishes to be, in accordance with law. All persons may arrive at a decision regarding what they want to do and who they want to be by exercising their freedom of conscience. They may apply their sense of right and wrong to their lives and live as they desire, in accordance with law. Some of the decisions the moral quality of which they will judge include the decision on who their life partner will be and the manner in which they will build their life together. Each individual is entitled to decide this for themselves, in accordance with their conscience. 240. The right under Article 25 is subject to four exceptions – public , morality, health, and the other provisions of Part III. The respondents have not demonstrated that public will be in peril or that the health of the public at large or of individuals will be adversely impacted, if queer persons enter into a union with their partners. As for morality, it is settled law that Article 25 speaks of constitutional morality and not societal morality. In Indian Young Lawyers Assn. v. State of Kerala,212 a fi ve-Judge Bench of this Court (of which one of us, DY Chandrachud, J. was a part) held: 211 Black’s Law Dictionary (5th edn.