This was explicitly clarified in the meeting dated 21.01.2016 of the then Home Secretary and Secretary of Information & Broadcasting in B response to MIB query on whether withdrawal of security clearance to company/individual entities in one sector would tantamount to withdrawal in other sectors also Since MIB has already been communicated denial of security clearance to the above mentioned companies, there is no need of C fresh consideration for the cases as per security clearance guidelines. In view of the above, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting may be requested that the proposals for renewal of security clearance in the cases where security clearance has already been D denied to the company, should not have forwarded to MHA, in a routine manner unless and until there is sufficient and proper reasons for the same.” 97. Before addressing whether the non-disclosure of the relevant material would be in the interest of national security, it is our constitutional E duty to mention the cavalier manner in which Union of India has raised the claim of national security. Other than merely claiming that national security is involved, both in the affidavit that was filed before the High Court and in the submissions before us, the Union of India made no attempt to explain how non-disclosure would be in the interest of national security. The Union of India has adopted this approach inspite of F reiterations by this Court that judicial review would not be excluded on a mere mention of the phrase ‘national security’. The State is using national security as a tool to deny citizens remedies that are provided under the law. This is not compatible with the rule of law. 98. Security clearance was denied to MBL because of its alleged G link with JEI-H, and its alleged anti-establishment stance. To conclude that MBL is linked to JEI-H, IB has relied on the ‘tenor’ of the articles published by dailies of MBL, and the shareholding pattern of MBL. To conclude that JEI-H has an anti-establishment stance, IB has solely relied upon the programmes that were broadcast by Media-One. Some of the H MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 669 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] views that were highlighted in the IB report to conclude that MBL has A an anti-establishment stand are that (i) it portrays security forces and the judiciary in a bad light; (ii) it highlighted the discrimination faced by minorities in the country and contrasted it with the State’s alleged soft attitude towards the Hindus who were involved in the destruction of Babri Masjid; and (iii) its comments on UAPA, Armed Forces (Special B Power) Act, developmental projects of the Government, encounter killings, Citizenship (Amendment) Act, and CAA/NPR/NRC. 99. Significantly, with respect to the list of shareholders who are alleged sympathizers of JEI-H, the file does not contain any evidence on the alleged link between the shareholders and JEI-H. The report of IB is C purely an inference drawn from information that is already in the public domain.