The doctrine of functus officio cannot ordinarily be applied in cases where the government is formulating and implementing a policy. D 97. In the present case, the State and Union Governments’ authority has not been exhausted after the establishment of an SAT. Similarly, the State and Union Governments cannot be said to have fulfilled the purpose of their creation and to be of no further virtue or effect once they have established an SAT. The state may revisit its policy decisions in accordance with law. For these reasons, the Union Government was E not rendered functus officio after establishing the OAT. vii. The notification dated 2 August 2019 is valid despite not being expressed in the name of the President of India 98. The appellants challenge the notification dated 2 August 2019 on the ground that it does not comply with the requirements of clause (1) F of Article 77 because it was not issued in the name of the President of India. 99. Article 77 of the Constitution of India indicates: “Conduct of business of the Government of India.— G (1) All executive action of the Government of India shall be expressed to be taken in the name of the President. (2) s and other instruments made and executed in the name of the President shall be authenticated in such manner as may be specified in rules to be made by the President, and the validity of H 794 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A an or instrument which is so authenticated shall not be called in question on the ground that it is not an or instrument made or executed by the President. (3) The President shall make rules for the more convenient transaction of the business of the Government of India, and for B the allocation among Ministers of the said business” Article 166 corresponds to Article 77. It states: “Conduct of Business of the Government of a State.— (1) All executive action of the Government of a State shall be expressed to be taken in the name of the Governor. C (2) s and other instruments made and executed in the name of the Governor shall be authenticated in such manner as may be specified in rules to be made by the Governor, and the validity of an or instrument which is so authenticated shall not be called in question on the ground that it is not an or instrument D made or executed by the Governor. (3) The Governor shall make rules for the more convenient transaction of the business of the Government of the State, and for the allocation among Ministers of the said business in so far as it is not business with respect to which the Governor is by or E under this Constitution required to act in his discretion” Clause (1) of Article 166 corresponds to clause (1) of Article 77. As a consequence, decisions of this Court with respect to clause (1) of Article 166 will be of persuasive value while interpreting clause (1) of Article 77.