It was argued that the procedure to repeal the provision cannot be traced to Article 370 after the Constituent Assembly ceased to exist but can only be traced to Article 368 of the Constitution. 346. We do not agree with the submission for the following reasons: a. The historical context in which Article 370 was included must be recalled. The Constitution of India did not provide for the ratifi cation of the Constitution by the Indian States. It was decided by the Ministry of States that the Ruler of each Indian State must issue a Proclamation ratifying the Constitution on the recommendation of the Constituent 210 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Assembly, where such body existed. In States where the Constituent Assembly was not convened by then, the Ruler of the State was to issue a Proclamation accepting the Constitution. However, when a Constituent Assembly was convened in those States, the Constituent Assembly could make a recommendation for the modifi cation of the Constitution as it applied to the State and such a recommendation would be “earnestly considered” by the Union. Since the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir had not yet been constituted when the Constitution of India was adopted, the proviso to Article 370(3) merely encapsulated the ratifi cation process as decided by the Ministry of States. The words “recommendation of the Constituent Assembly referred to in Clause (2) shall be necessary before the President issues such a notifi cation” as it appears in the proviso to Article 370(3) must be read in this context. Thus, the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly was not binding on the President to begin with; b. Article 370 was introduced to serve two purposes: the special circumstances in the State in view of the impending war and the absence of a Constituent Assembly in the State when the Constitution of India was adopted. This purpose is discernible not just from the historical context but also from the provisions of Article 370. If Article 370 was introduced only for the purpose of ratifi cation of the Constitution of India and expanding the scope of legislative competence, the provision would have clearly and unequivocally granted such a power to the Constituent Assembly alone. Rather, the provision grants the power to the Government of the State in terms of Article 370(1). Similarly, Article 370 also restricts the application of the Constitution to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. This was evidently included to deal with the special circumstances in the State; c. The Constituent Assembly, upon being convened, exercised power under Article 370. Though the body ceased to exist, only one of the special circumstances for which the provision was introduced ceased. However, the other circumstance (that is, special circumstances because of the climate in the State) for which Article 370 was introduced subsisted even after the Constituent IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 211 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Assembly ceased to exist. This is recognised by the of the Constitution Bench in Sampath Prakash (supra); d. The dissolution of the Constituent Assembly of the State would not impact the substantive power vesting in the President under Clause 3.