OF NCT OF DELHI) 895 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] 5. PW10- HC Pramod PW5- Smt. Jasmer PW19- Dr. Sanjay S.R. Kumar Kaur Surgery posted at MHC(M) mother of the deceased examined the accused, Abhishek Sharma 6. PW11- HC Naresh PW6- Sh. Yashin PW20- Dr. Geeta Kumar Nagpal Ramakrisan accompanied SI partner of M/S Sai Micro Biologist who Balwant Singh to Telecom, where the examined the blood Maharaja Agarsen deceased and accused sample of the deceased Hospital were working 7. PW14- ASI Suresh PW3- Hemant Aneja PW22- Dr. Ashish Chand Sharma brother-in-law of the he went to the spot deceased proved the MLC for an inspection 8. PW21- Sh. K.K. PW24- Shri Pradeep Sharma Kumar Misra record clerk from Junior Scientifi c Maharaja Agarsen Offi cer, CFSL, Hospital Calcutta, examined the blood and hair samples. 9. PW23- Inspector PW25- Shri Bijayantra Harish Chander Mukhopadhyay got the site plan Junior Scientifi c prepared by SI; Offi cer, CFSL, recorded the Calcutta, examined statement of the plastic bottle with MHC(M); burnt material. 4. Testimonies of PW18, PW8, and PW12 (Doctors) have established that the deceased died due to burn injuries, ante mortem in nature which facts further stand corroborated by PW16, PW17, PW5, and PW6. 4.1 The deceased gave four dying declarations. The First4 was given to a police offi cer PW16 i.e., the person who, in the 4 For ease, DD-I 896 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. PCR van, reached the spot of the crime and took the deceased to the LNJP Hospital. Even though the defense on the ground questioned the veracity of this declaration that PW15, who was with PW16 while the deceased was taken to the hospital, had not heard the statement being made, the Trial Court found the same to have been established since there was nothing to show that she had been tutored to state thus or that there was no possibility of her having made such a statement. 4.2 The second5 was given to Dr. Raj (PW-18), who had examined the deceased and prepared the MLC. She deposed that the deceased was fi t to give a statement and that “by Abhishek” was not written subsequently. PW8 corroborated her statement. The doctors’ testimonies remained unchallenged, and therefore, the defense’s attempts to term the testimonies as unreliable were not found to be correct by the Trial Court. 4.3 The third6 dying declaration was given to PW17, based on which the FIR was registered. The defense questioned this declaration on the ground that the police had obtained the signatures of the deceased on a blank paper, and the same was manipulated into an FIR. The argument of the defense that a doctor did not attest the same did not fi nd favor with the court, which stated that as per “Sher Singh Vs State of Punjab”7, the endorsement of the doctor is only a matter of prudence. The court held that the deceased had clearly shown the motive and intention of the convict-appellant to kill her. 4.4 The fourth8 dying declaration was given to PW 5 (mother of the deceased).