Section 3 speaks of H establishment and incorporation of the Reserve Bank while VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 155 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Section 7 deals with Management of the Bank.Section 8 A prescribes the composition of the Central Board, and term of office of Directors of the Bank. Section 30 pertains to the powers of the Central Government to supersede the Central Board of the Bank. 7.5 Chapter III of the Act which is relevant for the purpose of B these cases deals with Central Banking Function. For the purposes of these cases, Sections 22,23,24,25,26,26A, 27,28 and 34 are relevant and the same read as under: “22. Right to issue Bank notes. -(1) The Bank shall have the sole right to issue Bank notes in 1[India], and C may, for a period which shall be fixed by the [Central Government] on the recommendation of the Central Board, issue currency notes of the Government of India supplied to it by the [Central Government], and the provisions of this Act applicable to Bank notes shall, D unless a contrary intention appears, apply to all currency notes of the Government of India issued either by the [Central Government] or by the Bank in like manner as if such currency notes were Bank notes, and references in this Act to Bank notes shall be construed accordingly. E (2) On and from the date on which this Chapter comes into force the 5[Central Government] shall not issue any currency notes.” “23. Issue Department - (1) The issue of Bank notes shall be conducted by the Bank in an Issue Department which shall be separated and kept wholly distinct from F the Banking Department, and the assets of the Issue Department shall not be subject to any liability other than the liabilities of the Issue Department as hereinafter defined in Section 34. (2) The Issue Department shall not issue Bank notes to G the Banking Department or to any other person except in exchange for other Bank notes or for such coin, bullion or securities as are permitted by this Act to form part of the Reserve.” H 156 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A “[24. Denominations of notes - (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), Bank notes shall be of the denominational values of two rupees, five rupees, ten rupees, twenty rupees, fifty rupees, one hundred rupees, five hundred rupees, one thousand rupees, five thousand rupees and ten thousand rupees or of such other B denominational values, not exceeding ten thousand rupees, as the Central Government may, on the recommendation of the Central Board, specify in this behalf. (2) The Central Government may, on the C recommendation of the Central Board, direct the non- issue or the discontinuance of issue of Bank notes of such denominational values as it may specify in this behalf. ]” “25. Form of Bank notes - The design, form and D material of Bank notes shall be such as may be approved by the [Central Government] after consideration of the recommendations made by Central Board.” “26.