The details of inside Kutiya which has been told by the victim without going inside, the same D circumstances appear from the site map and circumstances of the site and photographs and matches with it. In my humble opinion it is proved from this evidence that the victim had gone inside the room and had gone in the bathroom too. In such a situation this statement of the defence is not believable that the victim would E have not even entered in Kutiya. 301. The defence has said that photo of room is published in Dainik Bhaskar on 22.8.2013 and has asked from the Victim in cross-examination that due to this she knew about inside the room. This is the clear statement of the victim that this is wrong to say F that because of publishing photo in newspaper she came to know about that room. She has been suggested that what were the things in the room and where it were situated, details of which have not been mentioned in the FIR, NGO’s report and statements of Section 164 CrPC. The statement of the witness is this that regarding bed and light is written in NGO report and she has also G told about Room’s light and bed in Section 164 of Criminal Procedure Code and also there is details of locking the room. Thus the witness has clearly denied that she would have come to know about the inside things of the rooms after publishing photo in newspaper. H 12 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 302- The statement of the Defence is this that no one was allowed to go inside the Kutiya whereas it has become clear from the above deliberation that the Victim without going inside Kutiya, has told that whole inside details of Kutiya, which has been found absolutely correct. This has been suggested to the Victim in the cross-examination that she would have seen Kutiya of accused B Asaram situated Haridwara, Shahjahanpur, from which she has denied. In this situation now the Onus to give this clarification goes on to the Defence to tell that how the Victim came to know about the real and actual inside situation of Kutiya without going inside? This is the clear principle of law that a person can speak C lie but circumstances never speak lie. Above mentioned circumstances are expressing this truth before the Court that the Victim had sent inside the above Kutiya wherein as per the Defence no one was allowed to go. 303- Therefore, the prosecution has been successful to prove D this that the Victim had gone in the above mentioned Kutiya situated at the place of incident means the victim’s visit to the above room is proved by evidence.” 11. To elucidate the specific findings as recorded above, and reject the arguments raised by the respondent – Asharam @ Ashumal and the E grounds/reasoning given by the High Court, we would advert to paragraph 62 of the of the trial court, which refers to the testimony of the Investigating Officer – Chanchal Mishra (PW-43) to the effect that she was posted as the ACP at Jodhpur Commissionerate on 21.08.2013.