5.6 Shri K.M. Nataraj, learned ASG has further submitted that in the present case, even the case is made out under Section 439(2) Cr.P.C. to cancel the bail in view of the changed circumstances and the observations made by this Court in the subsequent passed in the F Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 169 of 2022) by which this Court transferred the trial from the C.B.I. Special Court, Kadapa, Andhra Pradesh to the C.B.I. Special Court, Hyderabad. It is submitted that this Hon’ble Court has transferred the trial on the ground that the witnesses are being threatened and/or influenced and there is no possibility of having fair G trial if the same is conducted in the State of Andhra Pradesh. However, as the High Court has not at all considered anything on merits, we do not propose to go into the said aspect at this stage and opine anything on the aforesaid. 5.7 Shri Nataraj, learned ASG has also heavily relied upon the subsequent decision of this Court in the case of Abdul Basit Alias H THE STATE THROUGH CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION V. T. 749 GANGI REDDY @ YERRA GANGI REDDY [M. R. SHAH, J.] Raju and Ors. Vs. Mohd. Abdul Kadir Chaudhary and Anr., (2014) A 10 SCC 754 (paragraphs 13 and 14) in support of his submission that the bail granted under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. can be cancelled on an application by the prosecuting agency. 5.8 Making above submissions, it is prayed to allow the present appeal and cancel the bail granted in favour of the respondent herein – B original Accused No. 1 on merits considering the chargesheet and considering the seriousness of the offences alleged to have been committed by the accused and considering the gravity of the offences. 5.9 Learned ASG appearing on behalf of the C.B.I. has also tried to submit on merits as well as on the post-bail conduct of the respondent C herein – Accused No. 1. However, as the High Court has not at all considered the aforesaid aspects, we do not propose to enter into the merits and/or post-bail conduct of the respondent /accused at this stage. 6. Present appeal is vehemently opposed by Shri B. Adinarayana Rao, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the respondent. D 6.1 It is vehemently submitted by the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent – original Accused No. 1 that as per the settled position of law, mere subsequent filing of the chargesheet cannot be a ground to cancel the bail granted to the respondent under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. It is submitted that therefore in the present case, E the High Court has rightly refused to cancel the default bail/bail on subsequent filing of the chargesheet by the C.B.I. It is further submitted that as such in the present case the respondent – original Accused No. 1 was chargesheeted by the State Police Agency / S.I.T. much prior to the C.B.I. was entrusted with the investigation. F 6.2 It is submitted that even thereafter and after the C.B.I.