The first appellant was positioned at serial number 52 whereas second appellant was positioned at serial number 48 and they were shown to be in respect of the vacancies for the year 1993-1994. So, essentially the appellants are aggrieved on two counts. The first is that the direct recruits have been placed in the seniority list ignoring the year of vacancy. Secondly, they contend that as their D appointment and confirmation was prior to those from the stream of direct recruits, the appellants were born into the cadre earlier than the direct recruits. According to the appellants, on this reasoning they should have been placed above the direct recruits in the seniority list. What has been argued on this point is that the selection list prepared under Rule 17 E of the 1979 Rules deal with apportionment of the vacant positions between promotee officers and direct recruits but this list does not deal with the question of seniority. In this regard, Rule 8 (3) (ii) of the U.P Government Servant Seniority Rules, 1991 has been referred to. This rule stipulates:- “8. Seniority where appointments by promotion and F direction recruitment.- (1) Where according to the service rules appointments are made both by promotion and by direct recruitment, the seniority of persons appointed shall, subject to the provisions of the following sub-rules, be determined from the date of the G of their substantive appointments, and if two or more persons are appointed together, in the in which their names are arranged in the appointment : Provided that if the appointment specifies a particular back date, with effect from which a person is substantively H 218 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A appointed, that date will be deemed to be the date of of substantive appointment and, in other cases, it will mean of issuance of the : Provided further that a candidate recruited directly may lose his seniority, if he fails to join without valid reasons, when vacancy is offered to him the decision of the appointing authority as to the validity of B reasons, shall be final. (2) The seniority inter se of persons appointed on the result of any one selection,- (a) Through direct recruitment, shall be the same as it is shown C in the merit list prepared by the Commission or by the Committee, as the case may be; (b) by promotion, shall be as determined in accordance with the principles laid down in Rule 6 or Rule 7, as the case may be, according as the promotion are to be made from a single feeding cadre or several feeding cadres. D (3) Where appointments are made both by promotion and direct recruitment on the result of any one selection the seniority of promotes vis-à-vis direct recruits shall be determined in a cyclic (the first being a promotee) so far as may be, in accordance with the quota prescribed for the two sources. E Illustrations (1) Where the quota of promotes and direct recruits is in the proportion of 1:1 the seniority shall be in the following - First … Promotee F Second … Direct Recruits and so on.