This essentially would be the defence in the criminal trial. The charges have been framed and the evidence is being tendered. Insofar as the allegation that the said persons namely ‘PB’, ‘S’, ‘S’ and ‘A’ had gone to Odisha and had illegally abducted him, from the very details furnished by E the appellants themselves, it is noted that the High Court had through the dated 17.03.2022 in a collateral proceeding directed that the five officers stated in the said be called as witnesses for examination and cross-examination. [Paras 19, 20][162-F-H; 163-A-B] F 1.2 In that view, even though it is contended that the CCTV footage would be relevant to establish the presence of the said four persons in the hotel at Odisha and the same has not been seized by the police, the fact remains that even from the same what is sought to be established is that the said four persons had abducted the appellant No.1. In the course of trial the five persons G specified by the appellants would now be available to be cross- examined and any other s in that regard can be sought in the pending proceedings. That apart, on the other aspects also since the trial is under progress, the appellant No.1 would be entitled to put forth his case when the statement under Section H 152 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 313 of CrPC is recorded and also he would be entitled to tender evidence if necessary. The case of the appellant is clear as to the reason why he contends that the appellant No.1 cannot be held to have committed the offence as registered in FIR No.232/2020 based on which his name has also been included in an earlier FIR No.255/2020. These are matters which could be established B through evidence in the trial before the Competent Court in the judicial proceedings wherein all these matters would be appreciated and a conclusion would be reached. In that regard, the appellants in any event would have the further remedy of the legal course which is available to them if they are dissatisfied. C Further, insofar as the complaint said to have been lodged by the appellant No.2, from the affidavit as filed by the respondent No.6, the nature of investigation carried out by them has been stated. In that regard also the appellant No.2 would have the legal remedy in accordance with law. In addition, in the said process of the judicial proceedings if the appellants bring out the fact that the D appellant No.1 who was not involved, had been framed up and a case was foisted, the appellants would still have the legal remedy to take action for malicious prosecution, loss of reputation, action against involved persons, compensation and for such other relief in that regard. Therefore, when the issue raised is only a matter E of evidence to be considered in the judicial proceedings to arrive at a conclusion, this Court is not convinced that in a case of the present nature, a direction to the CBI to hold an investigation would be justified nor is it required at this juncture when the trial in the judicial proceedings has progressed unhindered.