must record reasons and a search memo should be issued. 20 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. It was held that a panchnama would be inadmissible in a Court of law if it is recorded by the Investigating Offi cer in a manner violative of Section 162 Cr.P.C. as the procedure requires the Investigating Offi cer to record the search proceedings as if they were written by the panch witnesses themselves and it should not be recorded in the form of examining witnesses, as laid down in Section 161 Cr.P.C. This Court concluded, by stating that the entire panchnama would not be liable to be discarded in the event of deviation from the procedure and if the deviation occurred due to a practical impossibility, then the same should be recorded by the Investigating Offi cer so as to enable him to answer during the time of his examination as a witness in the Court of law. 29. Recently, in Ramanand @ Nandlal Bharti vs. State of Uttar Pradesh13, a 3-Judge Bench of this Court observed that the requirement of law that needs to be fulfi lled before accepting the evidence of discovery is by proving the contents of the panchnama and the Investigating Offi cer, in his deposition, is obliged in law to prove the contents of the panchnama. It was further observed that it is only if the Investigating Offi cer has successfully proved the contents of the discovery panchnama in accordance with law that the prosecution would be justifi ed in relying upon such evidence and the Trial Court may also accept the same. It was held that, in to enable the Court to safely rely upon the evidence of the Investigating Offi cer, it is necessary that the exact words attributed to the accused, as the statement made by him, be brought on record and, for this purpose, the Investigating Offi cer is obliged to depose in his evidence the exact statement and not merely say that the discovery panchnama of the weapon of the off ence was drawn up as the accused was willing to take it out from a particular place. 30. In Khet Singh vs. Union of India14, this Court held that even if there is a procedural illegality in conducting the search and seizure, the evidence collected thereby would not become inadmissible and the Court would consider all the circumstances to fi nd out whether any serious prejudice 13 Criminal Appeal Nos. 64-65 of 2022, decided on 13.10.2022 = 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1396 14 (2002) 4 SCC 380 RAJESH & ANR. v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 21 [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] has been caused to the accused. However, this Court pointed out that if the search and seizure were in complete defi ance of the law and procedure and there was any possibility of the evidence collected having been tampered with or interpolated during the course of such search and seizure, then that evidence could not be admitted. Though these observations were made in the context of a search and seizure under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, they would have relevance generally.