the disclosures made by the applicant before the Commission as to income, and the source of such income; iii. any other relevant evidence let in by the assessee or the department. 22 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 7.4. We fi nd that in the present case, the Settlement Commission has rightly considered the relevant facts and material and, accordingly, decided to grant immunity to the appellant from prosecution and penalty. We arrive at this conclusion having regard to the following aspects of the matter, recorded by the Settlement Commission: i. The Commission in its dated 04.03.2008, noted that the appellant had realized while adhering to the RBI guidelines of accounting of lease income that there was an error in not disclosing the full lease rental receipts as per income tax law. Thus, the appellant off ered additional income under various heads, which were not considered by the Assessing Offi cer. Considering the nature and circumstances and the complexities of the investigation involved, the Commission was of the view that the application was to be proceeded with under Section 245D (1) of the Act and that prima-facie, a full and true disclosure of income not disclosed before the Assessing Offi cer had been made by the appellant. The fi ndings of the Commission to this eff ect are usefully extracted as under: “4.3 We have considered the rival submissions. We are of the opinion that there is no bar for banking companies to approach the Commission. The disclosure of the material facts in the return of income or the documents accompanying return of income is not a bar for the applicant to approach the Commission. In view of this, we hold that the applicant is eligible to approach the Commission. 5.1 Finally we have carefully gone through the settlement application and the confi dential annexures and are satisfi ed that the complexities of investigation as brought out in the application do exist. We have also considered the nature and circumstances of the case as explained by the applicant’s representative. The applicant is an established scheduled bank with several branches. The applicant has realized that when adhering to RBI guidelines of accounting of lease income there was an error in not disclosing the full KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. v. COMMISSIONER OF 23 INCOME TAX BANGALORE [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] lease rental receipts as per income tax law. In addition the applicant has off ered additional income under various heads not considered by the Assessing Offi cer. We are satisfi ed that the nature and circumstances and the complexities of investigation involved do warrant the application to be proceeded with u/s 245D(1) of the Act. We are also reasonably satisfied that, prima facie, a full and true disclosure of income not disclosed before the Assessing Offi cer has been made by the applicant. Additionally, taking a practical view of the case, we are also concerned by the time taken to dispose of this application, particularly in respect of a scheduled bank. We feel that the matters need to be given a quietus and brought to close as speedy collection of taxes is also an important function of the Settlement Commission.