83. The observations of this Court in para 236 of Vidya Drolia (supra) should clinch the issue. Para 236 reads thus: “236. Having established the threshold standard for the court to examine the extent of validity of the arbitration agreement, as a starting point, it is necessary to go back to Duro Felguera [Duro Felguera, S.A. v. Gangavaram Port Ltd., (2017) 9 SCC 729 : (2017) 4 SCC (Civ) 764], which laid down : (SCC p. 759, para 48) “48. … From a reading of Section 11(6-A), the intention of the legislature is crystal clear i.e. the court should and need only look into one aspect—the existence of an arbitration agreement. What are the factors for deciding as to whether there is an arbitration agreement is the next question. The resolution to that is simple—it needs to be seen if the agreement contains a clause which provides for arbitration pertaining to the disputes which have arisen between the parties to the agreement.” At fi rst blush, the Court seems to have read the existence of the arbitration agreement by limiting the examination to an examination of its factual existence. However, that is not so, as the existence of arbitration agreement does not mean anything unless such agreement LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 991 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] is contractually valid. This view is confi rmed by Duro Felguera case [Duro Felguera, S.A. v. Gangavaram Port Ltd., (2017) 9 SCC 729 : (2017) 4 SCC (Civ) 764], wherein the reference to the contractual aspect of arbitration agreement is ingrained under Section 7 analysis. A mere agreement is not legally binding, unless it satisfi es the core contractual requirements, concerning consent, consideration, legal relationship, etc.” (Emphasis supplied) 84. The concept of “party autonomy” as pressed into service by the respondent cannot be stretched to an extent where it violates the fundamental rights under the Constitution. For an arbitration clause to be legally binding it has to be in consonance with the “operation of law” which includes the Grundnorm i.e. the Constitution. It is the rule of law which is supreme and forms parts of the basic structure. The argument canvassed on behalf of the respondent that the petitioner having consented to the pre-deposit clause at the time of execution of the agreement, cannot turn around and tell the court in a Section 11(6) petition that the same is arbitrary and falling foul of Article 14 of the Constitution is without any merit. 85. It is a settled position of law that there can be no consent against the law and there can be no waiver of fundamental rights. The Constitution Bench of this Court speaking through Chief Justice Y.V. Chandrachud (as His Lordship then was) in Olga Tellis and Others v. Bombay Municipal Corporation and Others reported in (1985) 3 SCC 545 observed something very illuminating on the said aspect: “28. It is not possible to accept the contention that the petitioners are estopped from setting up their fundamental rights as a defence to the demolition of the huts put up by them on pavements or parts of public roads.