The relevant extract from the aforesaid is reproduced hereunder: “16. We may in this connection refer to Rao Shiv Bahadur Singh v. State of Vindhya Pradesh where Article 20(1) came to be considered. In that case it was held that “the prohibition contained in Article 20(1) of the Constitution against conviction and subjections to penalty under ex post facto laws is not confi ned in its operation to post-Constitution laws but applied also to ex post facto laws passed before the Constitution in their application to pending proceedings”. This Court further held that Article 20 prohibits only conviction or sentence under an ex post facto law, and not the trial thereof. Such trial under a procedure diff erent from what obtained at the time of the off ence or by a court diff erent from that which had competence at that time cannot ipso facto be held to be unconstitutional. Therefore, this case shows that it is only conviction and punishment as defi ned in Section 53 of the Indian Penal Code which are included within Article 20(1) and a conviction under an ex post facto law or a punishment under an ex post facto law would be hit by Article 20(1); but the provisions of Section 13(3) with which we are concerned in the present appeal have nothing to do with conviction or punishment and therefore Article 20(1) in our opinion can have no application to the s passed under Section 13(3). (emphasis supplied)” CBI v. R.R. KISHORE 37 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] (vii) In the case of Rattan Lal (supra), a three-Judge Bench of this Court by a majority of 2:1 was of the view that a law made post the off ence which neither creates an off ence nor enhances the sentence but was a benefi cial legislation for reformation of fi rst- time off enders, the benefi t could be extended to such an accused convicted for the fi rst time, i.e., under the Probation of Off enders Act 1958, and that Article 20(1) of the Constitution will have no application. (viii) The Constitution Bench in the case of Sukumar Pyne (supra), relying upon the earlier Constitution Bench in Rao Shiv Bahadur Singh (supra), further laid down that there is no principle underlying Article 20(1) of the Constitution which makes a right to any course of procedure a vested right. The relevant extract from the is reproduced hereunder: “20. …As observed by this Court in Rao Shiv Bahadur Singh v. State of Vindhya Pradesh a person accused of the commission of an off ence has no vested right to be tried by a particular court or a particular procedure except insofar as there is any constitutional objection by way of discrimination or the violation of any other fundamental right is involved. It is well recognized that “no person has a vested right in any course of procedure” (vide Maxwell 11th Edn., p.216), and we see no reason why this ordinary rule should not prevail in the present case.