The four-Judge Bench in Pratap Narain Singh Deo holds the field on the subject and E squarely applies to the present situation. Compensation as applicable on the date of the accident has to be given with reasonable interest and to give effect to the mandate of beneficial legislation, if compensation as provided on the date of award of the Tribunal is higher than unrevised amount with interest, the F higher of the two amounts has to be given.” 21.The said was further explained by this Court in the case of Radha Yadav (supra), relevant para 11 is reproduced as thus: “11. The issue raised in the matter does not really require any elaboration as in our view, the of this Court in Rina Devi G is very clear. What this Court has laid down is that the amount of compensation payable on the date of accident with reasonable rate of interest shall first be calculated. If the amount so calculated is less than the amount prescribed as on the date of the award, the claimant would be entitled to higher of these two amounts. Therefore, if the liability had arisen before the amendment was H KAMUKAYI & ORS. v. UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. 411 [J. K. MAHESHWARI, J.] brought in, the basic figure would be as per the Schedule as was A in existence before the amendment and on such basic figure reasonable rate of interest would be calculated. If there be any difference between the amount so calculated and the amount prescribed in the Schedule as on the date of the award, the higher of two figures would be the measure of compensation. For instance, B in case of a death in an accident which occurred before amendment, the basic figure would be Rs.4,00,000/-. If, after applying reasonable rate of interest, the final figure were to be less than Rs.8,00,000/-, which was brought in by way of amendment, the claimant would be entitled to Rs.8,00,000/-. If, however, the amount of original compensation with rate of interest C were to exceed the sum of Rs.8,00,000/- the compensation would be in terms of figure in excess of Rs.8,00,000/-. The idea is to afford the benefit of the amendment, to the extent possible. Thus, according to us, the matter is crystal clear. The issue does not need any further clarification or elaboration.” D 22.The said view has been reaffirmed by this Court in the case of Union of India vs. Dilip and others7. 23.Accordingly and as per above discussion we allow this appeal and set aside the impugned dated 26.03.2021 passed by the High Court and also the Claims Tribunal dated 29.06.2017. Consequently, E claim application is allowed. The appellants are held entitled for compensation to the tune of Rs. 4,00,000/- along with interest @ 7% p.a. from the date of filing the claim application till its realisation. It is made clear that after applying the rate of interest, if the final figure is less than Rs. 8,00,000/-, then appellants shall be entitled to Rs.