If he not exceeding fi fteen days in the whole; has not jurisdiction to try the case or commit and if he has no jurisdiction to try the case it for trial, and considers further detention or commit it for trial, and considers further unnecessary, he may the accused to detention unnecessary, he may the be forwarded to a Magistrate having such accused to be forwarded to a Magistrate jurisdiction. having such jurisdiction: Provided that— (a) the Magistrate may authorise the detention of the accused person, otherwise than in the custody of the police, beyond the period of fi fteen days, if he is satisfi ed that adequate grounds exist for doing so, but no Magistrate shall authorise the detention of the accused person in custody under this paragraph for a total period exceeding,— (i) ninety days, where the investigation relates to an off ence punishable with death, imprisonment for life or imprisonment for a term of not less than ten years; (ii) sixty days, where the investigation relates to any other off ence, and, on the expiry of the said period of ninety days, or sixty days, as the case may be, the accused person shall be released on bail if he is prepared to and does furnish bail, and every 888 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. person released on bail under this sub- section shall be deemed to be so released under the provisions of Chapter XXXIII for the purposes of that Chapter; (b) no Magistrate shall authorise detention of the accused in custody of the police under this section unless the accused is produced before him in person for the first time and subsequently every time till the accused remains in the custody of the police, but the Magistrate may extend further detention in judicial custody on production of the accused either in person or through the medium of electronic video linkage;] (c) no Magistrate of the second class, not specially empowered in this behalf by the High Court, shall authorise detention in the custody of the police. Explanation I.—For the avoidance of doubts, it is hereby declared that, notwithstanding the expiry of the period specifi ed in paragraph (a), the accused shall be detained in custody so long as he does not furnish bail. Explanation II.—If any question arises whether an accused person was produced before the Magistrate as required under clause (b), the production of the accused person may be proved by his signature on the authorising detention or by the certifi ed by the Magistrate as to production of the accused person through the medium of electronic video linkage, as the case may be. Provided further that in case of a woman under eighteen years of age, the detention shall be authorised to be in the custody of a remand home or recognised social institution. V. SENTHIL BALAJI v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY 889 DEPUTY DIRECTOR AND ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] (3) A Magistrate authorising under this (3) A Magistrate authorising under this section detention in the custody of the police section detention in the custody of the shall record his reasons for so doing.