On such writ petition, the High Court held as follows: “Under these circumstances, the apprehension of the detaining authority that since the detenus were granted bail in all the crimes, there is imminent possibility of the detenus committing similar off ences which are detrimental to public unless they are prevented from doing so by an appropriate of detention, is highly misplaced. […] In the instant cases, since the detenus are released on bail, in the event if it is found that the detenus are involved in further crimes, the prosecution can apprise the same to the Court concerned and seek cancellation of bail. Moreover, the criminal law was already set into motion against the detenus. Since the detenus have allegedly committed off ences punishable under the Indian Penal Code, the said crimes can be eff ectively dealt with under the provisions of the Indian Penal Code. The detaining authority cannot be permitted to subvert, supplant or substitute the punitive law of land, by ready resort to preventive detention.” 19 (2002) 7 SCC 129 992 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 48. Since the aforesaid of the High Court went unchallenged and is, thus, binding upon the parties, it was not open to the Commissioner to refer to the very same antecedent off ences again in the Detention under challenge. There was no direct nexus or link with the immediate need to detention and we hold extraneous considerations having found their way into the Detention . 49. The other aspect requiring some guidance for detaining authorities and on which we wish to comment is that there is no requirement in law of s of detention being expressed in language that would normally be considered elegant or artistic. An of detention, whichis capable of comprehension, has to precisely set forth the grounds of detention without any vagueness. The substance of the and how it is understood by the detenu determines its nature. An in plain and simple language providing clarity of how the subjective satisfaction was formed is what a detenu would look for, since the detenu has a right to represent against the of detention and claim that such should not have been made at all. If the detenu fails to comprehend the grounds of detention, the very purpose of aff ording him the opportunity to make a representation could be defeated. At the same time, the detaining authority ought to ensure that the does not manifest consideration of extraneous factors. The detaining authority must be cautious and circumspect that no extra or additional word or sentence fi nds place in the of detention, which evinces the human factor - his mindset of either acting with personal predilection by invoking the stringent preventive detention laws to avoid or oust judicial scrutiny, given the restrictions of judicial review in such cases, or as an authority charged with the notion of overreaching the courts, chagrined and frustrated by s granting bail to the detenu despite stiff opposition raised by the State and thereby failing in the attempt to keep the detenu behind bars.