6. It was submitted before us that the Amended and Restated C Pledge Agreement dated 5.07.2016 between the corporate debtor – Amtek and the IL&FS Trust Company Limited, the predecessor-in-interest of the Appellant No. 1 - Vistra (Pledge Agreement) inter alia provides that the Corporate Debtor - Amtek is the guarantor of the entire loan amount, for which reliance was placed upon clause 2.1.2 of the Pledge Agreement. This contention is liable to be rejected, for the Pledge D Agreement specifically restricts and limits the liability of the Corporate Debtor to the extent of the pledged shares vide clause 2.1.1, which reads as under: “2.1.1.- Pursuant to the Financing Documents and in consideration of the Identified Lenders having entered into and/or agreed to E enter into the Financing Documents in respect of each of the Facilities, the Pledgor covenants and agrees with the Identified Lenders that it shall comply with the provisions of the Financing Documents in relation to each of the Facilities and shall repay, pay and/or discharge the Outstanding Amounts in relation to the F Identified Debt in accordance with the terms set out herein and therein. Provided that the Pledgor shall not be required to pay to any Finance Party any amount in excess of the aggregate amount realized by the Trustee pursuant to an enforcement of the Security Interest over the Pledged Shares in accordance with the terms of this Pledge G Agreement.” (Emphasis supplied) 6.1 Similarly, reliance has also been placed by the Corporate Debtor – Amtek on certain communications issued by the IDBI Bank, the lead H 822 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A bank of the Joint Lenders Forum, which now constitutes the majority of the CoC of the corporate debtor – Amtek, permitting the pledge of shares etc. We observe that these communications have to be read and understood in the context in which they were written. It was clear and understood by the financial creditors of the corporate debtor – Amtek that the corporate debtor – Amtek is not to bear any additional financial B liability by a security or charge of its assets for the STL Facilities, and the loans were being procured and taken by Brassco and WLD from the Appellant Nos. 2 and 3, namely, KKR India Financial Services Limited and L&T Finance Limited. It was stipulated that the assets of the Corporate Debtor – Amtek would not be encumbered in anyway, and C except for shares given as security, and the burden to repay/discharge the loan was/is upon Brassco and WLD. IDBI Bank had only permitted the corporate debtor – Amtek to pledge the shares in question, and to this extent, they did not have any objection. However, there is another aspect of the matter. D 7. Appellant No. 1 - Vistra is a secured creditor to the extent of the shares pledged to it by the Corporate Debtor - Amtek. It holds the first right in pledge on 66.77% shareholding in JMT Auto Limited. The expression ‘security interest’ as defined in Section 3(31) of the Code states that it means right, title, interest or a claim to a property created in E favour, or provided for a secured creditor by a transaction which secures payment or performance of an obligation and includes, mortgage, charge, hypothecation, assignment and encumbrance, or any other agreement or arrangement for securing payment or performance of any obligation of any person.