8. The decision in L. Chandra Kumar (supra) seems to have F influenced the State of Odisha to request the Union Government to abolish the OAT. By a letter dated 16 September 2015, the Chief Secretary to the Government of Odisha requested the Secretary to the Government of India, Department of Personnel and Training to issue a notification under the Administrative Tribunals Act abolishing the OAT. The letter recorded the State Government’s reason for making this request in the G following terms: “Government of Odisha is of the view that the Tribunal is not able to serve its original objectives, particularly after the Hon’ble Apex Court gave the in L. Chandra Kumar case of 1997. As a result of this , the very purpose of having a State H 754 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Administrative Tribunal (SAT) for speedy redressal of the grievances of the State Government employees is not fulfilled as any way the aggrieved parties have to approach the Hon’ble High Court before approaching the Apex Court for a final verdict.” A note annexed to the letter dated 16 September 2015 elaborated B on the State Government’s rationale for seeking to abolish the OAT: “As a consequence of the landmark of the Supreme Court [in L. Chandra Kumar], the objective of the establishment of the Tribunal to give quick justice to the government employees was defeated… The aggrieved parties are approaching the High C Court against OAT s and then the Supreme Court resulting in protracted litigation … Government is incurring a significant sum of expenditure on the OAT … The abolition of the Tribunal will reduce the burden of litigation for the Government and will also reduce the time for resolution of disputes / litigation.” Evidently, the State of Odisha was of the opinion that the raison D d’etre of the OAT was defeated – the fact that the OAT’s decisions were subject to two tiers of challenge (first before the High Court and then the Supreme Court) meant that speedy justice could not be delivered. The State Government proposed to transfer the cases pending before the OAT to the Orissa High Court. E 9. On 12 January 2016, the Union Government requested the State of Odisha to provide information about the Orissa High Court’s views on the proposal to abolish the OAT, the legal mechanism by which the cases pending before the OAT could be transferred to the Orissa High Court, and regarding the plan of action with respect to the employees of F the OAT. Accordingly, on 1 February 2016, the State of Odisha solicited the Orissa High Court’s views on the matter. Thereafter, the Union Government communicated its ‘in-principle’ approval of the proposal to abolish the OAT to the State of Odisha. 10. By a letter dated 5 February 2019 to the Union Government G and the State of Odisha, the Orissa High Court conveyed that that it had resolved to accept the decision to abolish the OAT and the attendant proposals regarding the transfer of employees and pending cases.