Further, the valuation certificate dated September 2019 relied on by the promoter / suspended Director of the Corporate Debtor would be of no relevance as the same was not done in accordance with the D Regulations framed under the IBC, 2016. Also, the RP who is in charge of the affairs of the Company Debtor once the CIRP has been triggered in relation to the Corporate Debtor, he has to act as per the provisions of the Regulations and cannot act according to the whims and fancies of the promoters I erstwhile directors of the Corporate Debtor. The valuation certificate dated September E 2019 relied on by the promoter I suspended Director of the Corporate Debtor was done during pre-Covid period and the same cannot be a yardstick for the valuers who have been appointed pursuant to the Regulations framed under the provisions of IBC, 2016. Also, the stance of the Learned Senior Counsel for the F promoter I suspended Director of the Corporate Debtor that the CIRP was triggered during the peak of Covid would be of no relevance since at that point of time, there was no statutory bar for this Adjudicating Authority to initiate CIRP in relation to a Company. However, it is seen that the Application for initiation of CIRP was filed by the Financial Creditor as early as in the year G 2019 itself and during that point of time there was no cases of Covid in India and the matter was heard in detail and the s were reserved during March 2020. While this being the fact, the contention of the Learned Senior Counsel that only because of Covid they were not able to settle the creditors of the Corporate H Debtor, does not hold much water. Eventhough, the valuation as M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 809 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] arrived at by the valuers may not be acceptable to the erstwhile A promoters / Directors of the Corporate Debtor, it cannot give them a right to challenge the same before this Adjudicating Authority on ostensible grounds. 82. Further, it is also seen that as against the of exclusion of CIRP, passed by this Tribunal in IA/1001/IB/2020, the erstwhile B promoter or Corporate Debtor has filed an appeal before the Hon’ble NCLAT and the Appellate Tribunal vide its dated 05.05.2021 in Company Appeal (AT)(Ins) No. 19 & 20 of 2021 while dealing with the valuation of the Corporate Debtor in para 14 and 15 has held as follows; C 14. In response to the above, the Counsel for the Respondents contended that the entire CIRP was conducted as per the procedure prescribed by the I&B Code. The Appellant who is holding some equity shares in 3rd Respondent/Corporate Debtor has come before this Appellate Tribunal by filing the D present Appeal only to distract and delay the Insolvency Resolution Process and to bring about a halt to the approval of the Resolution Plan which the Committee of Creditors has approved with a majority of 87.34% which is pending for approval before the Adjudicating Authority.