It also provides for maintaining the Indian Medical Register and for enrolment of a person possessing recognised medical qualification in the said F register and for removal of a person from the said register. That the Central Act does not deal with the registration of medical practitioners in the States and it proceeds on the basis that the said registration and the maintenance of State Medical Register is to be governed by the law made by the G State. This Court was of the view that, it cannot, therefore, be said that the Central Act lays down an exhaustive code in respect of the subject matter dealt with by the State Act. It can, however, be said that the Central Act and the State Act, to a limited extent occupy the same field, viz., recognition of medical qualifications which are required for H 1006 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A a person to be registered as a medical practitioner in the allopathic system of medicine. Both the enactments make provision for recognition of such qualifications granted by the universities or medical institutions. In this context, sub-section (1) of Section 15 of the Central Act, i.e. IMC Act, 1956 as well as sub-section (1) B of Section 21 of the said Act were referred to and it was observed that the aforesaid provisions contemplated that a person can practise in Allopathic system of medicine in a State or in the country only if he possesses a recognised medical qualification. Permitting a person who does not C possess the recognised medical qualification in the Allopathic system of medicine would be in direct conflict with the provisions of the Central Act. That the first proviso to Section 38 of the State Act in so far as it empowers the State Government to permit a person to practise Allopathic system of medicine even though he does not possess the D recognised medical qualifications for that system of medicine, is inconsistent with the provisions of Sections 15 and 21 read with Sections 11 and 14 of the IMC Act, 1956 i.e., the Central Act. That the said proviso suffered from the vice of repugnancy in so far as it covered persons who E wanted to practice the Allopathic system of medicine and that the same was void to the extent of such repugnancy. That practitioners in the Allopathic system of medicine must, therefore, be excluded from the scope of the first proviso and it must be confined in its application to systems of medicines other than the Allopathic system of medicine. F Consequently, this Court allowed the appeal in part. On a close consideration of the case law discussed above, it is evident that the following broad areas, would be covered within the legislative field of “Coordination and determination of standards” under Entry 66 of List I: G i) Prescription of medium of instruction, videGujarat University, Ahmedabad vs. Shri Krishna Ranganath Mudhoklar; ii) Recognition/de-recognition of an Institution imparting medical education by laying down standards for medical H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS.