No. 1 inducted Defendants Second Party in the disputed tenanted room and himself opened clinic with the name “Shivam Hospital” in front of Gate of Tehsil School Ballia and started practising as doctor. Then legal notice was given for arrears of rent and on the D basis of sub- letting of the disputed room to sub-tenants for vacating the disputed shop and for arrears of rent and damages and subsequently after service of notice Small Cause Suit No. 3/2007 was filed, in the Court of Judge Small Cause Civil Judge (S.D.) Ballia Rajeshwar etc. versus Dr. Ganesh Prasad on date 15-03-07 which was dismissed without E examination after filing of the above case. By dismissal of the suit Def. No. 1 does not get any legal right nor can he get the above suit dismissed, the above suit is not barred by principles of res judicata by of dismissal of the said suit without examination. F 8. That in the plaint in second line of Para-7 after the words “it came to be known” and before the words “We the Plaintiffs”, the words “father of Def. No. I” may be added and in the same line after the words “father” and before the words “mortgage” the words “Late Harihar Prasad” may be added. G 9. That in the plaint in fourth line of Para-8 where the words “close” is written after that the words “Sandhi’’ may be added. 10. That in the plaint in the fifth line of Para-9 after the words “can be of the owner” the entire line may be cut, and the following words may be added- H GANESH PRASAD v. RAJESHWAR PRASAD AND ORS. 905 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] “and nor can be. Since the Plaintiffs aforesaid case which A relates to Landlord and owner dispute regarding the disputed room and ownership right of the said disputed room did not get transferred on the basis of the said possessory mortgage in favour of Def. No. 1’s father or Def. No. 1 rather in respect of the disputed room of the tenancy rights between the B Plaintiffs and Def. No.1. The ownership right and Landlordship right remain in existence which Defendant has denied in the written statement filed by him in the case mentioned above and written statement filed in the case Small Cause Case No. 3/07 mentioned above. In such circumstances from the disputed room described below on the basis of Def. C No. 1’s claim of ownership rights and possession the tenancy right of Def. No. 1 has automatically ceased, and through notice also tenancy has been terminated and Def. No. 1 has by inducting Defendants Second Party as sub-tenant misused his right, on the basis of which also the Defendants are liable D to be evicted, for which the desired relief is being claimed in this suit.” 11. That in the plaint after Para-9 further Para 9(a), 9(b), 9(c), 9(d) may be added as below: Para 9(a) That after coming to know about the document of E possessory mortgage dated 12-02-57 shown by the Def.