Whether the Courts possess an expertise to decide as to whether B demonetization of only Rs.500/- denomination notes ought to have been done or the denomination of only the notes of Rs.1000/- ought to have been done or as to whether particular series of the bank notes ought to have been demonetized. These are all the areas which are purely within the domain of the experts and beyond the arena of judicial review. C 276. Insofar as the fourth test, that is the proper relation between the importance of achieving the proper purpose and the social importance of preventing the limitation on the constitutional right is concerned, can it really be said that there is no proper relation between the importance of curbing the menace of fake currency, black money, drug trafficking & D terror financing on one hand and demonetizing the Rs.500/- and Rs.1000/ - notes, thereby imposing restriction on the use of demonetized currency? 277. In any case, by demonetization, the right vested in the notes was not taken away. The only restrictions were with regard to exchange of old notes with the new notes, which were also gradually relaxed from E time to time. Insofar as deposit of the demonetized notes in banks is concerned, there was no limitation. If a citizen had a ‘Know Your Customer (KYC) compliant bank account’, he could deposit any amount and get to his credit the full value of legitimate currency. As such, the right to property in bank notes was not taken away. A full value of legitimate currency was entitled to be deposited in the bank account, F however, up to a particular date. In any case, there was no restriction on non-cash transactions like debit card, credit card, net banking, online transactions etc. 278. We find that the argument that the right to property was sought to be taken away is without substance. In any case, even if there G were reasonable restrictions on the said right, the said restrictions were in the public interest of curbing evils of fake currency, black money, drug trafficking & terror financing. As such, we find that applying the four- pronged test, the doctrine of proportionality is fully satisfied. H 134 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 279. Insofar as reliance on the of the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of K.S. Puttaswamy (Retired) and another (Aadhaar) (supra) is concerned, in the facts of the said case, the Constitution Bench found that, on account of various measures taken by the Government to give a boost to digital economy, millions of persons, who are otherwise poor, had opened their bank accounts. They were B also becoming habitual to the good practice of entering into transactions through their banks and even by using digital modes for operation of their bank accounts. The Court, in this background, found that making the requirement of Aadhaar compulsory for all such and other persons in the name of checking money laundering or black money was grossly C disproportionate.