11.4. He further submits that where the importer like the respondents had not laid any basis for acceptance of the invoice price as transaction value, then the authorities would be legally justifi ed to initiate fi xation of price under Rule 5 onwards under the Customs Valuation Rules. According to him, the department had to take recourse to Rule 8 of the aforesaid Rules straightaway instead of proceeding through Rules 5, 6 and 7 as neither transaction value of similar goods nor contemporary prices were available. Therefore, the adjudicating authority had rightly invoked Rule 8 while assessing the transaction value to determine the short levy of customs duty and for imposing penalty. CESTAT was not at all justifi ed in interfering with COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS (IMPORTS), MUMBAI v. M/S GANPATI 187 OVERSEAS THR. ITS PROP. SHRI YASHPAL SHARMA [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] such a reasoned of the adjudicating authority. In these circumstances, he seeks setting aside of the of the CESTAT dated 27.06.2008. 12. Per contra, Mr. V. Lakshmikumaran, learned counsel for the respondents has supported the of CESTAT and submits that the appeals of the department wholly lacks merit and therefore should be dismissed. 12.1. He submits that the Tribunal was fully justifi ed in holding that the price declared in the import invoice was correct. The foreign supplier had withdrawn the original export declarations earlier submitted before the Hong Kong customs authority and thereafter had fi led another set of declarations where the declared price matched the price shown by the respondents in the import invoices. The subsequent declarations were accepted by the Hong Kong customs authority following which penalty was levied which was paid by the supplier. 12.2. Mr. Lakshmikumaran, learned counsel submits that the export declarations relied upon by the appellant were only photocopies which were neither signed nor attested. As such, those export declarations did not have any evidentiary value. He has asserted that the price refl ected in the import invoices was the sole consideration for sale which satisfi ed the defi nition of transaction value as per Rule 4 of the Customs Valuation Rules. 12.3. According to Mr. V. Lakshmikumaran, there were no evidence before the customs authority to prove under valuation. Statements of Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma and Mr. Yashpal Sharma could not be relied upon to prove under valuation for more than one reason. Firstly, when the two statements were recorded there was no evidence available with the customs department to prove under valuation. Secondly, both the statements were almost identical and matched each other which would indicate that those were dictated ones. Therefore, it is clearly evident that those were obtained under coercion and undue pressure. Thirdly, the two statements were retracted at the fi rst available opportunity. Fourthly, the Additional Sessions Judge, New Delhi while granting bail to Mr. Yashpal Sharma had recorded in his dated 26.05.1999 that the statement made was under coercion and pressure and therefore, the same could not be termed as a voluntary statement. In the circumstances, Tribunal was fully justifi ed in not giving any credence to the above two statements.