234A for default in furnishing the return of income is mandatory and automatic – s. 234A of the Act provides that where the return of income for any assessment year is furnished E after the due date or is not furnished, the assessee shall be liable to pay simple interest. Dismissing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1. On appreciation of the entire evidence on record, F the AO, CIT(A) and the High Court have specifically held against the assessees that in fact RG, Chartered Accountant in Delhi did not merely render professional services but had a vital say in the control and management of the assessee companies and in fact he was in control and management of the affairs of the respective assessee companies. [Para 7][483-A-B] G 2. Where the head and seat and directing power of the affairs of the company and the control and management is must be shown is not merely theoretical control and power, i.e., not de jure control and power, but de facto control and power actually exercised in H 454 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A the course of the conduct and management of the affairs of the firm; that the domicile or the registration of the company is not at all relevant and the determinate test is where the sole right to manage and control of the company lies. Applying the above principles of law to the facts of the case at hand, and the findings recorded by the AO, confirmed by the CIT(A), it is rightly B concluded that the control and management of the affairs of the respective assessees were with RG, Chartered Accountant in Delhi. The findings of fact recorded by the AO, confirmed by the CIT(A) that the control and management of the affairs of the assessee companies was with RG are based on the entire material C on record. In light of the aforesaid findings, the High Court has not committed any error in reversing the contrary findings recorded by the ITAT and it is rightly observed and held that service of notice upon RG treating him as the principal officer and/or as a principal officer for and on behalf of the assessee companies were valid notices and the High Court has rightly held D that the AO at New Delhi was having the jurisdiction to issue notice under the Income Tax Act, 1961. [Paras 8, 9][491-G-H; 492-A-C] 3. Insofar as the case on behalf of the respective assessees that the entire income was earned in Sikkim by way of commission E on sale of cardamom and therefore such income shall not be liable to be taxed under the Income Tax Act, 1961 is concerned, at the outset, it is required to be noted that there are concurrent findings recorded by the AO and the CIT(A), as approved by the High Court, that no income by way of commission, as claimed by the F assessees, has been established and proved by the assessees. In fact, the AO issued notices/summons to different persons who had allegedly paid amounts as commission, however, those persons had not responded.