This was stated to permit the private Respondents to infiltrate into the quota meant for the Degree holders based on a wrong interpretation of the G Rule and relying on the earlier of this Court in the case of D. Stephen Joseph20. 17 (supra) 18 (supra) 19 (supra) 20 (supra) H 464 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 17.On the other hand, it was urged on behalf of the Respondents while commending the view taken in D. Stephen Joseph’s21 case that the view in that case and Shailendra Dania & Ors.22case is really not in variance. The Rule was stated to be different. Apart from that, observations made in Shailendra Dania & Ors.23 case, which would show that the view taken in D. Stephen Joseph24 case has not been B faulted. A reference was also made to two other judicial pronouncements of this Court in Anil Kumar Gupta v. Municipal Corporation of Delhi25 and Chandravathi P.K. & Ors. v. C.K. Saji & Ors.26, which had also endorsed the view taken in D. Stephen Joseph27case and, thus, that case cannot be said to be a sub silentio. These two s are once C again of a three-Judges Bench, and the latter had set down the principles to be followed as regards the counting of the service period of Diploma holders. 18.The effect of the aforesaid pronouncements was stated to be that in case of the Electricity Department of the Union Territory of D Puducherry, the principle that has emerged in respect of the Rules is that for the purpose of the eligibility for promotion as Assistant Engineer, Diploma holders can count their service prior to the acquisition of their degree. Analysis of the aforesaid s and our view: E 19.On examining the controversy in the context of the arguments urged and the judicial precedents, we can say that actually, the issue is no more res integra in view of the of this Court in C. Chakkaravarthy & Ors. v. M. Satyavathy, IAS & Ors.28 Though it is a two-Judges Bench view, the very issue has been examined, which is really sought to be debated before us. It was observed in para 10 as F under: “There is, in our opinion, considerable merit in that submission of the petitioners. There is no gainsaying that this Court has 21 (supra) G 22 (supra) 23 (supra) 24 (supra) 25 (2000) 1 SCC 128 26 (2004) 3 SCC 734 27 (supra) H 28 (2015) 16 SCC 652 T. VALSAN (D) THR. LRS. & ORS. v. K. KANAGARAJ & ORS. 465 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] unequivocally declared that promotion to the post of Assistant A Engineers in the service shall be on the basis of merit and merit alone and that seniority of the candidates cannot be taken as an input for determining such merit. This Court has also very clearly rejected the procedure followed by the Government whereby the date on which the candidate had acquired his degree qualification B was taken as a determining factor.