Moreover, we would concur with the Division Bench on one more point that the appellants had participated in the process of interview and not challenged it till the results were declared. There was a gap of almost four months between the interview and declaration of result. However, the appellants did not challenge it at that time. This, it appears that only when the appellants found themselves to be unsuccessful, they challenged the interview. This cannot be allowed. 20 Result of the Promotion Board, as noted in the OA was 31 March 2015. 21 (2015) 11 SCC 493(2 Judge Bench) 104 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. The candidates cannot approbate and reprobate at the same time. Either the candidates should not have participated in the interview and challenged the procedure or they should have challenged immediately after the interviews were conducted.” 28.4.2 In Ramesh Chandra Shah v. Anil Joshi22 it was observed:- 18. It is settled law that a person who consciously takes part in the process of selection cannot, thereafter, turn around and question the method of selection and its outcome. 28.4.3 Recently, in Tajvir Singh Sodhi &Ors. v. State of Jammu Kashmir & Ors23 having considered a number of earlier decisions, it was held by this Court that:- “69. It is therefore trite that candidates, having taken part in the selection process without any demur or protest, cannot challenge the same after having been declared unsuccessful. The candidates cannot approbate and reprobate at the same time. In other words, simply because the result of the selection process is not palatable to a candidate, he cannot allege that the process of interview was unfair or that there was some lacuna in the process. Therefore, we fi nd that the writ petitioners in these cases, could not have questioned before a Court of law, the rationale behind recasting the selection criteria, as they willingly took part in the selection process even after the criteria had been so recast. Their candidature was not withdrawn in light of the amended criteria. A challenge was thrown against the same only after they had been declared unsuccessful in the selection process, at which stage, the challenge ought not to have been entertained in light of the principle of waiver and acquiescence.” 28.5 In view of the above discussion, we are of the view that the Respondent’s challenge was barred at fi rst instance, as he participated in the Promotion Board of 2015 and only challenged the non-formation of a policy for fi lling up the vacancy of AVM JAG (Air), fi nding himself to be unsuccessful in securing a promotion thereto. 22 (2013) 11 SCC 309(2 Judge Bench) 23 2023 SCC OnLine SC 344 (2 Judge Bench) UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. AIR COMMODORE NK 1045 SHARMA (17038) ADM/LGL [SANJAY KAROL J.] 29. As a result of the discussion aforesaid, the questions raised in this appeal are answered accordingly and the same, is allowed. The judgement and passed by the Armed Forces Tribunal in O.A 537 of 2015, titled as Air Cmde NK Sharma (17083) v. Union of India &Ors, is quashed and set aside.