The objects of a statute, acquire primacy while interpreting its provisions, if the need so arises. Therefore, in interpretation of any statute or provision, this court, long ago, in Workmen of Dimakuchi Estate v. Management of Dimakuchi Tea Estate98 underlined that where there are doubts about the meaning of a provision, they “are to be understood in the sense in which they best harmonise with the subject of the enactment” and that popular meanings, or strict grammatical import, may yield to 97 In M. Nizamuden v. Chemplast Sanmar Ltd & Ors ((2010) 4 SCC 240), it was observed: “Purposive construction has often been employed to avoid a lacuna and to suppress the mischief and advance the remedy. It is again a settled rule that if the language used is capable of bearing more than one construction and if construction is employed that results in absurdity or anomaly, such construction has to be rejected and preference should be given to such a construction that brings it into harmony with its purpose and avoids absurdity or anomaly as it may always be presumed that while employing a particular language in the provision absurdity or anomaly was never intended.” Girodhar G. Yadalam v. Commissioner of Wealth Tax & Ors [2015] 15 SCR 543; K.H. Nazar v. Mathew K. Jacob, (2020) 14 SCC 126, which states that in interpreting a statute “the problem or mischief that the statute was designed to remedy should fi rst be identifi ed and then a construction that suppresses the problem and advances the remedy should be adopted.” Again, in New India Assurance Co. Ltd. v. Nusli Neville Wadia [2007] 13 SCR 598, this court explained purposive interpretation to mean one which enables “a superior court to interpret a statute in a reasonable manner, the court must place itself in the chair of a reasonable legislator/author. So done, the rules of purposive construction have to be resorted to which would require the construction of the Act in such a manner so as to see that the object of the Act is fulfi lled”. 98 1958 SCR 1156 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1481 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] “the subject or the occasion on which they are used, and the object to be attained”. This object-based interpretation was adopted in several decisions.99 96. This court emphasised in Reserve Bank of India v. Peerless General Finance and Investment Co. Ltd. & Ors.100 that: “Interpretation must depend on the text and the context. They are the bases of interpretation. One may well say if the text is the texture, context is what gives the colour. Neither can be ignored. Both are important. That interpretation is best which makes the textual interpretation match the contextual.” 97. In Bank of India v. Vijay Transport & Ors.101, the court dealt with the plea that a literal interpretation is not always the only interpretation of a provision in a statute and that the court has to look at the setting in which the words are used and the circumstances in which the law came to be passed to decide whether there is something implicit behind the words used which control the literal meaning of such words.102 98.