A Respondent No. 2 had filed a Revision before the Punjab & Haryana High Court which was allowed by dated 02.03.2022 In our considered opinion the High Court has not appreciated the matter in the true perspective of Section 319 Cr.P.C. The revision of Shri Ramesh Gandhi (one of the three accused who were summoned), B was allowed for the reasons that he was found innocent during investigation and that he never used the gun and had actually fled from the spot. These observations are even factually incorrect, from what we have just seen in the examination-in-chief of PW-9, the revisionist had fled the scene only after the commission of the crime by an “unlawful assembly”. In his statement (PW-9), it has further come that while leaving C the house firing was also done. Further, totally uncalled for presumption has been made by the High Court in favour of the revisionist, declaring him to be innocent. The High Court has reasoned as follows :- “The petitioner was found innocent during investigation. D It could not even be established on record whether the petitioner was attributed any injury and even as per the version of the complainant himself, the petitioner had allegedly fled away from the spot. Thus, the material on record, does not make it a fit case to summon the petitioner E as an additional accused. The matter can be looked from another angle. It is the case of the complainant that the petitioner armed with a gun had come to the place of occurrence along with other co-accused. However, it does not seem to the common prudence that a person coming with a premediated mind at the spot with a F gun, would flee without even firing or attempt a shot. This clearly points towards a false implication of the petitioner.” In our opinion, whereas the trial court was absolutely correct to have summoned the accused based on the evidence of PW-9, the High Court committed a grave error in allowing the revision of the accused. G Under the facts and circumstances of the case and on the powers of the Court under Section 319 and based on the evidence of PW-9, it was absolutely necessary for the trial court to have summoned the three accused, including the revisionist. H SANDEEP KUMAR v. THE STATE OF HARYANA & ANR. 1215 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] The reasoning given by the High Court, cannot be accepted at the A stage of consideration of application under Section 319 Cr.PC. The merits of the evidence has to be appreciated only during the trial, by cross examination of the witnesses and scrutiny of the Court. This is not to be done at the stage of Section 319, though this is precisely what the High Court has done in the present case. Moreover, the High Court did not B appreciate the important fact that the charges being faced by the accused were under Sections 458, 460, 323, 285, 302, 148 and 149 of IPC. Thus, one of the charges being Section 149, which is of being a member of an unlawful assembly, for attracting the offence under Section 149 IPC, one simply has to be a part of an unlawful assembly.