The appeals preferred by the assessees before the CIT(A) came to be D dismissed vide (s) dated 30th March, 2001. 2.13 Feeling aggrieved by the (s) passed by the CIT(A) dismissing the appeals, the respective assessees preferred appeals before the ITAT. The ITAT observed and held that notices under Section 148 of the Act could not have been served on Mr. Rattan Gupta as the said Mr. E Rattan Gupta cannot be said to be a “Principal Officer” of the assessees within the meaning of section 2(35)(a) of the Act and the AO did not serve any notices of his intention of treating Mr. Rattan Gupta as the “Principal Officer” for the purposes of section 2(35)(b) of the Act. On the refusal of Mr. Rattan Gupta to receive notices, ITAT observed and F opined that if Mr. Rattan Gupta refused to receive such notices, he was justified in doing so and his refusal did not authorise the AO to resort to substituted service within the meaning of Rule 20 of V of CPC. The (s) passed by the ITAT allowing the appeals preferred by the assessees was/were the subject matter of appeals before the High Court at the instance of the Revenue. G 2.14 The High Court framed the following questions of law: “1. Whether the Tribunal was right in holding that the ACIT exceeded his jurisdiction in issuing notices under section 148 of the Act and the notices were not served in accordance with law? H 462 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 2. Whether the made by the ITAT is perverse based on conjectures and surmises and ignorance of evidence and material and has relied upon incorrect facts? 3. Whether the income of the assessee is taxable in India?” At the instance of the Assessees, an additional question was B also framed as under by the same : 4. Whether the ITAT was right in law in holding that the assessee is not a resident of India within the meaning of Section 6(3)(ii) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and whether the said finding of the ITAT is not also vitiated and perverse as it ignores relevant C admissible evidence and materials and relies upon incorrect facts and has not given due consideration to several important materials and evidence relevant for determination of residence of the assessee.” 2.15 By the impugned common and , the High Court D has answered all the questions in favour of the Revenue and against the assessees and consequently has allowed the appeals preferred by the Revenue. The High Court in the impugned and has dealt with and considered the following main issues and both the parties were heard on the said issues. E 1. Objection to the jurisdiction by the ACIT, Circle 7(1), New Delhi who issued notices to the assessees under Section 148 of the Act; 2. Control and management in New Delhi; 3. No income accrued or was earned in Sikkim; F 4. Service of notice; 5. Limitation for issuance of notice under section 147 of the Act; 6.