This explains the finding in Chaganti’s case that General Clauses Act is inapplicable to Section 167 CrPC, as there is no definite ‘from’ period from which the stipulated G remand, may commence. Moreover, the fact that the date of remand is included and not excluded from the stipulated period, is based on the pivotal consideration that personal liberty of the individual commands that any lacuna in the specificity of the law has to be so interpreted in the accused’s favour. [Para 34][940- E-H; 941-A-C] H 922 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 1.5 Section 57 CrPC mandates that the accused be produced before a Magistrate within 24 hours of arrest and under Section 167(2) the Judicial Magistrate is required to scrutinize the executive action and determine whether the rights of the accused are not subjugated by police action. The separation of the Executive and the Judicial exercise of power, ultimately protects B an individual’s personal liberty which is also constitutionally protected under Articles 21 and 22(2). If the date of remand ed by a Magistrate is ignored, then an accused even though in custody, the same will not be counted within the 60/90 day period. The custody on the date of remand is distinct from the C arrest of an accused under Section 56 CrPC as that is considered as a period prior to production before the Magistrate. By this logic, even if the accused is under custody it would neither be under Section 56, nor under 167(2) CrPC. This would lead to an apparent legal vacuum. This can however be avoided if the remand period is considered from the very day of the remand D . Furthermore, if an accused is remanded by a Magistrate on say, 01.01.2023, then, the police, post judicial scrutiny, is empowered to investigate, starting on the same day, as per Section 167 CrPC, irrespective of whether the police actually commence investigation on the same day. So, if the police is E empowered to investigate an accused person on the day of the remand itself, the 60/90 day stipulated period, upon whose expiry, the right of default bail accrues to the accused, should logically be calculated from that day itself. Ignoring the date of remand under Section 167 CrPC in the 60/90 day period, would militate against the legislative intent of providing an accused F protection from being in prolonged custody, because of slothful investigation. [Para 36][941-E-G; 942-A-C] 1.6 The 60/90 day limit is a statutory requirement which allows the State agencies to investigate serious offences beyond the 15–day police custody. In case the State fails to file chargesheet G or supplementary request for remand within the stipulated 60/90 day period, a balance is to be striked between the rights of the individual and the restriction on those rights and prevent prolonged incarceration without legal support. The very instance, the statutory remand period ends, an indefeasible right to default H bail accrues to the accused and same needs to be guarded. The ENFORCEMENT DIRECTORATE, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA v. 923 KAPIL WADHAWAN & ANR.