E 11. The rationale for the introduction of the provision for voting by open ballot in elections to the Council of States has been examined in a decision of the Constitution Bench in Kuldip Nayar v Union of India4. The Constitution Bench held that after the amendment, voting to the Council of States has undergone a material change and that the norm of voting by a secret ballot has been replaced by open ballot. The Constitution F Bench held that it is only a voter at such an election who refuses to show the ballot to the authorised agent of his political party, who forfeits the right to vote. The Court observed: “439. The effect of the amended Rules, thus, is that in elections to the Council of States, before the elector inserts the ballot G paper into the ballot box, the authorized agent of the political party shall be allowed to verify as to whom such an elector casts his vote. In case such an elector refuses to show his marked ballot paper, the same shall be taken back and will H 4 (2006) 7 SCC 1 LOK PRAHARI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS 363 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] be cancelled by the Presiding Officer on the ground that A the voting procedure had been violated. There is, therefore, a compulsion on the voter to show his vote.” 12. The Court then held that the open ballot system which has been put in position “does not mean open to one and all” and it is only the authorised agent of the political party who is allowed to see and verify B the person for whom the elector has cast a vote. The Court held that the underlying basis of the change in the norm, to an open ballot, was necessitated to prevent cross-voting and the flouting of party discipline. The Court held: “451. It cannot be forgotten that the existence of political parties C is an essential feature of our parliamentary democracy and that it can be a matter of concern for Parliament if it finds that electors were resorting to cross-voting under the garb of conscience voting, flouting party discipline in the name of secrecy of voting. This would weaken the party discipline D over the errant legislators. Political parties are the sine qua non of parliamentary democracy in our country and the protection of party discipline can be introduced as an essential feature of the purity of elections in case of indirect elections.” E 13. The Constitution Bench held that in a general election, secrecy of voting is required to maintain the purity of the electoral system. A voter is entitled to exercise the right to vote in a free and fair manner without disclosing how he has voted. However, the concept of “constituency-based representation” in a general election is distinct from “proportional representation”. In a case of “proportional representation”, F voters are subject to party discipline, The Constitution Bench held that it is legitimately open to prescribe the methodology of an open ballot for conducting elections to the Council of States.