The lower Courts only speak of the forcible taking of the victim’s thumb impression; and as this does not necessarily involve inducing the victim to deliver papers with his thumb impressions (papers which could no doubt be converted into valuable securities), I must hold that the off ence of extortion is not established.” 24. Thus, it is relevant to note that nowhere the fi rst informant has stated that out of fear, she paid Rs. 10 Lakh to the accused persons. To put it in other words, there is nothing to indicate that there was actual delivery of possession of property (money) by the person put in fear. In the absence of anything to even remotely suggest that the fi rst informant parted with a particular amount after being put to fear of any injury, no off ence under Section 386 of the IPC can be said to have been made out. 25. However, as observed earlier, the entire case put up by the fi rst informant on the face of it appears to be concocted and fabricated. At this stage, we may refer to the parameters laid down by this Court for quashing of an FIR in the case of Bhajan Lal (supra). The parameters are:- “(1) Where the allegations made in the first information report or the complaint, even if they are taken at their face value and accepted in their entirety do not prima facie constitute any offence or make out a case against the accused. (2) Where the allegations in the first information report and other materials, if any, accompanying the FIR do not disclose a cognizable offence, justifying an investigation by police officers under Section 156(1) of the Code except under an of a Magistrate within the purview of Section 155(2) of the Code. (3) Where the uncontroverted allegations made in the FIR or complaint and the evidence collected in support of the same do 74 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. not disclose the commission of any off ence and make out a case against the accused. (4) Where, the allegations in the FIR do not constitute a cognizable off ence but constitute only a non-cognizable off ence, no investigation is permitted by a police offi cer without an of a Magistrate as contemplated under Section 155(2) of the Code. (5) Where the allegations made in the FIR or complaint are so absurd and inherently improbable on the basis of which no prudent person can ever reach a just conclusion that there is suffi cient ground for proceeding against the accused. (6) Where there is an express legal bar engrafted in any of the provisions of the Code or the concerned Act (under which a criminal proceeding is instituted) to the institution and continuance of the proceedings and/or where there is a specifi c provision in the Code or the concerned Act, providing effi cacious redress for the grievance of the aggrieved party. (7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly attended with mala fi de and/or where the proceeding is maliciously instituted with an ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance on the accused and with a view to spite him due to private and personal grudge.” In our opinion, the present case falls within the parameters Nos.