guilty. This argument is again misleading and unacceptable. Guilt or innocence has to be determined by the courts and not by the police. Police merely prosecutes on being satisfi ed that a person is guilty of an off ence; it doesn’t punish. It is also suggested that there is a distinct increase in crime because of enormous increase in population, unemployment and lack of adequate resources. May be so. But how does this phenomenon militate against the proposed changes in law. In fact, the attention of the police must be more on serious off ences and economic off ences and not so much on minor off ences. The undesirable practice of arresting persons for minor off ences and keeping them in jail for long periods (either because they cannot move for bail or because they cannot furnish bail to the satisfaction of the court – all because of their poverty) must come to an end. In fact, this aspect has already engaged the attention of the Supreme Court, which has given several directions for release/discharge of accused in case of minor off ences and off ences punishable up to seven years excepting therefrom the economic off ences…” (emphasis supplied) 37. From the above, we could appreciate one of the main reasons for such introduction. It was meant not to be applied to certain categories of off ences, including economic off ences, but only to minor off ences under the Indian Penal Code, 1860. RELEVANT PROVISIONS OF THE PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING ACT, 2002: “All power is of an encroaching nature” Justice Frankfurter of the U.S. Supreme Court Trop v. Dulles (1958). 38. Chapter V of the PMLA, 2002 deals with the power of an authority to conduct survey, search and seizure of both a place and a person followed by arrest, if so required. The provisions are step-in-aid in the conduct of inquiry/investigation. V. SENTHIL BALAJI v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY 875 DEPUTY DIRECTOR AND ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] Section 19 “19. Power to arrest.—(1) If the Director, Deputy Director, Assistant Director, or any other offi cer authorized in this behalf by the Central Government by general or special , has on the basis of material in his possession reason to believe (the reason for such belief to be recorded in writing) that any person has been guilty of an off ence punishable under this Act, he may arrest such person and shall, as soon as may be, inform him of the grounds for such arrest. (2) The Director, Deputy Director, Assistant Director or any other offi cer shall, immediately after arrest of such person under sub- section (1), forward a copy of the , along with the material in his possession, referred to in that sub-section, to the Adjudicating Authority, in a sealed envelope, in the matter, as may be prescribed and such Adjudicating authority shall keep such and material for such period, as may be prescribed. (3) Every person arrested under sub-section (1) shall within twenty- four hours, be taken to a [Special Court or] Judicial Magistrate or a Metropolitan Magistrate, as the case may be, having jurisdiction: Provided that the period of twenty-four hours shall exclude the time necessary for the journey from the place of arrest to the [Special Court or] Magistrate’s Court.” 39.