The facts are such, which will shock the conscience of any Court. The deceased woman, who was happily married, worked in a prominent company having an B office at Electronic City, Bengaluru. Considering the nature of her duty, she had to work till late night or even till early in the morning. The company used to provide her conveyance in the form of a car. The company used to provide cars to employees on different designated routes. On the fateful day, the deceased left the office at 2:00 a.m. in a vehicle provided by the company. She used to take a vehicle plying on route no.131. On C that day, she was informed by the appellant, who was the driver, that the vehicle operating on route no.131 was not available. The appellant told her that she will have to travel by his vehicle operating on route no.405. The deceased, accordingly, sat in the car driven by the accused. The maternal uncle of the deceased lodged a complaint by stating that the D deceased was missing. Ultimately, her dead body was recovered at the instance of the appellant. The clothes on the person of the deceased, footwear, etc. were found near the dead body. The prosecution successfully established the charge of the offence of rape, punishable under Section 376 of the IPC as well as the offence under Section 366 of IPC. The appellant–accused was also convicted for the offence under E Section 302. The life of the victim was cut short in this brutal manner at the age of 28 years. 15. In many leading cities, IT hubs have been established. In fact, Bengaluru is known as the Silicon Valley of India. Some of these companies have customers abroad and that is why the company staff F members work at night. A large number of staff members in such companies are women. The issue is of safety and security of women working with such companies. We have perused the of the Trial Court. It is true that the Trial Court could not have directed that the appellant shall not be released till the rest of his life. The Trial Court G noted the fact that on the date of conviction, the age of the appellant was 27 years and he had a wife and small child as well as aged parents. Considering these factors along with the fact that this was the first offence committed by the appellant, the Trial Court found that the case was not falling in the category of the ‘rarest of the rare’ cases. We must hasten to add that the fact that the accused has no antecedents, is no H SHIVA KUMAR @ SHIVA @ SHIVAMURTHY v. STATE OF 679 KARNATAKA [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] consideration by itself for deciding whether the accused will fall in the A category of the ‘rarest of the rare’ cases. It all depends on several factors. The State Government failed in its endeavour to get capital punishment by way of filing an appeal.