With eff ect from the April 1, 1997, for the existing article 12 relating to royalty, fees for technical services and payments for the use of equipment the following article shall be read : “Article 12 ROYALTIES AND FEES FOR TECHNICAL SERVICES 1. Royalties and fees for technical services arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State. 2. However, such royalties and fees for technical services may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise and according to the laws of that State ; but if the benefi cial owner of the royalties or fees for technical services is a resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not exceed : (a) in the case of royalties referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph 4 and fees for technical services as defi ned in this article (other than services described in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph): (i) during the fi rst fi ve taxable years for which this Convention has eff ect,-- ASSESSING OFFICER CIRCLE (INTERNATIONAL TAXATION) 2(2)(2) 1179 NEW DELHI v. M/S NESTLE SA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (A) 15 per cent. of the gross amount of the royalties or fees for technical services as defi ned in this article, where the payer of the royalties or fees is the Government of that Contracting State, a political sub- division or a public sector company ; and (B) 20 per cent, of the gross amount of the royalties or fees for technical services in all other cases ; and (ii) during the subsequent years, 15 per cent. of the gross amount of royalties or fees for technical services ; and (b) in the case of royalties referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph 4 and fees for technical services as defi ned in this article that are ancillary and subsidiary to the enjoyment of the property for which payment is received under paragraph 4(b) of this article, 10 per cent. of the gross amount of the royalties or fees for technical services. 3. The competent authorities of the States shall by mutual agreement settle the mode of application of paragraph 2. 4. The term “royalties” as used in this article means: (a) payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use of, or the right to use, any copyright of literary, artistic or scientifi c work including motion picture fi lms and works on fi lm or video-tape for use in connection with television, any patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, secret formula or process, or for information concerning industrial, commercial or scientifi c experience ; and (b) payments of any kind received as consideration for the use of, or the right to use industrial, commercial or scientifi c equipment, other than payments derived by an enterprise described in paragraph 1 of articles 8 and 8A (shipping and air transport) from activities described in paragraph 2(a) of article 8 or paragraph 4(b) of article 8A.