Conversely, if the injury sustained by the victim / survivor is incorrectly found to be linked to the weapon recovered from the accused, an innocent person may be wrongfully convicted. Time is especially of the essence when a sexual off ence is complained of. A medical examination may result in the recovery of the DNA of the accused from the clothing or body of the victim / survivor. It may also result in the identifi cation and recording of the nature and severity injuries sustained by the victim / survivor. This is one of the reasons that Section 164-A CrPC requires the medical examination of rape victims to take place 1102 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. within twenty-four hours from the time that information about the commission of the off ence is received (subject to the victim / survivor consenting to such examination). Undoubtedly, the absence of such evidence ought not to lead to an acquittal as a matter of course. However, there is no reason to deprive the prosecution of evidence which has signifi cant probative value or to deviate from the investigative procedures prescribed by law; b. The statements under Sections 161 and 164 CrPC must be recorded as soon as possible. Such statements often lead to the recovery of evidence or the identifi cation of accused persons or witnesses. The statement under Section 161 CrPC may attain relevance during the trial, where the defence may rely on it to contradict a witness in terms of Section 145 of the Indian Evidence Act 1872; c. The statements under Sections 161 and 164 CrPC coupled with the medical examination of the victim may lead to the recovery of evidence and the discovery of relevant facts, which will enable the prosecution to correctly identify the accused person(s) and arrest them. This, in turn, will enable the trial to commence as soon as possible and for justice to be done. Justice delayed is indeed justice denied; d. It is crucial for the police to identify and arrest the accused person expeditiously because the accused person may be required for the completion of investigation. Further, the accused may attempt to tamper with or destroy the evidence, intimidate witnesses, and fl ee from the place of the crime. Whether or not a person who is arrested in a particular case is likely to do this is a matter left to be determined by the court seized of the matter (during proceedings for bail, if any) but a signifi cant delay in the identifi cation and arrest of the accused for no reason at all cannot be countenanced by this Court; e. The importance of identifying, arresting, prosecuting, and convicting the person who is actually responsible for the DINGANGLUNG GANGMEI v. MUTUM CHURAMANI MEETEI 1103 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] commission of an off ence cannot be overstated. If the police arrests a person who is not actually responsible for the off ence complained of, it results in injustice which is two-fold: the actual perpetrator is not brought to justice and an innocent person is unjustly prosecuted; and f. A speedy investigation is necessary to secure a just and proper outcome in a trial and to instil and maintain confi dence in the administration of criminal justice in our country.