Section 2(m) of the said Act defined net wealth as being G predicated with reference to assets “belonging to” the assessee. The assessee in the said case had sold out the property without executing the sale deed. The possession was handed over to the buyer after receiving full consideration. The Court notices the following statement: 13 1986 (supp.) SCC 700 H 566 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A “11. The material expression with which we are concerned in this appeal is ‘belonging to the assessee on the valuation date’. Did the assets in the circumstances mentioned hereinbefore namely, the properties in respect of which registered sale deeds had not been executed but consideration for sale of which had been received and possession in respect of which had been handed B over to the purchasers belonged to the assessee for the purpose of inclusion in his net wealth? Section 53-A of the Transfer of Property Act gives the party in possession in those circumstances the right to retain possession. Where a contract has been executed in terms mentioned hereinbefore and full consideration has been C paid by the purchasers to the vendor and where the purchasers have been put in the possession by the vendor, the vendees have right to retain that possession and resist suit for specific performance. The purchasers can also enforce suit for specific performance for execution of formal registered deed if the vendor was unwilling to do so. But in the eye of law, the purchasers D cannot and are not treated as legal owners of the property in question. It is not necessary, in our opinion, for the purpose of this case to be tied down with the controversy whether in India there is any concept of legal ownership apart from equitable ownership or not or whether under Sections 9 and 10 of the Indian Income E Tax Act, 1922 and Sections 22 to 24 of the Indian income Tax Act, 1961, where ‘owner’ is spoken in respect of the house properties, the legal owner is meant and not the equitable or beneficial owner. Salmond On Jurisprudence, 12th edn., discusses the different ingredients of ‘ownership’ from pages 246 to 264. ‘Ownership’, according to Salmond, denotes the relation F between a person and an object forming the subject-matter of his ownership. It consists of a complex of rights, all of which are rights in rem, being good against all the world and not merely against specific persons. Firstly, Salmond says, the owner will have a right to possess the thing which he owns. He may not G necessarily have possession. Secondly, the owner normally has the right to use and enjoy the thing owned: the right to manage it, i.e., the right to decide how it shall be used; and the right to the income from it. Thirdly, the owner has the right to consume, destroy or alienate the thing. Fourthly, ownership has the characteristic of being indeterminate in duration. The position of an owner differs H M/s.