are yet to be considered by the Tribunal on merits in an application under Section 140(5) made by the Central Government. 12. Now so far as challenge to the vires of Section 140(5) of the G Act is concerned, at the outset, it is required to be noted that the High Court, as such, has upheld the constitutional validity/vires of section 140(5) against which the BSR has not filed any special leave petition. Even otherwise on merits also, when some of the writ petitioners have challenged the impugned and passed by the High Court H UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER V. DELOITTE HASKINS 1011 AND SELLS LLP [M. R. SHAH, J.] on constitutional validity/vires of Section 140(5), we are of the opinion A that section 140(5) cannot be said to be excessive and/or manifestly arbitrary, as contended. It was the case on behalf of the original writ petitioners on the constitutionality/vires of section 140(5) that section 140(5) is excessive and arbitrary as it provides unguided and untrammelled powers to NCLT for determination of a serious offence of fraud and B consequence of mandatory disqualification with grave consequences akin to civil death. The aforesaid has no substance. As observed hereinabove, NCLT shall exercise the quasi-judicial powers under section 140(5) with all the powers akin to civil court. Ample opportunity shall be given by the NCLT before passing any final . C 13. Now so far as another submission that section 140(5) is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India and discriminates against the auditors unfairly in comparison to similarly placed alleged perpetrators, such as directors, management etc. It is required to be noted that the role of auditors cannot be equated with directors and/or management. Auditors play very important role in the affairs of the company and D therefore they have to act in the larger public interest and all other stakeholders including investors etc. Chapter X of the Act specifically for the “Audit and Auditors” looking to the importance of the auditors. Therefore, section 140(5) cannot be said to be discriminatory and/or violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. E 14. Now so far as the submission that the penalty in the form of automatic disqualification of auditors and of the entire firm including partners and that too for a period of five years to become the auditor of any other company is highly disproportionate is concerned, it is ultimately for the legislature/Parliament to provide the debarment. On the principle of joint and severe liability, the auditors and the entire firm including F partners shall be liable and therefore can be subjected to section 140(5) and the consequences mentioned in section 140(5) of the Act, 2013. So far as the submission that the disqualification is akin to civil death and section 140(5) impinges upon BSR and its partners’ fundamental right to carry on its profession, as guaranteed under Article 19(1)(g) of the G Constitution is concerned, nobody can be permitted to say that despite acting fraudulently, directly or indirectly, they had a right to continue and/or carrying on their profession.