This Court observed: “7. While expressing the concern of the court over the loss of human life and destruction of homesteads and places of worships, we emphasise the need for : (i) Ensuring that due arrangements are made in the relief camps by providing all basic amenities in terms of food and medical care; (ii) Taking all necessary precautions for the rehabilitation of displaced persons; and (iii) Protecting places of religious worship.” This Court directed that where critical medical care is required for persons who are in relief camps, the authorities shall make arrangements for medical care at Army Hospitals or other medical establishments. An updated status report was called from the State of Manipur in regard to the steps taken to provide relief and rehabilitative measures. 4. When the proceedings were next taken up on 17 May 2023, a status report was fi led by the State of Manipur indicating: a. The steps taken to bring normalcy to the law and situation in the State; b. Details of relief camps which have been opened; 1090 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. c. Compensation packages made available on account of death or, as the case may be, injury; d. Security measures taken for protecting religious places; e. Transportation of persons who were stranded due to the ongoing crisis; and f. Registration of FIRs and the recovery of arms.” 5. Besides the challenge to the direction issued by the Acting Chief Justice of the High Court, a batch of writ petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution was moved before this Court. In one of those petitions,2 apprehensions were expressed by the petitioners about threats to safety. The petitioners sought directions for enhancing security in sensitive areas specifi cally with reference to certain vulnerable villages. This Court directed that these apprehensions must be taken into account by the authorities entrusted to monitor law and in the State. The Chief Secretary and the Security Adviser were directed to immediately attend to the grievances after due verifi cation and take such measures as are required to foster confi dence and to ensure peace and tranquillity. The apprehensions which were expressed by the petitioners in other petitions were also directed to be taken into account by the law enforcement authorities. The proceedings were listed before this Court on 20 June, 3 July and 10 July 2023. Noting that the Chief Secretary had fi led a status report, this Court permitted the contesting parties to make concrete suggestions to the State of Manipur and the Union of India for improving the situation. On 11 July 2023, the following submissions were formulated by the Petitioners in Zomi Students Federation v. Union of India:3 “1. Several bodies are reported to be lying unidentifi ed and unclaimed in several mortuaries in hospitals across Imphal including The Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences Morgue, Imphal. Families of persons who are missing and feared dead are unable to reach these mortuaries. The State may designate an offi cer who can be contacted and who 2 WP(C) No 540 of 2023 3 WP (C) No 572 of 2023 DINGANGLUNG GANGMEI v. MUTUM CHURAMANI MEETEI 1091 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] will facilitate visits by such families to mortuaries under escort/protection and enable the process of identifi cation and handover of dead bodies for last rites.