The Court must satisfy itself that various circumstances in the chain of events have been established clearly, and such a completed chain of events must be such as to rule out a reasonable likelihood of the innocence of the accused. It has also been indicated that when the important link goes, the chain of circumstances gets snapped, and the other circumstances cannot, in any manner, establish the guilt of the E accused beyond all reasonable doubts. Counsel also stated that this court has to be watchful and avoid the danger of allowing the suspicion to take the place of legal proof for sometimes, unconsciously it may happen to be a short step between moral certainty and legal proof. It has been indicated by this court that there is a long mental distance between “may F be true” and “must be true” and the same divides conjectures from sure conclusions. It was contended that in the present case, the prosecution was unable to prove beyond reasonable doubt, every circumstance, and the courts below erred in treating suspicion as proof, leading to the appellants’ conviction. G State/Prosecution’s contentions 13. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the state argued that this court should not disturb the concurrent findings of the trial court and 2 1952 (1) SCR 1091 3 1985 (1) SCR 88 4 1997 (7) SCC 156 H 976 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A the High Court. He first dealt with the issue of delayed lodging of the FIR and relied on the trial court’s reasoning, as well as the testimony of PW-1. He argued that when the deceased went missing, there was nothing unnatural on the part of PW-1, his father, in not reporting the absence immediately and instead searching for him. It was only when he was informed that the dead body was found, that he approached the police; B the post mortem corroborated that the boy died due to shock on account of injuries caused due to violence and injuries caused on his person. Learned counsel submitted that all the eyewitnesses who deposed to having seen A-1 to A-3, clearly stated that they had seen the boy in the company of the said appellants. Therefore, the last seen theory was correctly applied. Furthermore, PW-1 in fact, sought to complain to the C police, but without avail. Eventually, he approached the magistrate under Section 156 (3) Cr. PC, which was allowed. 14. It was also submitted that the cumulative effect of the depositions of PW- 4 and PW-5 was that the deceased boy was seen last, in the company of the first two accused, early morning near the D place where his body was discovered subsequently. Given that the report of this was made immediately after discovery of the body, on 10.10.1999, the informant could not be faulted for not taking prompt action. The inquest, which was held the next day, also concluded that death occurred under suspicious circumstances, having regard to the nature of injuries E on the deceased’s body.