Those exceptions, D bit by bit, would then eviscerate the content of the main right itself. Undesirable lapses in upholding of fundamental rights by the legislature, or the executive, can be rectified by assertion of constitutional principles by this Court. However, a decision by this Court that an exception could be carved out remains permanently as a part of judicial canon, and E becomes a part of the constitutional interpretation itself. It can be used in the future in a manner and form that may far exceed what this Court intended or what the constitutional text and values can bear. We are not proposing that Constitutions cannot be interpreted in a manner that allows F the nation-State to tackle the problems it faces. The principle is that exceptions cannot be carved out willy-nilly, and without forethought as to the damage they may cause. 86.One of the chief dangers of making exceptions to principles that have become a part of constitutional law, G through aeons of human experience, is that the logic, and ease of seeing exceptions, would become entrenched as a part of the constitutional . Such logic would then lead to seeking exceptions, from protective walls of all fundamental H 50 (1986) 3 SCC 615 KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 637 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] rights, on grounds of expediency and claims that there are no A solutions to problems that the society is confronting without the evisceration of fundamental rights. That same logic could then be used by the State in demanding exceptions to a slew of other fundamental rights, leading to violation of human rights of citizens on a massive scale.” B 30. Again, in Secretary, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Govt. of India vs. Cricket Association of Bengal51, this Court cautioned that the restrictions on free speech can be imposed only on the basis of Article 19(2). In Ramlila Maidan Incident, in re.52, this Court developed a three-pronged test namely, (i) that the C restriction can be imposed only by or under the authority of law and not by exercise of the executive power; (ii) that such restriction must be reasonable; and (iii) that the restriction must be related to the purposes mentioned in clause (2) of Article 19. 31. That the eight heads of restrictions contained in clause (2) of D Article 19 are exhaustive can be established from another perspective also. The nature of the restrictions on free speech imposed by law/ judicial pronouncements even in countries where a higher threshold is maintained, are almost similar. To drive home this point, we are presenting in the following table, a comparative note relating to different jurisdictions: E F G 51 (1995) 2 SCC 161 52 (2012) 5 SCC 1 H 638 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A B C D E F G H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 639 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] A B C 32. Since the eight heads of restrictions contained in clause (2) of D Article 19 seek to protect: (i) the individual – against the infringement of his dignity, reputation, bodily autonomy and property; (ii) different sections of society professing and practicing, different E religious beliefs/sentiments - against offending their beliefs and sentiments; (iii) classes/groups of citizens belonging to different races, linguistic identities etc.- against an attack on their identities; (iv) women and children – against the violation of their special rights; F (v) the State - against the breach of its security; (vi) the country - against an attack on its sovereignty and integrity; (vii) the Court – against an attempt to undermine its authority, we think that the restrictions contained in clause (2) of Article 19 G are exhaustive and no further restriction need to be incorporated.