34. The legal effect of Section 5A of the Act 1986, if juxtaposed in to Section 5 read with Section 3(3) will be:— (1) that Central Government is competent to issue certain directions C under Section 5; (2) that the power under Section 5 can also be exercised by the Authority constituted under Section 3(3); and (3) that the directions issued under Section 5, either by the Central Government itself or by the Authority constituted under Section D 3(3) are amenable to the appellate jurisdiction of the National Green Tribunal. 35. We now proceed to consider whether the NGT has the power & jurisdiction to issue directions to the CPCB/its delegates to take all such measures if in a given case the NGT finds that such directions are E necessary in the interest of justice. 36. Section 3 of the Act 1986 expressly empowers the Central Government or its delegate, as the case may be, to “take all such measures as it deems necessary or expedient for the purpose of protecting and improving the quality of environment.........”. Section 5 clothes the Central F Government or its delegate with the power to issue directions for achieving the objects of the Act. Read with the wide definition of “environment” in Section 2(a), Sections 3 and 5 resply clothe the Central Government with all such powers as are “necessary or expedient for the purpose of protecting and improving the quality of the environment”. The Central G Government is empowered to take all measures and issue all such directions as are called for the above purpose. 37. We take notice of the fact that the Central Government has framed the National Green Tribunal (Practices and Procedures) Rules, 2011 (for short, ‘the NGT Rules’). For our purpose, Rule 24 is important H which reads thus:- M/S INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED v. V. B. R. MENON 231 & OTHERS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] “Rule 24. and directions in certain cases.— The A Tribunal may make such s or give such directions as may be necessary or expedient to give effect to its or to prevent abuse of its process or to secure the ends of justice.” 38. The aforesaid Rule 24 fell for the consideration of this Court in Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai v.Ankita Sinha,2021 B SCC OnLine SC 897. We quote the few relevant observations made by this Court in Ankita Sinha (supra) as regards the powers of the National GreenTribunal:- “16.3 The said Rules make it clear that the NGT has been given wide discretionary powers to secure the ends of justice. This power C is coupled with the duty to be exercised for achieving the objectives. The intention understandably being to preserve and protect the environment and the matters connected thereto. 16.4 By choosing to employ a phrase of wide import, i.e. secure the ends of justice, the legislature has nudged towards a liberal D interpretation. Securing justice is a term of wide amplitude and does not simply mean adjudicating disputes between two rival entities.