[Source: G.P. Singh’s th F “Principles of Statutory Interpretation” – 15 Edition]. 39. It is also in the nature of an exception intended to restrain the enacting clause to particular cases. The Explanation in the instant case being in the nature of a proviso is a qualifying or excepting provision to what is stated in XLVII Rule 1 CPC which state the grounds for seeking a review. Hence, the object and intendment of the proviso must G be given its full effect. The object and purpose of the Explanation can be related to the following three maxims: (i) Nemo debet bis vexari pro una et eadem causa (No man should be vexed twice for the same cause); H 242 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A (ii) Interest reipublicae ut sit ftnis litium (It is in the interest of the State that there should be an end to a litigation); and (iii) Res judicata pro veritate occipitur (A judicial decision must be accepted as correct). B These maxims would indicate that there must be an end to litigation otherwise the rights of persons would be in an endless confusion and justice would suffer. 40. At the same time, there are a line of decisions which have held that exercising power of review for “for any other sufficient reason” C must be analogous to the two reasons mentioned in the provision therein, namely, – 1) who from the discovery of new and important matter or evidence, which after the exercise of due diligence, was not within his knowledge or could not be produced by him D at the time when the decree was passed or was made; or 2) on account of some mistake or error apparent on the face of the record. 41. The Explanation to XLVII Rule 1 CPC states that the E fact that a decision on a question of law on which the of the Court is based has been reversed or modified by the subsequent decision of a superior Court in any other case, shall not be a ground for the review of such . Thus, the bar is for a Court to review its , when a Court superior to it has subsequently reversed or F modified a on a question of law. As far as this Court is concerned, a superior Court would mean a Larger Bench of this Court which would pass a or contrary to the s sought to be reviewed. 42. However, in taxation matters, the position is slightly different. G In Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd. vs. Union of India (2006) 3 SCC 1, it was observed that overruling of a decision takes place in a subsequent lis where the precedential value of the decision is called in question. That in our judicial system, it is open to a Court of superior jurisdiction or strength before which a decision of a Bench of lower strength is cited to act as an authority to overrule such a decision. But this overruling would H GOVT.