(j) ‘period of limitation’ (which) means the period of limitation prescribed for any suit, appeal or application by the Schedule, and ‘prescribed period’ means the period of limitation computed in accordance with the provisions of this Act;” D “4. Expiry of prescribed period when court is closed.- Where the prescribed period for any suit, appeal or application expires on a day when the court is closed, the suit, appeal or application may be instituted, preferred or made on the day when the court reopens. E Explanation.- A court shall be deemed to be closed on any day within the meaning of this section if during any part of its normal working hours it remains closed on that day.” “Section 10 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 F 10. Computation of time.- (1) Where, by any 47 (Central Act) or Regulation made after the commencement of this Act, any act or proceeding is directed or allowed to be done or taken in any Court or office on a certain day or within a prescribed period, then, if the Court or office is closed on that day or G the last day of the prescribed period, the act or proceeding shall be considered as done or taken in due time if it is done or taken on the next day afterwards on which the Court or office is open: Provided that nothing in this section shall apply to any H act or proceeding to which the Indian Limitation Act, 1877, 48 applies. BHIMASHANKAR SAHAKARI SAKKARE KARKHANE NIYAMITA v. 377 WALCHANDNAGAR INDUSTRIES LTD. (WIL) [M. R. SHAH, J.] (2)This section applies also to all 49 (Central Acts) and A Regulations made on or after the fourteenth day of January, 1887.” (emphasis supplied)” 7.1 Section 34(3) of the Arbitration Act and Sections 2(j) and B 4 of the Limitation Act, 1963 fell for consideration before this Court in the case of Assam Urban (Supra). Even the very issue raised in the present appeal fell for consideration before this Court in the case of Assam Urban (Supra). In the aforesaid decision, this Court interpreted the aforesaid provisions and has specifically observed and held that the benefit of exclusion of period during which Court is closed is available C only when application for setting aside the award is filed within ‘prescribed period of limitation’ and it is not available in respect of period extendable by the Court in exercise of its discretion. By holding so, this Court considered the earlier decisions in the case of Popular Construction Co. (Supra) and State of Maharashtra vs. Hindustan Construction D Co. Ltd. reported in (2010) 4 SCC 518 and has observed and held in paragraphs 6 to 9 as under: “6. Section 34(3) of the 1996 Act provides that an application for setting aside an award may be made within three months of the receipt of the arbitral award. The proviso that follows E sub-section (3) of Section 34 provides that on sufficient cause being shown, the court may entertain the application for setting aside the award after the period of three months and within a further period of 30 days but not thereafter.