The Court observed that “the principle” would be attracted when a period is delimited by a Statute or Rule, which has both a beginning and an end; the word ‘from’ indicates the beginning, i.e. the opening day which is to be excluded and, the last day is included by use of the word ‘to’. The requisite ‘from’ for applicability of Section 9 is G prescribed for a period ‘from’ and ‘to’, i.e. when the period is marked by terminus quo and terminus ad quem. This principle being the underlying method for applicability of Section 9 of the General Clauses Act, 1897. Significantly, in Section 167 application, there is no starting or ending point for completion of the investigation. In the scheme of the CrPC, as has been elaborated above, the provisions contained in sub- H 940 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A section (1) of Section 167 runs in continuation of sub-section (2). The production of the accused before the Magistrate is a sequel to his arrest by the police and at the same time, the accused too has a right to be produced before the Magistrate, within 24 hours of his arrest. The day on which the accused is brought on remand before the Magistrate, sub- section (2) of Section 167 empowers the Magistrate to authorize the B detention with the police either by continuing it or remanding him to Magisterial custody. There cannot be a pause/break between the two processes. No de- limitation is conceptualized in Section 167 nor can it be fitted into a period of limitation ‘from’ and ‘to’ since there is no limitation for completion of investigation and filing of the chargesheet. The C production before the Magistrate is a process in continuation of arrest by the police and the Magistrate will authorize detention for not more than 15 days in the whole but if he is satisfied that sufficient grounds exist, he may authorize an accused’s detention beyond 15 days otherwise than in the custody of police. Pertinently, there is no fixed end point within which, the police or investigation authorities are required to D complete the investigation. However, if the investigation is not completed and chargesheet is not filed within 60 or 90 days, a right of default bail accrues to the accused. The anterior period of custody with the police prior to the remand is not detention. It is only so, pursuant to an authorization issued from the Magistrate. The period of detention by the E Magistrate runs from the very day of remand . Sub-section (2) of Section 167 of the CrPC pertains to the power of the Magistrate to remand an accused and there is no reason why the date of the Magesterial Court’s gaze on the accused, should be excluded. In to avoid long incarceration of an accused only because the investigation is being carried out in a leisurely manner, the legislature was prompted, to confer a right F on the accused to be released on default bail if he is prepared to offer bail bond and the investigation may still continue.