The marginal note to Article 370 states that the Article deals with “temporary provisions with respect to the State of Jammu and Kashmir”; c. The heading of Part XXI of the Constitution (temporary and transitional provisions) and the marginal note were a part of the Constitution as originally adopted by the Constituent Assembly; d. Following well-settled principles of law, the marginal note may prima facie furnish some guidance on the purpose and intent underlying the adoption of the provision but it cannot control the plain meaning of Article 370 which must be deduced by interpreting all its provisions; and e. While interpreting Article 370, regard must be had to the entire provision and its parts ought not to be construed in a manner disconnected or disjointed from the meaning and scheme of the provision in its entirety. II. Interpretation of Article 370 309. Clause (1) of Article 370 begins with a non-obstante provision. The intent underlying the adoption of this phrase in clause (1) is that what IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 189 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] follows in sub clauses (a) to (d) is intended to operate untrammelled by the other provisions of the Constitution. 310. Sub-clause (a) of clause (1) stipulated that the provisions of Article 238 shall not apply in relation to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Article 238 as originally adopted was placed in Part VII of the Constitution which dealt with the States in Part B of the First Schedule. Article 238 stipulated that Part VI of the Constitution which dealt with the States in Part A of the First Schedule would apply to the Part B States subject to modifi cations and omissions. Part VI inter alia contained provisions for the Executive (Chapter II), the State Legislature (Chapter III), the legislative power of the Governor (Chapter IV), the High Courts in the States (Chapter V), and the Subordinate Courts (Chapter VI). Since the Constitution originally incorporated Part A and Part B States in its First Schedule separately, Part VI contained provisions for the Part A States while Article 238 which was the sole provision in Part VII stipulated that Part VI would apply to the Part B States subject to modifi cations and omissions. Included amongst them was that the word Governor shall stand substituted by the Rajpramukh. Once the distinction between Part A and Part B States was eff aced by the Seventh Amendment to the Constitution in 1956, Part VII itself which comprised of Article 238 was repealed. Correspondingly, the title of Part VI was amended so as to delete the reference to Part A States. The eff ect of clause (1)(a) of Article 370 was that though the State of Jammu and Kashmir was a Part B State at the adoption of the Constitution, the provisions of Article 238 did not apply to the State. As a consequence, Part VI had no application to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. With the Seventh Amendment to the Constitution in 1956, Article 152 was amended to insert the words “does not include the State of Jammu and Kashmir”247.