The grounds on which the respondents submitted an application to permit them to adduce evidence shall be dealt with and considered hereinafter. 2.1 The Court dealing with interim application being IA No. 4 in section 34 application rejected the said interim application and refused B to permit the respondents to adduce evidence by observing that if such a permission is granted, it would defeat the object and purpose of early disposal of arbitration proceedings and it would delay further hearing of section 34 application. For that purpose, reliance was placed on the provisions of Section 34(2)(a) of the Act, as amended in the year 2019, C by which expression “furnish proof” in section 34(2)(a) came to be substituted with the expression “establish on the basis of record of arbitral tribunal”. Therefore, the Court dealing with section 34 application opined that the said amendment intended to limit the scope of judicial review under Section 34 of the Act only in exceptional circumstances enumerated under Section 34(2)(a) of the Act on the basis of the record available D and even if the grounds urged relate to section 34(2)(b) of the Act, the applicants cannot have a right to produce additional evidence. The passed by the Court dealing with Section 34 application which rejected the interim application being IA No. 4 preferred by the respondents permitting them to adduce additional evidence/evidence was the subject E matter of writ petition before the High Court. 2.2 Before the High Court, it was conceded on behalf of the appellant herein – original respondent before the High Court, so recorded in paragraph 8 of the impugned , that the provisions of Section 34 (2)(a) of the Act, as it stood prior to Act 33 of 2019 would apply, F namely, pre-amendment to section 34(2)(a) of the Act shall be applicable. That thereafter, by the impugned and , after following the decision of this Court in the case of Fiza Developers and Inter-Trade Private Limited v. AMCI (India) Private Limited & Another, reported in (2009) 17 SCC 796, the High Court has allowed the said writ petition and set aside the passed by the court below and has allowed the G application preferred by the respondents herein permitting them to adduce evidence in the proceedings under section 34 of the Act. The impugned and passed by the High Court permitting him respondents to adduce evidence/additional evidence in the proceedings under Section 34 of the Act is the subject matter of present appeal before this Court. H 996 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 3. Shri Krishnan Venugopal, learned Senior Advocate has appeared on behalf of the appellant and Shri Balaji Srinivasan, learned Advocate has appeared on behalf of the respondents – original writ petitioners. 3.1 Shri Krishnan Venugopal, learned senior counsel appearing B on behalf of the appellant has vehemently submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case, the High Court has committed a very serious error in permitting the respondents to adduce evidence in an application under section 34 of the Act.