Suicide prevention services and regular visits by psychologists / psychiatrists to treat the impact of violence and trauma; K. Regular visits by psychologists, psychiatrists, and counsellors who are specifically trained to treat children and adolescents; L. Ensuring that women, children and persons suff ering from physical and mental disabilities have equal access to resources to meet their basic needs; and M. Ensuring that information regarding the availability of the facilities listed above is disseminated and awareness is created amongst the residents of the relief camps. v. Ensuring the payment of compensation and restitution to victims of violence; and vi. Issuing directions for the appointment of nodal offi cers at relief camps and the provision of toll-free helplines to provide updates on any investigation, missing persons, and the recovery of dead bodies. The nodal offi cers must also DINGANGLUNG GANGMEI v. MUTUM CHURAMANI MEETEI 1107 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] ensure that they maintain a database of all persons who are housed in their respective relief camps. They must use this database to coordinate with one another and ensure that minors and other persons who have been separated from their families are reunited with their families at the earliest. 21. The three-Judge Committee appointed by this Court would, as part of its remit, enquire into and take steps necessary for the disbursement of compensation including the following: a. Issuing directions to the Manipur State Legal Services Authority to ensure award and payment of compensation to all victims under Section 357A CrPC, NALSA’s Compensation Scheme for Women Victims/Survivors of Sexual Assault/other Crimes 2018, and the Manipur Victim Compensation Scheme 2019; b. Where the victim is deceased, the next of kin should be identifi ed for the payment of compensation; c. A report of compliance be fi led before this Court within six weeks with full particulars of the case, victim/witness, compensation awarded, date of payment and the persons to whom the payment was made; d. The Member-Secretary NALSA shall monitor together with the three-Judge Committee on measures taken for witness protection, compensation and the rehabilitation and treatment of victims; and e. Issuing directions to the State of Manipur to settle compensation for damages caused to the movable and immovable properties of persons aff ected by violence; and f. The updated status report shall be fi led before this Court on a fortnightly basis. 22. The State of Manipur and the Union Government have indicated that there are eleven FIRs involving cases of sexual violence against women and children. Details of the statement tendered by the Director General 1108 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. of Police, Manipur, who was present in Court, under its directions, are reproduced below: “Sl. FIR No. & Section Police station District No. 1 FIR No. 94(5)2023 PRT-PS u/s 147/ 148/ Porompat PS Imphal 149/302 IPC. East 2 FIR No. 541(6)2023 PRT-PS u/s Porompat PS Imphal 326/354/366/375/302/34 IPC East Corresponding to FIR No. ZERO (65) (5)2023 SKL PS u/s 326/ 354/ 366/ 375/ 302/ 34 IPC 3 FIR No.