(iv) The Constitution Bench in the case of M.P.V. Sundararamier and Co. (supra) was dealing with the validity of Sales Tax Laws Violation Act, 1956. In paragraph 41, while dealing with diff erence between law being unconstitutional on account of it being not within the competence of the legislature or because it was off ending some constitutional restrictions diff erentiated between the two. Relevant extract is reproduced here under: “41. Now, in considering the question as to the effect of unconstitutionality of a statute, it is necessary to remember that unconstitutionality might arise either because the law is in respect of a matter not within the competence of the legislature, or because the matter itself being within its competence, its provisions off end some constitutional restrictions. In a Federal Constitution where legislative powers are distributed between diff erent bodies, the competence of the legislature to enact a particular law must depend upon whether the topic of that legislation has been assigned by the Constitution Act to that legislature. Thus, a law of the State on an Entry in List 1, Schedule VII of the Constitution would be wholly incompetent and void. But the law may be on a topic within its competence, as for example, an Entry in List II, but it might infringe restrictions imposed by the Constitution on the character of the law to be passed, as for example, limitations enacted in Part III of the Constitution. Here also, the law to the extent of the repugnancy will be void. Thus, a legislation on a topic not within the competence of the legislature and a legislation within its competence but violative of constitutional limitations have both the same reckoning in a court of law; they are both of them unenforceable. But does it follow from this that both the 58 (1951) 1 SCR 682 CBI v. R.R. KISHORE 45 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] laws are of the same quality and character, and stand on the same footing for all purposes? This question has been the subject of consideration in numerous decisions in the American Courts, and the preponderance of authority is in favour of the view that while a law on a matter not within the competence of the legislature is a nullity, a law on a topic within its competence but repugnant to the constitutional prohibitions is only unenforceable. This distinction has a material bearing on the present discussion. If a law is on a fi eld not within the domain of the legislature, it is absolutely null and void, and a subsequent cession of that fi eld to the legislature will not have the eff ect of breathing life into what was a still-born piece of legislation and a fresh legislation on the subject would be requisite. But if the law is in respect of a matter assigned to the legislature but its provisions disregard constitutional prohibitions, though the law would be unenforceable by reason of those prohibitions, when once they are removed, the law will become eff ective without re-enactment.