1 and the parties against whom reliefs were sought as also the pleadings with respect to cause of action in the following words: - “[8.5] In the present case as observed herein above there are license agreements containing the arbitration clause, executed between the plaintiff and the original defendant No.1 on one hand. B Admittedly, the original defendant Nos.2 to 5 are not party to the arbitration agreement. There is a tripartite agreement between the original plaintiff, original defendant No.1 and the original defendant No.2 (Bank of Baroda) under which the plaintiff and the original defendant No.2 have prayed the reliefs. It is an C admitted position that in the tripartite agreement between the original plaintiff, original defendant No.1 and the original defendant No.2 (Bank of Baroda), there does not exist any arbitration agreement. Under the tripartite agreement the original defendant No.1 has placed the title deeds and the said tripartite agreement as such can be said to be an independent agreement and under D the said tripartite agreement there is a mortgage by deposit of title deeds in respect of immovables and hypothecation of movables. It appears that the said tripartite agreement was executed while sanctioning a corporate loan of Rs.500 lakh in favour of the original plaintiff and the charge and mortgage has been created in favour E of Bank of Baroda – original defendant No.2. It appears that during the pendency and subsistence of the aforesaid mortgage and as alleged by the original plaintiff surreptitiously and in breach of the injunction granted by this Court as well as the undertaking before the Industrial Tribunal, the original defendant No.1 has sold some of the properties (mortgaged properties) in favour of F original defendant Nos.3 to 5. In light of the above broad facts and averments in the plaint, pleadings on the cause of action and the reliefs sought are required to be considered. [8.6] In the plaint in Commercial Civil Suit No.90/2017, the plaintiff has sought the relief against the following defendants: G 1. Gujarat Composite Limited 2. Bank of Baroda 3. Real Home Corporation - a partnership firm H 120 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 4. M/s. Raj Corporation (Confirming Party) - partnership firm 5. RJD Buildcon Ltd. The suit is filed for recovery of legitimate dues, cancellation of sale deed and for permanent injunction. In the suit the plaintiff has prayed for the following reliefs. B “(A) This Hon’ble Court may be pleased to direct the defendant No.1 to pay to the Plaintiff herein a sum of Rs.32.66 Crores with interest @ 14% per annum from the date of suit till realization herein under this decree and any further s to be passed by this Hon’ble Court; C (B) This Hon’ble Court may be pleased to hold and declare that the Deeds of Conveyance dated 23rd January, 2015 registered vide registration no. 742 and 750 executed by defendant No.1 in favour of defendant Nos.3 and 5, as null and void; D (C) This Hon’ble Court may be pleased to permanently restrain the defendant Nos.1, 3, 4 and 5 or their agent, executors, or administrators from disturbing or obstructing the plaintiffs occupation possession of the suit property till the plaintiff claim made in para (a) and (b) above is fully discharged; E (D) This Hon’ble Court may be pleased to direct the defendant No.