Rule 9(5) providing for forfeiture is part of the Rules, which have validly been framed in exercise of statutory power conferred by section 38 of the SARFAESI Act. Law is well settled that G rules, when validly framed, become part of the statute. Apart from the presumption as to constitutionality of a statute, the contesting respondent did not mount any challenge to sub-rule (5) of rule 9 of the Rules. The applicability and enforcement of sub-rule (5) of rule 9 on its terms, therefore, has to be secured in appropriate cases. H AUTHORISED OFFICER STATE BANK OF INDIA v. 1085 C. NATARAJAN & ANR. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 23. That apart, significantly, section 35 of the SARFAESI Act A mandates that the provisions thereof would have effect, notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force or any other instrument having effect by virtue of any such law. At the same time, section 37 of the SARFAESI Act postulates that provisions thereof or the rules made thereunder shall be in addition B to and not in derogation of the enumerated enactments or any other law for the time being in force. What is of importance is that the non-obstante clause in section 35 of the SARFAESI Act is not subject to section 37 thereof; however, a plain reading of the latter provision would suggest that rights, liabilities, obligations, remedies, etc. created/imposed/ provided by the SARFAESI Act and the Rules are preserved, irrespective of C what is provided in the stated enactments or any other law for the time being in force. The regime under the SARFAESI Act is altogether different and sections 35 and 37 are intended to extend a cover to the secured creditor if it abides by the governing law, which cannot be subject to any other provision of a general law like the Contract Act. Since D section 35 overrides other laws in the same or related field and having regard to the scheme of the SARFAESI Act and the dominant purpose sought to be achieved, as noted above, none can and should be allowed to take the auctions conducted thereunder lightly. No court ought to countenance a bidder entering and exiting the process at his sweet will without any real intent to take it to fruition. The provisions of the E SARFAESI Act as well as the Rules are to be interpreted positively and purposefully in the context of a given case to give meaning to sub- rule (5) of rule 9. Besides, we have no hesitation to hold that in case of any seeming conflict or inconsistency between the general law, i.e., the Contract Act and the special law, i.e., the SARFAESI Act, it is the latter F that would prevail. 24. The up-shot of the aforesaid discussion is that whenever a challenge is laid to an of forfeiture made by an authorized officer under sub-rule (5) of rule 9 of the Rules by a bidder, who has failed to deposit the entire sale price within ninety days, the tribunals/courts ought G to be extremely reluctant to interfere unless, of course, a very exceptional case for interference is set up.