In the absence of a challenge, what is contained in a rule and also the like provision in the regulation, the resultant position would be the exact shape and the location is to be determined by the CMDA. 163. The problem, however, still persists in the form of the meaning G of the words‘communal and recreational purpose’ in the case of a site having an extent between 3,000 square metres to 10,000 square metres. Rule 19 (b)(vi) to 19(2)(b)(vi) contemplate that the space so required is to be transferred to the authority or local body designated by the authority free of cost through a deed. It is further provided that the local body H may provide the residents association or flat owners association for ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1155 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] maintaining such reserved space as park. Significantly, in the case of a A site having an extent between 3,000 to 10,000 square metres, the Rule declares that public access to the area as earmarked will not be insisted upon. When it comes to the extent of the site with which this Court is concerned, viz, where the extent of site exceeds 10,000 square metres, the requirement in the Rule, viz., is common to 10 percent of area excluding B road had to be transferred by a gift is insisted upon. It is provided that it is obligatory to transfer the reserved 10 percent of the site area. No charges can be accepted in the case of new development or re- developments. It will be noticed that in the case of Rule 19(b)(II)(vi) in the case of site having extent between 3,000 square metres to 10,000 square metres, the CMDA or the local body may permit the residents C association or flat owners association for maintaining the reserved space as parks. In the case of site having extent of above 10,000 square metres under the column ‘reservation’, it is not provided that the flat owners or residents association may be permitted to maintain the reserved park. However, it will be noticed that Rule 19(b)(II)(vii) reads as follows: - D “(vii) The Authority reserves the right to enforce themaintenance of such reserved lands by the owner tothe satisfaction of the Authority or the owner to transfer the land to the Authority or any local body designated by it, free of cost, through a deed, the Authority as the case may be, reserve the right to decide on E entrusting the maintenance work to institution/individual on merits of the case. Explanations under DCR 19 (b):- (1) For Economically Weaker Section group housing, the set back shall be 4.5 metre from the site boundary and the spacing between F the blocks shall be a minimum of 3 metres. The vehicular access way within the site shall have a minimum width of 4.5 metres. Other stipulations shall be as in rule 19(b) (II) above. But, this shall be applied only in sites duly declared for Economically Weaker Section housing by Government.