Both, the learned trial Court as well as the first appellate Court held that the plaintiffs have failed to prove their title as the PoA on the basis of which plaintiff No.2 claimed the right/title is not forthcoming and/or not produced before the Court. Therefore, both, the learned trial Court as well as the E first appellate Court held that the requirement of Section 33(1)(c) of the Registration Act has not been satisfied. However, by drawing the statutory presumption under Section 60 of the Registration Act, the High Court has believed the sale deeds dated 3.9.1968 and 29.09.1968 and has held that the plaintiffs have proved their title. But, by the impugned F and and drawing the statutory presumption, the High Court while exercising the powers under Section 100 CPC, has set aside the concurrent findings recorded by the courts below. 6. When the plaintiffs claimed title on the basis of the aforesaid two sale deeds dated 2.9.1968 and 29.09.1968, it was for the plaintiffs to G prove even the execution of the sale deeds. The defendants were not required to challenge the sale deeds in the suit filed by the plaintiffs, who prayed for a decree for a declaration of title in their favour. When plaintiff No.2 claimed title on the basis of the PoA executed by the original owner and thereafter executed the sale deed in favour of plaintiff No.1 as PoA of the original owner, the conditions provided under Section 33(1)(c) of H MANIK MAJUMDER AND OTHERS v. DIPAK KUMAR SAHA 159 (DEAD) THROUGH LRS. & OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] the Registration Act are required to be strictly complied with. Sections A 32 and 33 of the Registration Act, which are relevant for our purpose, read as under: “32. Persons to present documents for registration.—Except in the cases mentioned in 33[Sections 31, 88 and 89], every document to be registered under this Act, whether such registration B be compulsory or optional, shall be presented at the proper registration office,— (a) by some person executing or claiming under the same, or in the case of a copy of a decree or , claiming under the decree or , or C (b) by the representative or assign of such person, or (c) by the agent of such person, representative or assign, duly authorized by power-of-attorney executed and authenticated in manner hereinafter mentioned. D 33. Power-of-attorney recognizable for purposes of Section 32.—(1) For the purposes of Section 32, the following powers- of-attorney shall alone be recognized, namely— (a) if the principal at the time of executing the power-of-attorney resides in any part of 35[India] in which this Act is for the time E being in force, a power-of-attorney executed before and authenticated by the Registrar or Sub-Registrar within whose district or sub-district the principal resides; (b) if the principal at the time aforesaid resides in any part of India in which this Act is not in force, a power-of-attorney F executed before and authenticated by any Magistrate; (c) if the principal at the time aforesaid does not reside in 37[India], a power-of attorney executed before and authenticated by a Notary Public, or any Court, Judge, Magistrate, Indian Consul or Vice-Consul, or representative of G the Central Government: Provided that the following persons shall not be required to attend at any registration-office or Court for the purpose of executing any such power-of-attorney as is mentioned in clauses (a) and (b) of this Section, namely— H 160 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R.