The intendment appears to be that the obligations are mutual….” D (emphasis supplied) Hence, the power to initiate recovery proceedings by filing a suit against the defaulting consumer is independent of the power to disconnect electrical supply as a means of recovery. E 124. The second issue pertains to the implication of the period of two years provided in Section 56(2) on the civil remedies of Utilities to recover electricity dues. Section 56(2), which begins with a non obstante clause, provides a limitation of two years for recovery of dues by the licensee through the means of disconnecting electrical supply. It puts a restriction on the right of the licensee to recover any sum due from a F consumer under Section 56 after a period of two years from the date when such sum became first due. If this provision is invoked against a consumer after two years, the action will be permissible when the sum, which was first due, has been shown continuously as recoverable as arrears of charges for electricity supplied. Under Section 56, the liability G to pay arises on the consumption of electricity and the obligation to pay arises when a bill is issued by the licensee for the first time. Accordingly, the period of limitation of two years starts only after issuance of the bill. 125. Before we deal with the implication of Section 56(2) on the civil remedies available to a licensee, it is important to clarify that when H 706 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A the liability incurred by a consumer is prior to the period when the 2003 Act came into force, then the bar of limitation under Section 56(2) is not applicable. In Kusumam Hotels Pvt Ltd v. Kerala State Electricity Board,59 this Court has held that Section 56(2) applies after the 2003 Act came into force and the bar of limitation under Section 56(2) would not apply to a liability incurred by the consumer prior to the enforcement B of the Act. In terms of Section 6 of the General Clauses Act 1897, the liability incurred under the previous enactment would continue and the claim of the licensee to recover electricity would be governed by the regulatory framework which was in existence prior to the enforcement of the 2003 Act. C 126. In its report dated 19 December 2002, the Standing Committee of Energy opined that the restriction for recovery of arrears under Section 56 was considered necessary to protect the consumer from arbitrary billings.60 In other words, the enactment of Section 56(2) was to address the mischief of arbitrary billings. Hence, Section 56(2) D was incorporated to ensure that a licensee does not abuse its special power of disconnection of electrical supply. Section 56(2) ensures that a licensee does not have the liberty to arbitrarily impose a bill after a long period and then recover such a huge amount through the drastic step of disconnection of electrical supply. E 127. In Rahamatullah Khan (supra), a two judge Bench of this Court dealt with the applicability of the period of limitation provided by Section 56(2) on an additional or supplementary demand raised by the licensee.