In Birakishore Kar v. State of Orissa reported in (2000) 9 SCC 541, the contraband was recovered from a plastic bag on which the accused was sitting while travelling in a train. As the body of the accused was not searched, Section 50 was held to be inapplicable. This Court held as under:- “3. What is now contended by the learned counsel for the appellant is that the mandatory requirement of Section 50 of the NDPS Act, 1985, viz., that the person to be searched should be told about his right to be examined in the presence of a Magistrate or a gazetted offi cer was not complied with in this case. This contention is really misconceived. In this case it was not the person of the appellant which was searched. He was found sitting on a plastic bag which belonged to him and which contained poppy straw. As pointed out by this Court in State of Punjab v. Baldev Singh [(1999) 6 SCC 172], Section 50 would come into play only in the case of search of a person as distinguished from search of any premise etc. As we do not fi nd any substance in this appeal, it is dismissed.” (Emphasis supplied) 70. In Kanhaiya Lal v. State of M.P. reported in (2000) 10 SCC 380, opium was recovered from the bag which was being carried by the accused. Section 50 was not made applicable as it was held that the recovery was made from the bag and not the person, and it was held as under:- “2. The only point raised in this appeal is that the mandatory requirement of Section 50 of the Act was not complied with in this case and therefore the conviction of the appellant is illegal. In our opinion, there is no substance in this contention because 1 kg of opium was not found from the person of the appellant but it was found from a bag which was being carried by the appellant. Therefore, this cannot be said to be a case where on search of the person of the accused, a narcotic drug or psychotropic substance was found. In our opinion, RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 337 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] the courts below have correctly held that the appellant is guilty of committing the said off ence. The appeal is, therefore, dismissed.” (Emphasis supplied) 71. Similarly, in Gurbax Singh v. State of Haryana reported in (2001) 3 SCC 28, the accused therein was apprehended while disembarking from a train carrying a gunny bag containing poppy straw weighing 7 kgs. The counsel for the State therein argued that the procedure under Section 50 was not required to be followed as nothing was recovered from the person. This Court while accepting the said argument and referring to Baldev Singh (supra) held that:- “8. In view of the aforesaid decision of the Constitutional Bench, in our view, no further discussion is required on this aspect. However, we may mention that this right is extension of right conferred under Section 100(3) of the Criminal Procedure Code.