The Orissa Khadi and Village Industries Board was established under the Orissa Khadi and Village Industries Board Act, 19552 with the F aim and objective to organize, promote, develop, and regulate Khadi and Village Industries throughout the State of Orissa. 3.2. Section 3 of the Act of 1955 reads as under: - “3. Incorporation of the Board.- (1) The State Government with effect from such date as they may by G notification appoint in this behalf, shall establish for the purpose of this Act a Board to be called the Orissa Khadi and Village Industries Board. 1 Hereinafter also referred to as ‘the Board’. H 2 Hereinafter also referred to as ‘the Act of 1955’/’the Act’. STATE OF ORISSA v. ORISSA KHADI AND VILLAGE INDUSTRIES 1055 BOARD KARAMCHARI SANGH [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] (2) The Board established under Sub-section (1) shall be a A body corporate incorporated by its name with perpetual succession and common seal and may sue and be sued in its corporate name and shall be competent to acquire and hold and dispose of property both movable and immovable and to contract and do all things necessary for the purposes of this Act.” B 3.3. Section 36 of the Act of 1955 stipulates that the Board may, with previous sanction of the State Government, make regulations consistent with the Act and the rules made thereunder to provide, inter alia, for the remuneration, allowances, and other conditions of service of the staff. It reads as under: - C “36. Regulations.- (1) Subject to the provisions of Section 12 the Board may, with the previous sanction of the State Government by notification, make regulations consistent with this Act and rules made thereunder. (2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of D the foregoing power, the Board may make regulations providing for – (a) the procedure and disposal of its business; (b) remuneration, allowances and other conditions of service of the staff of the Board; E (c) functions and duties of the Staff of the Board; (d) functions of Committees and the procedure to be followed, by such Committees in the discharge of their functions.” 3.4. In exercise of the powers so vested under Section 36 of the F Act of 1955, the Board has made the Orissa Khadi and Village Industries Board Regulations, 19603 providing for general conditions of service of its staff, remuneration, allowances, grant of leave, retirement benefits etc. Regulation 40 of the Regulations of 1960 reads as under: - G “40. General conditions of service.- Unless otherwise provided in these regulations, the rules in the Orissa Service Code, Volume I with all its Appendices, except Appendices 1 to 4, 8 and 12, as 3 Hereinafter also referred to as ‘the Regulations of 1960’/’the Regulations’. H 1056 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A amended from time to time by the Government shall apply to the employees of the Board mutatis mutandis. For this purpose, the words “Government”, “Government Servant” and “Head of Department” wherever they occur except in Chapter-I of the Code shall mean “the Board” “the employees of the Board” and “the President” respectively.