xxx xxx xxx D 45. In reply to Para 14, it is submitted that both acts involved in the conspiracy i.e., the act of execution of murder and the acts of destruction of evidence at SoC were integral part of larger conspiracy, wherein none other than the petitioner Y S Avinash Reddy was a beneficiary, in which the execution E of murder was carried out by the accused namely Yerra Gangi Reddy (A-1), Yadati Sunil Yadav (A-2), Gajjala Uma Sankar Reddy (A-3), and Shaikh Dasthagiri(A-4), whereas the second part of the act i.e destruction of evidence at the Scene of Crime was carried out at the behest of petitioner F Y S Avinash Reddy, Y S Bhaskar Reddy, D. Siva Shankar Reddy (A-5) and Yerra Gangi Reddy (A-1) and in their presence and on their instructions, which is evident from the statements of several eye witnesses. Therefore, averments made in this Para attributing motive on the part of Smt Suneetha Reddy and her husband Shri N.Raja G Shekar Reddy behind the murder of Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy are baseless. Though during investigation, it has revealed that Shri Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy had married Smt. Shaikh Shameem during the year 2010 and maintaining relationship with her, that about this marriage family members of Y.S. H Vivekananda Reddy, especially Shri N. Siva Prakash Reddy, SUNEETHA NARREDDY v. Y S AVINASH REDDY & ANR. 573 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] were not happy, however, during investigation, no evidence A has emerged for any of them (i.e. Smt. Suneetha Reddy, Shri N. Raja Shekar Reddy or Shri N. Siva Prakash Reddy) being involved in the conspiracy behind murder of Shri Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy.” 26. At this stage, it is also material to extract from the dated B 18 April 2023, in the remand proceedings before the Principal Special Judge for CBI cases, Hyderabad, pertaining to the co-accused : “(v) The petitioner/complainant further averred that during investigation Shaik Dasthagiri (A-4, turned approver) revealed that after the murder in the intervening night of C 14-15.03.2019, Yerra Gangi Reddy called Shaik Dasthagiri and other two co-accused on 15.03.2019 at about 5.20 AM, and told them not to worry. He also told them that he had talked with Y.S. Bhaskar Reddy and others, they will handle everything and they will receive money later. The D subsequent act of floating of story of death of the deceased due to heart attack and destruction of scene of crime in the presence of Y.S. Avinash Reddy, Y.S. Bhaskar Reddy, D. Siva Shankar Reddy, Gajjala Uday Kumar Reddy and Y. Gangi Reddy corroborates the disclosure of statement of Shaik Dasthagiri. E xxx xxx xxx (vii) The petitioner/complainant further averred that Shaik Dasthagiri (A-4, turned approver) further revealed that on the basis of assurance extended by Yerra Gangi Reddy/A- 1 to the assailants that they need not to worry about the F police as all proofs of murder have been destroyed and everything has been cleaned, the assailants did not reveal the truth when local police called them for enquiry.