As such the restitution principle, as has been consistently applied D by this Court on account of Change in Law, will also be applicable on account of change occurring due to the introduction of SHAKTI Policy. 26. The contention of the appellant that the SHAKTI Policy brings back the position of NCDP 2007 and assures 100% coal supply, is not factually correct. A perusal of the SHAKTI Policy would reveal that E SHAKTI Policy assures 70% of ACQ as against 100% in 2007 NCDP. 27. In that view of the matter, we find that the contention that SHAKTI Policy restores the position of 2007 NCDP is factually incorrect. 28. Insofar as Change in Law Notice is concerned, the APTEL, F in its and , observed thus: “13.7 We have considered the submissions made by APML vis- a-vis the findings in the impugned . It is relevant to note that no submission to the contrary has been advanced by the Respondent, MSEDCL on this issue. In the Impugned , G MERC appears to have expanded the intent of Change in Law notice as a means of intimation to the buyer of power that on account of intended use of alternate coal, the cost of power is likely to increase and then the distribution licensee may decide to not schedule such costly power. Firstly, no such intent can be deciphered from the provisions of the PPA which require a change H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 679 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J. ] in law notice to be given to the procurers. MERC has not A deliberated upon how this regime will impact the implementation of change in law provision in other scenarios. For example, if there is a change in rates of taxes or duties, which entitles the generator to seek change in law relief, can it still be said that the procurer should be intimated about the impact of such changes in B taxes or duties to enable them to decide whether to schedule power or not. In our view, this does not appear to be the intent of change in law notice to the procurers under the PPAs. This is for the simple reason that whether there will be impact on MSEDCL would be known only after MERC decides the change in law claim. Until such time notice given by sellers merely to intimate C the occurrence of change in law event, in our view, will not influence decisions related to scheduling of power on merit principles. In any event in far as preparation of MOD stack is concerned, the normal practice is to prepare MOD on the basis of the energy charge bill of (n-1)th or (n-2)th month is taken into D account in the of precedence. Therefore, the impact of a regular or consistent usage of alternate coal will in anyway be reflected in the MOD stack, albeit with the lag of one or two months.” 29. The aforesaid finding of APTEL cannot be said to be perverse E or based on extraneous consideration or in contravention of any of the statutory provisions.