Agra Tenancy Act of 1901 or the Oudh Rent Act of 1886. Nevertheless, this provision only H 12 Uttar Pradesh Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950, s 3(26). STATE OF UTTARAKHAND AND ANR. v. RAVI KUMAR 973 (DECEASED) THROUGH LRS AND OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] confirms the occupancy rights which were enjoyed at the commencement A of the 1939 Act. Therefore, new occupancy tenancies cannot be created even if it is assumed that all the concerned parties consented to the same.13 52.Even assuming arguendo that Mr. John Vaughn was deemed to have been granted status as an ‘Occupancy Tenant’ under the 1939 B Act, it should be noted that his status as an ‘Occupancy Tenant’ cannot be transferred to the predecessor of Respondents in light of Section 33 of the 1939 Act which is as follows – “33. Interest of other tenants. - (1) The interest of a tenant holding on special terms in Oudh, of an ex-proprietary C tenant, of an occupancy tenant, of a hereditary tenant, and of a non-occupancy tenant is heritable, but is not transferable otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of this Act. (2) Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this section shall D render illegal: (a) a sub-lease of a holding as hereinafter provided. (b) a sale of the interest of a tenant under the provisions of Section 251. E (c) a release or transfer of an interest in favour of a co-tenant: Provided that no person shall be deemed to be a co- tenant notwithstanding that he may have shared in the cultivation of the holding, unless he was a co-tenant from F the commencement of the tenancy, or has become such by succession or has been specifically recognised as such in writing by the land-holder.” The only exception to the bar on transfer of status as an ‘Occupancy Tenant’ in the abovementioned section is under sub-clause G (b) of clause (2) wherein reference is made to Section 251 which in turns deals with sale of occupancy rights when the tenant himself is facing the execution of a decree for arrears of rent. As no factual situation has been indicated stating that Mr. John Vaughn had suffered a decree 13 Shambhu Dayal Singh, The Law of Tenancy in U.P. (3rd edn, Empire Press, 1949) 131. H 974 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A for rent arrears, we are unsure as to how any transfer of ‘Occupancy Tenant’ status in favour of the predecessor of Respondents was sustainable. This confusion further indicates that the predecessor of Respondents could not have been accorded the status of ‘Sirdar’ under the Zamindari Notification on the strength of revenue entries which recorded him as an ‘Occupancy Tenant’. B 53. Hence, the High Court again made sweeping remarks in respect of the tenancy status without any serious consideration as to whether the same were legally tenable or not. We must highlight that no reference is made to any proceedings wherein the status as an occupancy tenant was ever granted to the predecessor of the Respondent and, if C so, how and when the same culminated into the status of ‘Sirdar’ under the Zamindari Notification.