*** The maximum period of detention has been fi xed by Section 13 and the discretion to fi x the duration within the maximum has been given to the Government after considering all the relevant circumstances. Seeing that the maximum period of detention has been fi xed by Section 13 and that the discretion to fi x the period of detention in a particular case has to be exercised after taking into account a number of imponderable circumstances, we do not think that there is any substance in the argument that the power of Government to determine the period of detention is discriminatory or arbitrary.” 62. In A.K. Roy(supra), the Court echoed the above view by holding that: “77. Dr Ghatate’s objection against Section 13 is that it provides for a uniform period of detention of 12 months in all cases, regardless of the nature and seriousness of the grounds on the basis of which the of detention is passed. There is no substance in this grievance because, any law of preventive detention has to provide for the maximum period of detention, just as any punitive law like the Penal Code has to provide for the maximum sentence which can be imposed for any off ence. We should have thought that it would have been wrong to fi x a minimum period of detention, regardless of the nature and seriousness of the grounds of detention. The fact that a person can be detained for the maximum period of 12 months does not place upon the detaining authority the obligation to direct that he shall be detained 26 (1974) 4 SCC 152 AMEENA BEGUM v. THE STATE OF TELANGANA 999 & ORS. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] for the maximum period. The detaining authority can always exercise its discretion regarding the length of the period of detention.” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 63. Whenever an accused is tried for an off ence under a penal law which carries a maximum sentence, the Court is obliged while imposing sentence to apply its mind to the specifi c facts and circumstances of the case and to either impose maximum sentence or a lesser sentence. It has, therefore, a discretion regarding imposition of sentence. We are inclined to the view that there could be no warrant for the proposition that when it boils down to confi rming an of detention under a preventive detention law, which is not punitive, the Government can seek immunity and enjoy an unfettered, unguided and unlimited discretion in continuing detention for the maximum period without even very briefl y indicating its mind as to the “imponderables” that were taken into account for fi xing the maximum period. The very term “maximum period” in section 13 vests the Government with discretion, allowing it to be exercised while considering whether the detention is to be continued for the maximum period of 12 (twelve) months or any lesser period. In our opinion, the relevant provisions of the Act have to be so read as to inhere a safeguard against arbitrary exercise of discretionary power.