The Court is equally intrigued at the behaviour of the Registering Authorities and their acceptance of the conveyance deed in the absence of these formalities being completed. The Sub-Registrar and his officials G were obligated to verify the ownership rights before registration of the sale deed. As per the Appellants’ claim, the prior original sale deeds of the land are still in their possession. The fact that the vendee agreed to pay such massive sums of money to Respondent No. 2 without obtaining the original records as of H 414 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A now casts a shadow over the legitimacy of the transaction. [Para 21][422-G-H; 423-A-B] 4. It is also unclear why, given that when the Subject Land is situated in Gurugram District, the GPA in relation to the property was registered in Kalkaji, New Delhi. It raises some B suspicion regarding the genuineness of the GPA. There is, thus, overwhelming and clear cut prima facie evidence to indicate that the version of events provided by Respondent No. 2, the buyers of the property, and the Sub Registrar, should be viewed with scepticism. These parties, prima facie, appear to be acting in concert with each other and might be hands in glove, with the C ulterior motive of duping the absentee land-owners. This angle requires thorough consideration by the investigating authorities. The Appellants have seemingly fallen prey to a well-orchestrated conspiracy hatched to rob them of their highly valuable property. In such cases where the victims of a crime, on account of their D old age and geographical distance, are unable to secure justice on their own, it falls upon Courts and the State to carry out their solemn duty to ward off injustice and restore the faith of one and all in the rule of law. [Para 23][423-E-G] 5. The facts of the case speak for themselves and an E element of criminality cannot be ruled out at this stage. Whether or not the alleged offences were committed by Respondent No. 2 and his co-accused in active collusion with each other can be effectively determined by a free, fair, unhampered and dispassionate investigation. In the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case, custodial interrogation of not only F Respondent No. 2 but all other suspects is, therefore, imperative to unearth the truth. Joining the investigation with a protective umbrella provided by pre-arrest bail will render the exercise of eliciting the truth ineffective in such like case. The Court, as mentioned, also skeptical, suspicious and incredulous about the G verification process of the 1996 GPA carried out by the Sub- Registrar, Kalkaji, New Delhi. Hence, the conduct of the officials of Sub-Registrar Office, Kalkaji, New Delhi is also required to be examined to take the investigation to its logical conclusion. [Para 28][424-G-H; 425-A-C] H PRATIBHA MANCHANDA & ANR. v. STATE OF HARYANA & 415 ANR. Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia v. State of Punjab (1980) 2 SCC A 565 : [1980] 3 SCR 383; Sushila Aggarwal v. State (NCT of Delhi) (2018) 7 SCC 731 : [2018] 6 SCR 825 – followed.