G 36. He argued that the High Court in paragraph 19 of the impugned has rightly observed that the battery range guarantee can be given only by the OEM from whom the bidder is purchasing the battery, and in such circumstances, the same cannot be said to be incidental. The same was considered as an important part of the technical evaluation H by BEST. TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE BRIHAN MUMBAI ELECTRIC SUPPLY 709 & TRANSPORT UNDERTAKING (BEST) [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 37. He vociferously submitted that Annexure Y was a part of the A bid document and once submitted, could not have been permitted to be altered after the bid submission end date i.e., 02.05.2022. The argument that Annexure Y was optional and not required at the time of submission of the bid is an afterthought, and the same being a question of fact or at the most a mixed question of fact and law cannot be raised for the first B time in a Special Leave Petition. He relied on the decision of this Court in Jagannath Behera & Ors. v. Raja Harihar Singh Mardaraj Bhramarbara Roy, reported in 1958 SCR 1067 (Paras 17 and 19);Karanpura Development Co. Ltd v. Raja Kamakshya Narain Singh Etc., reported in 1956 SCR 325 (Para 24); Vasantkumar Radhakisan Vora v. Board of Trustees of Port of Bombay,reported in C (1991) 1 SCC 761 (Para 24);Steel Authority of India Ltd v. Gupta Brother Steel Tubes Ltd, reported in (2009) 10 SCC 63 (Paras 32 and 34). 38. He submitted that the High Court was justified in saying that a fresh tender in the present matter is warranted more particularly in D view of the arbitrary tender process and delay in supply of the buses as per the timeline prescribed under the Tender. He submitted that a fresh tender would be in public interest as there has been a breach of delivery timeline by EVEY as prescribed under the Tender. It is alleged that there is a deficit in the supply of 1,030 buses till date. BEST has failed to take necessary steps against EVEY for the delay, and the same E showcases that the two contracting parties have colluded with each other. The fresh tender would allow for more competitive price bids and there would not be any financial burden on BEST in the event of termination, as the Tender provides for forfeiture of Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) and encashment of performance guarantee. F 39. In the last, the learned Senior counsel submitted that the High Court while upholding the disqualification of his client on the sole basis that it guaranteed the operating range in ‘standard test conditions as per AIS 040’ committed an error. It was submitted that TATA Motors had complied with the essential conditions and certain departures under the G Tender were permissible. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE “BEST” 40. Mr. Tushar Mehta, the learned Solicitor General, appearing for BEST submitted that the Tender document provided for mandatory eligibility conditions for being declared as a qualified bidder at the stage of technical bid, and the said eligibility conditions were stipulated in sub H 710 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R.