22. We fi nd that for the plea of alibi to be established, something other than a mere ocular statement ought to have been present. After all, the prosecution has relied on the statement of eyewitnesses to establish its case against the convict-appellants leading to the unrefuted conclusion that convict-appellants were present on the spot of the crime and had indeed caused injuries unto the deceased as also PW-3 with Lathis and Tabbal on various and vital parts of their bodies. 23. As we have hitherto observed, the prosecution case relies primarily on 3 witnesses whom, the Courts below have believed without exception. It is next urged that there are contradictions in the testimonies of three witnesses, hence, it would neither be appropriate nor safe to place reliance thereon. Having perused the same, we fi nd them to be coherent on material facts such as the presence of the accused on the spot of the crime; the death of Chetram; a blast having taken place; and the accused being the assailants. A perusal thereof reveals PW3 to have categorically deposed that Kamal (A3) threw a bomb on him and deceased Chetram. He also stated the other two accused Shersingh (A6) and Bhavdas (A9) were also present at that time. PW16 has named all three accused persons, attributing upon them the act of hitting the deceased with shovels and lathis and further stated that accused Kamal hurled abuses at the said witness and the others present alongside, prompting them to run away from that place. She, however, does not ascribe particular roles to any of the accused as to who had hit the deceased with a lathi or who did so with a showel. Jugbai PW-17 deposed that the three accused before us, as well as others had lathis and shovels with them and they had challenged her presence there forcing her to run away. She stated that she along with others had witnessed the incident from near the house of one Samaru and that she had seen the accused beating the deceased. Therefore, we fi nd no force in the contention that the testimonies relied on by the prosecution are inherently contradictory. 24. It may be true that the deceased Chetram was a history-sheeter and had scores of criminal cases pending against him or cases in which he was involved. However, such fact is unsubstantiated on record for no detail whatsoever stands provided in respect of such cases involving the deceased. Be that as it may, simply because the deceased had a chequered past which constituted several run-ins with the law, Courts cannot give 820 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. benefi t thereof, particularly when such claims are bald assertions, to those accused of committing such a person’s murder. And in any event, such a plea is merely presumptuous. 25. In conclusion, we fi nd that the charges levied against the accused, i.e., under Sections 148, 302 read with 149, 307 read with 149, IPC, and Sections 4/5 of the Explosive Substance Act, 1908, and the sentence corresponding thereto as awarded by the Trial Court and confi rmed by the High Court, do not warrant interference of this Court.