However, a reading of the precedents laid down by this Court referred to above makes the position of law clear that the conditions to be imposed must not be onerous or unreasonable D or excessive. In the context of grant of bail, all such conditions that would facilitate the appearance of the accused before the investigating officer/court, unhindered completion of investigation/ trial and safety of the community assume relevance. However, inclusion of a condition for payment of money by the applicant for E bail tends to create an impression that bail could be secured by depositing money alleged to have been cheated. That is really not the purpose and intent of the provisions for grant of bail. In exceptional cases such as where an allegation of misappropriation of public money by the accused is levelled and the accused while seeking indulgence of the court to have his liberty secured/ F restored volunteers to account for the whole or any part of the public money allegedly misappropriated by him, it would be open to the concerned court to consider whether in the larger public interest the money misappropriated should be allowed to be deposited before the application for anticipatory bail/bail is taken G up for final consideration. After all, no court should be averse to putting public money back in the system if the situation is conducive therefor. This approach would be in the larger interest of the community. However, such an approach would not be warranted in cases of private disputes where private parties complain of their money being involved in the offence of cheating. H [Para 26][1178-E-H; 1179-A-C] RAMESH KUMAR v. THE STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 1167 2. Turning to the facts here, it is found that the version in A the FIR, even if taken on face value, discloses payment through cheques of Rs.17,00,000/- (Rupees seventeen lakh) in the name of the appellant and not Rs.22,00,000/- (Rupees twenty-two lakh). The court is not been able to comprehend how the High Court arrived at the latter figure as payable by the appellant and why B the appellant’s counsel as well agreed with such figure. Prima facie, there appears to be some sort of a calculation error. Also, prima facie, there remains some doubt as regards the conduct of the appellant in receiving cheques from the complainants without there being any agreement inter se. Be that as it may, the High Court ought to have realized that having regard to the nature of C dispute between the parties, which is predominantly civil in nature, the process of criminal law cannot be pressed into service for settling a civil dispute. Even if the appellant had undertaken to make payment, which was a last ditch effort to avert losing his liberty, such undertaking could not have weighed in the mind of D the High Court to decide the question of grant of anticipatory bail. The tests for grant of anticipatory bail are well delineated and stand recognized by passage of time.