In other words, “intention of the parties” is a very signifi cant feature which must be established before the scope of arbitration can be said to include the signatory as well as the non-signatory parties.” (emphasis supplied) 27. The court held that a non-signatory could be subjected to arbitration “without their prior consent” in “exceptional cases” on the basis of four determinative factors: (i) A direct relationship to the party which is a signatory to the arbitration agreement; (ii) A direct commonality of the subject-matter and the agreement between the parties being a composite transaction; (iii) The transaction being of a composite nature where performance of the mother agreement may not be feasible without the aid, execution, and performance of supplementary or ancillary agreements for achieving the common object and collectively have a bearing on the dispute; and (iv) A composite reference of such parties will serve the ends of justice. 28. In Chloro Controls (supra), this Court acknowledged that cases of composite transactions involving multi-party agreement give rise to peculiar challenges where non-signatories may be implicated in the dispute because of their legal relationship and involvement in the performance of contractual obligations. To remedy such situations, it was held that the group of companies doctrine could be applied to systematically evaluate the facts and circumstances to determine “a clear intention of the parties to bind both, the signatory as well as the non-signatory parties” to the arbitration agreement. 29. Chloro Controls (supra) was dealing with a situation where the success of the joint venture agreement was dependent upon the fulfi lment of all the ancillary agreements. In this context, this Court observed that all the ancillary agreements were relatable to the parent agreement and the ancillary agreements were intrinsically linked with each other, to the extent that they could not be severed. This in the view of the court indicated the intention of COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 653 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] the parties to refer all disputes arising out of the parent agreement and ancillary agreements to the arbitral tribunal. 30. Furthermore, this Court explained the phrase “legal relationship” to mean the relationship of the signatory party with the person claiming under or through them. It observed that all the agreements were signed by “some parties or their holding companies or the companies into which the signatory company had merged.” Although these companies did not put pen to paper for all the agreements, they were descendants in interest or subsidiaries of the signatory parties and therefore would be covered under the expression “claiming through or under” the parties to the agreement. In this context the Court observed that being part of the same corporate group, the interests of the non-signatory companies were not adverse to the interest of the principal company and the joint venture company. Therefore, the group of companies doctrine formed the basis for a non-signatory to claim through or under the signatory. Chloro Controls (supra) laid down the ratio that a non-signatory person or entity could be made a party to an arbitration agreement, as “claiming through or under” a signatory party, if the circumstances demonstrate the mutual intention of the parties on the basis of the composite nature of the transaction, direct commonality of subject- matter, and direct relationship of the non-signatory to the signatory parties.