Thus, he was a child or a juvenile within the meaning of Section 2(35) of the Act. CONCLUSION: 57) On 24/08/1994, the age of Niranaram Chetanram was 12 G years and 6 months or around the same. Narayan Chetanram Chaudhary is the same person, whose another name is H NARAYAN CHETANRAM CHAUDHARY v. THE STATE OF 1083 MAHARASHTRA [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] Niranram Chetanram Chaudhary. Hence, I hold that the A petitioner was a juvenile on the date of commission of offence. Hence, the report.” (quoted verbatim from the paperbook) 11.First submission of Mr. Patil is that the question of juvenility B cannot be reopened by this application as the applicant had filed writ petition before this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution of India (Writ Petition (Criminal) No.126 of 2013) and this writ petition was dismissed by this Court. He has also submitted that the applicant is relying on records pertaining to another individual as at no point of time earlier C he had disclosed that his real name was Niranaram. Even proceeding on the basis that the applicant’s actual name is Niranaram, Mr. Patil wants us to discard the entire set of documentary evidences alleging that these documents, particularly the school records, are fabricated. He has highlighted certain discrepancies in the documents themselves as regards the family members of the applicant and their age. In particular, he has D submitted that family members of the applicant had created a forged certificate of the Sarpanch, which was marked as annexure I-7 in the report. He has drawn our attention to the statement of the Sarpanch, Gauradevi, as recorded in the Inquiry Report. She had stated, as disclosed in the report, that she had never issued that certificate. He has also E taken us through the transfer certificate of Andaram (in some documents referred to as Anadaram and Anandaram), which was marked as L-2 in the report and that of Mukhram, marked as L-3 therein. As it appears from the Inquiry Report, these two persons are brothers of the applicant. He has referred to that part of the report, in which the Inquiring Judge records that the principal of the school, Smt. Namrata had stated that F admission number 1317 (which was recorded in the transfer certificate of Mukhram) did not bear the name of Mukhram in school records but the admission number 1317 was in the name of one Babulal Shreechandanmal Bhadani, whose date of birth was 6th June 1966. The principal of the school further stated that said transfer certificate was not signed by the then principal of the school and it was never issued by G the school. It has also been stated by Mr. Patil that the family members of the applicant had obtained the residence certificate of Niranaram by affixing the photo as also the caste certificate on 10th August 2009 issued by the Tehsildar officer Shri Dungargarh when the applicant remained imprisoned. H 1084 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 12.Mr. Patil has also questioned the manner in which the inquiry was made.