Section 34 of the said Act, essentially, is pari material with Section 35 of the Stamp Act, 1899 hereinafter referred to as the Stamp Act. There are other provisions, which essentially follow the same pattern as is contained in the latter Act. The Court, thereafter, went on to refer to Item 63 of Schedule I of the Maharashtra G Stamp Act, 1958, which dealt with ‘Works Contract’. It was found that the Stamp Act is a fiscal measure. Thereafter, the Court went on to discuss the of this Court reported in SMS Tea Estates Private Limited v. Chandmari Tea Company Private Limited2. The Court referred to the following part of the in SMS Tea Estates (supra): H 2 (2011) 14 SCC 66 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 305 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] “19. Having regard to Section 35 of the Stamp Act, unless the A stamp duty and penalty due in respect of the instrument is paid, the court cannot act upon the instrument, which means that it cannot act upon the arbitration agreement also which is part of the instrument. Section 35 of the Stamp Act is distinct and different from Section 49 of the Registration Act in regard to an unregistered B document. Section 35 of the Stamp Act, does not contain a proviso like Section 49 of the Registration Act enabling the instrument to be used to establish a collateral transaction. xxx xxx xxx 21. Therefore, when a lease deed or any other instrument is relied C upon as contending the arbitration agreement, the court should consider at the outset, whether an objection in that behalf is raised or not, whether the document is properly stamped. If it comes to the conclusion that it is not properly stamped, it should be impounded and dealt with in the manner specified in Section 38 of D the Stamp Act. The court cannot act upon such a document or the arbitration clause therein. But if the deficit duty and penalty is paid in the manner set out in Section 35 or Section 40 of the Stamp Act, the document can be acted upon or admitted in evidence.” E 5. The Court further went on to find that, at the time SMS Tea Estates (supra) was decided, the law relating to reference to Arbitration under Section 11 of the Act, was expounded in the Constitution Bench decision reported in SBP & Co. v. Patel Engineering Ltd. and another3, among other cases. It was further found that the law laid down was that in an Application under Section 11(6) of the Act, the Court may determine F certain threshold issues, such as, whether the claim was time-barred, or a stale claim; whether there was accord and satisfaction, which would preclude the need for reference to arbitration. Thereafter, the Court refers to the amendment to Section 11 by the insertion of Sub-Section (6A) in Section 11. The Court referred to the in Duro Felguera, G S.A. v. Gangavaram Port Limited4, to conclude that what was to be gone into was only whether an Arbitration Agreement existed or not.