It was decided that any such amendment proposed would receive earnest consideration.218 The objective behind this formulation was expressed as under: “This formula has been evolved to meet the diffi culty arising out of the fact that constitution-making bodies are not likely to come into existence in some of the Unions by the time the new Constitution is to come into operation The objective underlying the proposed arrangement is that whereas the whole of the Constitution will become operative in all the States and the Unions as soon as it comes into force, it will be a good political gesture to the popular opinion in the Unions in which no Constituent Assemblies have yet to come into existence, if their fi rst Legislatures are enabled to express their views on such provisions of the Constitution as are not considered fundamental.”219 (emphasis supplied) 218 White paper. Pg. 110 219 Note by the Ministry of States explaining the decisions regarding the Indian States (July 1949) IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 163 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 256. The views of the Constituent Assembly would assume the “form of recommendation and it would be open to the Union Parliament which is expected to exercise constituent powers for a period of fi ve years or so, to accept or reject them”.220 257. In pursuance of the procedure for ratifi cation, all the States issued a Proclamation accepting the Constitution of India. On 25 November 1949, a Proclamation was issued by Yuvraj Karan Singh declaring that the Constitution of India shall in so far as applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir govern the constitutional relationship between the Union of India and the State and that the Constitution shall supersede constitutional provisions which are inconsistent with the provisions of the Indian Constitution: “I now hereby declare and direct- That the Constitution of India shortly to be adopted by the Constituent Assembly of India shall in so far as it is applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir, govern the constitutional relationship between this State and the Union of India and shall be enforced in this State by me, my heirs and successors in accordance with the tenor of its provisions. That the provisions of the said Constitution shall, as from the date of its commencement, supersede and abrogate all other constitutional provisions inconsistent therewith which are at present in force in this State.” 258. The Proclamation by the ruler makes it abundantly clear that the State has ratifi ed the Constitution of India as it is applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. The Constitution would upon its commencement supersede and abrogate all other constitutional provisions which were inconsistent with the Constitution of India and in force in the State. Thus, the embargo created by Clause 7 of the IoA by which the IoA was not deemed to be an acceptance of any future Constitution of India was lifted by the Proclamation. 220 ibid 164 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.