Section 43-A of the Act does not use the expression “the failure has to be wilful or mala fide” for the purpose of imposition of C penalty. The breach of the provision is punishable and considering the nature of the breach, it is open to impose the penalty. 36. In SEBI v. Shriram Mutual Fund [SEBI v. Shriram Mutual Fund, (2006) 5 SCC 361] , with respect to imposition of penalty on failure to comply with the civil obligation this Court has laid D down thus: (SCC pp. 371 & 376, paras 29 & 35) “29. … In our opinion, mens rea is not an essential ingredient for contravention of the provisions of a civil Act. In our view, the penalty is attracted as soon as the contravention of the statutory obligations as contemplated by the Act is established and, therefore, E the intention of the parties committing such violation becomes immaterial. In other words, the breach of a civil obligation which attracts penalty under the provisions of an Act would immediately attract the levy of penalty irrespective of the fact whether the contravention was made by the defaulter with any guilty intention F or not. This apart [that] unless the language of the statute indicates the need to establish the element of mens rea, it is generally sufficient to prove that a default in complying with the statute has occurred. … the penalty has to follow and only the quantum of penalty is discretionary. G *** 35. In our considered opinion, a penalty is attracted as soon as the contravention of the statutory obligation as contemplated by the Act and the Regulations is established and hence intention of the parties committing such violation becomes wholly irrelevant. H 500 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A … We also further hold that unless the language of the statute indicates the need to establish the presence of mens rea, it is wholly unnecessary to ascertain whether such a violation was intentional or not. On a careful perusal of Section 15-D(b) and Section 15-E of the Act, there is nothing which requires that mens rea must be proved before a penalty can be imposed under these B provisions. Hence once the contravention is established then the penalty is to follow.” 37. The imposition of penalty under Section 43-A is on account of breach of a civil obligation, and the proceedings are neither criminal nor quasi-criminal; the penalty has to follow. Only C discretion in the provision under Section 43-A is with respect to quantum of penalty.” 6.9 The Gujarat High Court while considering the very provision and penalty and interest imposed under Section 45(6) and Section 47(4A) of the Act, 1969, has taken a consistent view in the cases of Riddhi D Siddhi GlucoBiols Ltd. (supra) and Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited(supra)that the penalty leviable under Section 45(6) of the Act is a statutory and mandatory penalty and there is no question of any mens rea on the part of the assessee to be considered.