It is true that the Trial Court found that this is an improved version by PW-10. Anyway, the fact revealed from the oral testimony of PW-10 is that he saw the accused persons, including Raju E Pande and the appellants herein, at the house of Chintaman (PW-08) immediately after 04:00 PM on the day of occurrence and he did not speak about the presence of the deceased in the house of PW-8. That apart, according to him, Raju Pande was enquiring with him and PW-8 about a pregnant girl who was residing behind the house of PW-8. It is also relevant to note that the evidence on record would further go to F show that PW-8 had not mentioned about the alleged hurling of abuses by deceased accused Raju Pande on the deceased in his statement under Section 161 of Cr.P.C. Above all, PW-8 did not mention the presence of PW-10 at his residence anytime during the period from 04:00 PM to 06:00 PM on that fateful day. G 25. When the above being the factual position obtained from the oral testimonies of PW-8 and PW-10, the Hon’ble High Court which observed that the circumstance of ‘last seen’ is an important circumstance in the case on hand and its proof would depend upon the quality and nature of the testimonies of PW-8 and PW-10 should have bestowed a H threadbare, serious consideration to answer the question whether the SHANKAR v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA 679 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] evidence of PW-10 would lend corroboration to the evidence of PW-8. A So also, the courts below in the overall circumstances, ought to have carefully considered the question whether the solitary oral evidence of PW-8 would conclusively prove the factum of the deceased lastly seen in the company of the deceased. On our careful scrutiny of the evidence of PW-8 and PW-10 as above we are constrained to hold that both the B Trial Court and the High Court have failed to make a proper exercise of that task taking into account the fact that the prosecution relies only on circumstantial evidence to establish the guilt of the accused. According to us, the discussion as above would go to show that virtually the evidence of PW-10 not only failed to lend corroboration to the evidence of PW-8 but also puts it under a shadow of doubt. Hence, according to us, the C Hon’ble High Court went wrong in holding that as relates the said circumstantial evidence of ‘last seen’ the evidence of PW-8 gets corroboration from the evidence of PW-10 and in that view of the matter, in agreeing with the conclusion of the Trial Court that the prosecution has succeeded in proving that the deceased was lastly seen with the D accused, conclusively. 26. The above-mentioned situation constrained us to scan the evidence of PW-8 scrupulously to find out whether his sole testimony is unimpeachable and impeccable to conclusively establish the joining up of the deceased and the accused/convicts at the house of PW-8 at the E relevant point of time as alleged by the prosecution.