The Court also accepted that G an evacuee from Pakistan had a residual right in the property. It was in this context that the Court considered as to whether that residual right can be considered as ownership for the purposes of Section 9 of the earlier Act. It was still further in the said context that the Court held that the focus of the Section is on the receipt of the income and that the word owner had different meanings in different contexts. H M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 579 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] 58. When it came to the Podar Cement Pvt. Ltd. (supra), this A Court took into consideration the ground reality in the context of Section 22 of the Act and approved of taxing the income of a person who is entitled to receive income from the property in his own right under Section 22. We have elaborately referred to the of the Patna High Court in the Sahay Properties case. The full rights of an owner as set B out therein may again be reiterated as: (1) The power of enjoyment which includes the power to destroy. (2) The right to possession which includes the right to exclude others. C (3) The power to alienate inter vivos or to charge as security. (4) The power to bequeath the property. 59. This Court may at this juncture observe that a carrier has none of these rights or powers. It may be true that in to be an D owner, all the rights and powers of an owner need not be present at the same point of time in the same person. It may be true that ownership may be associated with a better right to be in possession and actual possession in a given case may be harmonised with ownership. Being in possession with a right to be possession may lead to a presumption that the possessor is the owner, unless it be that there are indications to the E contrary. The beneficial vesting may in the context clothe the person with title as the owner. Another concept which emerges is a person in receipt of money having actual control over the property with no person having a better right to defeat his claim of possession may open the doors to a finding that he is the owner within the meaning of Section F 69A. A person in actual physical control of the property and realising the entire income for his own use may indicate the presence of ownership. The absence of the conveyance needed to complete the transfer may not detract from a person being found to be the owner. The soul of the reasoning appears to be the entitlement to receive the income from the property ‘in his right’. G 60. Let us apply these tests and ascertain whether the appellant can be treated as the owner in any sense of the expression. Appellant as a carrier was entrusted with the goods.