That by dated 04.12.2020, the Chairman of the Tribunal, Principal Bench, New Delhi, ed transfer of the said OA to the Principal Bench, New Delhi by observing that: - C “A perusal of the prayer in the O.A. discloses that the very procedure for empanelment for the post of Joint Secretary is sought to be assailed. The matters of this nature have their own impact on the very functioning of the Central Government. It is felt that the O.A. deserves to be heard by Principal Bench. Since the hearings are taking place through video conferencing, no prejudice D are taking place through video conferencing, no prejudice would be caused to the respondent in the P.T., i.e. applicant in the O.A. also’” 3.3 The dated 04.12.2020 transferring OA No. 331/109/ 2020 from Nainital Circuit Bench to the Principal Bench, New Delhi E came to be challenged by the original writ petitioner – original applicant before the High Court of Uttarakhand. It was submitted on behalf of the original writ petitioner before the High Court that what was challenged in the OA was the recruitment selection process for the post of Joint Secretary. He was also aggrieved of the fact that although eligible candidates were available for the post of Joint Secretary, within the All- F India Services, a policy decision has been taken by the Central Government that the post of Joint Secretary would be filled by hiring persons on contractual basis for a period of three to five years and the said policy decision would adversely affect the rights of the persons who are in the All-India Services. It was also submitted on behalf of the G original writ petitioner – original applicant that the ground on which the Union of India sought transfer of OA that, since the original writ petitioner has challenged a policy decision and since the policy decision has “nationwide repercussion”, therefore, the OA deserves to be transferred to the Principal Bench, New Delhi, is untenable. It was submitted that if the Parliament were of the opinion that issues of “national importance” H UNION OF INDIA v. SANJIV CHATURVEDI 63 [M. R. SHAH, J.] need to be decided only by the Principal Bench, a provision would have A existed in the Administrative Tribunals Act, debarring other Benches of CAT from hearing issues of “national importance” or having “nationwide repercussion.” However, there is no such bar contained in the Administrative Tribunals Act, preventing other Benches of CAT, which are considered to be equivalent to the Principal Bench, from hearing or B from examining a policy decision of the Central Government. It was submitted that all the Benches constituted under Section 5 of the Act, 1985 would have equal jurisdiction. 3.4 The petition was opposed on behalf of the Union of India. The Union of India challenged the territorial jurisdiction of the High Court of C Uttarakhand to entertain the writ petition. It was submitted on behalf of the Union of India that since all the relevant files and papers are at New Delhi the case should be transferred to New Delhi.