True that on 12.07.2018, the said Commercial Civil Suit was dismissed by the Commercial Court at D Ahmedabad on the ground of being barred by limitation. Annexure-B would reveal that against the of dismissal in the said suit, the respondent herein had filed First Appeal No. 3841 of 2018 before the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad. It was disposed of on 11.08.2021, taking into account the joint submission that parties be permitted to settle dispute through arbitration process. In this context it is also to be noted E that the notice of arbitration dated 29.11.2019 has been issued by the appellant itself. Recording the submission, the appeal was permitted to be withdrawn leaving the parties to proceed with arbitral process. This fact is not disputed and in fact, it is indisputable in view of Annexure-B, dated 11.08.2021 of the High Court of Gujarat in Misc. First F Appeal No.3841 of 2018. In Annexure-B, it is recorded thus:- “Both the learned counsel have taken instructions and have jointly submitted that let the parties get their dispute settled through the arbitration process where learned former Judge of this Court, Justice J.C. Upadhyaya (Retired) has already G been appointed as the arbitrator on 29.11.2019 and since then the matter is pending here.” In this context, it is also relevant to note that Gas Supply Agreement (GAS) which is an agreement entered into between the appellant and the respondent dated 30.05.2008 in regard to the supply of natural gas, contains an arbitration clause viz., clause No.17. When the agreement H SABARMATI GAS LIMITED v. SHAH ALLOYS LIMITED 219 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] entered into between the parties carries an arbitration clause and when A the parties mutually consented and sought to proceed with arbitration before the High Court and further, when the arbitration proceedings are pending, we are of the view that the parties shall be left with the liberty to raise all contentions before the arbitrator, except the legal questions discussed and decided in this . B 40. Subject to the above, this Appeal stands dismissed. All the pending application (s), stand disposed of. Ankit Gyan Appeal dismissed. (Assisted by : Jahanvi Taneja and Mahendra Yadav, LCRAs) C D E F G H