27. In the present case, the use of a semicolon is not a trivial matter but a deliberate inclusion with a clear intention to diff erentiate it from sub- clause (ii). Further, it can be observed upon a plain and literal reading of clause 2(s) that while there is a semicolon after sub-clause (i), sub-clause (ii) closes with a comma. This essentially supports the only possible construction that the use of a comma after sub-clause (ii) relates it with the long line provided after that and, by no stretch of imagination, the application of the long line can be extended to sub-clause (i), the scope of which ends with the semicolon. We are, therefore, of the opinion that the long line of clause 2(s) governs only sub-clause (ii) and not sub-clause (i) because of the simple reason that the introduction of semicolon after sub-clause (i), followed by the word “or”, has established it as an independent category, thereby making it distinct from sub-clause (ii). If the author wanted both these parts to be read together, there is no plausible reason as to why it did not use the word “and” and without the punctuation semicolon. While the Clarifi cation Notifi cation introduced an amended version of clause 2(s), the whole canvas was open for the author to defi ne “governmental authority” whichever way it wished; however, “governmental authority” was re-defi ned with a purpose to make the clause workable in contra-distinction to the earlier defi nition. Therefore, we cannot overstep and interpret “or” as “and” so as to allow the alternative outlined in clause 2(s) to vanish. 28. Let us consider the problem from a diff erent angle. The revised defi nition of “governmental authority” and the few punctuations in the defi nition (two semicolons and two commas) and the conjunction ‘or’ have been noticed above. Literally read, the conjunction ‘or’ between sub- clauses (i) and (ii) clearly divides the two clauses in two parts with the fi rst 440 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. part completely independent of the second part. The fi rst part is by itself complete and capable of operating independently. A construction leading to an anomalous result has to be avoided and to so avoid, it has to be held that the long line of clause 2(s) starting with “with 90%” and ending with “Constitution” qualifi es sub-clause (ii); and, if the conjunction ‘or’ is to be read as ‘and’, meaning thereby that the portion “with 90% … Constitution” has to be read as qualifying both sub-clauses (i) and (ii), then the intention of re-defi ning “governmental authority” would certainly be defeated. As discussed earlier, the purpose for which “governmental authority” was re- defi ned must have been to make it workable. We cannot, therefore, resort to a construction that would allow subsistence of the unworkability factor. Assuming what Ms. Bagchi contended is right, it was incumbent for the appellants to bring to our notice, if not by way of pleading, but at least with reference to the relevant statutes, which of the particular authorities/ boards/bodies are created by legislation - Central or State – “with 90% or more participation by way of equity or control by Government”.