In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel prayed that there being no merit in the present appeals, those may be dismissed. ANALYSIS 26. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record the following questions fall for our consideration: (a) Whether the High Court was justifi ed in exercising its writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the constitution more particularly when the alternative remedy available to the Borrowers had already been availed of? 76 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. (b) Whether the confi rmation of sale by the Bank under Rule 9(2) of the Rules of 2002 invests the successful auction purchaser with a vested right? (c) What is the impact of the amended Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act on the Borrowers’ right of redemption in an auction conducted under the SARFAESI Act? Or in other words, what is the eff ect of amendment to Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act read with Section 60 of the Act 1882? (d) Whether a Bank after having confi rmed the sale under Rule 9(2), can withhold the sale certifi cate under Rule 9(6) of the Rules of 2002 and enter into a private arrangement with a borrower? (e) Whether the High Court under Article 226, could have applied equitable considerations to override the outcome contemplated by the statutory auction process prescribed by the SARFAESI Act? (f) Whether the right of redemption of mortgage stood extinguished upon publication of notice of auction? Or in other words till what point of time the right of redemption of mortgage can be exercised in respect of secured asset under the SARFAESI Act? (g) Whether the decisions of Telangana High Court in the case of Concern Readymix (supra) and Amme Srisailam (supra) lay down the correct position of law? LEGISLATIVE HISTORY AND SCHEME OF THE SARFAESI ACT 27. Till early 1990s, the civil suits were being fi led for recovery of the dues of banks and fi nancial institutions under the Act 1882 and the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (CPC). Due to various diffi culties the banks and fi nancial institutions had to face in recovering loans and enforcement of securities, the Parliament enacted the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (for short, “the Act 1993” or “the RDBFI Act”). 28. On account of lack of infrastructure and manpower, the regular civil courts were not in a position to cope up with the speed in the adjudication of recovery cases. In the light of recommendations of the Tiwari Committee the special tribunals came to be set up under the provisions of the Act 1993 CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 77 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] referred to above for the recovery of huge accumulated NPA of the Bank loans. 29. On the continuing rise in number of Non-Performing Assets (NPA) at banks and other fi nancial institutions in India; a poor rate of loan recovery and the failure of the existing legislation in redressing the diffi culties of recovery by banks; the Narasimham Committee I & II and Andyarujina Committee were constituted by the Government for examining and suggesting banking reforms in India.