[B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Submissions: A 7. Learned counsel Sri Shoeb Alam appearing on behalf of some of the appellants at the outset submitted that the impugned of the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh at Srinagar dated 29th October, 2021 was based on an incorrect appreciation of the law and facts and therefore calls for interference by this Court. B 7.1. It was submitted that it was an admitted position that there was no rule or notification prescribing any procedure or requirement for the Selection Committee to retain the individual award rolls or have the final award rolls signed by the members. That the selection records culminated in the final Select List and the same was approved with the C signatures of all seven members of the Board, including two members of the Selection Committee, after perusing the selection records. That the calculations made on the individual basis of the candidates had been verified with reference to the records. The consolidated points were fed into the computer by the Chairman of the Board himself and checked by D another member of the Board. The final Select List prepared on this basis was approved by the Board, after perusal of the selection record, with the signatures of all members of the Board. However, the Single Judge did not refer to the same. Thus, the Impugned and the Single Judge’s setting aside the entire selection of the appellants on the ground that the prescribed procedure was not followed and that E the selections made by the Selection Committee were doubtful, is erroneous and contrary to law. Reliance was placed on Reserve Bank of India vs. C.L. Toora, (2004) 4 SCC 657, to contend that where no procedure is prescribed for a Selection Committee, it can formulate its own procedure which is F reasonable and not arbitrary in nature. 7.2. It was further submitted that it is a settled position of law that when a Selection Committee recommends the selection of a person, the same cannot be presumed to have been done in an erroneous or mechanical manner in the absence of any allegation of favoritism or G bias. That a presumption arises as regards the correctness of the decision of a Selection Committee and the party who makes the allegation of bias or favoritism is required to prove the same. Thus, in the absence of mala fides against the members, selection by a Selection Committee cannot be doubted. To buttress his argument, learned counsel placed H 738 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A reliance on Union of India vs. Bikash Kuanar, (2006) 8 SCC 192; Sadananda Halo vs. Momtaz Ali Sheikh, (2008) 4 SCC 619 (Sadananda Halo) and University of Mysore vs. C.D. Govinda Rao, (1964) 4 SCR 575. 7.3. It was contended that this Court in the context of non- B availability of any part of selection records has, in Trivedi Himanshu Ghanshyambhai vs. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, (2007) 8 SCC 644 (Trivedi Himanshu Ghanshyambhai) held that only because the records could not be produced in view of the fact that they were not available, no inference as to mala fides can be drawn against the members of a Selection Committee and the selection cannot be cancelled.