37. The tribunal by the impugned has held to the following eff ect: “22. In any case, we consider that the limitation would apply in this case and show cause notice should not have been issued beyond one year in view of the fact that the appellant intimated their intention to change. Further, the appellant had also intimated that the proposed change was not in line with the industrial factory. Therefore, the extended period also could not have been applied in this case.” 38. It would be apt to note at this juncture itself that the of this Court in CCE Vs. Cotspun (1999) 7 SCC 633, whereunder, it came to be held that levy of excise duty based on an approved classifi cation list is not a short levy and diff erential duty cannot be recovered on the ground that it is a short levy. It was further held that levy of excise duty based on an approved classifi cation list is the correct levy, at least until the correctness of the approval is questioned by the issuance of a show cause notice to the assessee. It is only when the correctness of the approval is challenged that an approved classifi cation list ceases to be such. It was further held: “14. The levy of excise duty on the basis of an approved classifi cation list is the correct levy, at least until such time as to the correctness of the approval is questioned by the issuance to the assessee of a show-cause notice. It is only when the correctness of the approval is challenged that an approved classifi cation list ceases to be such. 15. The levy of excise duty on the basis of an approved classifi cation list is not a short levy. Diff erential duty cannot be recovered on the ground that it is a short levy. Rule 10 has then no application. 16. We are, therefore, of the opinion that the in Ballarpur Industries which did not advert to Rule 173-B, does not lay down the law correctly and it is overruled. The decision in Rainbow Industries, on the other hand, correctly lays down the law. It was delivered in the context of Rule 173-C dealing with approved price lists and the provisions of Rules 173-C and 173-B are analogous.” 39. However, the said fi nding in Cotspun’s case would not merit acceptance for the simple reason that the amendment to Section 11A of 598 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. CE Act, brought by Act 10 of 2000, would clearly take within its sweep, that even if there is non-levy or non-payment, short levy or short payment, or erroneous refund, as the case may be, on the basis of any approval, acceptance or assessment relating to the rate of duty or on valuation of excisable goods under any other provisions of the CE Act or the rules made thereunder, the Central Excise Offi cer can, within one year from the relevant date, serve a notice on the person chargeable with duty which has not been levied or unpaid or which has been short levied or short paid or to whom the refund has been erroneously been made, requiring him to show cause why he should not pay the amount specifi ed in the notice.