It is submitted that the same would severely affect the existence and growth of the MSME and is also against object of the MSMED Act. 3.5 It is submitted that as per the law laid down by this Court in catena of decisions, if two enactments have competing non- C obstante provision and nothing repugnant, then the non- obstante clause of the subsequent statute would prevail over the earlier enactments. It is submitted that the principle therefore would be that the court must look into the objectives of the two Special Acts. It is submitted that if the legislature D still confers the later enactment with a non-obstante clause, it means the legislature wanted the enactment to prevail. It is submitted that therefore, non-obstante clause in MSMED Act, i.e. Section 24 would prevail over the recovery mechanism of SARFAESI Act, being enacted later in point E of time, overriding all other laws being in force at that point of time. 3.6 It is submitted that the State Madhya Pradesh in exercise of powers conferred under Section 30 read with sub-section (3) of Section 21 of the MSMED Act made the Rules known F as ‘M.P. Micro and Small Enterprises Facilitation Council Rules, 2006’ for procedure to be followed for recovery of amounts due. It is submitted that under the said Rules, the decree, award or passed under provisions of MSMED Act shall be executed by the Collector of the District concerned and the amount due shall be recovered as arrears G of land revenue. It is submitted that as per Section 137 of Madhya Pradesh Land Revenue Code, 1959, land revenue would have first charge on the proceeds of the recovery of dues from the subject property. It is submitted that H 882 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A SARFAESI Act does not provide that it will have precedence over a decree / award of the decree holder. 3.7 It is submitted that Section 240A of the IBC, 2016 provides exception of certain provisions of Section 29A of the IBC to MSME. It is submitted that it is a settled law that IBC, B 2016 would override SARFAESI Act and therefore, in the said context also, MSMED Act may have precedence over SARFAESI Act. 3.8 It is further submitted that MSMED Act is an extension of the welfare policy of the State and may need to be C considered in to balance the larger public interest of the small and medium scale enterprises and their means of existence. It is submitted that therefore, to strike the balance of interest for survival of small and medium scale enterprises, it is prayed to interpret the provisions in favour D of the small and medium scale enterprises and to hold that the recoveries under MSMED Act would prevail over the recoveries under SARFAESI Act. 3.9 Making above submissions, it is prayed to dismiss the present appeal. E 4. Heard learned counsel appearing for the respective parties at length. 5. The short question which is posed for the consideration of this Court is whether the MSMED Act would prevail over the SARFAESI F Act?