1989), at pp. 637-38). Unequal bargaining power can be established in these scenarios even if duress and undue infl uence have not been demonstrated (see Norberg, at pp. 247-48; see also McInnes, at p. 543). 71. The second common example of an inequality of bargaining power is where, as a practical matter, only one party could understand and appreciate the full import of the contractual terms, creating a type of “cognitive asymmetry” (see Smith, at pp. 343-44). This may occur because of personal vulnerability or because of disadvantages specifi c to the contracting process, such as the presence of dense or diffi cult to understand terms in the parties› agreement. In these cases, the law›s assumption about self-interested bargaining loses much of its force. Unequal bargaining power can be established in these scenarios even if the legal requirements of contract formation have otherwise been met (see Sebastien Grammond, “The Regulation of Abusive or Unconscionable Clauses from a Comparative Law Perspective” (2010) 49 Can. Bus. L.J. 345, at pp. 353-54). Xxx xxx xxx 84. Unconscionability, moreover, can be established without proof that the stronger party knowingly took advantage of the weaker. Such a requirement is closely associated with theories of unconscionability that focus on wrongdoing by the defendant (see Boustany, at p. 6). But unconscionability can be triggered without wrongdoing. As Professor Waddams compellingly argues: The phrases ‘unconscionable conduct’, ‘unconscionable behaviour’ and ‘unconscionable dealing’ lack clarity, are unhistorical insofar as they imply the need for proof of wrongdoing, and have been unduly restrictive. (Waddams (2019), at pp. 118-19; see also Benson, at p. 188; Smith, at pp. 360-62.) 85. We agree. One party knowingly or deliberately taking advantage of another›s vulnerability may provide strong evidence of inequality of LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 1013 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] bargaining power, but it is not essential for a fi nding of unconscionability. Such a requirement improperly emphasizes the state of mind of the stronger party, rather than the protection of the more vulnerable. This Court›s decisions leave no doubt that unconscionability focuses on the latter purpose. Parties cannot expect courts to enforce improvident bargains formed in situations of inequality of bargaining power; a weaker party, after all, is as disadvantaged by inadvertent exploitation as by deliberate exploitation. A rigid requirement based on the stronger party›s state of mind would also erode the modern relevance of the unconscionability doctrine, eff ectively shielding from its reach improvident contracts of adhesion where the parties did not interact or negotiate. 86. In our view, the requirements of inequality and improvidence, properly applied, strike the proper balance between fairness and commercial certainty. Freedom of contract remains the general rule. It is precisely because the law›s ordinary assumptions about the bargaining process do not apply that relief against an improvident bargain is justifi ed. 87. Respecting the doctrine of unconscionability has implications for boiler plate or standard form contracts. As Karl N. Llewellyn, the primary drafter of the Uniform Commercial Code, explained: Instead of thinking about “assent” to boiler-plate clauses, we can recognize that so far as concerns the specifi c, there is no assent at all.