The High Court directed the Trial Court to dispose of the application under Section 5 of the Limitation Act, if any, fi led within the stipulated period mentioned without granting any unnecessary adjournments and preferably within two months from the date of fi ling of the application. 6. Notice was issued in the SLP and thereafter leave was granted. Relevant Provisions 7. In to appreciate the contours of the arguments, it is necessary to reproduce the relevant provisions of the said Act and the Limitation Act as under: Section 5 of The Limitation Act, 1963 “5. Extension of prescribed period in certain cases. — Any appeal or any application, other than an application under any of the provisions of XXI of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), may be admitted after the prescribed period if the appellant or the applicant satisfi es the court that he had suffi cient cause for not preferring the appeal or making the application within such period. Explanation — The fact that the appellant or the applicant was missed by any , practice or of the High Court in ascertaining or computing the prescribed period may be suffi cient cause within the meaning of this section.” …. …. …. …. …. …. Section 40 of the West Bengal Premises Tenancy Act, 1997 “40. Application of the Limitation Act, 1963 to proceedings and appeals. – Subject to the provisions of this Act relating to limitation, the provisions of the Limitation Act, 1963, shall apply to proceedings and appeals under this Act.” …. …. …. …. …. …. DEBASISH PAUL & ANR. v. AMAL BORAL 515 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] Section 7 of the West Bengal Premises Tenancy Act, 1997 “7. When a tenant can get the benefi t of protection against eviction. – (1) (a) On a proceeding being instituted by the landlord for eviction on any of the grounds referred to in section 6, the tenant shall, subject to the provisions of sub-section (2) of this section, pay to the landlord or deposit with the Controller all arrears of rent, calculated at the rate at which it was last paid and up to the end of the month previous to that in which the payment is made together with interest at the rate of ten per cent per annum. (b) Such payment or deposit shall be made within one month of the service of summons on the tenant or, where he appears in the proceeding without the summons being served upon him, within one month of his appearance. (c) The tenant shall thereafter continue to pay to the landlord or deposit with the Controller month by month by the 15th of each succeeding month, a sum equivalent to the rent at that rate. (2) If in any proceeding referred to in sub-section (1), there is any dispute as to the amount of the rent payable by the tenant, the tenant shall, within the time specifi ed in that sub-section, deposit with the Controller the amount admitted by him to be due from him together with an application for determination of the rent payable.