LTD. [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] appellant-Insurance Company was erroneous and the Commission had A rightly granted the same. 11. The appellant having relied upon the Clause V of the subject policies, the relevant extract thereof is reproduced as under: “V. Riot, Strike and Malicious Damage: B Loss of or visible physical damage or destruction by external violent means directly caused to the property insured but excluding those caused by: (a) to (c)……………… (d) burglary, housebreaking, theft, larceny or any such C attempt or any omission of any kind of any person of any person (whether or not such act is committed in the course of a disturbance of public peace) in any malicious act. If the Company alleges that the loss/damage is not caused by any malicious act, the burden of proving D the contrary shall be upon the insured.” 12. From the bare reading of the said clause, it is discernible that the loss of or visible physical damage or destruction by external violent means directly caused to the property insured was covered, but the loss, damage or destruction to the property caused by burglary, housebreaking, E theft, larceny or any such attempt or any omission of any kind of any person in any malicious act was not covered. It further states that if the Insurance company alleges that the loss/damage was not caused by any malicious act, the burden of proving the contrary would be upon the insured. In the instant case, the appellant-Insurance company had F repudiated the claim of the respondent taking recourse to the said Clause V(d) of the subject policy on the ground that the loss caused to the respondent was an outcome of the malicious act/acts on the part of the respondent Vedic Village management and it fell within the exclusions provided under Clause V(d) of the Insurance Policy. For the purpose of coming to the said conclusion, the appellant- Insurance Company in its G letter dated 02/05/2011 while repudiating the claim of the respondent, had relied upon the incident which had taken place at the football match ground, where the accused Gaffar Molla and his associates had fired and caused death of one person and injured others, and thereafter they had taken shelter at the Vedic Village of the respondent. H 424 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 13. Though, it is true that the said Gaffar Molla and his associates had taken shelter at the Vedic Village when the mob became frenzied and chased them, and though it is also true that during the course of investigation the pipe guns and other explosive materials were found lying in the compound of Vedic Village, nonetheless the alleged incident of firing and causing death of a person appears to have taken place on B the spot during the football match being played at the football ground. There is hardly any material to show that the entire incident and the resultant damage to the insured property was caused as a result of the malicious act of the respondent-complainant.