That the learned Single Judge as well as the Division Bench have materially erred in not properly appreciating the fact that the release of the land would depend on the requirement. It is submitted that it is settled law that where the land is G acquired for establishing a residential, commercial, or industrial area and the application for release of the land reveals that the land has been used for the same purpose, the Government may release the land, if its existence does not by any means hinder development as per the notification for acquisition. Reliance is placed on the decisions of this H INDORE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY v. BURHANI GRIH NIRMAN 97 SAHAKARI SANSTHA MARYADIT SNEH NAGAR [M. R. SHAH, J.] Court in the cases of Rajasthan State Industrial Development and A Investment Corporation v. Subhash Sindhi Cooperative Housing Society, Jaipur, (2013) 5 SCC 427; Union of India v. Bal Ram Singh, 1992 Supp (2) SCC 136; Sube Singh v. State of Haryana, (2001) 7 SCC 545; Jagdish Chand v. State of Haryana, (2005) 10 SCC 162; and Dharam Pal v. State of Haryana, (2009) 2 SCC 397. B 3.12 It is next contended that in the present case, the lands were acquired for residential, park and industrial purposes. That hence the release of land has not prejudiced or affected the integrity of the scheme. That the end result of the release of some land was that the total area of the scheme has become lesser to that extent but the integrity of the C scheme remains the same. 3.13 It is submitted that as such in the present case the IDA filed a clarification giving reasons regarding land released out of Scheme No. 97. That however the learned Single Judge failed to appreciate those reasons. D 3.14 It is further submitted that the following were the reasons to release some of the land proposed to be acquired: a. 111.156 hectors of land were released in favour of Housing Cooperative Societies - As stated above that this release has no impact on the implementation of the scheme because the object E of the said housing societies and of the scheme was the same. It may further be pointed out that the Authority/ State Govt. had released the land only of those societies who had either developed or started development of colony or had acquired the title to the land or had obtained exemption u/s 20 of the Urban Land (Ceiling & Regulation) Act, 1976 before publication of final scheme u/s 50 F (7) of the Adhiniyam. It may be submitted that the Respondents have not fulfill any of these conditions, therefore, it cannot be said that they are similarly situated with the other Housing Societies. In case of R-1/ Burhani Nagar Society, admittedly the exemption u/s 20 of the Urban Land Ceiling Act was granted to G the Burhani Nagar on 30.09.1988 i.e., much after the final declaration of the scheme u/s 50 (7) of the Adhiniyam and also after the publication of notification u/s 4 of the Act.