When that be the position under the aforesaid provisions, taking note of the fact that the document in question is a registered sale deed, falling within the defi nition of a public document, the question is whether there exists any law declaring such certifi ed copy of a document as admissible in evidence for the purpose of proving the contents of its original document. Sub-section (5) of Section 57 of the Registration Act is the relevant provision that provides that certifi ed copy given under Section 57 of the Registration Act shall be admissible for the purpose of proving the contents of its original document. In this context it is to be noted that certifi ed copy issued thereunder is not a copy of the original document, but is a copy of the registration entry which is itself a copy of the original and is a public document under Section 74(2) of the Evidence Act and Sub-section (5) thereof, makes it admissible in evidence for proving the contents of its original. There is no case that foundation for letting in secondary evidence was not laid and as noted earlier, both the trial Court and the First Appellate Court found it admissible in evidence. Thus, the cumulative eff ect of the aforementioned sections of the Evidence Act and Section 57(5) of the Registration Act would make the certifi ed copy of APPAIYA v. ANDIMUTHU @ THANGAPANDI & ORS. 541 [C.T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] the sale deed No. 1209/1928 dated 27.08.1928 of SRO Andipatti, produced as Ext.A1 admissible in evidence for the purpose of proving the contents of the said original document. When this be the position in the light of the specifi c provisions referred hereinbefore under the Evidence Act and the Registration Act, we have no hesitation to hold that the fi nding of the High Court that the certifi ed copy of Ext.A1 owing to the failure in production of the original and proving through an independent witness is inadmissible in evidence, is legally unsustainable. In the other words, the acceptance of the admissibility of Ext.A1 found in favour of the appellant/plaintiff by the trial Court and confi rmed by the First Appellate Court was perfectly in tune with the provisions referred hereinbefore and the High Court had committed an error in reversing the fi nding regarding the admissibility of Ext.A1. 30.When the execution of Ext.A1 was not disputed by the respondent (in fact in the circumstances it was indisputable) and when the contents of the original sale deed bearing No. 1209/1928 dated 27.08.1928 of SRO Andipatti was proved by production of the certifi ed copy there was absolutely no reason to look for the application of Section 90 or 110 of the Evidence Act, in the instant case. For the purpose of proving the admissibility and evidentiary value of Ext.A1 or Ext.A5 in the circumstances involved in the instant case, there was absolutely no requirement to look into Section 90 or Section 110 of the Evidence Act. In this context it is relevant to note that once the title of plaintiff ’s vendor Puliyankaladi acquired under Ext.A1 sale deed is established and purchase of the same property by the plaintiff , of course his father on his behalf, under Ext.A5 registered sale deed is upheld by the High Court there was no reason or justifi cation to interfere with the concurrent s of the Courts below.