In fact, we may take judicial notice of the fact that during 2017-19, the High Court constituted a Special Division Bench to hear and dispose of hundreds of such final decree applications filed on the basis of alleged compromises between few parties. Most of them are still pending. E 126. Technically the High Court may not be right, in the true legal sense, in branding the preliminary decree as vitiated by fraud. But the fact remains that insofar as third parties to the family of Khurshid Jah (and those claiming under them) are concerned, the preliminary decree is nothing more than a mere paper, as those third parties have had nothing to do with the claim for partition, though they have had a legitimate claim F to title to the properties, described in the suit schedule. Therefore, we would only say and hold on question Nos. (i) and (iv) that the and preliminary decree dated 28.06.1963, though may not be vitiated by fraud, are certainly not binding upon third parties like the claim petitioners and the Government who have set up independent claims. We also hold G that in an enquiry under XXI, Rules 97 to 101, CPC, the Executing Court cannot decide questions of title set up by third parties, who assert independent title in themselves. Marina Beach (in Chennai) or Hussain Sagar (in Hyderabad) or India Gate (in New Delhi) cannot be included 16 A mythical substance supposed to change any metal into Gold or Silver or to cure all H diseases and prolong life indefinitely. M/s TRINITY INFRAVENTURES LTD. & ORS. ETC. v. M. S. 345 MURTHY & ORS. ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] as one of the items of properties in the Plaint Schedule, in a suit for A partition between the members of a family and questions of title to these properties cannot be allowed to be adjudicated in the claim petitions under XXI, Rules 97-101, CPC. 127. Insofar as the Government is concerned, heavy reliance is placed by the learned senior counsel for the appellants on the fact that B the State of Andhra Pradesh was impleaded as defendant No.53 and that they have not only filed the written statement but also examined four witnesses and that therefore the claim of the Government is sealed. 128. It is true that Item Nos.35 to 40 of Plaint Schedule IV were taken up for consideration in the in support of the preliminary C decree, under Issue Nos.13(c) and 14(a). It is also true that the Court considered the evidence of DWs 26 and 32 to 34. Eventually, the Court came to the conclusion (in the in support of the preliminary decree) that while Item Nos.38 and 39 had admittedly come from Khurshid Jah’s time, there was no evidence that they were taken over D by the Government at the time of integration. Not stopping at that, the Court recorded a finding in the and preliminary decree that the mere denial of defendant No.1would not defeat the plaintiffs’ claim.