We are not called upon, for granting a bail to an accused with commercial quantity of contraband article under the 1985 Act, to satisfy ourselves that there are reasonable grounds for believing that an accused is not guilty of such offence and that he is not H 910 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A likely to commit any offence while on bail. Here, we have to satisfy ourselves that the specified offences alleged to have been committed by the appellants cannot be held to be prima facie true. 41. We shall now turn to the other offence under the 1967 Act, which is under Section 13 thereof, and the 1860 Code offences. The B yardstick for justifying the appellants’ plea for bail is lighter in this context. The appellants are almost five years in detention. In the cases of K.A. Najeeb (supra) and Angela Harish Sontakke (supra), delay of trial was considered to be a relevant factor while examining the plea for bail of the accused. In the case of K.A. Najeeb (supra), in particular, this same provision, that is Section 43D (5) was involved. C 42.In these two proceedings, the appellants have not crossed, as undertrials, a substantial term of the sentence that may have been ultimately imposed against them if the prosecution could establish the charges against them. But the fundamental proposition of law laid down in K.A. Najeeb (supra), that a bail-restricting clause cannot denude the D jurisdiction of a Constitutional Court in testing if continued detention in a given case would breach the concept of liberty enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution of India, would apply in a case where such a bail-restricting clause is being invoked on the basis of materials with prima facie low- probative value or quality. E 43.In the case of Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali (supra) reference was made to the of Jayendra Saraswathi Swamigal -vs- State of Tamil Nadu [(2005) 2 SCC 13) in which, citing two earlier decisions of this court in the cases of State -vs- Jagjit Singh (AIR 1962 SC 253) and Gurcharan Singh -vs- State of (UT of Delhi) [(1978) 1 SCC 118), the factors for granting bail under normal F circumstances were discussed. It was held that the nature and seriousness of the offences, the character of the evidence, circumstances which are peculiar to the accused, a reasonable possibility of the presence of the accused not being secured at the trial; reasonable apprehension of witnesses being tempered with; the larger interest of the public or the G State would be relevant factors for granting or rejecting bail. Juxtaposing the appellants’ case founded on Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India with the aforesaid allegations and considering the fact that almost five years have lapsed since they were taken into custody, we are satisfied that the appellants have made out a case for granting bail. Allegations against them no doubt are serious, but for that reason alone bail cannot H VERNON v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA & ANR.