Suffice it to say that having carefully examined the record of the complaints in question, we do not find any illegality or infirmity in the s passed by the trial court issuing summons against the appellant- Archbishop for the alleged offences. F 19. So far as SLP (Crl.) 1487-1493 of 2022 filed by Eparchy of Bathery and the Diary No. 7364 of 2022 filed by Catholic Diocese of Thamarassery (hereinafter referred to as the ‘petitioners’) are concerned, as stated earlier the said petitioners have challenged the observations recorded by the High Court in para 17 to 39 of the impugned judgement, G on the ground that the said observations were made behind the back of the petitioners and other Diocese, and that such observations had wide ramifications throughout the state. According to the said petitioners such general observations made in the impugned judgement amounted to nullifying the concluded transactions involving the properties of Catholic Churches including Syro Malabar Catholic Church. H 1032 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 20. In this regard, the learned Senior Counsel Mr. Chander Uday Singh had submitted that the petitioners had nothing to do with the appellant-accused Archbishop, however, the High Court in the proceeding under Section 482 Cr.P.C. filed by him has defined, decided and declared the spiritual, ecclesiastical and temporal powers of the Catholic Church without affording any opportunity of hearing to the affected parties, which B is not legally permissible. Mr. Chander Uday Singh has relied upon observations made by this Court in Criminal Appeal arising out of SLP (Crl.) 4567 of 2019 (Anu Kumar Vs. State (UT Administration) and another) to substantiate his submission that High Court could not have ventured to enter into an area which would adversely affect the interest C of the third party to the proceedings. 21. It appears to us after having gone through the impugned passed by the High Court, more particularly the observations made in para 17 to 39 thereof that the said prima facie observations were made in response to the submissions made by the learned counsels for the D parties relying upon various decisions of this Court as regards the powers and authority of the Archbishop of Archdiocese with regard to the temporal and spiritual affairs of the Churches. Of course, certain observations are omnibus and general in nature but the same being only prima facie observations made in the impugned in the petitions filed by the Appellant- Archbishop under Section 482 of Cr.PC, no finality could be E attached to the said observations. Hence, without stretching the matter any further and without expressing any opinion on the said prima facie observations made in para 17 to 39 of the impugned , we deem it appropriate to direct, and accordingly direct the Trial Court to decide the complaints in question filed by the respondent no. 2 against the appellant- F Archbishop and others in accordance with law without being influenced by the said observations made by the High Court in the impugned and that it would be open to the said petitioners to take recourse to the remedies as may be legally permissible, in case the said observations cause any complications in the transactions already concluded by the Churches to whom the said petitioners represent.