7.3. Learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent referred to Section 41 of the Evidence Act and stated that a in E a matrimonial proceeding is a in-rem and therefore, to arrive at a just and proper in the pending Divorce Petition, any evidence to bring out the truth is germane to the matter and has to be permitted to be brought in and cannot be ignored. That the issue is one of a fair trial from the point of view of both the parties. F 7.4. It was next submitted that Section 112 of the Evidence Act would not come in the way of the Courts directing DNA tests to be conducted in deserving cases. Reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in Dipanwita Roy vs. Ronobroto Roy, (2015) 1 SCC 365 to contend that this Court in the said case laid down the process to be followed by Courts in directing DNA tests, while at the same time G preserving the presumption under Section 112 of the Evidence Act. That a similar approach must be permitted to be adopted in the present case. 7.5. It was further contended that in the present case, the most material piece of evidence to establish the allegations of adultery is the DNA test and the same cannot be shut out on the ground of sensitivity H 702 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A or privacy. Reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in Sharda to contend that in the said case it was categorically held that an passed by a matrimonial court ing a person to undergo a medical test would not be violative of the right of personal liberty as envisaged in Article 21 of the Constitution of India. That therefore, the reluctance and hesitation of the appellant to allow the DNA test corroborates the B allegations of adultery against her and brings forth the need to conduct the said DNA Test. 7.6. That the Family Court passed the directing DNA test after having due regard to the prima facie evidence brought before the said court and the High Court has rightly confirmed the passed by C the Family Court. The Report of the privately conducted DNA test filed before the Family Court, in unequivocal terms rules out the possibility of the respondent being the biological father of the minor child. The said Report strongly lays down the foundation for taking recourse of moving an application for directions to conduct the DNA test. That under Section D 14 of the Evidence Act, Family Courts have been given vast powers to take into consideration any report, statement, documents, and information which may assist the court to deal effectively with the dispute and thus, the Family Court was right in accepting the report of the privately conducted DNA test. E With the aforesaid averments, it was prayed that the instant appeal be dismissed as being devoid of merit and an abuse of the process of law, and the impugned as well as the of the Family Court, be affirmed.