fi ve lakhs will be revised based on the prevalent unit call rate. The revision will be limited to 75% of the overall increase in the unit rate during the period preceding such revision.” The Agreement further stipulated: “19.2 On completion of three years from the date of commissioning/ provision of services; the Authority reserves the right to fi x the share of the gross revenue from rental, air time charges for all other services provided from the cellular network of the Licensee, as additional licence fee. 19.3 The annual Licence fee as prescribed above does not include Licence fees payable to WPC wing of Ministry of Communications (WPC) for use of Radio Frequencies which shall be paid separately by the Licensee on the rates prescribed by the WPC and as per procedure specifi ed by it (condition 20).” 13.3. The key features of the licence agreement under the 1994 Policy regime may be enumerated as under: i. The licence was granted enabling the licencee to establish, maintain and operate cellular mobile telephone service, within a given geographical area. ii. The licence was granted for a period of ten years, which was extendable for fi ve years or more, at the discretion of the licensor, i.e., the Central Government, unless terminated earlier. iii. Fixed amount of licence fee was to be paid for the fi rst three years, irrespective of the number of subscribers, as provided in paragraph 19 of the agreement and such amounts was subject to increase annually. iv. From the fourth year onwards, the amount of licence fees to be paid, was dependent on the number of subscribers, irrespective of the revenue accrued by the licencee from such subscribers, subject to the prescribed minimum. C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 417 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] v. The consequence of non-payment of licence fee was termination of the licence agreement. vi. In accordance with the Policy of 1994, the condition of maintaining duopoly in the market was formalised in the licence agreement. vii. The licence was non-assignable. 13.4. Subsequently, with a view to implement the Policy of 1999, letters dated 27 July, 1999 were issued by the DoT proposing the package for migration of existing licencees to the Policy of 1999 regime. It was stated that the conditions prescribed therein are to be accepted as a package, in entirety. Pursuant to the acceptance of the terms of migration, the original licence agreement was amended. The relevant portions of a specimen letter evidencing the amendments is extracted as under: “GOVERNMENT OF INDIA MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS (VAS CELL) SANCHAR BHAWAN, 20, ASHOKA ROAD, NEW DELHI-110001 No 842-47/2000-VAS/Vol. IV Dated: January 29, 2001 To M/s Bharti Cellular Ltd. D-184, OKHLA Industrial Area, Phase-1, New Delhi-110 020. Subject:- Amendment in the Licence Agreement No 842-1893-TM Dated 29.11.1994 for Cellular Mobile Telephone Service in Delhi 418 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Metro Service Area as a consequence to Migration to revenue sharing regime of New Telecom Policy-1999 (NTP-99) Sirs, In consideration of the acceptance by the Licensee, of the terms and conditions contained in the off ered Migration Package vide No.