However, the annual licence fee, which varied according to the AGR in the relevant year, was incurred annually on revenue earned and consequently is an annual revenue expenditure. iii. Referring to the decision of this Court in Mewar Sugar Mills Ltd. vs. CIT, (1973) 3 SCC 143 (“Mewar Sugar Mills Ltd.”), it was submitted that in the said case, the expenditure incurred by the assessee was apportioned and it was held that the sums paid by the assessee for acquisition of monopoly rights for manufacture of sugar were in the nature of capital expenditure, while the royalty paid on a yearly basis was revenue expenditure. It was submitted in that context that the principle laid down in the said case would directly apply to the case at hand. The one-time entry fee is payed for acquiring the licence and is therefore in the nature of capital expenditure; whereas, the annual licence fee is to operate the licence and earn profi ts, therefore, the same is revenue expenditure. iv. That a similar view was taken in CIT vs. Sarada Binding Works, (1976) 102 ITR 187 (“Sarada Binding Works”) wherein the Madras High Court considered various s of this Court and held that a lump-sum payment to acquire a right would be capital expenditure, whereas any amount paid as royalty based on annual earnings or profi t would be revenue expenditure. That the payment of annual licence fee, in the present case, would be similar to the payment of royalty as it relates to the annual turnover and would therefore be revenue in nature. v. That it could not be axiomatically held that the nomenclature ‘annual licence fee’ would itself indicate that the annual variable licence fee was also incurred for the purpose of acquiring the capital asset, i.e., the licence and therefore, had to be amortised under Section 35ABB of the Act. The nomenclature does not mean that a licence is acquired annually or the licence is obtained annually. This amount is the expenditure incurred to operate the 398 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. telecom licence and earn revenue or profi ts. In this regard, reliance was placed on the dictum of this Court in Sundaram Finance Ltd. vs. State of Kerala, (1966) 2 SCR 828 to submit that the use of a particular expression is not conclusive of the nature of a transaction. vi. That the of this Court in Jalan Trading Co., sought to be relied upon by the appellant-Revenue would have no application to the facts of the present case as unlike in the case at hand, there was no lump-sum payment in the said case. The agreement itself provided for 75% of the net profi ts to be paid for the assignment of the right to carry on business. The aim or object of payment of the said consideration was for the purpose of acquiring the right to carry on business. However, in the present case, the annual licence fee is paid not to acquire the licence, but to operate the telecom licence and earn revenue or profi ts.