Thus, the admitted position is that its execution and registration is not in dispute. Since it is a registered sale deed and its execution is not in dispute it must carry a presumption that the transaction H DAMODHAR NARAYAN SAWALE (D) THROUGH LRS. v. SHRI 199 TEJRAO BAJIRAO MHASKE & ORS. [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] was a genuine one. Thus, evidently, the dispute is only in regard to the A nature of transaction. Being a registered one and apparently containing the stipulations of transfer of right, title and interest in favour of the vendee on the land involved therein and described therein and also recital regarding receipt of sale consideration the burden was entirely on the second defendant to establish otherwise and to prove that it did not reflect B the true nature of transaction. A perusal of Ext.128 would reveal that the extent of property is recorded therein as an area of ‘1 Hector, 42 R (3.20)’ in Survey No. 20/2 of village – Gangalgaon, Taluk – Chikhli of Buldana District. Before delving further into the matter, it is relevant to note that the First Appellate Court observed and held, after appreciating the evidence on record, that as relates one acre out of the total extent of C 3 acres 20 guntas sold by the second defendant comprised in Survey No. 20/2 as per Ext.128, the second defendant did not have any grievance. In other words, what was found was that the grievance was only relating the balance extent of 2 acres and 20 guntas comprised in Survey No. 20/2 which, as per records, sold earlier by the second defendant, as per D sale deed dated 04.07.1978, to the first defendant. In this context, it is also pertinent to note that in paragraph 24 of the impugned the Hon’ble High Court itself observed and held, as extracted hereinabove, that the defendant No. 2 did not dispute that he had sold one acre of land to the plaintiff as per the sale deed (Ext.128) for the consideration of Rs. 3000/- and that he had shown his readiness and willingness to deliver the E possession of it to the plaintiff. Paragraph 26 of the impugned would show that while rejecting the finding of the First Appellate Court on the inconsistency of the stand of the second defendant the High Court held thus:- “There is no inconsistency in the stand taken by the defendant F No. 2 either in the written statement or in the notice at Exhibit 113. The defendant No. 2 is consistent in his stand that he has sold one acre of land by the sale-deed at Exhibit 128 for a total consideration of Rs. 3000/-, but has denied to have sold 2 acres and 20 guntas of land to the plaintiff.” G When that be the indisputable factual position all the other contentions raised by the second respondent against the plaintiff, including money lending, non-passing of sale consideration in respect of the said extent of one acre would all become inconsequential and unsustainable and unnecessary to be gone into.