However, if Parliament enacts a law granting executive power on any subject which is within the domain of NCTD, the executive power of the Lieutenant Governor shall be modified to the extent, as provided in that law. Furthermore, under Section 49 of the GNCTD Act, the Lieutenant Governor and the Council of C Ministers must comply with the particular directions issued by the President on specific occasions. 96. Now, we turn to the present reference before us regarding the scope of the legislative and executive powers of NCTD and the Union over “services” under Entry 41 of the State List. Based on the D discussion in this section, NCTD shall have legislative power to make laws on “services”. This is because “services” (that is, Entry 41) is not expressly excluded in Article 239AA(3)(a). As it has legislative power, it shall have executive power to control “services” within NCTD. However, we will need to address the argument of the Union of India that the provisions of the Constitution exclude “services” from the E legislative and executive control of NCTD to form a conclusive opinion on the issue. The subsequent sections of this deal with the above questions. J. Triple chain of accountability: Civil Servants in a Cabinet Form of Government F 97. Before discussing the question regarding the applicability of Part XIV to NCTD, it would be appropriate to discuss the principles which will guide our analysis on Part XIV. A discussion on the role of civil services in a Westminster-style Cabinet Form of Government is necessary to understand the issues at stake. G (a) Role of civil services in a modern government 98. Civil services form an integral part of modern government. Professor Herman Finer, in his classic work titled “The Theory and Practice of Modern Governance”, states that “the function of civil service in the modern state is not merely an improvement of government; H GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 555 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] for without it, indeed, government itself would be necessarily A impossible.”29 The efficacy of the State and the system of responsible government to a large part depend upon professionals, who embody the institution of a competent and independent civil service. 99. The policies of the government are implemented not by the people, Parliament, the Cabinet, or even individual ministers, but by civil B service officers. Elaborating on the indispensable position of civil services in a parliamentary system of government, DD Basu in his commentary on the Constitution of India states: “A notable feature of the Parliamentary system of government is that while the policy of the administration is determined and laid C down by ministers responsible to the Legislature, the policy is carried out and the administration of the country is actually run by a large body of officials who have no concern with politics.”30 100. A Constitution Bench of this Court in Union of India v. Tulsiram Patel31 dwelt on the ubiquitous nature of the civil service and D observed: “34.