By the writ of habeas corpus, the Court can cause any person who is imprisoned to be brought before the Court and obtain knowledge of the reason why he is imprisoned and then either set him free then and there if there is no legal justifi cation for the imprisonment, or see that he is brought speedily to trial. Habeas Corpus is available against any person who is suspected of detaining another unlawfully and not merely against the police or other public offi cers whose duties normally include arrest and detention. The Court must issue it if it is shown that the person on whose behalf it is asked for is unlawfully deprived of his liberty. The writ be addressed to any person whatever-an offi cial or a private individual-who has another in his custody. The claim (for habeas corpus) has been expressed and pressed in terms of concrete legal standards and procedures. Most notably, the right of personal liberty is connected in PESALA NOOKARAJU v. THE GOVERNMENT OF 551 ANDHRA PRADESH & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] both the legal and popular sense with procedures upon the writ of habeas corpus. The writ is simply a judicial command directed to a specifi c jailer directing him or her to produce the named prisoner together with the legal cause of detention in that this legal warrant of detention might be examined. The said detention may be legal or illegal. The right which is sought to be enforced by such a writ is a fundamental right of a citizen conferred under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, which provides:- “Article 21. Protection of life and personal liberty.—No person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law.” SUBMISSION NO. 1 OF THE APPELLANT 23. The learned counsel appearing for the appellant vehemently submitted that the High Court failed to appreciate that the of detention could be termed as contrary to the proviso to Section 3(2) of the Act 1986 referred to above as the detention can only be in force for a period of three months in the fi rst instance. According to the learned counsel, the Government thereafter may extend the period for not more than three months at a time so that there is periodic assessment and review as to whether the continuous detention of a person is necessary or not. In short, the sum and substance of the submission canvassed on behalf of the appellant detenu is that the detention passed for 12 months at a stretch could be termed as without jurisdiction and contrary to the mandate of sub-section (2) of Section 3 of the Act 1986. In support of the said submission, the learned counsel has placed strong reliance on a decision of this Court in the case of Cherukuri Mani (supra). 24. We must fi rst look into the decision of this Court in Cherukuri Mani (supra) as the same also dealt with sub-section (2) of Section 3 of the Act 1986.