On the completion of the term of the license, the appellant issued an advertisement inviting applications B for granting a fresh contract. The respondent challenged the advertisement.The Courtobserved that it is the requirement of the principle of non-arbitrariness postulated in Article 14 that contracts by the State, its corporations, instrumentalities, and agencies should as a general rule be granted through public tender. Noting that it is necessary C to maintain transparency in the grant of public contracts, the Court ruled that the State must give contracts only by tender and not through private negotiations. This Court held that a contract can be granted by private negotiation only in exceptional circumstances having regard to the ‘nature of the trade or largesse or for some other good reason’. Some of the exceptional circumstances that were listed were: (a) award of contracts D in the event of natural calamities and emergencies; (b) situations where the supplier has exclusive rights over goods and there is no reasonable alternative;and (c) there are no bidders or where the bid offered is too low. The Court has upheld the award of contracts without holding a public auction in situations where conducting a public auction is impossible E given the surrounding circumstances. When the government deviates from the general rule of allotting a contract without following a transparent process such as inviting tenders, it has to justify its actions on the touchstone of the principles postulated in Article 14 : 13. This Court time and again has emphasised the need to maintain F transparency in grant of public contracts. Ordinarily, maintenance of transparency as also compliance with Article 14 of the Constitution would inter alia be ensured by holding public auction upon issuance of advertisement in the well-known newspapers. That has not been done in this case. Although the Nagar Nigam had advertised the contract, the High Court has directed that it G should be given for 10 years to a particular party (Respondent 1). This was clearly illegal. 14. It is well settled that ordinarily the State or its instrumentalities should not give contracts by private negotiation but by open public 13 (2006) 13 SCC 382 H 492 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A auction/tender after wide publicity. In this case the contract has not only been given by way of private negotiation, but the negotiation has been carried out by the High Court itself, which is impermissible. 15. We have no doubt that in rare and exceptional cases, having B regard to the nature of the trade or largesse or for some other good reason, a contract may have to be granted by private negotiation, but normally that should not be done as it shakes the public confidence. 16. The law is well settled that contracts by the State, its C corporations, instrumentalities and agencies must be normally granted through public auction/public tender by inviting tenders from eligible persons and the notification of the public auction or inviting tenders should be advertised in well-known dailies having wide circulation in the locality with all relevant details such as date, time and place of auction, subject-matter of auction, technical D specifications, estimated cost, earnest money deposit, etc.