Further, in the case of “Triveni Shankar Saxena Vs. State of U.P. and Others, 1992 Supp (1) SCC 524”, while primarily dealing the 114 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. question of acquisition of lien, this Court has observed that a person can be said to acquire a lien on a post only when he has been confi rmed and made permanent on that post and not earlier. 17. In a 3-Judge Bench in the case of “State of Rajasthan and Another Vs. S.N. Tiwari and Others, (2009) 4 SCC 700”, while interpreting the word ‘lien’ against the post appointed substantively with respect to another post, this Court held as thus: “17. It is very well settled that when a person with a lien against the post is appointed substantively to another post, only then he acquires a lien against the latter post. Then and then alone the lien against the previous post disappears. Lien connotes the right of a civil servant to hold the post substantively to which he is appointed. The lien of a government employee over the previous post ends if he is appointed to another permanent post on permanent basis. In such a case the lien of the employee shifts to the new permanent post. It may not require a formal termination of lien over the previous permanent post.” Similarly in the case of “State of Madhya Pradesh and Others Vs. Sandhya Tomar and Another, (2013) 11 SCC 357”, this Court held that the lien is a civil right of a civil servant to hold the post to which he is appointed substantively. The relevant part of the is reproduced below as thus – “10. “Lien” connotes the civil right of a government servant to hold the post “to which he is appointed substantively”. The necessary corollary to the aforesaid right is that such appointment must be in accordance with law. A person can be said to have acquired lien as regards a particular post only when his appointment has been confi rmed, and when he has been made permanent to the said post. “The word ‘lien’ is a generic term and, standing alone, it includes lien acquired by way of contract, or by operation of law.” Whether a person has lien, depends upon whether he has been appointed in accordance with law, in substantive capacity and whether he has been made permanent or has been confi rmed to the said post.” All the aforesaid s have been duly considered again by this Court in another 3-Judge Bench in the case of Sitikanatha Mishra (supra). Thus, as per settled legal position, we observe that ‘lien’ L.R. PATIL v. GULBARGA UNIVERSITY, GULBARGA 115 [J. K. MAHESHWARI, J.] of a government servant only ceases to exist when he/she is appointed on another post ‘substantively’/confi rmed or absorbed permanently. Otherwise, his/her lien would continue on the previous post. 18. Reverting to the instant case, on a conjoint reading of the Rules applicable, i.e., Rule 252(b), Rule 20 Note 4 and Offi ce Memorandum dated 22.01.1972 in consonance with the settled law as discussed, we are of the considered view that the lien of the appellant on the previous post of ‘Offi ce Superintendent’ is squarely protected and his lien shall be continued under Rule 20 Note 4.