Accordingly, it was decided to include the name(s) of Ms. Akanksha Dogra, Roll No. 2099, Sh. Vivek Kaisth, Roll No. 1299 candidates of general category, Ms. Meenakshi, Roll No.1386 (Sch. Caste Category) and Sh. Parvez, roll No. 1139 (Sch. Tribe Category) candidates in the select list and the Commission should publish the select list accordingly.” 9. In Shweta Dhingra (supra) the Division Bench of the Himachal Pradesh High Court was dealing with the selection of Civil Judge (Junior Division) in the State for the year 2010, and it was of the opinion that apart from clear and anticipated vacancies, the Commission should prepare a select list of some additional candidates. This entire exercise therefore for the appointment of few more judicial offi cers was done in the present case, with the belief that this is what ought to have been done in terms of the directions of the Himachal Pradesh High Court in Shweta Dhingra (supra), and we must therefore reproduce the directions given in that case. We reproduce most of this in to get a proper perspective: 2. The Apex Court in Malik Mazhar Sultan (3) v. Uttar Pradesh Service Commission has issued the guidelines with regard to the fi lling up of the vacancies to the post of Civil Judge (Junior Division) by direct recruitment. The vacancies have to be notifi ed by 15th January every year. The vacancies include existing vacancies on account of retirement and future vacancies and which may arise on account of promotion, death or otherwise. It is also held in the that the select list will operate till the select list for the subsequent year comes into operation. Still further, it is directed that the select list should be published in the of merit and should be double of the vacancies notifi ed. This direction was subsequently modifi ed by the Apex Court by the dated 24th March, 2009 to 622 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. the eff ect that the select list should contain the existing number of vacancies and the anticipated vacancies for the succeeding year and should include some candidates in the waiting list. Unfortunately, the select list published by the Public Service Commission was only for the clear cut vacancies of fi ve and three anticipated. No doubt, the said list is in the of merit. As far as the facts of the instant cases are concerned, there is no dispute with regard to the select list on the aspect of communal rotation, so that we need not go into that aspect at this stage, we may refer the same for future guidelines later in this . 3. ………….. 4. Steps for recruitment for the year 2011 have already been initiated. We fi nd that six clear cut vacancies have been notifi ed (2-SC, 2-ST and 2-OBC). Six are anticipated (2-General, 1-ST and 3-OBC). The Public Service Commission, it is expected would be publishing the select list by the end of October, 2011. Therefore, the select list already prepared/to be duly prepared is to operate till the select list of 2011 is published.