What the arbitral tribunal held in regard to this item had exclusively been its view on the evidence on record and the relevant surrounding H RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 383 facts/factors. The view so taken by the arbitral tribunal cannot be A said to be wholly perverse or suffering from patent illegality so as to be interfered with. Even if two views are possible, the Court cannot substitute its own view with that of the arbitral tribunal. [Para 24.1][442-F-G] 1.9 The questions in relation to the issue concerning B downrating, that adverse inference ought to be drawn against the claimant for failure to produce OEM recommendations, are only pertaining to the principles of appreciation of evidence. In the regular adjudicatory process, the Court may presume existence of certain facts under Section 114 of the Evidence Act, C 1872; and in terms of Illustration (g) thereof, the Court is entitled to draw an inference that the evidence which could be but not produced would, if produced, be unfavourable to the person who withholds it. However, in a given case, while determining the dispute by way of arbitration, whether the arbitrator draws such adverse inference or not, is essentially a matter of appreciation D of evidence; and if not drawing of adverse inference is also permitted to be raised as a ground of challenge under Section 34, it would open the confines of limited interference in an award; and would carry the propensity of converting the proceedings under Section 34 and under Section 37 into the proceedings of E regular appeal/revision against the award and thereby, again violating the principles that re-appreciation of evidence is not envisaged in the proceedings under Section 34 of the Act of 1996. It gets per force reiterated that an award could be said to be suffering from “patent illegality” only if it is an illegality apparent on the face of the award and not to be searched out by way of re- F appreciation of evidence. The submissions as regards drawing of adverse inference are themselves adverse to the ethos of Sections 34 and 37 of the Act of 1996 and are required to be rejected. [Para 25][442-H; 443-A-E] 1.10 As regards the question of downrating, the questions G relating to the value of certificate dated 08.11.2005 and the effect of the claimant not taking up this issue earlier would again fall directly within the arena of appreciation of evidence and reach to the extent of rendering the finding on preponderance of H 384 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A probabilities. The arbitral tribunal has taken a particular view of the evidence before it. If it were an appeal against the award, the approach of the Court could have been different but, not so while examining the award within the confines of Section 34 of the Act. Even in a regular appeal against a decree of the trial court, the appellate court would not substitute its own views without B specifically recording a finding as to the error in the decision under challenge.