It has the authority THE STATE OF TELANGANA & ORS. v. M/S TIRUMALA 151 CONSTRUCTIONS [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] “to recommend to the Union and the States on various facets of GST, including Model GST laws, principles to determine the place of supply, levy of the tax, design of GST, dispute settlement, special provisions for a special category of States, and so forth”. GST Council’s recommendations led Parliament to enacted legislation.3 8. The coming into force of the GST regime, and the passage of the amendment demonstrates a rare unanimity, a resolve across the political spectrum, to ensure that there is a single indirect taxation regime. The eff ect of the Amendment is to subsume all state and union taxes, on goods and services. Both the Union and the States will ostensibly have the power to tax the supply of goods and services. The 101st Amendment Act takes away neither the Union's nor the States' taxing power but instead gives them the power to impose taxes on supply of goods and supply of services respectively.Through Article 246-A the Amendment creates: a. a new legislative fi eld, conferring b. legislative authority outside the three Lists of the Seventh Schedule; c. concurrent powers to both Parliament and the State Legislatures to enact legislations on the same subject-matter and at the same time. 9. There consequently is a fundamental change to the scheme of legislative relations between the Union and the States by departing from the underlying theory of exclusivity of legislative fi elds between Parliament and the State legislatures,in terms of the distribution of legislative powers carried out by Chapter I of Part XI of the Constitution4. 10. To exemplify this:whilst Article 246-A changes the legislative distribution of powers, however, it does not upset the balance between 3 The Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017: it levies a tax on intra-State supplies of goods and services in all supplies within a State; the Integrated Goods and Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017: it levies a tax on inter-State supplies of goods and services; and (3) the Union Territory Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017: it levies a tax on intra-State supplies of goods and service. 4 Godfrey Phillips India Ltd. v. State of U.P. (2005) 1 SCR732, 152 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. the Union and the States. Instead, it carries out the function of cross- empowerment. On the one hand, it enables the Union to legislative and collect taxes on certain subjects which were hitherto within the exclusive fold of the States (such as the taxes on sale and purchase of goods, luxury taxes, advertisement taxes, etc. ), while retaining the legislative rights it hitherto possessed (such as taxes on manufacture, taxes on services, etc.) except that these taxes are subsumed in a larger legislative fi eld - i.e., GST - and would be levied thereunder. On the other hand, Article 246-A also expands the legislative reach of the States to bring within their fold the subjects which were hitherto beyond their competence-such as tax on the supply of services, etc.