Also he was not seen in the company of the accused. In his testimony he states that accused Bhainsa and Pradeep Kumar killed Umesh Chowdhary but then this fact is based on “his suspicion” for the reason that accused had “harboured animosity” in connection with the shop. Well that is about all and without any further elaboration. D 17. Significantly, even this limited fact is not disclosed in the complaint. Also to this effect, wefind there is material improvement in his testimony. That apart, we do not find this witness to be reliable or his testimony worthy of credence. He failed to make inquiries about the cause of the incident from any of the villagers. He is not a spot witness. E He is also not the witness who had lastly seen the Appellant with the deceased or the Appellant having gone either towards the shop of the deceased or the place of occurrence of the incident, both being two separate places. However, what is crucial,rendering his version to be self belied, in his unequivocal admission that, “no quarrel ever took place prior to the fatal incident between the deceased and the accussed” and F that he “never lodged any report in connection with any quarrel.” 18. To this very effect, we may also take note of the deposition of Sirodh (PW-6) who, in any event, has not supported the prosecution in Court. G 19. When we come to the deposition of Vinay Kumar (PW-12) son of the deceased, unequivocally he states that “... later on the police personnel told me that accused persons have thrown my father after committing murder...” Now this totally belies the testimony of his grandfather Gajadhar Chowdhary (PW-10). To similar effect, it is the testimony of Radhika (PW-13) who only adds that “...Later on I came H PRADEEP KUMAR v. STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 691 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] to know that Umesh has been murdered. I heard from the villagers...”. A Significantly, her statement that she was not informed by her husband (PW-7), of the deceased being murdered by the Appellant was not recorded in her previous statement with which she was confronted. But what is crucial is her deposition is that her husband himself was a suspect and that she admits it to be correct, “...that the police personnel took my B husband for inquiry in connection with the murder of deceased. The police personnel kept my husband for one day...” This negates one of the circumstances that there was tension between the deceased and the accused, which was, the motive of commission of crime, i.e. issue of use of the shop inter se the parties. C 20. We notice in respect of the next circumstance, which is the recovery of keys and the money, that there is no independent corroborated material except for the confessional statement of the accused, which also is not proven on record. Even otherwise, the keys, the currency notes and the blood stained clothes were not sent for chemical analysis.