[2023] 15 S.C.R. 621 : 2023 INSC 1051 COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. (Arbitration Petition (Civil) No. 38 of 2020) DECEMBER 06, 2023 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI, HRISHIKESH ROY, PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J B PARDIWALA AND MANOJ MISRA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issues for consideration: The primary issue for consideration of the present Constitution Bench of Five Judges was determination of the validity of the ‘Group of companies doctrine’ in Indian arbitration jurisprudence and its applicability to proceedings under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. Earlier, the Group of Companies doctrine had been adopted and applied in Indian arbitration jurisprudence in Chloro Controls case, where a three Judge Bench of the Supreme Court had read the said doctrine into the phrase “claiming through or under” in Section 45 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. The ‘Group of companies doctrine’ provides that an arbitration agreement which is entered into by a company within a group of companies may bind non-signatory affi liates, if the circumstances are such as to demonstrate the mutual intention of the parties to bind both signatories and non-signatories. This doctrine was called into question purportedly on the ground that it interfered with the established legal principles such as party autonomy, privity of contract, and separate legal personality. Also, there were ancillary issues such as: (i) whether the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 allows joinder of a non-signatory as a party to an arbitration agreement; (ii) whether Section 7 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 allows for determination of an intention to arbitrate on the basis of the conduct of the parties; and (iii) interpretation of the phrase “claiming through or under” appearing under Sections 8, 35 and 45 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. Ed. Note: Hon’ble Dr. Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud, CJI pronounced on behalf of his Lordship, Hon’ble Mr. Justice Hrishikesh Roy, Hon’ble Mr. Justice J.B. Pardiwala and Hon’ble Mr. Justice Manoj Misra. Hon’ble Mr. Justice Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha pronounced a separate concurring . 621 622 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Arbitration – Arbitration agreement – Consent as the basis for arbitration: Held (per Dr. Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, Hrishikesh Roy, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ. ): Consensus ad idem between the parties forms the essential basis to constitute a valid arbitration agreement – Since consent forms the cornerstone of arbitration, a non- signatory cannot be forcibly made a “party” to an arbitration agreement as doing so would violate the sacrosanct principles of privity of contract and party autonomy. [Paras 60, 63] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – s.2(1)(h) r/w s.7 – Defi nition of “parties”: Held (per Dr. Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, Hrishikesh Roy, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ. ): The defi nition of “parties” under Section 2(1)(h) read with Section 7 of the Arbitration Act includes both the signatory as well as non-signatory parties. [Para 165] Arbitration – Parties to an arbitration Agreement – Method to fi gure out: Held (per Dr. Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, Hrishikesh Roy, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ.