Arguments on Behalf of Revenue in the present Appeals/SLPs: Submissions of Sri Pallav Sisodia, senior counsel for the State of Kerala in SLP (C) No.14260/2007: D (i) Learned senior counsel, Sri Pallav Sisodia submitted that the presence of a manufacturer’s or dealer’s warranty on the car sold by the dealer does not make any difference to whether the transaction of replacement of defective goods satisfies the elements of sale or not. The learned E senior counsel listed various instances by way of illustrations when a customer purchases a car and reasoned that even when a customer did not purchase a car with a warranty but had taken an insurance, his expenses on the replacement of defective parts are reimbursed. Yet, the F transaction is understood as a component of the taxable turnover of the dealer as per Explanation (5) to Section 2 (xxi) of the Kerala General Sales Tax Act, 1963. Even when the customer enforces the warranty, the dealer obtains a discharge of warranty obligation as a valuable consideration for the transfer of fresh parts from the dealer G to the customer. The car dealer gets the replacement of parts as co-warrantor from the manufacturer towards the discharge of warranty obligation either on a principal-to- principal basis or as an agent of the manufacturer. Moreover, there exists a form of recompense from the H manufacturer to the dealer. It makes no difference if the M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1305 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] recompense is in the form of a credit note or cheque or A cash. Irrespective of the nature of the transfer of goods between manufacturer and dealer, it is a sale for the purposes of sales tax laws. (ii) It was submitted that the Prem Nath Motors line of cases was decided on fallacious reasons, and the decision in Mohd. B Ekram Khan deserves affirmation. Therefore, the idea of ‘continuous sale’, ‘credit note as not a valuable consideration’, or ‘sales return’ are all red herrings not supported by facts on record. Submissions of Sri Ravindra K. Raizada, senior counsel for C Commissioner, Commercial Tax, State of U.P. in SLP(C) Nos. 12119/2017 and 11509/2017: (i) Sri Raizada, learned senior counsel submitted that the Dealership Agreement between Tata Motors and M/s Vikrant Automobiles was on a principal-to-principal basis. D Furthermore, the case did not involve an exchange of the manufacturer’s spare parts with customer’s defective parts. Instead, the dealer purchased the parts from the manufacturer. It is clearly not a stock transfer from the manufacturer to the dealer. The ingredients of sale in the E present case ought to be considered complete when goods i.e. new spare parts, are transferred to the customers and payment is received from the manufacturer who is fulfilling the warranty obligation as per established trade practice. He asserted that the manufacturer maintaining a running account of the dealer, through a credit note in respect of F such sale of spare parts by dealer, has acknowledged such adjustment to be made in Sale and Purchase Account of the dealer.