In another study titled “Same-sex parenting in Brazil and Portugal: An integrative review”,272 the authors found that the adoption of children by one of the individuals in a non-heterosexual partnership because of the delay in the recognition of same-sex marriage became a weakness to such families on the issues of health, education, and other responsibilities. In another paper titled, “Academic achievement of children in same and diff erent sex parented families: A population-level analysis of linked administrative data from the Netherlands”,273 it was 270 Solirios Sarantakos, Children in three contexts: Family, education, and social development, Children Australia Volume 21, No. 3, 1996 271 American Psychological Association, ‘Lesbian and Gay Parenting’ 272 Biasutti, CM; Nascimento CRR, Gato J, Bortolozzo ML, Same-sex parenting in Brazil and Portugal: An integrative review. Research, Society and Development, [S. l.], v. 11, n. 16, 273 Kabátek J, Perales F. Academic Achievement of Children in Same- and Diff erent- Sex-Parented Families: A Population-Level Analysis of Linked Administrative Data From the Netherlands. Demography. 2021 Apr 1;58(2):393-418 140 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. concluded that the children raised by same-sex couples performed at least as well as children of heterosexual parents in socio-political environments characterised by high levels of legislative or public support, and that the children living in same-sex parented families experience no educational disadvantage relative to children living in heterosexual parented families. The learned counsel also relied on a study which was conducted based on the data derived from Netherlands where same-sex marriages were formalised in 2011.274 The study found that the academic results of children indicated that children raised by non-heterosexual parents outperformed children raised by heterosexual parents by 0.139 standard deviations, and that they are 4.8 percentage points more likely to graduate. The studies which have been submitted by the counsel on either sides support their respective arguments. The studies submitted by Ms Bhati support the argument that even if Regulation 5(3) discriminates against the queer community, it is justifi ed because the interest of the child would suff er if they are parented by queer partners. On the other hand, the studies submitted by Dr. Menaka Guruswamy support the argument that the interest of the child parented by persons belonging to the queer community does not suff er, and if it does it is not because persons with queer identity are ‘bad’ parents but because the State by not recognising queer relationships treats them as second-class citizens. 312. The burden which is required to be discharged by the State for an Article 14 violation and an Article 15 violation vary. While Article 14 prohibits unreasonable classifi cation, Article 15 prohibits discrimination based on identity. The interpretation of Article 15 has evolved over the years to incorporate a more substantial eff ects-based approach towards the anti-discrimination principle.275 The test is whether the law discriminates against persons in eff ect, based on the identities covered in Article 15. While the Court is undertaking an exercise to determine if Article 14 is violated, the State is required to submit cogent evidence to support its claim that the classifi cation holds a nexus with the object sought to be achieved.