The Speaker ultimately passed an inter alia disqualifying these MLAs. 202. Aggrieved by the of the Speaker, the disqualified MLAs approached this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution. The MLAs who had tendered their resignations argued that the Speaker did not F have the jurisdiction to adjudicate the petitions for their disqualification because they had already resigned and were therefore not members of the House who could be disqualified. Relying on Rajendra Singh Rana (supra), this Court rejected this submission and held that the Speaker has the jurisdiction to determine the disqualification petitions because G disqualification relates to the date when the act constituting defection is alleged to have been committed: “93. As such, there is no doubt that the disqualification relates to the date when such act of defection takes place. The tendering of resignation does not have a bearing on the jurisdiction of the H Speaker in this regard. At this point we may allude to the case of SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 965 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] D. Sanjeevayya v. Election Tribunal [D. Sanjeevayya v. Election A Tribunal, AIR 1967 SC 1211] , wherein this Court has held that : (AIR pp. 1213-14, para 5) “5. It is, therefore, not permissible, in the present case, to interpret Section 150 of the Act in isolation without reference to Part III of the Act which prescribes the machinery for calling in question the B election of a returned candidate. When an election petition has been referred to a Tribunal by the Election Commission and the former is seized of the matter, the petition has to be disposed of according to law. The Tribunal has to adjudge at the conclusion of the proceeding whether the returned candidate has or has not C committed any corrupt practice at the election and secondly, it has to decide whether the second respondent should or should not be declared to have been duly elected. A returned candidate cannot get rid of an election petition filed against him by resigning his seat in the legislature, whatever the reason for his resignation may be.” D Therefore, the aforesaid principle may be adopted accordingly, wherein the taint of disqualification does not vaporise, on resignation, provided the defection has happened prior to the date of resignation.” (emphasis supplied) E 203. The decision in Shrimanth Balasaheb Patil (supra) applied the principle that disqualification relates to the date on which the act of defection takes place to mean that acts or events subsequent to the commission of the conduct prohibited under the Tenth Schedule, do not have an exculpatory effect. In other words, subsequent acts or events F do not have the effect of curing such conduct or releasing the actor from the consequences which follow. This is consistent with the decision in Rajendra Singh Rana(supra). Mr. Shinde’s appointment is therefore not barred by Article 164(1B) of the Constitution. b. The Governor did not exceed the scope of his authority G 204. The petitioners submit that the Governor has exceeded the scope of his authority by inviting Mr. Shinde to form the government because: a.