“Recommended for premature release.” Recommended for premature release from jail.” Probation Officer’s report dated Probation Officer’s report dated 05.04.2021: 08.06.2022: “can be considered to release the prisoner “Keeping in view at the residential resources prematurely in accordance with Rules” and means for livelihood for the convicts, the social and economic status of the household, the no- objection and acceptance of the people of the family and the society , the need for rehabilitation and the possibility of living as a normal citizen a clear recommendation is made regarding the timely release of the above convicted prisoner.” Police Superintendent’s report dated Police Superintendent’s report dated 11.01.2021: 22.07.2022: “…DPO has reported that on release of Noting the input received from the concerned prisoner, there does not seem to be any DPO - “…The local people have got the 15 Jaswant Singh v. State of Chhattisgarh, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 35 RAJO @ RAJWA @ RAJENDRA MANDAL v. THE STATE 499 OF BIHAR & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] possibility of any law-and- problem information regarding his premature release. will arise” The local people speak in the crossroads about the adverse eff ect of his release due to his premature release, an atmosphere of unrest and fear will arise in the society and criminal incidents may also increase NCR (Sanha) No. 211 dated 10.07.2022 is marked in this regard. In this context, the premature release of the said prisoner does not seem appropriate” Remarks of the Presiding Judge dated Remarks of the Presiding Judge dated 15.12.2018: 02.07.2022: “…I perused the and Noting the report submitted earlier by the supplementary case record of above noted then presiding offi cer on 15.12.2018, stated sessions case, from which it appears that “….Further having gone through the case it is a triple murder case in which two record, I also fi nd that the manner of the dafadars were killed under a calculated occurrence in alleged off ence done by the move and in plan manner and both Dafadar Rajo@Rajua@Rajendra mandal along and Chaukidar were sincere in duty and with other co-accused person was so harsh dedicated to their work and they used and professional under such facts and to jointly move from duty, as a result of circumstances, I also agreed with the opinion which the criminals were under constant of the then P.O of this court. Therefore prayer fear psychosis and the criminals including for remission and commutation of sentence the convicts murdered these two offi cials. in favor of Rajo@Rajua@Rajendra Mandal Considering the manner of occurrence and may be refused.” seriousness of the case, in my opinion the application remission and commutation of sentence fi led on behalf of the convict petitioner should be refused.” Screening Committee/ Inspector General: Took note of the adverse reports of Police Superintendent and Presiding Judge and noted that “2. In the Notification No. 3106 dated 10.012.2002 of the Home (Special) Department Bihar, it is provided in clause (iv) (b) that the prisoners who are convicted for organizing murders in a systematic manner shall not be eligible for premature release.