The relevant observations of the Committee are as under:- (a) The Indian ethos accords the highest importance to truth. The motto “Satyameva Jayate” (Truth alone succeeds) is inscribed in our National Emblem “Ashoka Sthambha”. Our epics extol the virtue of truth. (b) For the common man truth and justice are synonymous. So when truth fails, justice fails. Those who know that the acquitted accused was in fact the off ender, lose faith in the system. (c) In practice however we fi nd that the Judge, in his anxiety to demonstrate his neutrality opts to remain passive and truth often becomes a casualty. (d) Truth being the cherished ideal and ethos of India, pursuit of truth should be the guiding star of the Justice System. For justice to be done truth must prevail. It is truth that must protect the innocent and it is truth that must be the basis to punish the guilty. Truth is the very soul of justice. Therefore, truth should become the ideal to inspire the courts to pursue. (e) Many countries which have Inquisitorial model have inscribed in their Parliamentary Acts a duty to fi nd the truth in the case. In Germany Section 139 of the so called ‘Majna Charta’, a breach MUNNA PANDEY v. STATE OF BIHAR 1061 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] of the Judges’ duty to actively discover truth would promulgate a procedural error which may provide grounds for an appeal. (f) For Courts of justice there cannot be any better or higher ideal than quest for truth. 70. This Court has condemned the passive role played by the Judges and emphasized the importance and legal duty of a Judge to take an active role in the proceedings in to fi nd the truth to administer justice and to prevent the truth from becoming a casualty. A Judge is also duty bound to act with impartiality and before he gives an opinion or sits to decide the issues between the parties, he should be sure that there is no bias against or for either of the parties to the lis. For a judge to properly discharge this duty the concept of independence of judiciary is in existence and it includes ability and duty of a Judge to decide each case according to an objective evaluation and application of the law, without the infl uence of outside factors. 71. If the Courts are to impart justice in a free, fair and eff ective manner, then the presiding judge cannot aff ord to remain a mute spectator totally oblivious to the various happenings taking place around him, more particularly, concerning a particular case being tried by him. The fair trial is possible only when the court takes active interest and elicit all relevant information and material necessary so as to fi nd out the truth for achieving the ultimate goal of dispensing justice with all fairness and impartiality to both the parties. 72. In Ram Chander (supra), while speaking about the presiding judge in a criminal trial, Chinnappa Reddy, J. observed that if a criminal court is to be an eff ective instrument in dispensing justice, the presiding judge must cease to be a spectator and a mere recording machine.