The plain reading of the aforesaid provision indicates that if a witness or any other person receives threats and such threats are administered with an intent to cause that person to give false evidence before the Court, then such witness or person can fi le a complaint in relation to the off ence under Section 195A of the IPC. It goes without saying that such complaint has to be lodged before the Court recording the evidence. Section 195A of the CrPC provides a remedy of fi ling a complaint. “Complaint” means as defi ned under Section 2(d) of the CrPC which reads thus:- “Section 2(d) “complaint” means any allegation made orally or in writing to a Magistrate, with a view to his taking action under this Code,that some person, whether known or unknown, has committed an off ence, but does not include a police report. Explanation.—A report made by a police offi cer in a case which discloses, after investigation, the commission of a non-cognizable SALIB @ SHALU @ SALIM v. STATE OF U.P. AND ORS. 71 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J. ] off ence shall be deemed to be a complaint; and the police offi cer by whom such report is made shall be deemed to be the complainant;” 19. We are conscious of the fact that Section 195A of the IPC is a cognizable off ence. In a cognizable off ence, police has power to investigate. We are not going into the question whether the bar of Section 195 of the CrPC would apply to Section 195A of the IPC as we have taken the view that none of the ingredients to constitute the off ence punishable under Section 195A of the IPC are disclosed in the facts of the present case. 20. We take notice of the fact that Section 386 of the IPC has also been invoked. Section 386 of the IPC relates to extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt. Section 386 of the IPC runs as follows:— “Section 386. Extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt. —Whoever commits extortion by putting any person in fear of death or of grievous hurt to that person or to any other, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fi ne.” 21. “Extortion” has been defi ned in Section 383 of the IPC as follows:— “Section 383. Extortion.—Whoever intentionally puts any person in fear of any injury to that person, or to any other, and thereby dishonestly induces the person so put in fear to deliver to any person any property or valuable security or anything signed or sealed which may be converted into a valuable security, commits ‘extortion. Illustrations (a) A threatens to publish a defamatory libel concerning Z unless Z gives him money. He thus induces Z to give him money. A has committed extortion. (b) A threatens Z that he will keep Z’s child in wrongful confi nement, unless Z will sign and deliver to A a promissory note binding Z to pay certain monies to A.