Section 235 of the Act mandates that KMC shall provide supply of unfiltered water in Kolkata. The proviso to the said Section allows the Corporation to discontinue supply of unfiltered water where supply of wholesome water in sufficient quantity is available. The said Section is E reproduced hereunder: “235. Supply of unfiltered water.-The Corporation shall provide a supply of unfiltered water— (a) in those parts of 1[Kolkata] in which such water is provided F at the commencement of this Act, and (b) in such other parts of 1[Kolkata] as it may think fit: Provided that the Corporation may discontinue the supply of unfiltered water in any part of 1[Kolkata] where a supply, in sufficient quantity, of wholesome water becomes available.” G 9. Section 238 of the Act restricts the use of wholesome water for domestic purposes only and further provides the purposes for which wholesome water may not be used. The said Section is reproduced hereunder: H TRUST ESTATE KHIMJI KESHAWJI & ANR. v. THE KOLKATA 835 MUNICIPAL CORPORATION & ORS. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] “238. Supply of water for domestic purposes not to include A any supply for certain specified purposes.- (1) The use of wholesome water shall be for domestic purposes only. (2) The supply of water for domestic purposes under this Act B shall not be deemed to include any supply— (a) for washing of animals kept for sale or hire, or (b) for such trade, manufacture or business as may be determined by the Mayor-in-Council, or (c) for fountains or swimming baths, or C (d) for watering gardens or streets, or (e) for any ornamental or mechanical purpose, or (f) for building purposes, or D (g) for flushing purpose other than the purpose of flushing privies in bustees, or (h) for washing cars, carriages and [other vehicles, or (i) to any institutional building, assembly building, business building, mercantile building, industrial building, storage E building or hazardous building, referred to in sub-clause (c), sub-clause (d), sub-clause (e), sub-clause (t), sub-clause (g); sub-clause (h), or sub-clause (1), as the case may be, of clause (2) of Section 390, or to any part of any such building, other than that used as a residential building or educational building within the meaning of sub-clause (a) or sub-clause (b), as the F case may be, of clause (2) of Section 390: Provided that in. case of emergency, wholesome water may be used for extinguishing fire.” 10. Section 271 of the Act restricts any person to use water supply G for domestic purposes for any other purpose without written permission of the Commissioner. The said Section is reproduced hereunder: “271. Water supplied for domestic purposes not to be used for non-domestic purposes.- No person shall, without the written permission of the Municipal Commissioner, use or H 836 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A allow to be used water, supplied for domestic purposes, for any other purposes.” 11. Section 272 of the Act mentions the purposes for which unfiltered water can be used.