fails to exercise it. (2) Certiorari will also be issued when the A Court or Tribunal acts illegally in the exercise of its undoubted jurisdiction, as when it decides without giving an opportunity to the parties to be heard, or violates the principles of natural justice. (3) The Court issuing a writ of certiorari acts in exercise of a supervisory and not appellate jurisdiction. One consequence of B this is that the Court will not review findings of fact reached by the inferior Court or Tribunal, even if they be erroneous. This is on the principle that a Court which has jurisdiction over a subject- matter has jurisdiction to decide wrong as well as right, and when the Legislature does not choose to confer a right of appeal against that decision, it would be defeating its purpose and policy, if a C superior Court were to re-hear the case on the evidence, and substitute its own findings in certiorari. These propositions are well-settled and are not in dispute. (4) The further question on which there has been some controversy is whether a writ can be issued, when the decision of the inferior D Court or Tribunal is erroneous in law. This question came up for consideration in Rex v. Northumberland Compensation Appeal Tribunal; Ex parte Shaw [(1951) 1 K.B. 711], and it was held that when a Tribunal made a “speaking ” and the reasons given in that in support of the decision were bad in law, E certiorari could be granted. It was pointed out by Lord Goddard, C.J. that that had always been understood to be the true scope of the power. Walsall Overseers v. London and North Western Ry. Co. [(1879) 4 A.C. 30] and Rex v. Nat Bell Liquors Ld. [(1922) 2 A.C. 28] were quoted in support of this view. In Walsall F Overseers v. London and North Western Ry. Co. [(1879) 4 A.C. 30] Lord Cairns, L.C. observed as follows: “If there was upon the face of the of the court of quarter sessions anything which showed that was erroneous, the Court of Queen’s Bench might be asked to have G the brought into it, and to look at the , and view it upon the face of it, and if the court found error upon the face of it, to put an end to its existence by quashing it.” In Rex v. Nat Bell Liquors Ld. [(1922) 2 A.C. 128] Lord Sumner said: H 26 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A “That supervision goes to two points; one is the area of the inferior jurisdiction and the qualifications and conditions of its exercise; the other is the observance of the law in the course of its exercise.” The decision in Rex v. Northumberland Compensation B Appeal Tribunal; Ex parte Shaw [(1951) 1 K.B. 711] was taken in appeal, and was affirmed by the Court of Appeal in Rex v. Northumberland Compensation Appeal Tribunal; Ex parte Shaw [(1952) 1 K.B. 338]. In laying down that an error of law was a ground for granting certiorari, the learned Judges emphasised that it must be apparent on the face of the record.