E 18. The facts reveal that the of this court had fixed the outer limit of import of RPC at 1.4 million tonnes per annum. This was based on the assessment by EPCA which evaluated the requirements of various industries and units, engaged in the production of diverse commodities and raw materials (such as steel, aluminium, cement, clinker and those of calciners). The EPCA took into consideration the availability F of appropriate grade domestic pet-coke, the overall impact on the environment and climate, of such essentially polluting feed based on this detailed examination, reported to this court, that 1.4 MMT ought to be the cap for imported RPC. 19. The EPCA which examined the issue elaborately raised the G concern that RPC is a highly polluting fuel in its report (No. 91) to this court: “EPCA concern is that pet coke is a highly polluting fuel and therefore, after months of deliberations there has been an agreement to control the import of this fuel. The exemptions H 150 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A given to industries should not negate the efforts being made to control the usage of this fuel in the country. This is all the more important as it is difficult to ensure that the industries do not use the fuel for combustion or that the use of the pet coke does not lead to pollution because of B fugitive emissions.” The recommendations of EPCA in the same report are as follows: “A.1.2 EPCA Recommendation on Calciner Industry The calciner industry should be allowed to import pet coke C as its industry uses it for feedstock and not for fuel. This import is required as anode grade pet coke is not available in sufficient quantities in the country.” 20. Concededly, the estimation with respect to the capacity and the utilization of imported RPC was based on the figures provided by the D industry itself. The EPCA report clearly states that the total capacity was 1.17 million tonnes;in arriving at this figure the EPCA took note of the capacity based upon the Consent to Operate (CTO) issued by the concerned Pollution Control Board. In the case of Rain CII, the capacity recorded was 500,000 MTPA, and in the case of Sanvira- 2,00,000 MTPA. The guidelines for regulation and monitoring of imported pet E coke had been issued on 10th September 2018 by an office memorandum – through the MOEF, GOI. The relevant guidelines are extracted below: “1. Guidelines for Regulation and Monitoring of Imported Petcoke in India F As per notification of Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) dated 17.08.2018, imported of Petcoke for use as fuel is prohibited. However, import of Petcoke is allowed for the following industries namely, cement, lime kiln, calcium carbide and gasification for use a feedstock or in the manufacturing process only on actual user basis as per the G conditions stipulated below: (1) Petcoke importing industries namely, cement, like kiln, calcium carbide and gasification shall obtain the consent of and registration with the concerned State Pollution Control Boards (SPCB) / Pollution Control Committees (PCC).