SUBMISSION OF THE APPELLANTS: 15. Dr. Singhvi, learned Senior Advocate appearing for the Appellants, submitted that the earlier decisions of the High Court pertain to minor minerals and sandstone alone and that too with specifi c reference to four districts. The High Court, in the impugned did not take note of this fact but struck down the Rules in toto meant to be applied for all the minor minerals. The earlier decisions of the High Court were duly complied with, and therefore the fi nding to the contrary is factually incorrect. There is no preferential right available to claim it as vested. The Respondents cannot THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ORS. v. 11 SHARWAN KUMAR KUMAWAT ETC. ETC [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] have a fundamental right in mining. The High Court is wrong in going into the principles governing Legitimate Expectation and Natural Justice in a case involving amendments by way of introduction of new Rules through the process of substitution. He further goes on to state that the impugned s are liable to be set aside as they would stand in the way of the new amended Rules being given eff ect to, meant for all the minor minerals in the State. SUBMISSION OF THE RESPONDENTS: 16. Ms. Shobha Gupta, learned Advocate-on-Record, & Ms. Ankita Gupta, learned Advocate appearing for the Respondents, submitted that the High Court was right in holding that the impugned amendments are nothing but an attempt to overreach the earlier decision of the Court. There is no justifi cation for keeping the applications pending for decades. Had the applications been considered earlier, leases would have been granted. The areas sought for mining by the Respondents are not very huge in extent and therefore their applications ought to be considered under the then relevant rules in existence. There is malice in law through the introduction of the impugned rules. DISCUSSION: Vested Right 17. It is far too settled that there is no right vested over an application made which is pending seeking lease of a Government land or over the minerals beneath the soil in any type of land over which the Government has a vested right and regulatory control. In other words, a mere fi ling of an application ipso facto does not create any right. The power of the Government to amend, being an independent one, pending applications do not come in the way. For a right to be vested there has to be a statutory recognition. Such a right has to accrue and any decision will have to create the resultant injury. When a decision is taken by a competent authority in public interest by evolving a better process such as auction, a right, if any, to an applicant seeking lease over a Government land evaporates on its own. An applicant cannot have an exclusive right in seeking a grant of licenseof a mineral unless facilitated accordingly by a statute. State of Tamil Nadu v. Hind Stone & Others, (1981) 2 SCC 205 : - “13.Another submission of the learned counsel in connection with the consideration of applications for renewal was that applications made sixty 12 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R.