61. After such rejection of the settlement proposal of the promoter, as we have detailed hereinabove in paragraphs 26.1 to 26.4, proceedings continued in CoC for invitation of fresh EOI and for that purpose, CoC F even resolved to seek further time extension to the Adjudicating Authority. 61.1. On 29.09.2022, in the eighteenth CoC meeting, it was informed that seven resolution plans had been received and their evaluation was under process but, the CoC members were informed that another settlement proposal was received from the promoter on 19.09.2022. At G that stage, again, when the mandatory 330 days’ period was about to end, the CoC members unanimously voted to seek extension of CIRP timelines. Then, on 12.10.2022, the discussion on the settlement proposal of the promoter took place, it was put to vote and was approved by the CoC with 100% of the total voting powers. H M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 913 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 62. The aforesaid proceedings continued with the matter remaining A pending in this Court. The question is, what ought to be the way forward? At the first blush, it may appear that when the settlement proposal has now been approved by the CoC with 100% voting powers in their commercial wisdom, the process thereunder may be allowed to continue as such. However, a blanket approval by this Court at this stage is fraught B with other complications. 63. Section 12-A was introduced in the Code later and in accordance with the Insolvency Law Report, March, 2018. This provision was introduced to provide for a mechanism for withdrawal upon settlement which was missing in IBC as originally promulgated. Regulation C 30-A was also introduced to the CIRP Regulations. It was further amended with effect from 25.07.2019, providing for withdrawal of CIRP even after issuance of expression of interest but, with the condition that the applicant shall state the reasons justifying withdrawal after issuance of EOI. D 64. As noticed from various events, even at the threshold stage, the NCLT noticed the settlement proposal on behalf of the corporate debtor but then, found the same to be an eyewash which was put forward only to gain time. The petition was admitted, triggering CIRP. Significantly, the settlement proposal then came up from the promoter only a day before the received resolution plans were to be put to vote, i.e., on E 21.01.2021. The CoC, even when not formerly voting on it, clearly rejected the same for the Agenda having already set for dealing with the resolution plan received from the resolution applicant. As noticed, after approval of the resolution plan, the promoter again submitted a settlement proposal but the Institute, said to be supporting the same, subsequently withdrew. F After allowing of the appeal by NCLAT and in terms of those directions, the new settlement proposal was precisely put to vote and was rejected. Thereafter, fresh EOIs were invited and resolution plans were received. Significantly, the promoter moved another settlement proposal for invoking Section 12-A of the Code on 19.09.2022, only after receiving of the resolution plans from seven prospective resolution applicants.