(7) Where, in a scheme of demerger, the demerged company sells or otherwise transfers the licence to the resulting company (being an Indian company),— (i) the provisions of sub-sections (2), (3) and (4) shall not apply in the case of the demerged company; and (ii) the provisions of this section shall, as far as may be, apply to the resulting company as they would have applied to the demerged company if the latter had not transferred the licence. (8) Where a deduction for any previous year under sub-section (1) is claimed and allowed in respect of any expenditure referred to in that sub-section, no deduction shall be allowed under sub-section C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 405 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] (1) of section 32 for the same previous year or any subsequent previous year. 11.1. Section 35ABB of the Act governs the treatment of expenditure incurred by entities to obtain a licence for operating telecommunication services in India. The provision addresses the tax treatment of such expenses and ensures that they align with the income tax framework. With eff ect from 1 April 1996, this provision provides for amortisation of capital expenditure incurred for acquisition of any right to operate telecommunication services, regardless of whether such cost is incurred before the commencement of such business or thereafter. The cost is allowed to be amortised in equal instalments in the years for which the licence is in force. The amortisation commences from the year in which such business commences (where such cost is incurred before the commencement of such business) or the year in which such cost is actually paid, irrespective of the method of accounting adopted by the assessee for such expenditure. 11.2. In for Section 35ABB of the Act to be applicable, the following cumulative conditions specifi ed in Section 35ABB (1) of the Act are to satisfi ed: First, the expenditure must be capital in nature; Second, the expenditure must be incurred by an assessee for the purpose of acquisition of the right to operate telecom services; Third, the expenditure must represent the payment actually made to obtain a licence. Thus, for attracting the provisions of Section 35ABB, it is necessary that the expenditure under consideration must be capital in nature and is incurred for acquiring or obtaining a licence which gives the right to the assessee to operate telecommunication services. Section 35ABB of the Act operates and is eff ective when the expenditure itself is of a capital nature and is incurred for acquiring a right to operate telecommunication services or is made to obtain a licence for the said services. Further, the defi nitions of “relevant previous years”, “appropriate fraction” and “payment has actually been made” have been given by way of an Explanation for the purpose of this Section. Sub-section (2) to (5) deal 406 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. with deduction to be made accordingly when a licence is transferred and the proceeds of the transfer (so far as they consist of capital sums) are less than or exceed the expenditure incurred remaining unallowed.