“109. … An agreement which is unstamped or insuffi ciently stamped is not enforceable, as long as it remains in the said condition. Such an instrument would be void as being not enforceable [see Section 2(g) of the Contract Act].” The above observation confl ates the distinction between enforceability and admissibility. 48. Section 35 of the Stamp Act is unambiguous. It stipulates, “No instrument chargeable with duty shall be admitted in evidence…” The term “admitted in evidence” refers to the admissibility of the instrument. Sub- section (2) of Section 42, too, states that an instrument in respect of which stamp-duty is paid and which is endorsed as such will be “admissible in evidence.” The eff ect of not paying duty or paying an inadequate amount renders an instrument inadmissible and not void. Non-stamping or improper stamping does not result in the instrument becoming invalid. The Stamp Act does not render such an instrument void. The non-payment of stamp duty is accurately characterised as a curable defect. The Stamp Act itself provides for the manner in which the defect may be cured and sets out a detailed procedure for it. It bears mentioning that there is no procedure by which a void agreement can be “cured.” 49. In Thiruvengadam Pillai v. Navaneethammal,47 this Court noted that the trial court and the High Court had doubted the authenticity of an agreement for the sale of certain immoveable property because it was written on two stamp papers purchased on diff erent dates. This Court held that this by itself would not invalidate the agreement. It noticed the distinction between the legal validity of the agreement and its admissibility: “13. The Stamp Act is a fi scal enactment intended to secure revenue for the State. In the absence of any rule requiring consecutively numbered stamp papers purchased on the same day, being used for an instrument which is not intended to be registered, a document cannot be termed as invalid merely because it is written on two stamp papers purchased by the same person on diff erent dates. Even assuming that use of such stamp papers is an irregularity, 47 (2008) 4 SCC 530 IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1121 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] the court can only deem the document to be not properly stamped, but cannot, only on that ground, hold the document to be invalid. Even if an agreement is not executed on requisite stamp paper, it is admissible in evidence on payment of duty and penalty under Sections 35 or 37 of the Stamp Act, 1899. If an agreement executed on a plain paper could be admitted in evidence by paying duty and penalty, there is no reason why an agreement executed on two stamp papers, even assuming that they were defective, cannot be accepted on payment of duty and penalty. But admissibility of a document into evidence and proof of genuineness of such document are diff erent issues.” (emphasis supplied) 50.