The record would also indicate that an was passed by the trial Judge permitting the prosecution to keep the seized materials within the police station, to be produced at a later point of time. This itself is a sufficient indication that F the mandate of Section 52A has not been followed. There is no explanation either for non-production of the seized materials or the manner in which they are disposed of. No passed by the Magistrate allowing the application, if any, filed under Section 52A of the NDPS Act. P.W.10, Executive Magistrate has deposed to the fact that he did not pass any for the disposal of the narcotics substance allegedly seized. Similarly, G P.W.12 who is In-charge of Malkhana also did not remember any such having been passed. On the issue of disposing narcotic substance in derogation of the compliance contained in Section 52A of the NDPS Act, this Court in Union of India v. Jarooparam, (2018) 4 SCC 334 has held as follows: H 530 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A “8. What transpires from the abovequoted paragraph is that after taking out two samples of 30 gm each, the Executive Magistrate returned the entire remaining seized property to the investigating officer PW 6. To further ascertain the same, we have also carefully perused the exact content of the proceedings dated 14- 10-2004 (Annexure P-5) recorded by the Executive Magistrate, B Singoli Tappa. The proceedings recorded as far as the respondent herein is concerned, read thus: Proceedings 14-10-2004: Case submitted. Shri Harvinder Singh, Inspector C (Investigating Officer), Narcotics Bureau, Singoli has submitted three sealed packets of seized stuff in Crime No. 1 of 2004 under Sections 8/18 and 8/29 of the NDPS Act, 1985. These packets were marked A, B and C and the details are given as under: 1-A: On the packet marked “A” it was indicated that packet contains 7.200 kg opium seized from Jaroopram, s/o Ganga Ram D Bishnoi. On opening the packet, transparent polythene bag was found, in which again two polythene packets were found. One polythene indicated 4.000 kg and the second one 3.200 kg opium, respectively. A composite sample of 30-30 gm each have been taken from the two packets and kept in a small plastic polythene E and marked A-3 and A-4 and sealed. The remaining seized stuff and samples sealed as usual are handed over to the presenting officer Shri Harvinder Singh, Inspector. 9. From the above proceedings, it is crystal clear that the remaining seized stuff was not disposed of by the Executive F Magistrate. The contraband stuff as also the samples sealed as usual were handed over physically to the Investigating Officer Harvinder Singh (PW 6). Also the trial court in its specifically passed instructions to preserve the seized property and record of the case in safe custody, as the co-accused Bhanwarlal was absconding. The trial court G more specifically instructed to put a note with red ink on the front page of the record for its safe custody.