The Board’s letter dated 03.03.2009 was never placed before the Tribunal or the High Court to support the contention presumably because the Circular dated 14.06.2006 is independent of other circulars. There is also no reference to the letter of 03.03.2009 in the Circular of 12.11.2014. It has also not been clearly explained as to whether that wide publicity was given to the internal letter of 03.03.2009. In addition to the above, it is also relevant to refer to the request made by the appellant seeking voluntary retirement. The contents of the letter dated 18.6.2013 are relevant, therefore reproduced as under: “To The Divisional Rail Manager (ka.) Jabalpur Sub: By granting voluntary retirement to the applicant also give appointment to my son Mukesh Mewari. Ref: Your letter No. Jabal./ka./620/appointment/Medi./Part 06 dated 11.2.2013 ASHOK KUMAR MEWARI v. UNION OF 1543 INDIA & OTHERS Sir With regard to the above reference letter you are requested to the applicant Ashok Kumar Mewari, Pointsman, Kachhpura was declared unfit for the aforesaid post by the Railway Hospital on the basis I was given alternative post of UDC. Sir, I am suffering from kidney ailment and neither I can work for a long time by sitting at one place nor I can move frequently. Therefore, you are requested to give me voluntary retirement instead of alternative post and my son Mukesh Mewari who is B.Com pass be appointed at my place. I will be highly obliged. Dated 18.06.2013. Applicant Sd/- Ashok Kumar Mewari Pointsman, Kachhpura Jabalpur.” From a bare reading of the contents of the aforesaid letter, it is clear that a conditional request was made by the appellant to retire him voluntarily instead of offering him an alternative post and that his son Mukesh Mewari, who is B.Com pass, may be appointed at his place. Meaning thereby, that his request for voluntary retirement may be allowed only if his simultaneous request for compassionate appointment of his son is accepted. This Court had the occasion to consider a similar issue in the case of Food Corporation of India and Another vs. Ram Kesh Yadav and Another (2007) 9 SCC 531, wherein this Court considered whether a conditional voluntary retirement application can be partially accepted, by granting only the request for voluntary retirement without acceding to the condition. The relevant paragraphs of the said are reproduced for ready reference as thus: “11. But on facts, this case is different. The second respondent’s application dated 26.4.1999 was a composite application for conditional voluntary retirement on medical grounds, subject to 154 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. appointment of his son in his place. The application specifically stated that he desired to go on retirement on medical grounds if his son was provided with employment in his place. The second Respondent had thus clearly indicated that if employment on compassionate ground was not provided to his son, he was not interested in pursuing his request for retirement on medical grounds. FCI ought to have informed the employee that he could not make such a conditional offer of retirement contrary to the scheme.