A speech rights and the exercise of those rights which deprive others of dignity. iv) Germany: The German law on the subject posits that freedom of expression is one amongst several rights which is limited by principles of equality, dignity and B multiculturalism. Further, value of personal honour always triumphs over the right to utter untrue statements or facts made with the knowledge of their falsity. Also,if true statements of fact invade the intimate personal sphere of an individual, the right to personal honour triumphs over the freedom of speech. If the expression of opinion as opposed C to a fact constitutes a serious affront to the dignity of a person, the value of dignity triumphs over the speech. Therefore, German application strikes a balance between rights and duties, between the individual and the community on the one hand and between the self-expression needs of D the speaker and the self-respect and dignity of the listeners on the other. It recognises the content-based speech regulation and also recognises the difference between fact and opinion. The inalienability of ‘human dignity’ under the Constitution E of India vis-à-vis the right to freedom of speech and expression: 22. In Charu Khurana vs. Union of India, (2015) 1 SCC 192 (“Charu Khurana”), this Court declared that dignity is the quintessential quality of personality and a basic constituent of the rights guaranteed and protected under Article 21. Dignity is a part of the individual rights that form the fundamental fulcrum of collective harmony and interest of F a society. That while the right to speech and expression is absolutely sacrosanct, dignity as a part of Article 21 has its own significance. That dignity of an individual cannot be overridden and blotched by malice and vile and venal attacks to tarnish and destroy the reputation of another by stating that the same curbs and puts unreasonable restriction on the G freedom of speech and expression. Further, inIn Re. Noise Pollution (V), (2005) 5 SCC 733 it was observed that Article 19(1)(a) cannot be cited as a justification for defeating the fundamental right guaranteed by Article 21. That a person speaking cannot violate the rights of others to enjoy a peaceful, H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 759 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] comfortable and (noise) pollution free environment,guaranteed by A Article 21. Having regard to the unequivocal declaration of this Court,to the effect that Article 21 could not be sacrificed at the altar of securing the widest amplitude of free speech rights, this premise can serve as a theoretical justification for prescribing restraints on derogatory and B disparaging speech. Human dignity, being a primary element under the protective umbrella of Article 21, cannot be negatively altered on account of derogatory speech, which marks out persons as unequal and vilifies themleading to indignity. 23. Rule of Law, includes certain minimum requirements without C which a legal system cannot exist. Professor Lon L. Fuller, a renowned American legal philosopher, has described these requirements collectively as the ‘inner morality of law’.