It expressly protects their service rendered by them in the local authority G before the appointed day and further provides that it shall be considered as service rendered in the Municipal Corporation itself. Given the existence of this unambiguous provision, the only logical conclusion is that the service rendered by Respondent H 984 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Nos. 5 to 79 in the ZP has to be treated as service rendered in the PMC. Such service, therefore, has to be counted towards the determination of their seniority as well. There is no infirmity in the view taken by the High Court in this regard. Additionally, Clause (5) of Appendix IV starts with the expression ‘continuation’ of appointments. The word ‘continuation’ connotes B ‘without interruption’. It is an unbroken and consistent state of affairs or operation of something. In other words, the service rendered by Respondent Nos. 5 to 79 in the ZP is consistent and unbroken and it remains in existence even after their absorption into the PMC as a result of the statutory protection embodied C under Clause (5) of Appendix (IV) read with Section 493 of the MMC Act. [Paras 18, 20-22][993-H; 994-A-B, H; 995-A, F-H; 996-A-C] Union of India v. Shiv Dayal Soin & Sons (P) Ltd. (2003) 4 SCC 695 : [2003] 2 SCR 371 – referred to. D Case Law Reference [2003] 2 SCR 371 referred to Para 11 CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 1765 E of 2023. From the and dated 01.10.2021 of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in WP No. 7135 of 2019. Vinay Navare, Sr. Adv., Ms. Deeplaxmi Subhash Matwankar, F Ms. Gwen Karthika, Advs. for the Appellant. Abhay Anil Anturkar, Dhruv Tank for M/s. Dr R. R. Deshpande And Associates, Sachin Pahwa, Arvind S. Avhad, Sanjay Dubey, Roshan Kumar Singh, Sandeep Lamba, Ms. Reeta Puniya, Ms. Sundri, Ms. Saloni G Sharan, Ruma Pathak, Ms. Surajita Pattanaik, Ms. Nayan Maggo, Ms. Goldy Goyal, Vijay Singh, Kiran Mahato, Gurmeet Singh, K. R. Satheesh, Hira Singh Rawat, Anand Dilip Landge, Siddharth Dharmadhikari, Aaditya Aniruddha Pande, Bharat Bagla, Kirti Dadheech, Advs. for the Respondents. H MAHARASHTRA RAJYA PADVIDHAR PRATHAMIK SHIKSHAK VA 985 KENDRA PRAMUKH SABHA v. PUNE MUNICIPAL CORPORATION AND ORS. The of the Court was delivered by A SURYA KANT, J. Leave granted. 2. The issue that requires our consideration in this case is whether the services rendered by primary teachers while in the service of the B Zilla Parishad (hereinafter “ZP”) deserves to be counted towards their seniority after the transfer and merger of their services into the Pune Municipal Corporation (hereinafter “PMC”)? FACTS : 3. The State of Maharashtra is vested with the power to specify C a ‘larger urban area’ of a municipal corporation under Section 3(1) of the Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act, 1949 (in short, “MMC Act”). Such an area can further be altered by issuing a Notification under Section 3(3). The expression, “larger urban area” is defined under Article 243Q(2) of the Constitution, which says that:- D “(2) In this article, “a transitional area”, a “smaller urban area” or “a larger urban area” means such area as the Governor may, having regard to the population of the area, the density of the population therein, the revenue generated for local administration, the percentage of employment in non- agricultural activities, the E economic importance or such other factors as he may deem fit, specify by public notification for the purposes of this Part.” 4.