iv) Upon perusal of the selection record, the learned Single Judge observed that it transpired that the Selection Board while making the selection had given extra weightage to some of the candidates when such candidates did not have postgraduate C degrees in Pharmacy/Medicine to their credit and therefore, they did not deserve to be given extra weightage. That the Selection Committee without verifying whether Post Graduate Degree in Pharmacy claimed by a candidate was to the credit of the candidate and if so, whether the degree was obtained D from a recognized University or not before the cut-off date, awarded extra points, presuming the candidates to have Post Graduate Degree and therefore, eligible for extra weightage. That this cast a cloud on the selection process. 5.9. For the reasons set out above, the learned Single Judge E allowed the said Writ Petitions and issued the following directions: i) That successful candidates who were the respondents in the writ petitions, had been serving as drug inspectors for seven years (at the time) and there was no dispute as regards the eligibility of the said candidates to the advertised posts. Thus, the respondent authorities were given the discretion to retain F the successful candidates and were also directed to accord consideration to the appointment of the writ petitioners in the three writ petitions against available clear vacancies of drug inspectors in the pay scale of Rs.9300-34800, in the respondent department and to complete such exercise within four weeks. G ii) Thatif the appointment of the writ petitioners as directed by the Court was not possible due to the non-availability of posts, the Select List published by the Respondent Board on 8th September, 2009 and the appointment made pursuant thereto shall stand quashed and set aside. The Board would then be H TAJVIR SINGH SODHI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF JAMMU 731 AND KASHMIR & ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] required constitute a Selection Committee to conduct fresh A interviews of all candidates who earlier appeared before it and the members of the Selection Committee shall follow the prescribed procedure and shall individually assess and evaluate the candidates, prepare individual award rolls reflecting such assessment and handover the individual award rolls under B sealed cover to the Convenor of the Selection Committee. That the Convenor of the Selection Committee shall compute the total marks awarded in the viva-voce and add the marks so obtained to the marks awarded to the candidates on the basis of merit in the eligibility qualification and higher qualification, if any, on pro rata basis, and prepare a final C merit list duly signed by all the members of the Selection Committee. The Board on the basis of the final merit list was required to make recommendations to the intending department and the intending department was to act on the recommendations so made and issue appointment s in D favour of the selected candidates. The learned Single Judge directed the authorities to conduct such exercise within six months.