72 SUPREME COU[2R0T2 3R] E2P SO.CR.TRS. 72 [2023] 2 S.C.R. A DEBIDUTTA MOHANTY v. RANJAN KUMAR PATTNAIK & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 4939 of 2022) B MARCH 03, 2023 [M. R. SHAH AND B. V. NAGARATHNA, JJ.] Orissa Minor Minerals Concession Rules, 2016 – r. 51(7) – Auction was to be made for grant of lease as per the Orissa Minor Minerals Concession Rules – One of the requirement of the auction C notice was that the bidder was required to submit a solvency certificate issued by the Revenue Officer – The respondent no.1 participated in the tender process and submitted his application along with the solvency certificate issued by the Tehsildar – The solvency certificate was issued despite the specific passed by D the Sub-collector stating that a solvency certificate was to be issued in the name of the ‘Trust’ – However, Tehsildar issued the solvency certificate in favour of the respondent no.1 individually – Collector cancelled the lease in favour of the respondent no.1 – High Court set aside the passed by the Collector cancelling the lease deed in favour of respondent no.1 – Before the Supreme Court, the E respondent no.1 contended that the solvency certificate issued in the favour of respondent no.1 was a mistake – On appeal, held: In the present case the Sub-Collector specifically directed not to issue the solvency certificate in favour of respondent no.1 herein in his individual capacity and specifically directed to issue the certificate F in the name of Trust – Under the circumstances it cannot be said that the solvency certificate was issued in favour of respondent no.1 in his individual capacity by mistake – It appears that the respondent no.1 deliberately and willfully obtained the solvency certificate in his own name though the property belonged to the Trust and the solvency certificate was required to be issued in the G name of the Trust – He misused/used the solvency certificate for his own benefit illegally – Bid using solvency certificate by respondent no.1 in his own name was non-est and void ab initio – Lease in his favour was rightly cancelled – Impugned of the High Court set aside. H 72 DEBIDUTTA MOHANTY v. RANJAN KUMAR PATTNAIK & 73 ORS. Allowing the appeal, the Court A HELD: 1. So far as the finding recorded by the High Court that the passed by the Collector dated 24.03.2021 cancelling the lease deed was without authority under the law inasmuch as the competent authority to cancel the lease deed under Rule 51(7) of the Rules, 2016 would be Tehsildar is concerned, it is required B to be noted that the Rule 51(7) shall be applicable in case of breach of any condition of the lease deed. The present case is not a case of breach of any condition of the lease deed, but a case of producing invalid solvency certificate at the time of submission of the bid. Therefore, Rule 51(7) shall not be applicable at all to C the facts of the case at hand.