8. Now so far as the findings recorded by the High Court that the original Solvency Certificate dated 07.12.2017 in favour of respondent H DEBIDUTTA MOHANTY v. RANJAN KUMAR PATTNAIK & 81 ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] no.1 was a mistake and there was no other mala fide intention is A concerned, it is required to be noted that despite the fact that Gurukrupa Charitable Trust was the owner of the property and on the said basis the solvency certificate was claimed, the respondent no.1 made an application for issuance of the solvency certificate in his own name - in his individual capacity. The Sub-Collector, Athagrah vide communication dated B 06.12.2017 as such had specifically directed the Tehsildar to issue the certificate in the name of Gurukrupa Charitable Trust. However, despite the same the Tehsildar issued the solvency certificate dated 07.12.2017 in favour of respondent no.1 in his individual capacity, which as such cannot be said to be by mistake. If the communication by the Sub- Collector, Athagarh dated 06.12.2017 addressed to the Tehsildar would C not have been there and the Tehsildar would have issued the solvency certificate in favour of respondent no.1 in his individual capacity as he was the Chairman of the Trust then one can understand such a mistake. However, in the present case the Sub-Collector, Athagarh specifically directed not to issue the solvency certificate in favour of respondent D no.1 herein in his individual capacity and specifically directed to issue the certificate in the name of Trust. Under the circumstances it cannot be said that the original solvency certificate dated 07.12.2017 was issued in favour of respondent no.1 in his individual capacity by mistake. It appears that the respondent no.1 deliberately and willfully obtained the solvency certificate in his own name though the property belonged to E the Trust and the solvency certificate was required to be issued in the name of the Trust. He misused/used the solvency certificate dated 07.12.2017 for his own benefit illegally and submitted the same along with his bid and on the basis of the said solvency certificate he got the lease bid. Under the circumstances, thebid by using the solvency F certificate dated 07.12.2017 byrespondent no.1 was non-est and void ab initio and therefore, the lease in his favour on the basis of such solvency certificate was rightly cancelled by the Collector. 8.1 At this stage it is required to be noted that subsequently the respondent no.1’s application on 29.01.2021 permitting him to substitute G the solvency certificate was not on the ground that the initial solvency certificate dated 07.12.2017 which was issued in his individual name was by mistake. The reason given was that the other partner may claim over the earlier solvency certificate and therefore we intend to substitute/ exchange the fresh solvency certificate which was obtained against the other properties. H 82 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 8.2 At this stage it is required to be noted that the respondent no.1 used the very solvency certificate in another tender and the Tehsildar and the Sub-Collector disqualified the respondent no.1 from the said tender.