The same was decreed in favour of the vendee. Though it transpired at the time of the hearing that, further proceeding was taken by the father of the appellant against the in the aforesaid suit, however, none of the parties was aware of the status thereof. The possession of the property was delivered to the vendee at the time of execution of the Sale Deed, as is even mentioned therein. The house tax was also being paid by the vendee. The s relied upon by the appellant are distinguishable. Reliance was placed upon the of this Court in Bishwanath Prasad Singh v. Rajendra Prasad and another, (2006) 4 SCC 432 wherein earlier of this Court in Ramlal’s (Supra), was distinguished. 13. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the material available on record and referred to at the time of hearing. DISCUSSIONS 14. At the very outset, before we deal with the arguments raised by the parties, it may not be out of place if not mentioned here that some of the relevant documents were not produced by the parties in evidence. Primarily, onus thereof certainly falls on the appellant, who was the plaintiff as he had to stand on his own legs. Some of these documents are, the Sale Deed 1040 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. dated 16.10.1963 by which the property in-question was purchased by his father in his name; the notice got issued by the father of the appellant on 24.11.1978 to the vendee qua execution of the Sale Deed in terms of the Reconveyance Deed and the Lease Deed which was allegedly executed by the vendee in favour of the father of the appellant on 24.12.1973 regarding the property in-question. 15. Insofar as the age of the appellant is concerned, though certain dispute was raised by the appellant claiming that he was 3 years of age when the Sale Deed was got registered by his father in favour of Rudramma on 24.12.1973, however, the fact is otherwise. It came in the cross-examination of the mother of the appellant who appeared as PW-1, that the appellant was born in December 1962. That means that he attained the age of majority in the year 1980. This fact is further corroborated from the suit fi led by the appellant in the year 1987 wherein he claimed himself to be 24 years of age. 16. In the civil suit, though N. Shashidar was impleaded as defendant no.4, however, the Sale Deed executed by Rudramma in his favour was not challenged. The following prayers were made in the suit: “Wherefore the plaintiff prays for and decree against the defendants: a) declaring that the document dated 24-12-73 styled as a sale deed executed by late Gangaramaiah in favour of late Rudramma conveying the schedule property in her favour and registered as No.3266/73-74 at pages 172 to 174 in volume No.400 of Book-l in the offi ce of the Sub-Registrar, Sreerampuram-Bangalore, is null and void and not binding on the plaintiff and does not convey any right, title or interest in respect of the schedule property to the defendants herein claiming through late Smt.