238 of 2009, whereby the appellant was held guilty of offences punishable under Sections 302 and 201 of the Indian Penal Code, 18601 and was awarded varying punishments, including that of imprisonment for life for the offence under Section 302 IPC. C 3. Before dealing with the matter in necessary details, we may draw a brief outline to indicate the contours of the forthcoming discussion. 3.1. The allegations against the appellant had been that on 03.05.2009, he took his two sons, aged about 9 years and 6 years, to Haiderpur Canal, strangulated them, and threw the dead bodies into the D canal; and thereafter, attempted to project as if it were a case of accidental drowning.It was also alleged that the appellant was a drunkard, who doubted the chastity of his wife and suspected that the children were not his sons. 3.2. In trial, two of the prosecution witnesses, PW-5 Bishan Singh (brother of the appellant) and PW-9 Sunita Yadav (wife of the appellant) E did not support the prosecution case as regards conduct and behaviour of the appellant. However, the Trial Court held that all the essential and material facts were duly established in the evidence adduced by the prosecution, including that the deceased children were last seen in the company of the appellant, who took them to canal and later on informed F the staff at the Haiderpur Water Plant and at the Petrol Pump as also to the police that they accidentally fell into the canal; that the cause of death of both the children had been asphyxia as a result of manual strangulation; and that the appellant was a drunkard who doubted the chastity of his wife and thought that he was not the father of the deceased children. The Trial Court, therefore, convicted the appellant of the G offences under Sections 302 and 201 IPC and awarded the punishments accordingly. 3.3. In appeal, it was essentially contended on behalf of the appellant that there were missing links in the chain of events, particularly 1‘IPC’, for short. H 810 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A when the allegations of the appellant doubting the chastity of his wife were not proved and hence, there was no reason for which the appellant would have killed his own sons. Per contra, it was submitted on behalf of the respondent-State that the children were lastly seen in the company of the appellant and it was clearly established that they died due to manual strangulation and not on account of drowning, as falsely suggested by B the appellant, who otherwise failed to discharge the burden,in terms of Section 106 of Indian Evidence Act, 18722, of explaining the circumstances leading to the death of the children by strangulation. The High Court again minutely analysed the evidence on record and, while rejecting the contentions urged on behalf of the appellant, dismissed the C appeal and affirmed the findings and conclusions of the Trial Court. 3.4. In challenge to the concurrent findings leading to conviction and sentencing of the appellant, it has essentially been contended on his behalf that when the story of strained relationship between the appellant and his wife has not been supported by the material witnesses including D the wife of the appellant, there was no reason or motive for the appellant to kill his own sons; and the alleged want of explanation on the part of the accused-appellant cannot be a ground for conviction in the present case.