This Court while holding that Section 50 would not be applicable held as under:- “22. It is also to be noted at this stage that the recovery of poppy husk was made from the bags carried by the appellant, so the submission that there was violation of the provisions of Section 50 is legally untenable.” 94. The aforesaid view was affi rmed in the case of Ajmer Singh v. State of Haryana reported in (2010) 3 SCC 746, wherein while searching the shoulder bag of the accused, some contraband was recovered. This Court held that compliance under Section 50 was not warranted and stated as under:- “15. The learned counsel for the appellant contended that the provision of Section 50 of the Act would also apply, while searching the bag, brief case etc., carried by the person and its non-compliance would be fatal to the proceedings initiated under the Act. We fi nd no merit in the contention of the learned counsel. It requires to be noticed that the question of compliance or non-compliance of Section 50 of the NDPS Act is relevant only where search of a person is involved and the said Section is not applicable nor attracted where no search of a person is involved. Search and recovery from a bag, brief case, container, etc., does not come within the ambit of Section 50 of the NDPS Act, because fi rstly, Section 50 expressly speaks of search of person only. Secondly, the Section speaks of taking of the person to be searched by the gazetted offi cer or a Magistrate for the purpose of search. Thirdly, this issue in our considered opinion is no more res-integra in view of the observations made by this court in the case of Madan Lal vs. State of Himachal Pradesh (2003) 7 SCC 465.” (Emphasis supplied) 95. Pawan Kumar (supra) was also relied upon in Jarnail Singh v. State of Punjab reported in (2011) 3 SCC 521. In the said case, opium was recovered from a bag which the accused was carrying. Section 50 was held to be not applicable as accused was not searched. It was held that:- “16. This apart, it is accepted that the narcotic/opium, i.e., 1 kg. and 750 grams was recovered from the bag (thaili) which was being carried by the appellant. In such circumstances, Section 50 would not be RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 353 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] applicable. The aforesaid Section can be invoked only in cases where the drug/narcotic/NDPS substance is recovered as a consequence of the body search of the accused. In case, the recovery of the narcotic is made from a container being carried by the individual, the provisions of Section 50 would not be attracted.” (Emphasis supplied) 96. In Suresh v. State of Madhya Pradesh reported in (2013) 1 SCC 550, illicit articles were recovered from the polythene bags placed in a vehicle found to be in the possession of the accused person upon their personal search.