Section 32A of the IBC has been upheld by this Court in Manish Kumar v. Union of India and Another reported in (2021) 5 G SCC 1. This Court has held that the said section does not permit the wrong-doer to get away. Thus, if the argument of allowing the signatory/ director to go scot-free after the approval of the resolution plan is accepted the same would run contrary to the legislative intent of Section 32A which has been upheld by this Court as under: H 1022 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A “326. We are of the clear view that no case whatsoever is made out to seek invalidation of Section 32-A. The boundaries of this Court’s jurisdiction are clear. The wisdom of the legislation is not open to judicial review. Having regard to the object of the Code, the experience of the working of the Code, the interests of all stakeholders including most B importantly the imperative need to attract resolution applicants who would not shy away from offering reasonable and fair value as part of the resolution plan if the legislature thought that immunity be granted to the corporate debtor as also its property, it hardly furnishes a ground for this Court to C interfere. The provision is carefully thought out. It is not as if the wrongdoers are allowed to get away. They remain liable. The extinguishment of the criminal liability of the corporate debtor is apparently important to the new management to make a clean break with the past and start on a clean slate. We must also not overlook the principle that the impugned D provision is part of an economic measure. The reverence courts justifiably hold such laws in cannot but be applicable in the instant case as well. The provision deals with reference to offences committed prior to the commencement of the CIRP. With the admission of the application the management of the E corporate debtor passes into the hands of the interim resolution professional and thereafter into the hands of the resolution professional subject undoubtedly to the control by the Committee of Creditors. As far as protection afforded to the property is concerned there is clearly a rationale behind it. Having regard to the object of the statute we hardly see any F manifest arbitrariness in the provision.” (Emphasis supplied) 45. In P. Mohanraj (supra), this Court in clear terms held that Section 32A only protects the corporate debtor and not the signatories/ G directors etc. The prosecution against the signatories/directors would continue. In P. Mohanraj (supra): - a. The issue involved was whether the institution/continuation of a proceeding under Section 138/141 of the NI Act, 1881 is said to be covered by Section 14 of the IBC, 2016. H AJAY KUMAR RADHEYSHYAM GOENKA v. TOURISM 1023 FINANCE CORP. OF INDIA LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] b. That Section 138 proceedings can be said to be a “civil A sheep” in a “criminal wolf’s” clothing. i. The Court relied upon Kaushalya Devi Massand v. Roopkishore Khore, (Para 59) [(2011)4 SCC 593] and Meters & Instruments (P) Ltd. v. Kanchan Mehta, (Para 63) [(2018)1 SCC 560] B c. Section 138 proceedings are covered by Section 14 of the IBC, 2016.