Pai Foundation (supra), setting up a reasonable fee structure is also a component of the right to establish and administer an institution, within the meaning of Article 30(1) of the Constitution, and every institution is free to devise its own fee structure subject to D the limitation that there can be no profiteering and no capitation fee can be charged directly or indirectly or in any form. It was further held that it is permissible to regulate admission and fee structure for achieving that purpose. The question whether guidelines could have been issued in the matter of regulating the fee payable by students to E educational institutions was, therefore, answered in the affirmative by holding that every institution is free to devise its own fee structure but the same can be regulated in the interest of preventing profiteering and capitation fees. 13. As stated hereinbefore, the Act of 2007 fell for consideration F before a Constitution Bench in Modern Dental College and Research Centre (supra) in the context of regulation of unaided educational institutions in the State of Madhya Pradesh. Significantly, the validity/ vires of various provisions of the Act of 2007, including provisions pertaining to fixation of fees, was also under attack. The issue was as to whether provisions relating to fixation of fees were violative of Article G 19(1)(g) or whether they were regulatory in nature and were permissible under Article 19(6) of the Constitution. Keeping in mind the fact that the State has the power to regulate fixation of fees in the interest of preventing profiteering and such fixation of fees has to be regulated and controlled at the initial stage itself, this Court observed that the parameters laid H 734 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A down in Section 9(1) of the Act of 2007, which have to be kept in mind while fixing the fees were, in fact, the ones enunciated in earlier s of this Court. This Court, therefore, held that analysis of the provisions of the Act of 2007 by the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Association of Private Dental and Medical Colleges Vs. State of MP[(2009) SCC Online MP 760], from which the appeal arose, was B perfectly in . Reference was made to the observations contained therein to the effect that each professional educational institution can furnish information with regard to the fees that it proposes to charge from the candidates, taking into account the cost of components, the reasonable surplus required for growth and development and other factors C relevant to impart professional education as mentioned in Section 9(1) of the Act of 2007, and that the function of the AFRC is only to find out, after giving due opportunity of hearing to the institution, whether the fees proposed by the institution is based on the factors mentioned in Section 9(1) of the Act of 2007 and did not amount to profiteering and D commercialization of education. The High Court had further observed that the AFRC, while determining the fees, only gives final approval to the proposed fees to be charged, after being satisfied that it was based on the factors mentioned in Section 9(1), and that there was no profiteering or commercialization of education.