There may be an expectation for such candidates to get appointment and this creates unwanted litigation by the candidates and it is prayed that the existing vacancies alone be notifi ed along with the anticipated vacancies that may arise in the next one year and some candidates also be included in the wait list prepared by the High Courts/PSCs. 3. In supersession of the passed by this Court on 4-1-2007 [Malik Mazhar Sultan (3) v. U.P. Public Service Commission, (2008) 17 SCC 703 : (2010) 1 SCC (L&S) 942] , this Court directs that in future the High Courts/PSCs shall notify the existing number of vacancies plus the anticipated vacancies for the next one year and some candidates also be included in the wait list. To this extent earlier is modifi ed.” (emphasis supplied) 17. In other words, subsequent to the clarifi cation by a three Judge Bench of this Court in Malik Mazhar-2, the third category earlier created in Malik Mazhar, did not exist any longer. Therefore, the directions given by the Division Bench of the Himachal Pradesh High Court in Shweta Dhingra (supra) in our opinion, were not necessary, and the reliance upon these directions by the three-member Committee in the present case were misplaced since the ‘vacancies’ had already been advertised. If at all, it VIVEK KAISTH & ANR v. THE STATE OF HIMACHAL 629 PRADESH & ORS [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] was necessary such an exercise should have been undertaken before the vacancies were advertised on 01.02.2013. 18. We may also refer here to the 2004 Rules of Himachal Pradesh known as Himachal Pradesh Judicial Service Rules, 2004. The Rules were amended to bring them in tune with the directions of this Court in Malik Mazhar. After the amendment, the number of vacancies which were to be notifi ed as per the Himachal Pradesh Judicial Service Rules were as follows: (a) existing vacancies; (b) future vacancies that may arise within one year due to retirement; and (c) future vacancies that may arise due to promotion, death or otherwise, say ten percent of the number of posts. The clarifi cation made by this Court about the number of vacancies to be notifi ed in Malik Mazhar-2 was perhaps not noticed while making changes in the above Rules. As such, the vacancies as given in the 2004 Rules are not in tune with what this Court had defi ned as ‘vacancies’ in terms of Malik Mazhar-2. In any case if more vacancies had to be advertised, over and above the existing and anticipated vacancies then this could only have been done prior to the advertisement i.e., February 1, 2013. 19. All the same, even if there is an apparent dichotomy between what the Service Rules suggest and what is mandated by this Court in Malik Mazhar this must be resolved by making a harmonious interpretation between the Service Rules and Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India, as held by this Court in High Court of Kerala v. Reshma A. and Others (2021) 3 SCC 755.