Chief Medical offi cer/Civil Surgeon/Chief District Medical Offi cer.....Chairperson ii. Orthopedic/PMR specialist iii. Neurologist, if available* iv. Clinical Psychologist/Rehabilitation Psychologist/ Psychiatrist/Special Educator v. Occupational therapist, if available* vi. Any other expert based on the condition of the candidate as may be nominated by the Chairperson. (* the Chief Medical Offi cer/Civil Surgeon/Chief District Medical Offi cer may make full eff orts for inclusion of neurologists, occupational therapist from the nearest District or the Medical College/Institute, if the same is not available in the District)” (d) The candidate should have the discretion of opting for his own scribe or request the Examination Body for the same. The examination body may also identify the scribe to make panels at the District/Division/State level as per the requirements of the examination. In later instances the candidates should be allowed to meet the scribe two days before the examination so that the candidates get a chance to check and verify whether the scribe is suitable or not. (e) In case the examination body provides the scribe, it shall be ensured that qualifi cation of the scribe should not be more than the minimum qualifi cation criteria of the examination. However, the qualifi cation of the scribe should always be matriculate or above. In case the candidate is allowed to bring his own scribe, the qualifi cation of the scribe should be one step below the qualifi cation of the candidate taking examination. The person opting for own scribe should submit details of the own scribe as per proforma at Appendix-II. 472 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. (f) There should also be fl exibility in accommodating any change in scribe in case of emergency. The candidates should also be allowed to take diff erent scribe for writing diff erent papers especially for languages. However, there can be only one scribe per subject. (g) The candidate should be allowed to use aids and assistive devices such as prosthetics & orthotics, hearing aid as mentioned in para 2 of the certifi cate issued by medical authority as per Appendix I. (h) Compensatory time not less than 20 minutes per hour of the examination should be allowed for persons who are eligible for getting scribe. In case the duration of the 3 examination is less than an hour, then the duration of the compensatory time should be allowed on pro-rata basis. Compensatory time should not be less than 5 minutes and should be in the multiple of 5. (i) The examination bodies shall modify their application forms to incorporate specifi c needs of this category of persons. In case, any incident has been reported after fi lling up the form, the examination bodies shall inform the candidates to obtain medical certifi cate as per these guidelines for facilitating grant of scribe and/or compensatory time. (j) As far as possible the examination for such persons may be held at ground fl oor. The examination centres should be accessible for persons with disabilities. (k) These guidelines are applicable to written examinations conducted by central recruitment agencies as well as academic institutions.