It seeks to give effect to the larger B public interest and it should be given primacy because of its higher public purpose. (xvii) It is further submitted that in the case of Raheja Universal Limited Vs. NRC Limited and Ors., (2012) 4 SCC 148 taking into consideration the object and purpose and C nature of SICA and its provisions, it is observed and held by this Court that the matters connected with sanctioning and implementation of rehabilitation / restructuring scheme from the date of its presentation or date of its coming into effect, whichever is earlier, fall exclusively within the jurisdiction of BIFR. It is further observed that in such a D case of creditors’ demand, even if not made part of the scheme, would not merely for that reasons stand executed from BIFR’s jurisdiction, which extends to making changes in instruments, documents etc., which create rights and liabilities vis-à-vis sick industrial company and its properties. E It is observed that any other view would defeat the very purpose of SICA. It is submitted that it is further observed and held in the said decision that the SICA is a special law vis-à-vis Transfer of Property Act, which is a general law. (xviii) It is further submitted by the learned senior counsel appearing F on behalf of the appellant – Modi Rubber Ltd. that even subsequently, the Division Bench of the High Court has doubted the correctness of the present impugned decision by observing that prima facie the view taken in Modi Rubber Ltd. (supra) is not in sync with the view taken by the various Division Benches of the High Court, which have G been distinguished by the Division Bench in Modi Rubber Ltd. (supra) with a simple observation that the point therein was on a slightly different question. It is submitted that in the case of Singer India Ltd. (supra) while not agreeing with the view taken in the case of Modi Rubber Ltd. H 1044 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A (supra), it is observed that there is no distinction between secured and unsecured creditors except those creditors, who have given financial assistance under a scheme to a sick company. In other words, every creditor stand on a same footing with respect to the power of the Board to sanction a scheme. It is further observed that those creditors, which B have to provide financial assistance would form a sub- category and their consent alone would be necessary with respect to the financial assistance to be provided. (xix) Making above submissions and relying upon the above decisions, it prayed to allow the present appeals and set C aside the impugned and taking the view that an unsecured creditor has the option not to accept the scaled down value of its dues and wait till the scheme of rehabilitation of the appellant company has worked itself out with an option to recover its debt post such rehabilitation. D 6. Shri C.U. Singh, learned Senior Advocate, appearing on behalf of the appellant / petitioner in Civil Appeal arising out of SLP (C) No.