Husband or wife of person under criminal trial. - In all civil proceedings the parties to the suit, and the husband or wife of any party to the suit, shall be competent witnesses. In criminal *Corpus Juris Secundum: A Contemporary Statement of American Law as Derived from Reported Cases and Legislation. West, 1994. MOHAMMED ABDUL WAHID v. NILOFER & ANR. 881 proceedings against any person, the husband or wife of such person, respectively, shall be a competent witness.” The word used is witnesses - which implies that a witness otherwise produced as also the defendant or the plaintiff themselves, will stand on the same footing when entering evidence for the consideration of the court. The Code itself speaks to the eff ect that when a party to a suit is to testify in court. Regard may be had to XVI Rule 21 which reads as under:- “21. Rules as to witnesses to apply to parties summoned.-Where any party to a suit is required to give evidence or to produce a document, the provisions as to witnesses shall apply to him so far as they are applicable. Further, XVI Rule 14, as extracted hereunder is taken note of. “14. Court may of its own accord summon as witnesses strangers to suit.—Subject to the provisions of this Code as to attendance and appearance and to any law for the time being in force, where the Court at any time thinks it necessary [to examine any person, including a party to the suit] and not called as a witness by a party to the suit, the Court may, of its own motion, cause such person to be summoned as a witness to give evidence, or to produce any document in his possession, on a day to be appointed, and may examine him as a witness or require him to produce such document.” (Emphasis Supplied) In respect of the above provision, it is essential to notice that prior to the amendment to the Code in the year 1976, this Section was applicable to “any person other than a party to suit”8 the express exclusion has been amended, to turn it into an explicit inclusion within the term ‘witness’. We may also refer to XVIII Rule 3A which states that when a party to a suit wishes to appear as a witness, he is to do so prior to other witnesses. The section reads:- 8 Code Of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1976 882 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 3-A. Party to appear before other witnesses.—Where a party himself wishes to appear as a witness, he shall so appear before any other witness on his behalf has been examined, unless the Court, for reasons to be recorded, permits him to appear as his own witness at a later stage. The relevant principles as culled out by B.P Sinha, CJI (majority opinion) in the above referenced decision of the Constitution Bench may also be instructive in gaining an understanding of the ambit of a witness. In Para 16, it was observed:- “ ….