He also admits that in the stomach of the deceased sufficient quantity of alcohol was found and it takes about 18 hours for the alcohol to pass out from the body. He also states that it is possible that the deceased could have received the injury in an accident. H 768 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 20. PW-7 is witness of inquest and the site plan and also of the recovery, nothing much turns upon his statement. He has given a similar kind of statement as the other witness to recovery and inquest. 21. PW-8 is Ajit Ram, father of the deceased. He states that when he reached home around 08.00 PM after carrying out some B purchases, his brother Vijay Kumar (PW-1) informed that his son Jagat had shouted that the appellant had assaulted him. He has proved some police papers. He admits that he had guests at home on that day. He also states that deceased also used to stay with him. He admits of consuming alcohol but insofar his son Jagat is concerned he states that he does not know whether he used to consume alcohol or C not. He also admits that there was no enmity between deceased and the appellant. He, however, claims that he had no knowledge of complaint being made by the appellant against the Sarpanch and his son Jagat supporting the appellant. He has denied the suggestion that he was falsely taking the name of the appellant during the trial as D prior to it he had never taken his name during investigation. 22. PW-9 is Firtu, neighbour of Chandu Lal. He states that while he was about to have dinner at around 7-8 PM, he heard some noise from outside and then there was another call that Jagat had been murdered and that the appellant has murdered him, then, he came out. E Jagat was lying in the lane with the injury on his neck and Vijay Kumar told him that the appellant had committed this crime. He admits that Jagat, the deceased did not tell him anything. He also states that others like Akshay and Mannu had also come. Jagat, the deceased was unconscious and he was taken to the hospital but he died on the way. He states that Shatrughan, the appellant while passing through his house F had called him and thereafter, he had heard the voice of Jagat. He also states that the appellant, while crossing his house on his cycle, had called him and asked him as to what was he cooking. He then states that PW-1 Vijay Kumar has told him that it was the appellant who had assaulted and that he had communicated this to IO but he has not G mentioned in the statement under section 161 for which he cannot tell the reason. He further states that he never heard Jagat shouting and he had not seen the appellant. It was only on the call of Vijay Kumar that he had come out.