It is only when the courts find that the single eyewitness is a wholly unreliable witness that his D testimony is discarded in toto and no amount of corroboration can cure that defect…” The same principle has been enunciated in: Amar Singh v. State (NCT of Delhi), (2020) 19 SCC 165. E 9. In the instant case when we examine the testimony of PW-3, we notice him to have deposed that on the fateful night ie. 13.1.2002, around 11 PM both he and the deceased were sitting on a Nala near the Circuit House in Surendranagar. At that time, accused came on a motorcycle with Shailendra as a pillion rider and after abusing, wanted Ram (deceased) to state as to when he would return the money borrowed F by him. When the deceased stood up to answer, Narendra pulled out a pistol and after placing it on the neck, said, “… this would not take much time to finish you.” Thereafter, accused fired the pistol. Resultantly, the deceased collapsed on the ground and started bleeding profusely from the neck. Immediately, Narendra Zala and Shailendra drove away towards the Sardar Society. PW-3 states that the incident left him shocked G and stunned. He was so scared that he ran towards the society where he met his uncle Harshad Veljibhai (PW-9) and his friend Manish Natvarlal Trivedi (PW-8) whom he informed of the incident. Seeing his condition, he was asked by his uncle to go home and sleep. Next morning, he went to the house of Ram and narrated the incident to his mother and sister H 752 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Heenaba Pradipsinh Zala (PW-2). Thereafter he went to the hospital and informed Ram’s father (PW-1)of the incident. Police interrogated him at different places and recorded his statement on the 14th of January at around 4:30PM at the Police Headquarters. Cross examination part of his testimony reveals this witness to have repeatedly improvised his initial statement, disclosed to the Police. Illustratively he had not informed B the Police of having disclosed the incident to the sister of the deceased. He had also not disclosed to the Police that there was exchange of words between Ram and Narendra (Appellant herein) in relation to some money owed by the deceased to the accused. This may not have any effect on the veracity of his statement. But what makes his testimony C shaky and the witness unbelievable is his admission of the Police Headquarters being in close proximity to the place of occurrence of the incident and despite knowing that police is always posted at the gate he did not approach the police. The explanation furnished is only that he was “much scared”, which prudently is not acceptable, given that he was a close friend of the Deceased. D Further, his credit stands impeached in the cross-examination part of his testimony. The witness is an adult, mature and worldly wise. He is aged 24 years and runs a grocery shop. He is not illiterate, yet he chose to not take any action, even to save the life of his friend.