of the amount of debt due from him, as claimed by the secured creditors or determined by the Debts Recovery Tribunal, whichever is less: D Provided also that the Appellate Tribunal may, for the reasons to be recorded in writing, reduce the amount to not less than twenty- five per cent. of debt referred to in the second proviso.] (2) Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the Appellate Tribunal E shall, as far as may be, dispose of the appeal in accordance with the provisions of the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (51 of 1993) and rules made thereunder. 2(ha) “debt” shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (g) of F section 2 of the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (51 of 1993) and includes— (i) unpaid portion of the purchase price of any tangible asset given on hire or financial lease or conditional sale or under any other contract; G (ii) any right, title or interest on any intangible asset or licence or assignment of such intangible asset, which secures the obligation to pay any unpaid portion of the purchase price of such intangible asset or an obligation incurred or credit otherwise extended to enable any borrower to acquire the H intangible asset or obtain licence of such asset; M/S SIDHA NEELKANTH PAPER INDUSTRIES PVT. LTD. v. 567 PRUDENT ARC LIMITED & OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] Section 2(g) of the Recovery of Debts and Bankruptcy Act, A 1993 - “debt” means any liability (inclusive of interest) which is claimed as due from any person [or a pooled investment vehicle as defined in clause (da) of section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956),] by a bank or a financial institution or by B a consortium of banks or financial institutions during the course of any business activity undertaken by the bank or the financial institution or the consortium under any law for the time being in force, in cash or otherwise, whether secured or unsecured, or assigned, or whether payable under a decree or of any civil C court or any arbitration award or otherwise or under a mortgage and subsisting on, and legally recoverable on, the date of the application [and includes any liability towards debt securities which remains unpaid in full or part after notice of ninety days served upon the borrower by the debenture trustee or any other authority in whose favour security interest is created for the benefit of D holders of debt securities or;]” 13. As per Section 2(ha) of the SARFAESI Act, “debt” shall have the same meaning assigned to it in clause (g) of Section 2 of the Act 1993. As per section 2(g) of the Act 1993, “debt” means any liability inclusive of interest which is claimed as due from any person….., by a E bank or a financial institution during the course of any business activity undertaken by the bank or the financial institution, in cash or otherwise, whether secured or unsecured, or assigned, or whether payable under a decree or of any civil court or any arbitration award or otherwise or under a mortgage and subsisting on, and legally recoverable on the F date of the application.