It is incorrect to state that on 21.6.07, the accused who was in Kolakkudi village had the information that her child was dead and that she came to Perambalur by bus and when she got E down, I had arrested her….” 5.9. PW-14 D. Sivasubramanian had been the other police officer who carried out the later part of investigation, recorded the statements of other witnesses and then filed the charge-sheet. For the present purpose, we need not elaborate on the testimony of this witness or the F other witnesses who had been a part of the investigation including the photographer and the attesting witnesses. 5.10. However, the testimony of PW-6 Jamal Mohammed, father of the appellant, assumes relevance in the present case, particularly when he did not support the prosecution version and deposed in support of the G plea of alibi as taken by the appellant by asserting that he had left the child with PW-1 on 20.06.2007; had taken the appellant with her to Kolakkudi village, and the next day, he came to Perambalur with the appellant after getting information about demise of the child, when the appellant was arrested at the bus stand. This witness was treated as a hostile witness and permission was granted to the prosecution to cross- H VAHITHA v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU 963 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] examine him. He was, of course, not cross-examined by the defence. A The relevant parts of the statement of this witness could be usefully reproduced as under: - “….On 16.6.2007, I had called Shamsudeen who came from foreign country over phone. He asked me to come on Monday. On 18th I took my daughter, the margin accused and my B granddaughter Farhana and went to the house of Shamsudeen. I talked to Shamsudeen that if leave the child in Perambalur for education and if she is in their protection, Abdul Raheem would be sending the money. Shamsudeen asked me to tell this to his mother. I went there and told that. She asked me to tell the same C to her daughter Mumtaz. In this manner, I was telling for 3 days. They did not respond properly. When I started to go to the village, my son-in-law’s mother asked me to leave her grand daughter Farhana alone and take my daughter along with me. On 20th Wednesday at 6.00 P.M. I took my daughter alone and went to Kolakkudi Village. The next day morning we got the information D over phone that the child Farhana was dead. We came to Perambalur. They had arrested my daughter. My son-in-law Abdul Raheem is not sending the sufficient money. In these circumstances, this witness had been treated as hostile witness by the prosecution and sought permission for the cross examination. E The permission was granted for cross examination. Cross-examination on the side of the prosecution: As Abdul Raheem did not send the money properly and manage the family, we dropped his child in Perambalur. No one said us to go to Perambalur.