Turning back to the facts of this case, the concurrent findings F which this court sees no difficulty in accepting are that firstly, the appellants were aggressors; secondly, they attacked the deceased, with axes; thirdly, the deceased was unarmed; fourthly, during the attack, the victim’s daughter, PW1 reached the spot, and tried to dissuade the appellants; fifthly, the appellants continued their assault on the victim and also attacked the witness with an axe; sixthly, since three injuries G sustained by the appellant, were on the head, he fell down; seventhly, the victim was rushed to the hospital, and had to be shifted to another speciality hospital, for surgery. Eighthly, the deceased was not able to record his statement; he was never discharged and died in the hospital, 12 (2015) 7 SCC 641 H 258 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A after 20 days. Lastly, the doctor who conducted the post-mortem (PW- 14), stated that the injuries were caused by a hard and blunt object, and death of the deceased was due to cardio respiratory failure “as a result of multiple injuries on his body and their complications”. Apart from the head, there were several other injuries, in the form of abrasions, contusions on the elbow, the lower back, fracture of rib cage, etc. At the B time of death, Vrindawan was aged 55 years. 21. There is evidence in the form of statements of both PW1 (Vrindawan’s daughter) and PW2 (Vrindawan’s brother, Narottam) that the deceased and the appellants had pre-existing disputes. However, both these witnesses corroborated each other and stated that the quarrel C or dispute pertained to land had existed for a long time. PW2, in fact, stated that partition of properties had taken place amongst the brothers, despite which these quarrels had persisted. 22. The question then is - was there a “sudden quarrel” between the deceased and the appellants so that the case would not be murder, but culpable homicide, in terms of Exception 4 (“if it is committed without D premeditation in a sudden fight in the heat of passion upon a sudden quarrel and without the offender having taken undue advantage or acted in a cruel or unusual manner”). In the opinion of this court, there was no “sudden quarrel”. The testimonies of the two important eyewitnesses, PW1 and PW2, establish that when the deceased was E levelling the septic tank on his property, the accused/appellants started abusing him; he asked them not to. The appellants, who were in the adjacent property, climbed the wall, entered the deceased’s house, and attacked him with axes. These facts do not constitute a “sudden quarrel”, given that the appellants abused the deceased, in an unprovoked manner, and then they went to where he was, armed with axes, and assaulted F him. Arguendo, even if the facts are assumed to disclose that there was a sudden fight, it cannot be said that the accused failed to act in a cruel manner, or did not take undue advantage.