However, interest is not considered to be a penalty or punishment but is considered to be a normal accretion on capital. B 21.3. The decision of English Courts cannot be taken as instructive in view of the principles available in the decisions of this Court and the entirely different socio-economic factors. Hence, we do not propose to dilate on the decision in the case of Wallersteiner (supra) as cited by the learned counsel for the respondent but, this much is apparent from C the said decision too that in the absence of statutory provisions, the principles of equity have been invoked for awarding interest. 22. The synthesis of the cited decisions aforesaid, for the present purpose, leads to the result that none of these decisions could be taken as guide for award of compound interest in an action before the Consumer D Fora under the Act of 1986. In regard to such cases, in our view, the forum would be entitled to provide for the amount of compensation as deemed fit, having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case and the gravity of the negligence of the opposite party and consequential injury suffered by the consumer. The forum could award even punitive damages but that would depend on the relevant circumstances and for E that matter, the relevant factors shall have to be specified. In regard to such awarding of compensation and/or punitive damages, the forum concerned could take all the relevant factors into account and award such amount as deemed fit and necessary but ordinarily, in the matters of money refund, awarding of compound interest as a measure of punitive F damages is not envisaged. As to what would be the quantum of compensation and for that matter, what would be the quantum of punitive damages, would depend on facts and circumstances of each case but while awarding so, the forum would be advised to specify all the relevant factors and basis of its quantification. A shortcut of awarding compound interest is neither envisaged by the statute nor do we find any such term G of contract between the parties or any such usage. As noticed, the attempt to seek compound interest in such real estate dealings did not meet with approval of this Court and in the case of Ireo Grace Realtech (supra) such a claim was declined by a 3-Judge Bench of this Court for having no nexus with the commercial realities of the prevailing market. Going H 1148 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A by the principles governing the nature of jurisdiction of the Consumer Fora as also the principles enunciated by this Court including those in the 3-Judge Bench decision, we need to disapprove the proposition of awarding compound interest in the cases of monetary refund in such dealings. B 23. Several submissions made on behalf of the respondent as to the alleged advantage derived by the appellants by retention of money, again, cannot lead to award of compound interest while ing refund.