It was mentioned therein that the G property as mentioned at column no. 5 therein was transferred to Indira Devi by way of registered sale deed dated 5.8.1977, which can be purchased back by Veena Gupta from Indira Devi. 4.The vendors were ready and willing to return 5000/- to the vendee to get the sale deed registered back in their name but the vendee H INDIRA DEVI v. VEENA GUPTA & ORS. 375 [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] was not agreeing to the same. The civil suit was filed by the respondent A no.1 along with Kishori Lal Sahu (now deceased) in 1983. The prayer in the suit was for a direction to the appellant to accept 5000/- as consideration money and execute sale deed in favour of respondent no.1 in respect of the house as mentioned in the suit. On failure, decree be passed directing appellant to register the sale deed in favour of the B respondent no.1, the first plaintiff and as a consequence, the plaintiffs be put in possession of the property in question. In the alternative, the prayer was that there is a relationship of landlord and tenant between Kishori Lal Sahu (non deceased), the second plaintiff and Kaleshwar Prasad Singh, the first defendant. A decree of eviction be passed in favour of the plaintiffs on the ground of personal necessity and non payment of C rent and the possession be got delivered. The Trial Court vide dated 27.9.1986 dismissed the suit. The and decree of the Trial Court was upheld by the lower appellate court vide and dated 27.1.2000. In second appeal filed by the respondents, the s of the courts below were reversed by the High Court vide D dated 26.09.2013. The High Court framed the following substantial questions of law: “(i) Whether the courts below committed error in dismissing the suit of the plaintiff on wrong approach and on consideration of an issue which was not material for the purpose of adjudication of E the suit? (ii) Whether the courts below committed error in not considering the main issues involved in the suit regarding character and construction in respect of the deed impugned? (iii) Whether the courts below committed error in not considering F the issue of merger of tenancy to the ownership as is relevant in the deed of sale?” ARGUMENTS OF THE APPELLANTS 5.The argument raised by the learned counsel for the appellant was that late Kishori Lal Sahu executed the conditional sale deed along G with his son in favour Indira Devi on 5.8.1977. He had no right to assign his right to repurchase the property, to any third party, the right being personal to him. Even otherwise there was no clause in the sale deed in terms of which such right could be assigned to anyone else. It was further submitted that the Gift Deed by which the property was given to H 376 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Veena Gupta cannot be termed as Gift Deed as there was consideration for transfer of the property in question as she could get the property in question only on payment of the consideration money mentioned in the sale deed.