Apzal Ansari, Adithya Roy, Nishe Rajen Shonker, C. K. Sasi, Abdulla Naseeh V T, Ms. Meena K Poulose, Rahul Kaushik, Ms. Deepanwita Priyanka, Bhakti Vardhan Singh, Aniruddha Joshi, Aniruddha Deshmukh, Siddharth Dharmadhikari, H 1284 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Aaditya Aniruddha Pande, Bharat Bagla, Sourav Singh, Yashraj Singh Bundela, Pashupathi Nath Razdan, Tarun Gulia, Puneet Jain, Sarad Kumar Singhania, Ms. Rashmi Singhania, Abhinav Shrivastava, Sunny Choudhary, Shivang Rawat, Ms. Radhika Jalan, Ms. Deepti Gupta, Arun Adlakha, Naman Gupta, D. K. Sinha, Advs. for the appearing parties. B The of the Court was delivered by NAGARATHNA, J. Leave granted. 2. These Civil Appeals arise from the s of the High Courts of Karnataka, Rajasthan, Allahabad, Madhya Pradesh, Bombay, Andhra C Pradesh, Kerala and Gujarat. Since common questions of law and facts have been raised in these appeals vide Reference dated 05.12.2019 made by a Bench of two judges to a Bench comprising of three judges, the reference has been heard and is accordingly answered. In some of the civil appeals, the dealers–assessee are the D appellants, while in rest of the appeals the respective States are the appellants. Preface: 3. By dated 05.02.2019, reference has been made to a Bench E of three Judges which shall hereinafter be referred to as the “Reference ”. The pertinent paragraphs of the Reference read as under: “15. We are not delving into the controversy in any further detail as we are of the opinion that the issue raised is required to be F looked into by a larger Bench. The crucial point which would arise for consideration, and over which the matter needs to be debated, is as to whether, in the case of such a warranty for the supply of free spare parts; once the replacement is made, and the defective part is returned to the manufacturer, sales tax would be G payable on such a transaction relating to the spare part, based on a credit note, which may be issued for the said purpose. This is in the context of the observations discussed aforesaid regarding the price of the car being inclusive of the cost of the spare parts, the latter being supplied for free, upon replacement. Sales tax on the car is paid. Sales tax on the inventory purchased by the dealer is H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1285 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] paid. Thus, if there is no consideration for these replaced parts, A can sales tax be levied at all? The in Mohd. Ekram Khan & Sons case [Mohd. Ekram Khan & Sons v. CTT, (2004) 6 SCC 183] refers to the credit notes received as consideration for the replacement; but it is a moot point whether credit notes can be treated as a mode of payment or not. The B in Premier Automobiles Ltd. case [Premier Automobiles Ltd. v. Union of India, (1972) 4 SCC (N) 1: (1972) 1 SCR 526] is stated to contain a different factual situation, as per the observations in Mohd.