Section 24 applies to a proceeding pending on the date of enforcement of the 2013 Act i.e., 1-1-2014. It does not revive stale and time-barred claims and does not reopen concluded proceedings nor allow landowners to question the legality of mode of taking possession to reopen proceedings F or mode of deposit of compensation in the treasury instead of court to invalidate acquisition.” 9. However, while doing so in para 365, it was observed as under: “365. Resultantly, the decision rendered in Pune Municipal G Corpn.is hereby overruled and all other decisions in which Pune Municipal Corpn. has been followed, are also overruled. The decision in Sree Balaji Nagar Residential Assn. cannot be said to be laying down good law, is overruled and other decisions following the same are also overruled. In Indore Development Authority vs. Shailendra, the aspect with respect to the proviso H 232 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A to Section 24(2) and whether “or” has to be read as “nor” or as “and” was not placed for consideration. Therefore, that decision too cannot prevail, in the light of the discussion in the present .” 10. Subsequent to the aforesaid passed in Indore B Development Authority by the Five-Judge Bench and having regard to the fact that Pune Municipal Corporation and all other s following Pune Municipal Corporationhave now been overruled, the review petitioners, who are either the acquiring body/State or the beneficiary have preferred these review petitions. C 11. The object and purpose of filing these review petitions is to seek review of the impugned in the review petitions and for re- hearing of the Special Leave Petitions or the Civil Appeals, as the case may be, which were disposed of in terms of Pune Municipal Corporation, in light of the latest pronouncement of this Court in Indore Development Authority. D 12. According to Sri Sanjay Poddar, learned senior counsel and other learned counsel appearing for the review petitioners, on an interpretation of para 365 of Indore Development Authority,it is clear that not only the in Pune Municipal Corporation is overruled but all other s following the said decision also stand overruled. E Consequently, the judgements passed by this Court following the dictum in Pune Municipal Corporationare subject to review and hence these review petitions have been filed. 13. The main plea of the review petitioners is to recall the s/s impugned in the review petitions and to restore the F Civil Appeals or Special Leave Petitions, as the case may be, on the file of this Court and to rehear the same and to dispose them in terms of the latest dictum of the Larger Bench of this Court in the case of Indore Development Authority. 14. Learned senior counsel and learned counsel for the petitioners G relied upon Mathura Prasad Sarjoo Jaiswal and Others vs. Dossibai N.B. Jeejeebhoy AIR 1971 SC 2355; and Assistant Commissioner, Income Tax, Rajkot vs. Saurashtra Kutch Stock Exchange Limited (2008) 14 SCC 171; in support of their submissions that when a question of law is altered by a subsequent decision, the earlier decision does not operate as res judicata.