P-15), which was purportedly made before the police officer (PW-23) in the presence of independent witnesses namely, Naresh Mandal (PW-6) and Avinash Tirki (PW-7). H 838 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 12. It will be helpful to refer to the general principle of cases revolving around circumstantial evidence as encapsulated by Vijay Shankar v. State of Haryana (2015) 12 SCC 644. The relevant portion is as follows: “8. There is no eyewitness to the occurrence and the entire case B is based upon circumstantial evidence. The normal principle is that in a case based on circumstantial evidence the circumstances from which an inference of guilt is sought to be drawn must be cogently and firmly established; that these circumstances should be of a definite tendency unerringly pointing towards the guilt of the accused; that the circumstances taken cumulatively should C form a chain so complete that there is no escape from the conclusion that within all human probability the crime was committed by the accused and they should be incapable of explanation of any hypothesis other than that of the guilt of the accused and inconsistent with their innocence vide Sharad D Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra [Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra, (1984) 4 SCC 116 : 1984 SCC (Cri) 487]. The same view was reiterated in Bablu v. State of Rajasthan [Bablu v. State of Rajasthan, (2006) 13 SCC 116 : (2007) 2 SCC (Cri) 590].” E 13. In light of the fact that all the co-accused who had preferred appeals stand acquitted by the Court below, therefore, while fully appreciating the testimony of this witness, this Court confines the discussions only concerning the present appellant, namely Pankaj Singh. 14. Interestingly, neither of the independent witness (PW 6 and PW 7) supported the prosecution case. Despite extensive cross- F examination conducted by the Public Prosecutor, nothing substantial could be elicited from their testimonies indicating any guilt of the accused. Noticeably, both the witnesses are rustic villagers working as daily wagers, have deposed to have signed blank papers, and are not residents of the area. G 15. A perusal of the testimony of PW-6 unrefutably reveals the witness to have signed documents which were blank, purportedly used by the police to strengthen this case for the commission of the offence. 16. PW-6, while stating that he does not recognize the accused, admits that his signatures are on several documents. He further says H MAGHAVENDRA PRATAP SINGH @ PANKAJ SINGH v. 839 STATE OF CHHATTISGARH [SANJAY KAROL, J.] that he had signed blank papers under threat from police officials. Such A a statement is uncontroverted as the record does not reflect any cross-examination on this issue or any other, for that matter. 17. We also notice that PW-7, one of the persons on whom reliance was placed by the courts below, states that he does not know the accused persons and that he had come to know from having perused newspapers B that the deceased was murdered.