On the other hand, in my view, the Central Government has the power to demonetise all series of bank notes of all D denominations, if the need for such a measure arises.It cannot be restricted in such powers in such manner as the Central Board of the Bank is, under the above provision. This is because such power is not exercised under sub- section (2) of Section 26 of the Act but is exercised notwithstanding the said provision by the Central E Government. Therefore, demonetisation of bank notes at the behest of the Central Government is a far more serious issue having wider ramificationson the economy and on the citizens,as compared to demonetisation of bank notes of a given series of a given denomination on the recommendation F of the Central Board of the Bank by issuance of a gazette notification by the Central Government. Therefore, in my considered view,the powers of the Central Government being vast, the same have to be exercised only through a plenary legislation or a legislative G process rather than by an executive act by the issuance of a notification in the Gazette of India. It is necessary that the Parliament which consists of the representatives of the People of this country, discusses the matter and thereafter approves and supports the implementation of the scheme of demonetisation. H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 197 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 15.14 The Central Government, as already noted above, could A have several compulsions for initiating demonetisation of the bank notes already in circulation in the economy, and it could do so even in the absence of a recommendation, as per sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act, of the Central Board of the Bank.On its proposal to demonetise the bank B notes,the advice/opinion of the Central Board of the Bank which has to be consulted may not alwaysbe in support of the proposal of the Central Government as in the year 1978.The Central Board of the Bank may give a negative opinion or a concurring opinion.In either of the situations, the Central Government mayproceed to demonetise the bank C notes but only through a legislative process, either through an Ordinance followed by a legislation, if the Parliament is not in session; or by a plenary legislation before the Parliament and depending upon the passage of the Bill as an Act, carry out its proposal of demonetisation.Of course, D depending upon the urgency of the situation and possibly to maintain secrecy, the option of issuance of an Ordinance by the President of India and the subsequent enactment of a law is always available to the Central Government by convening the Parliament. Such demonetisation of currency notes at the instance of the Central Government cannot be E by the issuance of an executive notification. The reasons for stating so are not far to see – (i) Firstly, because the Central Government is not acting under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. When the Central Government initiates the process of demonetisation it is de F hors sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act.