Moreover, it was argued by the Counsel for the Trust that even if it was an illegal encroachment, jurisdiction under Consumer Protection Act,1986 could not be invoked. Rejecting the arguments of the Counsel for the Trust, the Supreme Court made the following pertinent observations: “5. It is a matter of concern that such frivolous and unjust litigations by Governments and statutory authorities are on the increase. Statutory authorities exist to discharge statutory functions in public interest. They should be responsible litigants. They cannot raise frivolous and unjust objections, nor act in a callous and high-handed manner. They can not behave like some private litigants with profi teering motives. Nor can they resort to unjust enrichment. They are expected to show remorse or regret when their offi cers act negligently or in an overbearing manner. When glaring wrong acts by their offi cers are brought to their notice, for which there is no explanation or excuse, the least that is expected is restitution/restoration to the extent possible with appropriate compensation. Their harsh attitude in regard to genuine grievances of the public and their indulgence in unwarranted litigation requires to be corrected. 6. This Court has repeatedly expressed the view that Governments and statutory authorities should be model or ideal litigants and should not put forth false, frivolous, vexatious, technical (but unjust) contentions to obstruct the path of justice.” 29 (2010) 1 SCC 512 548 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 37. What we see here are few landowners whose lands were subjected to compulsory acquisition for the benefi t of the Urban Improvement Trust, Bikaner. The Trust took possession of their land without serving any notice on the landowners. It is also not clear whether any compensation was actually paid to the recorded khatedars. The respondents then fi led suit seeking to injunct the appellant from dispossessing the landowners from their land. This was a situation of a genuine grievance attempted to be canvassed by the landowners before a Court of law. For a litigant who has partially succeeded from the 1st Court and later at the appellate stage obtained full relief from two courts be told that his suit is not maintainable? In my opinion, justice would be better served if the respondents are not forced to commence another round of litigation before the High Court to secure a redressal for their grievances pertaining to being deprived of their land without getting any notice or just compensation. 38. As can be seen, the landowners had arrayed the Urban Improvement Trust, Bikaner as a defendant in the suit as their grievance was primarily against the appellant who dispossessed the respondents and took over their land. The State Authority which wronged the landowners was a defendant in the suit and also contested the suit by fi ling written submission and adducing evidence. In this backdrop, to non-suit the landowners would lead to manifest injustice. The issue no. (iii) is therefore answered against the appellant. F. Conclusion 39. It must now be noted that the litigation in this case has been continuing for 25 years.