H PREM SINGH v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 847 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] the company of the appellant and the next day, the deceased was found A dead. Taking note of the salient features of the case and operation of the requirements of Section 106 of the Evidence Act, this Court observed, as regards consideration of the relevant part of evidence of a hostile witness and the effect of failure on the part of the accused to discharge his burden, as follows: - B “6. No doubt, in the present case all the witnesses who are related to the accused and the deceased have turned hostile. PW 1 Janki Bai, wife of the appellant and the mother of the deceased has also turned hostile. However, by now it is settled principle of law, that such part of the evidence of a hostile witness which is found C to be credible could be taken into consideration and it is not necessary to discard the entire evidence... *** *** *** “8. In this view of the matter, after the prosecution has established the aforesaid fact, the burden would shift upon the appellant under D Section 106 of the Evidence Act. Once the prosecution proves, that it is the deceased and the appellant, who were alone in that room and on the next day morning the dead body of the deceased was found, the onus shifts on the appellant to explain, as to what has happened in that night and as to how the death of the deceased E has occurred. 14.4. Apart from the above, we may also usefully take note of the recent decision of this Court in the case of Sabitri Samantaray (supra). Therein, with reference to Section 106 of the Evidence Act, a 3-Judge Bench of this Court noted that if the accused had a different intention, the facts are especially within his knowledge which he must prove; and F if, in a case based on circumstantial evidence, the accused evades response to an incriminating questionor offers a response which is not true, such a response, initself, would become an additional link in the chain of events. The relevant part of the enunciation by this Court reads as under: - G “19. Thus, although Section 106 is in no way aimed at relieving the prosecution from its burden to establish the guilt of an accused, it applies to cases where chain of events has been successfully established by the prosecution, from which a reasonable inference is made out against the accused. Moreover, in a case based on H 848 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A circumstantial evidence, whenever an incriminating question is posed to the accused and he or she either evades response, or offers a response which is not true, then such a response in itself becomes an additional link in the chain of events.” 15. As regards the relevancy of motive in a case based on circumstantial evidence, the weight of authorities is on principles that if B motive is proved, that would supply another link in the chain of circumstantial evidence but, absence of motive cannot be a ground to reject the prosecution case, though such an absence of motive is a factor that weighs in favour of the accused.