Therein, we provided for choosing of the candidate of the party by the B General Council and it was also provided that expulsion of the appellantOPS and other persons would not operate for that limited purpose of decision-making by the General Council; and that the choice of the candidate shall be conveyed to the Election Commission of India by the PresidiumChairman. The said was passed in the C peculiarcircumstances and looking to the requirements of urgencyas also in the larger interest of democracy but, whilemaking it clear that such arrangement shall be without prejudice to therights of the parties and without conferring any additional right in any of the parties.6 6 The said dated 03.02.2023 reads as under: D “In continuity with and as per the permission granted in the dated 30.01.2023, we have heard learned counsel for the parties for the limited purpose in relation to the bye-election of 98-Erode (East) Assembly Constituency. We have taken note of the respective stand of the contesting parties as also the Election Commission of India in these matters. As the remains reserved, we do not wish to elaborate on any of the contentious issues involved in the matters. However, having taken note of the fact that E bye-election for 98-Erode (East) Assembly Constituency has already been announced where the last date for filing nominations is 07.02.2023, in our view, a workable solution/ interim arrangement appears to be in the interest of the political party concerned as also in the larger interest of democracy with participation of the party’s candidate in the forthcoming bye-election. Hence, after taking note of the submissions and counter-submissions of the learned counsel appearing for the contesting parties as also the propositions of the learned F counsel appearing for the Election Commission of India, we deem it appropriate to make the interim arrangement only in relation to the forthcoming bye-election and only for the purpose of participation of a candidate of the party concerned. In regard to the above, without prejudice to the rights of any of the parties and without conferring any additional right in any of the parties, it is considered appropriate and hence provided thus : (1) The proposal as regards choosing the candidate of the party shall be placed for G consideration and for final decision by the General Council of the party. (2) As regards the decision-making process of the General Council for choosing the candidate and looking to the time constrains, it is also provided that this process may be taken up by placing the necessary resolution for consideration by way of circulation. (3) In this process of decision-making by the General Council for arriving at the name of a candidate to be put up by the party in the forthcoming bye-election of 98- H Erode (East) Assembly Constituency, the persons who had allegedly been expelled THIRU K. PALANISWAMY v. M. SHANMUGAM & ORS. 1159 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 17. The relevant contentions urged on behalf of the appellants in A challenge to the impugned dated 02.09.2022 could be summarised as follows: 17.1.