(iii) The appellant was bound to disclose the details of status of filing of income tax return by her spouse in the foreign F country and non-disclosure of the same tantamounted to the suppression of facts and non-compliance of the statutory rules framed under the said Act. (iv) By not disclosing the financial status of her family, theappellant had deprived the opportunity to the voters to G decide about the casting of votes. (v) Lack of transparency andnon-disclosure of facts in the Form No. 26 had materially affected the result of the election. 4 2002 (5) SCC 294 H 808 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Relevant Provisions of the Constitution of India and of the R.P. Act, 1951: 9. In to appreciate the rival contentions raised by the learned counsel for the parties, it would be beneficial to refer to some of the relevant provisions contained in the Constitution of India as also the R.P. B Act, 1951. 10. Part -XV of the Constitution of India deals with the Elections. The superintendence, direction and control of the preparation of the electoral rolls for, and the conduct of all elections to the Parliament and to the legislature of every State and of elections to the offices of President C and Vice-President held under the Constitution have been vested in the Election Commission under Article 324 of the Constitution of India. Article 325 provides that there shall be one general electoral roll for everyterritorial constituency and that no person shall be ineligible for inclusion in such rolls on the grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex or any of them. Article 326 provides that elections to the House of people D and to the legislative assemblies of States shall be on the basis of adult franchise. Article 327 enables Parliament to make laws with respect to all matters relating to elections to either House of Parliament or to the Houses of the legislature of a State. Article 328 enables the legislature of a State, if Parliament has not made such legislation, to make laws E with respect to all matters relating to elections to the Houses of legislature of the State. Article 329 bars interference by courts in electoral matters and clause(b) in particular provides that no election to the either House of Parliament or to the House or either House of the legislature of a State shall be called in question except by an election petition presented to such authority and in such manner as may be provided for by or under F any law made by the appropriate legislature. 11. So far as the R.P Act, 1951, is concerned, its object as is reflected in its short title is to provide for the conduct of elections of the Houses of Parliament and to the House or Houses of the legislature of each State, the qualifications and the disqualifications for membership G of those Houses, the corrupt practices and other offencesat or in connection with such elections and the decision of doubts and disputes arising out of or in connection with such elections.