The designations of judges, E therefore, ought to be uniform across the country. In this regard, the First National Judicial Pay Commission (FNJPC) suggested the following nomenclature to be adopted pan- India:i. Civil Judge (Jr. Div); ii. Civil Judge (Sr. Div); iii. District Judge. A thorough examination by the SNJPC revealed that these designations have F not been adopted in few states. This recommendation had been accepted in the FNJPC by virtue of in All India Judges’ Assn. (II) v. Union of India. This direction be followed by the High Courts and all High Courts amend their designations in conformity with the suggestions of the FNJPC and SNJPC. It is also relevant to note that in light of the pay matrix suggested by the SNJPC, G without uniform designations, issues may arise in the future for fitment of the different designations which are used in the different states. Such complications ought to be avoided by this Court. Thus, the recommendation of the Commission is accepted. Consequently, the High Courts are directed to ensure that the H 28 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A designation of judicial officers is uniformly the same. [Paras 42- 45][58-G; 59-A-E] II. New Pay Structure as per Pay Matrix Model As the recommendation of the SNJPC is only to bring the pay structure in conformity with the 7th Central Pay Commission, B there cannot be any objection on these recommendations. Thus, it is directed that the pay structure of the Judicial Officers be modified suitably, reflecting the recommendations suggested by the SNJPC. [Para 46][59-F-G] III. Multiplier of 2.81 and Its Uniform Application C The pay of judicial officers is to be increased commensurate to the pay of the Judges of High Courts. When the judges of the High Courts were granted a multiplier of 2.81, the judicial officers were also to be granted the same multiplier. This has been the precedent set by the previous Judicial Pay Commissions and D endorsed by this Court repeatedly. This Court has already rejected the objections of the States and the Union and consequently accepted the multiplier/Index of Rationalization of 2.81 in dated 27.07.202223 and dated 05.04.202324. The multiplier/index of rationalization as suggested by the SNJPC be accepted. The pay of the judicial officers be increased as per E the Table-I annexed to the dated 27.07.2022. [Paras 48- 50][60-C-F] IV. Increments The recommendations of the Commission in so far as it F notionally grants the increment for the purposes of pension is completely justified. As a consequence of the acceptance of the recommendation, the calculation of pension must notionally include the increment for the purposes of calculation of pension. The High Courts are directed to amend the applicable rule to state that the increment which becomes due to the judicial officer G on the day after his retirement may be notionally included in the calculation of his pension as his last pay, subject to the vertical ceiling of Rs. 2,24,100/-. [Para 55][61-G; 62-A-B] V. Fitment and Migration from Master Pay Scale to Pay Matrix System H ALL INDIA JUDGES ASSOCIATION v. UNION OF INDIA 29 The Commission recommended the formula and method A to ensure that the migration from the master pay scale to the pay matrix system is smooth.