27. Learned Senior Counsel further submits that, in the present case, a reverse mechanism was adopted. He submits that it was the Central Government which initiated the proposal for demonetization and D sought opinion of the Central Board vide its communication dated 7th November 2016. The meeting of the Central Board was held immediately on the next day i.e. 8th November 2016 at 5.00 p.m. Within hours, a recommendation of the Central Board was sent to the Central Government and, on the same date itself, i.e. 8th November 2016, the E Hon’ble Prime Minister announced the decision of the Cabinet with regard to demonetization on National Television at 8.00 p.m. 28. Learned Senior Counsel submits that, unless the following documents are produced by the respondents, it cannot be verified as to whether the Central Board while recommending demonetization or as to F whether the Central Government while deciding to notify demonetization had taken into consideration the relevant factors or eschewed irrelevant factors: a) The letter of the Central Government dated 7th November 2016; G b) The Agenda Note dated 8th November 2016, if any, placed before the Central Board of RBI and the relevant research papers, background notes, information, data, report, etc. ; c) The recommendation of the Central Board dated 8th November 2016 to the Central Government; H 40 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A d) The Note for Cabinet, if any, that was placed before the Cabinet on 8th November 2016; e) The actual decision of the Cabinet as recorded in the Minutes of the Cabinet of its meeting dated 8th November 2016. B 29. It is submitted that it is only on the perusal of the minutes of the meeting dated 8th November 2016, of the Central Board, it could be seen as to whether the requisite quorum was there or not and as to whether one director from the category under Section 8(1)(c) of the RBI Act as required under the Reserve Bank of India (General) C Regulations, 1949 (hereinafter referred to as “the 1949 Regulations”) was present in the meeting or not. 30. Shri Chidambaram submits that there is no record available to show that there was application of mind to the relevant factors by the Central Board, so also by the Central Government. He submits that it is also not clear as to whether there was any Cabinet note based on the D recommendation of the Central Board, which was placed before the Cabinet for consideration. He submits that the Hon’ble Prime Minister went on National Television at 8.00 p.m. on 8th November 2016, in a slot that had already been booked by the Government since all channels telecasted the speech at 8.00 p.m., and announced the decision on E demonetization. He submits that the decision-making process was pre- meditated and rushed, which depicted a non-application of mind and was deeply and fatally flawed. It is thus submitted that the procedure adopted was in total violation of the procedure contemplated under sub- section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act.