49 candidates brought their own scribe. There were 33 requests for providing additional accommodation including 16 requests for the provision of a scribe. The Consortium provided a scribe in 15 instances whereas one candidate withdrew the request for a scribe. 24. In a situation such as the present, the Court must have due regard, undoubtedly to the need for reasonable accommodation consistent with the provisions of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, as interpreted in the decision in Vikash Kumar (supra). Equally, it would not be appropriate to ignore the genuine concerns which have been set up on behalf of the Consortium bearing on the need to maintain the integrity of the entrance test. 25. It is from this perspective that the consortium has, in its guidelines required that the candidate should not be above the 11th standard and in addition should not be affi liated with any test-preparatory or examination coaching centre. At the highest, a candidate could have a grievance if no such scribe meeting the said description is available. But as already noted above, the Consortium has taken upon itself the obligation to provide a scribe who meets with the stipulations which are contained in the Guidelines. 476 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 26. In other words, candidates appearing for the CLAT can either bring their own scribe or if it is not possible to do so, request the Consortium to provide a scribe who is then made available to the candidate. During the course of the hearing, it has been agreed that where the Consortium provides a scribe, at least two days’ time should be provided so as to enable the candidate to interact with the scribe. We are of the view that this is fair and proper. The scribe is required in the case of a visually challenged candidate to read out and write the responses to the MCQs. In to familiarise the scribe and the aspirant candidate, it is but proper that suffi cient time for interaction of two days should be provided. The guidelines also make a similar stipulation. 27. We, therefore, allow the request of the Consortium to the extent of its assertion that the scribe who is selected should not be qualifi ed above the 11th standard and should not be associated with any test-preparatory organisation or examination coaching centre. 28. The nature and contents of the Guidelines cannot be frozen for the future. The Consortium would be at liberty to modify the Guidelines bearing in mind the exigencies of the situation and the constantly evolving nature of the knowledge and experience gained in conducting CLAT particularly in the context of the rights of PwD candidates. In the event that any further diffi culties are encountered by PwD candidates, those may be brought to the notice of the Consortium well in advance so that suitable remedial measures can be taken consistent with their statutory entitlements. 29. The Writ Petition and the Miscellaneous Application are accordingly disposed of. 30. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of.