If notice is issued to the other side, then, after hearing both sides, it is necessary to consider whether the review petition ought to be allowed or rejected. It B is at that stage the maintainability of the review petition would also have to be considered such as if there is a bar to the very maintainability of the review petition having regard to the scope to XLVII Rule 1 CPC. Then, the review petition has to be dismissed at that stage itself. But, if the Court is convinced that there is ground for reviewing the or impugned, then the review petition has to be allowed by C recalling the s sought to be reviewed. Thereafter, the matter has to be reheard on merits by the Court. After rehearing the case, the Court may either confirm the original or modify it. An made subsequently whether reversing, confirming or modifying the earlier would be superseding the original one. Therefore, it is at the stage prior D to rehearing the matter on merits that the maintainability of the review petition has to be ascertained i.e., whether the grounds for seeking review enunciated in XLVII Rule 1 CPC are made out or not. 26. Article 137 of the Constitution of India speaks about the review of s or s passed by the Supreme Court of India. It E states that subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament or any Rule made under Article 145 of the Constitution of India, the Supreme Court shall have the power to review any pronounced or made by it. However, the power of the Supreme Court of India to review its or is subject to (i) the provisions of any law made by the Parliament, or (ii) any Rule made under Article 145 of the Constitution F of India. 27. Rule 1 of XLVII of the S.C. Rules, 2013 made by virtue of Article 145 of the Constitution of India states that, in any civil case, review lies on any of the grounds stated under XLVII Rule 1 CPC. Thus, the scope and power to review a or by the G Supreme Court is restricted to the contours of XLVII Rule 1 CPC. Further, though the power to review is conferred by the Constitution and is therefore a Constitutional power, that power is circumscribed by the CPC and S.C. Rules, 2013 which have been extracted above. XLVII Rule 1 CPC states that an aggrieved person - H 238 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A i) due to discovery of new and important matter or evidence which, after exercise of due diligence was not within the knowledge of the person aggrieved or the person seeking review could not be produced by him at the time when the decree was passed or made, or B ii) due to a mistake or error apparent on the face of the record, or iii) on account of any other sufficient reason, may seek review of a or of this Court.