According to the Revenue, in the present case, what had been “disclosed” in the application was the same as what was “discovered” by the Assessing Offi cer and therefore, the application of the assessee ought not to have been entertained by the Commission, and further, immunity under Section 245H ought not to have been granted. 7.1. In this regard, it is observed that even if the pre-conditions prescribed under Section 245C are to be read into Section 245H, it cannot be said that in every case, the material “disclosed” by the assessee before the Commission must be something apart from what was discovered by the Assessing Offi cer. What is of relevance is that the assessee off ered to tax, income, in addition to the income recorded in the return of income. Section 245C read with Section 245H only contemplates full and true disclosure of income to be made before the Settlement Commission, regardless of the KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. v. COMMISSIONER OF 21 INCOME TAX BANGALORE [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] disclosures or discoveries made before/by the Assessing Offi cer. It is to be noted that the passed by Assessing Offi cer based on any discovery made, is not the fi nal word, for, it is appealable. However, the assessee may accept the liability, in whole or in part, as determined in the assessment . In such a case, the assessee may approach the Settlement Commission making ‘full and true disclosure’ of his income and the manner in which such income has been derived. Such a disclosure may also include the income discovered by the Assessing Offi cer. 7.2. To say that in every case, the material “disclosed” by the assessee before the Commission must be something apart from what was “discovered” by the Assessing Offi cer, in our view, seems to be an artifi cial requirement. In every case, there may not even be additional income to off er, apart from what has been discovered by the Assessing Offi cer. The object of Chapter-XIXA is to settle cases and to reduce the disputes, and not to prolong litigation. Therefore, instead of preferring an appeal against the assessment , the assessee may, by making a ‘full and true disclosure’ of income, approach the Settlement Commission and off er to tax income other than that disclosed in the return of income. 7.3. It is further to be noted that the power vested with the Settlement Commission under Section 245H is a discretionary power to be exercised if the Settlement Commission is satisfi ed that an applicant has complied with the preconditions specifi ed therein. It is trite that any judicial, quasi- judicial or administrative authority must while exercising discretion, direct itself properly in law and consider all the facts and material that it is bound to consider while excluding from consideration irrelevant aspects of the matter. While exercising power under Section 245H, read with Section 245C of the Act the relevant facts and material which ought to be considered by the Commission are: i. the report which is to be submitted by the Commissioner, under Section 245D(1) of the Act; ii.