Foreign Trade (Development & Regulation) Act, 1992 – s.5 – F Foreign Trade Policy of 2015-2020 (FTP) vis-à-vis Handbook of Procedures 2015-2020 (HBP) – Held: FTPs are statutory and are framed by the Union, exercising its powers u/s.5 of the FTRA – Whereas, the HBP does not have the status of rules or regulations – It merely contains guidelines. G Tax/Taxation – Validity or constitutionality of fiscal laws/ economic measures – Hardship/inconvenience, if relevant – Held: Court is not concerned with the wisdom or unwisdom, the justice or injustice of the law as Parliament and State Legislatures – Hardship is not relevant in pronouncing on the constitutional validity of a fiscal statute or economic law – When reform by way of new H UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. v. COSMO FILMS LIMITED 187 legislation is introduced, the doctrine of classification cannot be A applied strictly, and that some allowance for experimentation, to observe the effect of the law, is available to the executive or legislature – Doctrine of Classification. Allowing the appeals, the Court B HELD: 1.1 Exporters were made aware of the changes brought about due to the introduction of GST, through a trade notice, (Trade Notice 11/2017, dated 30-06-2017). The public notice clearly forewarned that AAs and their utilisation would not continue in the same manner as the AA scheme was operating hitherto. This trade notice has escaped the attention of the High C Court, since there is no advertence to it in the impugned , or a discussion about it. Likewise, the HBP was amended, and paragraph 4.27 (d) was inserted, which stated that duty free authorisation for inputs subject to ‘pre-import condition’ could not be issued. By virtue of the trade notice, exporters were made D aware of the fact that under the GST regime, no exemption from payment of IGST and compensation cess would be available for imports under AA. Importers had to pay IGST and take input tax credit as applicable under GST rules. [Paras 49, 50, 51][215-A; 216-B,C,D,E] E 1.2 The FTP, inter alia, facilitated AAs for duty-free import of input, which is physically incorporated in export product, making normal allowance for wastage (paragraph 4.03 of the FTP). No doubt, the rationale or object behind this was to smoothen and facilitate export trade, ensuring that finished goods, meant for export, did not suffer a competitive price disadvantage. F However, the concept of ‘pre-import condition’ was not alien – Appendix-4J (mentioned in paragraph 4.13 (ii) of the FTP) listed several articles, such as spices, penicillin and its salts, tea, coconut oil, silk, drugs from unregistered sources, precious metals, etc. as articles for which the ‘pre-import condition’ was G applicable, prior to the GST regime. Furthermore, by paragraph 4.13 of the FTP, the DGFT could impose ‘pre-import conditions’ on articles other than those specified. The retention of the power to impose ‘pre-import conditions’ on articles other than those specified in Appendix-4J, meant that the DGFT could exercise it, in relation to any goods. The High Court has not discussed H 188 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R.