PW-2 has clearly stated F that when he tried to follow PRP he was stopped by the accused and the police personnel who were standing outside. [Para 28][632-H; 633-A-B] 1.9 The evidence creates a very serious doubt on the entire prosecution story. It is quite possible that the police personnel G of the concerned Police Station were there to arrest the deceased and his brother and in that process some resistance may have resulted into the incident causing the death of the victim. The injuries of PW2 have not been proved as admittedly there was no injury report. Even the scribe of the FIR has not been produced H 620 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A nor the signatures have been proved. It is quite possible that it was a complete set-up by the police. They having committed the murder in the process of arresting the deceased, and thereafter, knowing the enmity between the two parties, set–up a false case against the accused. Apparently, no explanation has come forward to explain the presence of the police personnel of the Police B Station throughout the incident. [Para 29][633-C-E] 1.10 The prosecution has not established the place of occurrence by any material exhibit of having collected the blood- stained earth from the place of occurrence. Even the material exhibit, the axe, which is said to have been taken into custody by C the police whether on the date of the incident or two days thereafter has also not been produced nor any evidence led to that effect. It is still a mystery as to how the Investigating Officer in his statement has stated that he had filed a charge-sheet against eight accused as five were absconding and there is no further statement D regarding three more accused being arrested and put to trial, how the trial court proceeded to convict 11 accused and only two were set to be absconding. Even the scribe of the FIR has not been examined. It was extremely relevant when PW-1 has stated that she had no knowledge of the contents of the FIR. [Para 30][633-E-G] E 1.11 Although the death of the victim was homicidal but it is not convincing that the prosecution has established the case beyond reasonable doubt against the accused appellants. The appellants would be entitled to benefit of doubt. The conviction and sentence are set aside. [Para 31][633-H; 634-A] F CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Criminal Appeal No.906 of 2016. From the and dated 21.11.2015 of the High Court of Gauhati at Agarthala in CRLA No.113 of 2014. G Sanjay R. Hegde, Sr. Adv., Azim H. Laskar, Bikas Kar Gutpa, S.K. Biswal, Ms. Debarati Sadhu, Shahrukh Ali, Chandra Bhushan Prasad, Raghav Gupta, Ms. Debanjana Ray Choudhuri, Advs. for the Appellants. Debojit Borkakati, Adv. for the Respondent. H PULEN PHUKAN & ORS. v. THE STATE OF ASSAM 621 The of the Court was delivered by A VIKRAM NATH, J. 1. The Appellants have assailed the correctness of and dated 21.11.2015 passed by Gauhati High Court in Criminal Appeal No.113/2014 – Pulen Phukan and 10 others versus State of Assam B whereby the appeal was dismissed confirming the and of Trial Court i.e.