Application for review of - Any person considering himself aggrieved- (a) by a decree or from which an appeal is allowed, but from which no appeal has been preferred. (b) by a decree or from which no appeal is allowed, or D (c) by a decision on a reference from a Court of Small Causes, and who, from the discovery of new and important’ matter or evidence which, after the exercise of due diligence was not within his knowledge or could not be produced by him at the E time when the decree was passed or made, or on account of some mistake or error apparent on the face of the record or for any other sufficient reason, desires to obtain a review of the decree passed or made against him, may apply for a review of to the Court which passed the decree or made the . (emphasis supplied) F (2) A party who is not appealing from a decree or may apply for a review of notwithstanding the pendency of an appeal by some other party except where the ground of such appeal is common to the applicant and the appellant, or when, being respondent, he can present to the Appellate Court G the case on which he applied for the review. Explanation. The fact that the decision on a question of law on which the of the Court is based has been reversed or modified by the subsequent decision of a superior Court in any other case, shall not be a ground for the review of H such .” 736 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 9. A plain reading of the above provisions in uncertain terms states that the power to review can be exercised only upon existence of any of the three conditions expressed therein. ‘A mistake or an error apparent on the face of the record’ is one of the conditions. It is only on this ground that review has been preferred. The above phrase has been consistently interpreted by authoritative pronouncement of this Court B for decades. A three Judge Bench of this Court comprising of Hon’ble Sri S.R. Das, C.J., M. Hidayatullah and Sri K.C. Das Gupta, J.J. in the case of Satyanarayan Laxminarayan Hegde and others Vs. Millikarjun Bhavanappa Tirumale4, discussed the scope of the phrase ‘error apparent on the face of record’. The challenge before this Court C in the said case was the of the High Court on the ground whether it suffers from an error apparent on the face of the record. The High Court had issued a writ of certiorari and had quashed of the Tribunal and restored that of the Mamlatdar. In paragraph 8 of the report, the issue which was to be considered is reflected. The same is reproduced hereunder: D “8. The main question that arises for our consideration in this appeal by special leave granted by this Court is whether there is any error apparent on the face of the record so as to enable the superior court to call for the records and quash the by a writ of certiorari or whether the error, if any, E was “a mere error not so apparent on the face of the record”, which can only be corrected by an appeal if an appeal lies at all.” 10.