Accordingly, denied relief of anticipatory bail but granted transit anticipatory bail. 8. Sadhan Chandra Calcutta High The Court noted that in view of Article Kolay vs. State, Court with 214 of the Constitution, the territorial 1998 SCC respect to off ence jurisdiction of a particular High Court of Online Cal committed outside a particular State ordinarily shall not be 382 (Sadhan the State of West extended to the territory of any other State Chandra Kolay) Bengal. and exercise of any power or jurisdiction in connection with any matter outside the State would be in excess of the power conferred by the law. 564 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Case Name High Court Outcome and Reasoning Section 438 of CrPC confer special powers only on the Court of Session and the High Court to grant anticipatory bail in the event of arrest by the police. The legislative intention behind this provision is to prevent undue harassment by the police of an innocent citizen or class of citizens. So far as the Sessions Court is concerned, its power is limited to the territorial jurisdiction of the Sessions- Division and it cannot exercise the power under Section 438 of CrPC outside its Sessions-Division. Therefore, it is clear that the Sessions Judge has got no authority to exercise the power or jurisdiction under Section 438 of CrPC beyond the local limits of the territorial jurisdiction of the Sessions-Division. The High Court held that the petition for anticipatory bail under Section 438 of CrPC in connection with an off ence in any out-station cannot be entertained by the High Court and as such the petition was not maintainable. 9. Honey Preet Delhi High Court The High Court noted that the applicant, Insan vs. State, regarding off ence a resident of Sirsa in Haryana, had sought 2017 SCC registered in the anticipatory bail from a Delhi Court by Online Del State of Haryana. giving a Delhi address in addition to a 10690 (Honey Sirsa address. The High Court emphasized Preet Insan) that it was duty bound to consider whether the applicant is a regular or bona fi de resident of a place within the local limits of that Court and the application is not a camoufl age to evade the process of law. If the Court is not satisfi ed on this aspect, the application deserves to be rejected without going into the merits of the case PRIYA INDORIA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA AND ORS. 565 ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Case Name High Court Outcome and Reasoning The High Court also denied the plea of transit anticipatory bail for period of three weeks to enable the applicant to move the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The High Court reasoned that the applicant was at large and her counsel had refused to undertake to join investigation upon being granted interim protection. Therefore, the High Court concluded that the application is not bona fi de and has been fi led with a view to gain time.