In this regard, it appears the Competent Authority as well C as the Appellate Tribunal having noted the transaction and also having noted that there is no explanation offered by the 2nd petitioner properly regarding acquisition of the land in question for Rs.33,000/- in the year 1969, and also having doubted the unsigned agreement between the 2nd petitioner and N.A. Yusuf, and in the D absence of any such proper explanation as to source of acquisition, held that major investment remain unexplained and also disbelieved the version of the 2nd petitioner on the ground that the proof of gift from her marriage has not been produced. Thus, according to the Competent Authority as well as the Appellate Tribunal, even if the value of the land is taken only at Rs.33,000/-, the total value of E the land and building will work out at Rs.25,20,000/- and as such, it was of the view that major part of the investment remained unexplained. Even the accounts are not maintained in respect of the cost of construction of the building and all other various installations made.” F 18. Taking into consideration the submissions made, we find no error being committed in the finding returned by the High Court which may call for our interference. 19. Even before this Court, there is no material that has been placed by Appellant no.2 (P.M. Saheeda) in rebuttal which may even G prima facie justify the sources of fund available at her command for acquisition of the land in question to the tune of Rs.33,000/- in the year 1969. In the absence of proper explanation as to the source of acquisition and as majority of investment remains unexplained, the authority disbelieved the version of Appellant no. 2(P.M. Saheeda) as no proof was placed on record of gifts from her marriage. That apart, if the value H PLATINUM THEATRE v. COMPETENT AUTHORITY SMUGGLERS & 1099 FOREIGN EXCHANGE MANIPULATORS ACT, 1976 [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] of the land is taken only of Rs.33,000/-, the total value of the land and A building work out at Rs.25,20,000/-, and as such, the major part of the investment still remains unexplained. Even the accounts were not maintained in respect of the cost of construction of the building, in absence whereof, the authority has not committed any manifest error in forfeiting the property in exercise of power under Section 7 of Act 1976. B 20. Suffice it to say that the proceedings were initiated in reference to the appellants, in the first instance, pursuant to show cause notice dated 13th January, 1977 and the competent authority passed an of forfeiture on 23rd November, 1977. Later that came to be set aside in the year 1991 and fresh forfeiture proceedings were initiated pursuant C to show cause notice under Section of the Act dated 16th October, 1994 which finally culminated into passing of of the competent authority on 31st December, 1997 and on dismissal of appeal, the writ petition was preferred at the instance of the appellants and the matter reached to this stage.