Any Court or Tribunal adjudicating a dispute relating to conditions of service of an employee, should keep in mind the different parameters applicable to these three different categories of employment. 24. Unlike those employed in factories and industrial establishments, persons in public service who are holders of civil posts or in the civil E services of the Union or the State are required to place themselves at the disposal of the Government all the time. Rule 11 of the Fundamental Rules reads as under:- “Unless in any case it be otherwise distinctly provided, the whole time of a Government servant is at the disposal of the Government F which pays him, and he may be employed in any manner required by proper authority, without claim for additional remuneration, whether the services required of him are such as would ordinarily be remunerated from general revenues, from a local fund or from the funds of a Body incorporated or not, which is wholly or substantially owned or controlled by the Government.” G 25. In the light of the above Rule, there was actually no scope for the respondents to seek payment of Double Over Time Allowance. It is needless to say that no benefit can be claimed by anyone dehors the statutory rules. Unfortunately, the Central Administrative Tribunal completely lost sight of those Rules, and the distinction between H 260 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A employment in a factory and employment in Government service, despite the Union of India raising this as a specific issue in paragraph 12 of the counter filed in O.A. No.428 of 2005 before the Central Administrative Tribunal. 26. The claim of the respondents before the Tribunal was not B based on any statutory rule but based entirely upon Section 59(1) of the 1948 Act. 27. Persons who are not holders of civil posts nor in the civil services of the State but who are governed only by the 1948 Act, may be made to work for six days in a week with certain limitations as to C weekly hours under Section 51, weekly holidays under Section 52, daily hours under Section 54, etc. Workers covered by Factories Act do not enjoy the benefit of automatic wage revision through periodic Pay Commissions like those in Government service. Persons holding civil posts or in the civil services of the State enjoy certain privileges and hence, the claim made by the respondents ought to have been tested by D the Tribunal and the High Court, in the proper perspective to see whether it is an attempt to get the best of both the worlds. 28. Admittedly, the State Government is conferred with the power under Section 64(1) to make exempting Rules. In exercise of the power so conferred, the State of Maharashtra has framed Rule 100, which E reads as follows:- “Rule - 100: PERSONS DEFINED TO HOLD POSITION OF SUPERVISION OR EMPLOYED IN A CONFIDENTIAL POSITION. F (1) In a factory the following persons shall be deemed to hold position of supervision or management within the meaning of sub- section (1) of section 64, provided they are not required to perform manual labour or clerical work as a regular part of their duties namely: G (i) The Manager, Deputy Manager, Assistant Manager, Production Manager, Works Manager and the General Manager; (ii) Departmental Head, Assistant Departmental Head, H Departmental in-charge or Assistant Departmental in-charge; SECURITY PRINTING AND MINTING CORPORATION OF 261 INDIA LTD. v. VIJAY D. KASBE [V. RAMSUBRAMANIAN, J.]