It is here that the major contradiction, if not falsity, in the prosecution case emerges. The Investigating Officer PW 12 is categorical of having suspected the C appellant only on the basis of the information furnished by the father of the prosecutrix, i.e., PW 1. PW 12 states that “the father of deceased expressed suspicion against the appellant and at the time of his house search was taken.” and PW 1 states that “He did not suspect anyone prior to 14.6.2010.” The search was conducted on 13th and not on 14th of June, 2010. He added that finding the house of the appellant to be D locked, he called the medical analyzer, Mumbai, whereafter, he, by breaking open the lock of the house of the appellant, recovered incriminating articles vide Ext.36 on 13.6.2010 and such articles being: “Article 1 – Square cardboard; E Article 2 – Blanket; Article 3 – Floor tiles pieces; Article 4 – Mat; Article 5 –Towel; F Article 6 –Spanner; Article 7 –Hair found on pillow; Article 8 – Mat; and Article 9 – Pillow” G 28. Having conducted the search in the presence of PW 5 and Piyush Ramesh Kumar Jain (unexamined), he locked and sealed the house. Out of the two, the prosecution examined only one witness, namely PW 5. Perusal of the testimony of this witness as also the Investigating Officer and the relatives of the prosecutrix, does not establish one major fact, that being, who actually identified the house of the appellant. H PRAKASH NISHAD @ KEWAT ZINAK NISHAD v. STATE OF 165 MAHARASHTRA [SANJAY KAROL, J.] 29. A ‘chawl’ is a group of tenements clustered together, very A small in size and densely populated. It’s an inexpensive accommodation, temporary for some, permanent for others. Living in the same chawl, cannot be, in the attending facts of no one having identified with certainty the exact house/room of the appellant, a circumstance pointing to the guilt of the appellant. As is evident from the decisions referred (supra), B for a circumstance to be established, there shouldn’t be doubt; it should not leave room for the possibility that, not the appellant against whom the circumstance is sought to be proved but someone else, may have done the said crime. 30. None of the witnesses have deposed that it was at the instance C of the appellant that the prosecutrix left the house, nor has anyone deposed to the effect of having seen the appellant and the prosecutrix together at any point in time; Appellant was not even a visitor to the house of PW 1. They have no relationship, be it of whatever nature. All that is stated is that after having dinner prosecutrix left home, and PW 3 states that he thought she may have gone to the neighbour’s house to D watch TV. With this being the case, last seen theory, does not come into play. Although argued before us, the Trial Court has correctly not considered the same to be a circumstance of consequence, in either direction.