Rigor mortis present in the body after 90 hours is unusual, though possible under certain circumstances. It was the duty of the prosecution to explain it. The defense too failed to question it and the Court remained silent. Let us now revert to the evidence of last seen. E 12. The evidence of last seen becomes an extremely important piece of evidence in a case of circumstantial evidence, particularly when there is a close proximity of time between when the accused was last seen with the deceased and the discovery of the body of the deceased, or in this case the time of the death of the deceased. This does not mean F that in cases where there is a long gap between the time of last seen and the death of the deceased the last seen evidence loses its value. It would not, but then a very heavy burden is placed upon the prosecution to prove that during this period of last seen and discovery of the body of the deceased or the time of the death of the deceased, no other person but the accused could have had an access to the deceased. The G circumstances of last seen together in the present case by itself cannot form the basis of guilt (See: Anjan Kumar Sarma & Others v. State of Assam7). 7 (2017) 14 SCC 359 -para 19 H 234 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A The circumstances of last seen together does not by itself lead to an irrevocable conclusion that it is the accused who had committed the crime. The prosecution must come out with something more to establish this connectivity with the accused and the crime committed. Particularly, in the present case when there is no close proximity between circumstances of last seen together and the approximate time of death, B the evidence of last seen becomes weak (See: - Malleshappa v. State of Karnataka8). In Nizam & Anr. v. State of Rajasthan9 where the time gap between the last seen together and the discovery of the body of the deceased was long, it was held that during this period the possibility of C some other interventions could not be ruled out. Where time gap between the last seen and time of death is long enough, as in the present case, then it would be dangerous to come to the conclusion that the accused is responsible for the murder. In such cases it is unsafe to base conviction on the “last seen theory” and it would be safer to look for corroboration D from other circumstance and evidence which have been adduced by the prosecution. The other circumstances here is the so called discovery, and most of these, as we have already discussed, fail to meet the requirement of Section 27 of the Evidence Act. As per the post-mortem which was conducted on 12.05.2000 at E 4:15 P.M, the death was 48 hours prior to the post mortem, which means it was before 4:00 P.M. on 10.05.2000.