Researchers have recorded incidents where the public has subjected members of the queer community to violence for publicly displaying aff ection towards one another. A woman who eloped with another woman was beaten, stripped and paraded around the village within a blackened face and a garland of shoes around her neck.13 Queer individuals who are from socio-economically marginalised backgrounds are at an even greater risk of being subject to harassment. 12. The LGBTQIA+ community also faces discrimination in the public space because of the lack of accommodation in the public sphere for persons who do not conform to the gender binary. All the services provided by the 13 Maya Sharma, Loving Women: Being Lesbian in Underprivileged India (2nd edn, Yoda Press 2021) SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1243 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] State including public washrooms, security check points, and ticket counters at railway stations and bus depots are segregated based on a strict gender binary. Transwomen have recounted experiences of being asked to shift to the men’s queue in security check points.14 Although they are women and identify with the female gender, they are forced to accept a third party’s assessment of their gender as being male. Just as a cisgender woman may feel intensely uncomfortable at using facilities meant for men, transgender women too may feel very uncomfortable. Over time, misgendering a person can have deleterious eff ects on their mental health and negatively impact their ability to function in the world. 13. Places of education and employment are also not spaces where gender identity and sexual orientation may be expressed devoid of discriminatory attitudes. The members of the queer community may be forced to quit their education or their job if they face oppression in these spaces. This would mean that they do not have equal opportunity. In professional environments, members of the queer community may face various forms of discrimination which may range from being denied opportunities to secure jobs to not being invited to offi ce gatherings and to being passed over for promotions. A human rights organization interviewed 3,619 transgender persons out of which only 12% were employed, with half of them earning less than Rs. 5,000 per month.15 Contrary to popular perception, the signifi cant percentage of unemployment in the transgender community is not because transgender persons do not wish to work or because they prefer to beg, but because employers are unwilling to employ them due to their gender nonconformity. In another study conducted by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) it was revealed that seventy-fi ve percent of transgender persons in the National Capital Region and eighty-two percent of transgender persons in Uttar Pradesh never attended school or dropped out before tenth grade. Further, members of the transgender community face diffi culty in obtaining proper identifi cation documents which prevents them from accessing even those opportunities which are available to them. 14 Also see: e-Committee Supreme Court of India, Sensitisation Module for the Judiciary on LGBTQIA+ community 15 Shreya Raman, ‘Denied Visibility in Offi cial Data, Millions of Transgender Indians Cant Access Benefi ts’ (India Spend, 11 June 2021) 124 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.