He stated that, on 21.08.2008, while he was holding additional charge of Ichapuram Circle, he received information B from the Sub-Inspector of Police, Ichapuram Rural Police Station (PW- 23) about the subject crime. He immediately rushed there and also flashed radio messages for conducting vehicle checking to apprehend the accused. He visited the scene of offence at 11.45 pm and noted the dead bodies. In the meanwhile, he received information about the C movement of the culprits and left the scene of the offence. He secured two mediators and along with his staff, he went to Radhamveedhi, Jagannadhaswamy Temple, at about 01.15 am and noticed one person, carrying a hand bag, trying to escape upon seeing the police. He apprehended the person (A2) and questioned him about the contents of the bag. He interrogated him and he confessed to the commission of the D offence. The bag carried by him was verified and gold ornaments along with cash of ยน 18,340/- were found therein. Then, PW-26, along with the accused, his staff and mediators, rushed to the house of the other accused, Dakkata Balaram Reddy, situated on Gollaveedhi of Ichapuram Municipality, and upon seeing the police, one person (A1) tried to escape. E He was apprehended and interrogated in the presence of mediators. He also confessed to commission of the offence and corroborated the version given by the other accused. PW-26 stated that he then questioned him about the stolen property and he fetched a bag from the side room of the house along with blood-stained clothes and handed over the same to him. The bag contained gold ornaments. PW-26 then arrested A1 at F about 04.00 am and brought both the accused to the police station along with the seized property. Upon further questioning as to their clothes at the time of the offence, they disclosed that they were wearing the same clothes at the time of offence. He then secured some other clothes and seized their blood-stained clothes. G 18. PW-27 stated that he worked as the Inspector of Police, Ichapuram, from 09.02.2008 to 09.05.2010. He stated that he took up further investigation in the case on hand on 31.08.2008 and that PW-26 had conducted investigation till then. He spoke of the Test Identification Parade of the seized gold ornaments conducted in the presence of mediators. H 896 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 19. The Inspector of Police, FPB Unit, Srikakulam, was examined as PW-24. He stated that, on receipt of a telephone message from the Police Station, Ichapuram, he visited the scene of offence along with a Clues Team on 22.08.2008 at about 06.00 am and developed four chance fingerprints on a glass show case and one chance fingerprint on a cream- coloured plastic box. He stated that he found photocopies of two of the B chance prints unfit for comparison but the chance prints marked as A, D and E were fit for comparison. The fingerprints marked as A and E tallied with the fingerprints of the two accused.