The extra judicial confession was also doubted on the ground that the date of arrest of the accused (i.e., 25.12.1998) appeared doubtful, inasmuch as there was a C high probability of the accused being arrested earlier i.e., 12.12.1998, as claimed by him, because from the statement of PW-2 it appeared that the police was informed by him on 13.12.1998 itself in respect of his suspicion regarding the involvement of the accused. 10. After a thorough analysis of the evidence as highlighted above, D the High Court found that, firstly, the incriminating circumstances were not proved beyond reasonable doubt and, secondly, they did not constitute a chain so complete as to conclusively indicate that it was the accused and no one else who, in all human probability, committed the crime. Consequently, the High Court set aside the of the trial Court and acquitted the accused of the charge. E 11. Learned counsel for the State (appellant) has submitted that there was no proven enmity of the witnesses with the accused. In these circumstances, there was no occasion for the High Court to doubt the testimony of the prosecution witnesses in respect of the incriminating circumstances laid out by the prosecution. In such a situation there was F no justification to reverse the conviction recorded by the trial Court. It was argued that the deceased was last seen alive, having liquor with the accused, in the evening of 10.12.1998 and thereafter the deceased was not seen alive by anyone. The autopsy report probabilizes death of the deceased at around the same time when he was last seen in the company G of the accused. In these circumstances, the burden was on the accused to prove as to when he left company of the deceased. In absence whereof, coupled with other circumstances, accused’s conviction was justified. Therefore, the High Court fell in error by setting aside the of the trial Court and acquitting the respondent. H 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 12. We have considered the submissions of the learned counsel for the appellant and have perused the record carefully. 13. Before we proceed further, it would be apposite to notice the law as to when it would be appropriate for this Court, exercising power under Article 136 of the Constitution of India, to interfere with an B of acquittal passed by the High Court while reversing an of conviction recorded by the Trial Court. The law in this regard is well settled. Normally, this Court is reluctant to interfere with an of acquittal. But when it appears that the High Court has on an absolutely wrong process of reasoning and a legally erroneous and perverse approach to the facts of the case and ignoring some of the most vital C facts, acquitted the respondent and the of acquittal passed by the High Court has resulted in a grave and substantial miscarriage of justice, extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India may rightfully be exercised (See : State of U.P.