Moreover, the legislature specifi cally amended Section 8 of the Arbitration Act by inserting the words “any person claiming through or under” to recognize and codify the reality of non-signatories acting through or under the signatory parties. 10. Mr Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel appearing for the intervener in IA No. 56615 of 2023, made the following submissions: a. A non-signatory can be impleaded in an arbitration proceeding provided: (i) there is a defi ned legal relationship between the non- signatory and the parties to the arbitration agreement; and (ii) the non- signatory consented to be bound by the arbitration agreement in terms of Section 7 of the Arbitration Act; b. The onus to prove the intention of the non-signatory to be bound by the arbitration agreement lies on the party seeking to implead the non- signatory; 644 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. c. In view of the requirement under Section 7 of the Arbitration Act, an arbitration agreement has to be in writing and there cannot be an oral agreement to arbitrate. Regardless, the intention of the non-signatory to be bound by the arbitration agreement can be gathered from conduct; d. Arbitration is in the realm of private law, and a matter of choice and intent of the parties. Therefore, factors such as economic convenience, justice, or equity cannot be grounds for binding non-signatories to an arbitration agreement; and e. The cumulative factors laid down by this Court in Discovery Enterprises (supra) cannot be considered in isolation, and must be applied holistically to determine the applicability of the group of companies doctrine in a given factual matrix. 11. Mr Nakul Dewan, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent in SLP (C) No. 8607 of 2022, made the following submissions: a. The group of companies doctrine and single economic entity doctrine are purely economic concepts without any basis in either contract law or company law. Therefore, they cannot be applied to determine the intention of non-signatories to be bound by an arbitration agreement; b. The decision of a party to not sign the arbitration agreement may form the basis to demonstrate an intent not to be bound by it; c. The mere factum of multiple agreements or that the non-signatory was involved in the negotiation of the contract cannot form the basis to bind it to the arbitration agreement; d. The phrase “claiming through or under” which fi nds mention under Sections 8 and 45 of the Arbitration Act cannot be the basis for the application of the group of companies doctrine; and e. The determination of the intention of parties to a contract should relate only to the intention held at the time of entering into the contract, which can be gathered objectively from the text of the contract. However, Chloro Controls (supra) which considers consequential or subsequent agreements to determine the mutual intention of the parties is incorrect. COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 645 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 12. Mr Ritin Rai, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent in Arbitration Petition No.