[2023] 13 S.C.R. 1157 : 2023 INSC 907 CASE DETAILS HARVINDER SINGH @ BACHHU v. THE STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH (Criminal Appeal Nos. 266-267 of 2015) OCTOBER 13, 2023 [M. M. SUNDRESH AND J. B. PARDIWALA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether the High Court was justifi ed in setting aside the of acquittal and convicting the appellant for murder and attempt to rape relying on the testimony of the prosecution witness despite contradictions, only because he was educated and a god fearing person. Penal Code, 1860 – ss. 302, 376, 511, 454, 380 r/w s.34 – Murder and attempt to rape – High Court convicted the appellant for murder and attempt to rape, setting aside the of acquittal by the trial court – Correctness: Held: Trial court gave substantial reasons for arriving at its conclusion – However, the High Court was persuaded by the homicidal death of the deceased while ignoring multiple fi ndings rendered by the trial court – High Court after holding that a homicide had occurred, blindly placed reliance upon the evidence of the informant and misconstrued the concept of reputation and blindly believed his evidence – Furthermore, the statement of one of the witness that there was no prior enmity – Also non-availability of the fi ngerprint report and non-examination of the witnesses though the witnesses were available – Prosecution failed to prove the charges beyond reasonable doubt, thus, the appellant entitled to the benefi t of doubt – Impugned passed by the High Court set aside and that of the trial court is restored. [Para 26, 28-29, 31] Evidence Act ,1872 – s.3 – Fact – Reputation, forming part of facts – Connectivity between reputation and character – Evidentiary value of person’s reputation: 1157 115 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Held: Reputation is indeed a fact – Reputation has to be seen from the point of view of an identifi able group while character is what a person really is – Character is to be formed while reputation is to be acquired – Character may lead to formation of one’s reputation – Character and reputation do have an element of interconnectivity but both are distinct and diff erent – Reputation thus forms part of internal facts which arise through thoughts and feelings such as love, anger, fear, hatred and intention etc and thus, it is required to be proved in the form of opinion of persons who form it accordingly – When reputation is to be taken as a relevant fact, its evidentiary value becomes restrictive and limited – It is indeed a weak piece of evidence when becomes relatable to a fact in issue – Court cannot declare the reputation of a person based upon its own opinion merely because a person is educated and said to be God- fearing, that by itself will not create a positive reputation – Courts are not expected to get carried away by the mere background of a person especially when his conduct, being a relevant fact, creates serious doubt – Conduct of a witness is a relevant fact to decide, determine and prove the reputation of a witness.