Hence, apart from eligibility, sub-section (1) purports to restrict the quantum of G deduction to a specified percentage of profits. This is the importance of the words “derived from industrial undertaking” as against “profits attributable to industrial undertaking”. 35. DEPB is an incentive. It is given under the Duty Exemption Remission Scheme. Essentially, it is an export incentive. H M/S. SARAF EXPORTS v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 355 JAIPUR-III [M. R. SHAH, J.] No doubt, the object behind DEPB is to neutralise the incidence A of customs duty payment on the import content of export product. This neutralisation is provided for by credit to customs duty against export product. Under DEPB, an exporter may apply for credit as percentage of FOB value of exports made in freely convertible currency. Credit is available only against the export product and B at rates specified by DGFT for import of raw materials, components, etc. DEPB credit under the Scheme has to be calculated by taking into account the deemed import content of the export product as per the basic customs duty and special additional duty payable on such deemed imports. C 36. Therefore, in our view, DEPB/duty drawback are incentives which flow from the schemes framed by the Central Government or from Section 75 of the Customs Act, 1962, hence, incentives profits are not profits derived from the eligible business under Section 80-IB. They belong to the category of ancillary profits of such undertakings. D XXXXXXXX 38. Section 75 of the Customs Act, 1962 and Section 37 of the Central Excise Act, 1944 empower the Government of India to provide for repayment of customs and excise duty paid by an E assessee. The refund is of the average amount of duty paid on materials of any particular class or description of goods used in the manufacture of export goods of specified class. The Rules do not envisage a refund of an amount arithmetically equal to customs duty or central excise duty actually paid by an individual importer- cum-manufacturer. Sub-section (2) of Section 75 of the Customs F Act requires the amount of drawback to be determined on a consideration of all the circumstances prevalent in a particular trade and also based on the facts situation relevant in respect of each of various classes of goods imported. Basically, the source of duty drawback receipt lies in Section 75 of the Customs Act G and Section 37 of the Central Excise Act. 39. Analysing the concept of remission of duty drawback and DEPB, we are satisfied that the remission of duty is on account of the statutory/policy provisions in the Customs Act/Scheme(s) framed by the Government of India. In the circumstances, we H 356 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A hold that profits derived by way of such incentives do not fall within the expression “profits derived from industrial undertaking” in Section 80-IB. XXXXXXXX 41. The cost of purchase includes duties and taxes (other B than those subsequently recoverable by the enterprise from taxing authorities), freight inwards and other expenditure directly attributable to the acquisition.