17. On the other hand it has been argued that the word ‘implementation’ has to be construed in the context of the F Adhiniyam itself. The whole scheme of the Adhiniyam in respect of formulation of the scheme and the implementation of the scheme has to be taken into consideration before holding that the implementation would only mean the completion. 18. For properly appreciating the respective arguments of the G parties let us read the different provisions contained in the Adhiniyam in respect of the preparation and implementation of the scheme. Section 50 provides for the preparation, of a town development scheme and different stages have been provided for the preparation of the scheme and sub-section (7) of S. 50 of the Adhiniyam provides that as soon as the town development scheme H INDORE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY v. BURHANI GRIH NIRMAN 111 SAHAKARI SANSTHA MARYADIT SNEH NAGAR [M. R. SHAH, J.] is approved under sub-section (4) with or without modifications A the Town and Country Development Authority shall publish in the gazette and in such other manner as may be prescribed a final town development scheme and specify the date on which it shall come into operation. After the final publication of the scheme a power of revision has been provided in S. 51, wherein the Director B of Town and Country Planning has been given a power, on an application filed by any of the aggrieved person or suo motu, to examine the record of the scheme and pass any such modifying the scheme as he may deem fit after perusing the record and during that time he may suspend the execution of the scheme. This power of the Director can be exercised by him within two C years from the date of the publication of the final, scheme. Then again under S. 52 of the Adhiniyam the State Government has a power to give directions in respect of modification of a scheme, revoking the scheme or for framing a fresh scheme. Then S. 54 of the Adhiniyam provides for the lapse of a scheme if it is not D implemented within a period of three years. Section 56 of the Adhiniyam provides that after the date of publication of the final scheme under S. 50 the Authority may proceed to acquire the land required for the implementation of the scheme within a period of three years by agreement and if there E is a failure in acquiring the land by agreement then request for the acquisition of the land may be made to the authority. Then S. 57 provides for the development which clearly says that when the land has vested in the Authority under S. 56 of the Act in accordance with the provisions of the Town Development Scheme, the authority shall take necessary steps to develop the land. F Thereafter also the State Government or the Director has a supervisory power to ensure that the development is in accordance with the scheme and may also issue directions to the authority which are binding on the authority.