The provision indicates that such vacancy shall be fi lled up in accordance with the provisions of sub-Section (1) of Section 8 of the Act. Section 8(6) has to be read in conjunction with Section 8(1) since the former expressly refers to the latter. The reference to the provisions of sub-Section (1) for fi lling up a vacancy on the expiration of the term of offi ce will not obviously apply to a case of reappointment because the procedure contemplated by Section 8(1)(b) of a search committee would not attach to a reappointment. On this aspect, the High Court has correctly disagreed with the petitioner before it and noted that amended Section 8(2)(a) which provides for the re-appointment of a VC for another term does not require that the procedure prescribed in Section 8(1) has to be followed for re-appointment” (Emphasis supplied) 64. We are conscious of the fact, that in Anindya Sundar Das (supra) the afore-stated line of reasoning was adopted by this Court in view of the amendment that was carried out whereby the original expression “subject to provisions of this section” in the provision dealing with reappointment was deleted, in other words, by virtue of such amendment the reappointment was no longer subject to the provision / section detailing the ordinary procedure for appointment of Vice-Chancellor, and thus, this Court had no hesitation in holding that the legislature’s intent was to allow reappointment by the Chancellor itself without following the ordinary process of appointment. 65. In the case at hand, sub-section (10) of Section 10 of the Act, 1996, provides for reappointment and does not even contain the words “subject to provisions of this section”. This in our opinion is as good as to refl ect the legislature’s intention of permitting reappointment without following the ordinary process of appointment of Vice-Chancellor. DR. PREMACHANDRAN KEEZHOTH & ANR. v. THE 425 CHANCELLOR KANNUR UNIVERSITY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 66. Thus, we hold that it is not necessary to follow the procedure of appointment as laid down in Section 10 of the Act 1996 for the purpose of reappointment. iv) Did the Chancellor abdicate or surrender his statutory power of reappointment of the Vice-Chancellor? 67. Before we proceed to answer the question whether the Chancellor abdicated or surrendered his statutory power of reappointment, we must try to understand the stance of the Chancellor in the present litigation as discernible from the counter-affi davit fi led by him. We are quite perplexed with the stance of the Chancellor. The Chancellor wants this Court to allow the appeal and declare that the reappointment of the respondent No. 4 as Vice-Chancellor is not sustainable in law. The Chancellor says so because according to him the reappointment of the respondent No. 4 is in confl ict with the UGC Regulations. 68. The UGC Regulations are enacted by the UGC in exercise of powers under Sections 26(1)(e) and 26(1)(g) of the UGC Act 1956. The Regulations framed under the said Act, are laid before each House of the Parliament.