The evidence relating to strong relations between the Appellant and Mr. Suryakant Tiwari, between the Appellant and Mr. Manish Upadhyay, and between the Appellant and Mr. Anurag Chaurasia; the evidences of movement of funds acquired out of extortion syndicate run by Mr. Suryakant Tiwari to Manish Upadhyay, proxy of the appellant; the utilization of proceeds of crime and acquisition of properties by the appellant in the name of her mother Shanti Devi and cousin Mr. Anurag Chaurasia along with the details of the said properties etc. have been detailed in the said prosecution complaint, which leave no doubt in the mind of the Court that prima facie the appellant has been found involved in the commission of the off ence of money laundering as defi ned in Section 3 of the said Act. 22. The next question that falls for consideration before the Court is whether the appellant being a woman should be granted the benefi t of the fi rst proviso to Section 45 of the PMLA, which reads as under: - “45. Off ences to be cognizable and non-bailable. - (1) ………………………….. SAUMYA CHAURASIA v. DIRECTORATE OF 863 ENFORCEMENT [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] Provided that a person who is under the age of sixteen years or is a woman or is sick or infi rm [or is accused either on his own or along with other co-accused of money-laundering a sum of less than one crore rupees], may be released on bail, if the special court so directs: (2) ……………………………” 23. Recently, a Three-Judge Bench of this Court in Enforcement Directorate vs. Preeti Chandra observed in the dated 04.08.2023 in SLP (Crl.) No. 7409 of 2023 as under: - “The proviso to Section 45 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 confers a discretion on the Court to grant bail where the accused is a woman. Similar provisions of Section 437 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 have been interpreted by this Court to mean that the statutory provision does not mean that person specifi ed in the fi rst proviso to sub-section (1) of Section 437 should necessarily be released on bail. (See Prahlad Singh Bhati vs. NCT, Delhi and Another (2001) 4 SCC 280).” 24. The use of the expression “may be” in the fi rst proviso to Section 45 clearly indicates that the benefi t of the said proviso to the category of persons mentioned therein may be extended at the discretion of the Court considering the facts and circumstances of each case, and could not be construed as a mandatory or obligatory on the part of the Court to release them. Similar benevolent provision for granting bail to the category of persons below the age of sixteen years, women, sick or infi rm has been made in Section 437 Cr.P.C. and many other special enactments also, however by no stretch of imagination could such provision be construed as obligatory or mandatory in nature, otherwise all serious off ences under such special Acts would be committed involving women and persons of tender age below 16 years.