Ravinder Kumar Dhariwal v. Union of India24 highlighted on the right to equality and underlined the two aspects: formal equality and substantive equality. It stated that substantive equality aims at producing equality of outcomes, and in the context of the case, observed that the “principle of reasonable accommodation is one of the means for achieving substantive equality, pursuant to which disabled individuals must be reasonably accommodated based on their individual capacities.” The court recollected Vikash Kumar v. Union Public Service Commission25, which held as follows “The principle of reasonable accommodation acknowledges that if disability” should be remedied and opportunities are “to be affi rmatively created for facilitating the development of the disabled. Reasonable accommodation is founded in the norm of inclusion. Exclusion results in the negation of individual dignity and worth or they can choose 23 [2016] 4 SCR 638. 24 [2021] 13 SCR 823 25 [2021] 12 SCR 311 940 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. the route of reasonable accommodation, where each individual’s dignity and worth is respected.” 23. It was also noted that provisions of Chapters VII and VIII of the Act are in furtherance of the principle of reasonable accommodation which is a component of the guarantee of equality. This has been recognised by a line of precedent. This court, in multiple cases has held that the principle of reasonable diff erentiation, recognising the diff erent needs of persons with disabilities is a facet of the principle of equality. 24. The signifi cant impact of Vikash Kumar (supra) is that the case dealt with a person with a chronic neurological condition resulting in Writer’s Cramp, experiencing extreme diffi culty in writing. He was denied a scribe for the civil services exam by the UPSC, because he did not come within the defi nition of person with benchmark disability (40% or more of a specifi ed disability). This court, rejected this stand, and held him to be a person with disability. It was also stated that the provision of scribe to him fell within the scope of reasonable accommodation. The Court said: “… the accommodation which the law mandates is ‘reasonable’ because it has to be tailored to the requirements of each condition of disability. The expectations which every disabled person has are unique to the nature of the disability and the character of the impediments which are encountered as its consequence…” 25. The appellant is, for all purposes, treated as a person with disability, but does not fall within the categories defi ned in the Act, nor does he possess the requisite benchmark eligibility condition. The objective material on the record shows that the colour vision impairment is mild. Yet, TANGEDCO’s concerns cannot be characterised as unreasonable. However, TANGEDCO is under an obligation to work under the framework of “reasonable accommodation”, which is defi ned by Section 2 (y) as follows: “(y) “reasonable accommodation” means necessary and appropriate modifi cation and adjustments, without imposing a disproportionate or undue burden in a particular case, to ensure to persons with disabilities the enjoyment or exercise of rights equally with others;..” MOHAMED IBRAHIM v. THE CHAIRMAN & MANAGING 941 DIRECTOR & ORS.