The agreement provided for a ceiling on tariff at 2.64 per unit for 25 years. In addition to the tariff, WPDs were eligible for the issue of RECs for each unit of electricity generated and supplied C by them to the appellants. The alternate route available for the WPDs (such as RWE, Wish Wind etc.) at the time of entering into the PPA was to sell electricity at a promotional tariff of 3.56 per unit - as determined by the State Commission. By choosing the option, the WPDs were ensured tariff at 2.64 per unit plus tradable RECs whose price was determined on the basis of the “weighted average pooled price”12. D Distribution licensees were enabled to adjust such quantum of power purchased towards RPO specified under Section 86(1)(e) of the Act. Thus, the interests of both segments of the industry were taken care of. 12. The State Commission by its dated 08.08.201213 determined the tariff at which the power could be procured by the E distribution licensees and others from wind power projects commissioned in the control period from 11.08.2012 to 31.03.2016. 13. On 11.07.2013, Central Commission amended the REC Regulations 2010 (hereafter “Second Amendment”) and replaced “at a price not exceeding pooled cost of the power purchase “with” at F the pooled cost of power purchase”14 along with the relevant statement 12 See Explanation to Regulation 5 of the REC Regulations 2010 which defines average pooled price as follows: “the weighted average pooled price at which the distribution licensee has purchased the electricity including cost of self-generation, if any, in the previous year from all the energy suppliers long-term and short-term, but excluding those based on renewable G energy sources, as the case may be.” 13 in No. 2/2012 14 The relevant amendment to Regulation 5 (c), reads as follows: “(2) In sub-clause (c) of clause (1) of Regulation 5 of the Principal Regulations, the words “at price not exceeding the pooled cost of the power purchase of such distribution licensee” shall be substituted with the words “at the pooled cost of power purchase of H such distribution licensee as determined by the Appropriate Commission”.” GUJARAT URJA VIKAS NIGAM LIMITED v. RENEW WIND 685 ENERGY (RAJKOT) PVT. LTD. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] of reasons for the said amendment. It was clarified in the amendment A that PPAs already executed prior to this amendment at a tariff lower than APCC would not be affected. The first two respondents were aggrieved by the of the Central Commission. They filed a petition15 before the State Commission arguing that the terms of the PPA had to be changed in view of the change in the REC regulations. This petition B was allowed by the State Commission directing that the of the Central Commission was general and was therefore applicable to all similarly situated wind power generators. Aggrieved by the of the State Commission, Gujarat Urja had preferred an appeal16 before APTEL. This appeal was rejected by APTEL by dated 06.12.2018. The appellants preferred review petition against APTEL’s rejecting C their appeal against State Commission’s ; that too was dismissed by APTEL vide dated 24.07.2020.