135. She would submit that there can be no dispute to the proposition that there cannot be estoppel in taxation proceedings and Section 11A of the CE Act, which permits demand within a normal period of limitation. Hence, she seeks for the appeal to be allowed. 136. Per contra, Shri A.R. Madhav Rao, learned counsel appearing for the respondent-assessee would contend that there can be no short levy for the past period, particularly in the present case, since the declaration fi led by the assessee was approved. He would further contend that no appeals had been fi led against the approval of the classifi cation and said s had become fi nal. He would also add that ISI’s specifi cation and glossary are applicable to determine the classifi cation in the absence of any defi nition of ‘chewing tobacco’ preparations for ‘chewing tobacco’ and ‘zarda/jarda scented tobaccot’ or any test prescribed by the CBIC. He would contend that the burden of classifi cation or change of classifi cation of a product is always on Revenue and the same has not been discharged. He would contend that there ought to be uniformity in classifi cation. By relying upon the of this Court in Damodar J. Malpani Vs. CCE reported in (2004) 12 SCC 70 in a case relating to ‘chewing tobacco’ itself, it was held that where the process adopted has been scrutinized and the Revenue in the case of one assessee has classifi ed the product as ‘unmanufactured tobacco’ falling under heading 24.01 as it stood then, another assessee following the same process cannot be discriminated and there should be uniformity in classifi cation. He would contend that verifi cation contemplated under Rule 6(2) of CTPM rules 2010 is not confi ned to a verifi cation of only the number of machines installed in the applicant’s premises and the description of the product and classifi cation of the same is also verifi ed and this is evident from the fact wherein physical verifi cation of the respondent’s product apart from the verifi cation of the machines had been done when it attempted to change the classifi cation of COMMR. OF CEN. EXC. AHMEDABAD v. M/S URMIN 653 PRODUCTS P. LTD. AND OTHERS [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] the product from ‘chewing tobacco’ to ‘zarda/jarda scented tobaccot’ and same was turned down. He would submit that notifi cation under Section 3A for the period in question (i.e., March 2015 to February 2016) covered four diff erent products each having a diff erent deemed capacity of production and rate, which was a function of the speed of packing for some products. Therefore, the department would necessarily have to classify the appropriate tariff entry in to pass s determining the monthly deemed capacity and duty to be paid by the applicant. He would submit that even the monthly returns depict the product of the respondent-assessee as ‘chewing tobacco’ has been scrutinized and assessed to be correct for the relevant period. By referring to Rule 12 of Central Excise Rules 2002, he would contend that fi ling of the returns would be applicable to notifi ed goods under Section 3A and said returns are required to be scrutinized and assessed by which process there would be verifi cation of the product manufactured by the assessee and classifi cation of the same.