Note 1 (m) to Chapter 85 excludes “(m) Articles of Chapter 90…” The revenue relies on Note 2 (b) to Chapter 85, which says “other parts and accessories, “if suitable for use solely or principally with a particular kind of machine, instrument or apparatus, or with a number of machines, instruments or apparatus of the same heading” E and then enumerates heading 9013, to say that Chapter 85 would cover the present case. 24. The correct manner of interpreting the notes, chapters, and the General rules of interpretation was explained by this court, in Commissioner of Central Excise, Nagpur v Simplex Mills Co. Ltd.,9 F where the Court held that the Rules for the Interpretation of the Schedule to the CET Act are framed pursuant to the powers under Section 2 of that Act. The court observed: “The Rules for the Interpretation of the Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 have been framed pursuant to G the powers under Section 2 of that Act. According to Rule 1 titles of sections and chapters in the Schedule are provided for ease of reference only. But for legal purposes, classification ‘shall be determined according to the terms of 9 [2005] 2 S.C.R. 441: (2005) 3 SCC 51 H 274 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A the headings and any relevant section or chapter notes’. If neither the heading nor the notes suffice to clarify the scope of a heading, then it must be construed according to the other following provisions contained in the Rules. Rule 1 gives primacy to the section and chapter notes along with terms of the headings. They should be first applied. If no clear picture B emerges then only can one resort to the subsequent rules. The appellants have relied upon Rule 3. Rule 3 must be understood only in the context of sub-rule (b) of Rule 2 which says inter alia that the classification of goods consisting of more than one material or substance shall be according to the principles C contained in Rule 3. Therefore when goods are prima facie, classifiable under two or more headings, classification shall be effected according to sub-rules (a), (b) and (c) of Rule 3 and in that .” 25. The difficulty in accepting the revenue’s argument, in this D case, is that it jumps over interpretive instructions. One, General Note (1) states that classification has to be in consonance with terms and headings in chapter notes. Two, Rule 3 (a) categorically enjoins that in regard to classification, the heading providing for a “more” specific description prevails over the general one. Three, Note 1 (m) – in Chapter 85 excludes the application of articles falling in Chapter 90. In this court’s E opinion, this note, along with the General Note 3 (a) [of the General Rules of Interpretation] that headings that are specifically provided, should be preferred over the general ones, is decisive. Thus, the revenue’s contention that by virtue of Note 2 (b) to Chapter 85, the goods are to be classified based on their principal or sole use is insubstantial because of F the clear mandate of Note 1 (m), which excludes Chapter 90 goods (which includes LCD panels).