(5) Where any land is vested in the State Government under sub-section (4), the State Government may by notice in writing any person who may be in possession of the land to surrender or deliver possession thereof to the State Government or any person duly authorised by it in this behalf within thirty days of the service of notice. **** **** **** **** ****” 19. The implication of Section 52 of the 1959 Act, is that notice is required to be served not only to the owner but also to “any other person interested” thereby covering everyone interested in the concerned land. To avoid the rigour of this Section, the appellant- Trust have given their 536 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. version by saying that the plaintiff , Gordhan Dass intentionally did not receive compensation so as to make it a ground thereafter and that the onus would lie on the plaintiff as found by the trial Court. Gordhan Dass was indisputably the actual owner and hence, as per the mandate of the law, it was the responsibility of the concerned Authority15 to adhere to the due statutory process before depriving the landowner or interested persons, of their property. The burden is on the defendant No. 1 i.e. the Urban Improvement Trust to satisfy the high procedural threshold before acquiring any private property. Moreover, the defendant no. 1 was also unable to produce any evidence to indicate whether compensation was ever paid to the original khatedaars as was vaguely claimed by them. This fact was also noted by the First Appellate Court in para 20 of the decision that, despite a vague contention, there is no proof of payment of compensation even to the original khatedars. On the other hand, the plaintiff s have produced a letter wherein the original khatedaar is seeking compensation as on 10.1.1990. Be that as it may, neither was notice issued to the actual owners nor any compensation was paid to them by defendant no. 1. As already noted, Section 52 of the 1959 Act requires the Government to issue notice to the owner of the land and to any other person, who may be interested therein to seek protection of their land from acquisition. Only after consideration of the response to the notice, the concerned land is to vest on the State Government. The land owner or interested persons are also required to be given the opportunity of being heard. In the present case, neither any notice was issued nor any compensation was paid to the land owner. Moreover, it has been alleged that even after initiation of land acquisition proceedings in 1972, the plaintiff continued to enjoy possession till 10.6.1998 during the pendency of the civil suit. The plaintiff was forcefully dispossessed under the cover of a concerning some other land. The said has nothing to do with the land of respondents. This further points towards glaring procedural irregularities in the entire land acquisition process. 15 D.B. Basnett v Collector, East District, Gangtok, Sikkim (2020) 4 SCC 572; Jagan Singh & Co. v Ludhiana Improvement Trust 2022 SCCOnLine 1144 URBAN IMPROVEMENT TRUST, BIKANER v. GORDHAN 537 DASS (D) THROUGH LRS.