… Procedure has been described to be a handmaid and not a mistress of law, intended to subserve and facilitate the cause of justice and not to govern or obstruct it. Like all rules of procedure, this rule demands a construction which would promote this cause.’ Once judicial satisfaction is reached that the direction was not open to be made and it is accepted as a mistake of the court, it is not only appropriate but also the duty of the court to rectify the mistake by exercising inherent powers. Judicial opinion heavily leans in favour of this view that a mistake of the court can be corrected by the court itself without any fetters. This is on principle, as indicated in Alexander Rodger v. Comptoir D’Escompte De Paris, (1969-71) LR 3 PC 465 : 17 ER 120. I am of the view that in the present situation, the court’s inherent powers can be exercised to remedy the mistake. Mahajan, J. speaking for a four-Judge Bench in Keshardeo Chamria v. Radha Kissen Chamria, (1952) 2 SCC 329 : 1953 SCR 136 : AIR 1953 SC 23, SCR p. 153 stated : (AIR p. 28, para 21) ‘21. … The Judge had jurisdiction to correct his own error without entering into a discussion of the grounds taken by the decree- holder or the objections raised by the -debtors.’ “ ××× ××× ××× In re : Principle of restitution 335. The principle of restitution is founded on the ideal of doing complete justice at the end of litigation, and parties have to be 902 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. placed in the same position but for the litigation and interim , if any, passed in the matter. In South Eastern Coalfi elds Ltd. v. State of M.P., (2003) 8 SCC 648, it was held that no party could take advantage of litigation. It has to disgorge the advantage gained due to delay in case lis is lost. The interim passed by the court merges into a fi nal decision. The validity of an interim , passed in favour of a party, stands reversed in the event of a fi nal going against the party successful at the interim stage. Section 144 of the Code of Civil Procedure is not the fountain source of restitution. It is rather a statutory recognition of the rule of justice, equity and fair play. The court has inherent jurisdiction to restitution so as to do complete justice. This is also on the principle that a wrong should not be perpetuated by keeping it alive and respecting it. In exercise of such power, the courts have applied the principle of restitution to myriad situations not falling within the terms of Section 144 CPC. What attracts applicability of restitution is not the act of the court being wrongful or mistake or an error committed by the court; the test is whether, on account of an act of the party persuading the court to pass an held at the end as not sustainable, resulting in one party gaining an advantage which it would not have otherwise earned, or the other party having suff ered an impoverishment, restitution has to be made.