28. If we see the provisions of the Delimitation Act 2002, it indicates what is readjustment. Section 4 reads thus:- G “4. Duties of the Commission.—(1) The readjustment made, on the basis of the census figures as ascertained at the census held in the year 1971 by the Delimitation Commission constituted under section 3 of the Delimitation Act, 1972 (76 of 1972), of the allocation of seats in the House of the People to the several States H 540 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A and the total number of seats in the Legislative Assembly of each State shall be deemed to be the readjustment made by the Commission for the purposes of this Act. (2) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (1) and any other law for the time being in force, the Commission shall B readjust the division of each State into territorial constituencies for the purpose of elections to the House of the People and to the State Legislative Assembly on the basis of the census figures as ascertained at the census held in the year [2001]: C Provided that where on such readjustment only one seat is allocated in the House of the People to a State, the whole of that State shall form one territorial constituency for the purpose of elections to the House of the People from that State.” (emphasis added) D What is important to note is that by virtue of Clause (b) of sub- section (1) of Section 62 of the J&K Reorganisation Act, the year 2001 stands substituted by the year 2011 in relation to the Legislative Assembly of the Union Territory of J & K. 29. Under Section 9 of the Delimitation Act, 2002, a specific power E has been conferred on the Delimitation Commission of conducting the Delimitation exercise. Section 9 reads thus: “9. Delimitation of constituencies.— (1) The Commission shall, in the manner herein provided, then, distribute the seats in the House of the People allocated to each State F and the seats assigned to the Legislative Assembly of each State as readjusted on the basis of 1971 census to single- member territorial constituencies and delimit them on the basis of the census figures as ascertained, at the census held in the year [2001], having regard to the provisions of the Constitution, the provisions of the Act specified in section 8 and G the following provisions, namely:— (a) all constituencies shall, as far as practicable, be geographically compact areas, and in delimiting them regard shall be had to physical features, existing boundaries of administrative units, facilities of communication and public convenience; H HAJI ABDUL GANI KHAN & ANR. v. UNION OF INDIA & 541 ORS. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] (b) every assembly constituency shall be so delimited as to fall A wholly within one parliamentary constituency; (c) constituencies in which seats are reserved for the Scheduled Castes shall be distributed in different parts of the State and located, as far as practicable, in those areas where the proportion of their population to the total is comparatively large; and B (d) constituencies in which seats are reserved for the Scheduled Tribes shall, as far as practicable, be located in areas where the proportion of their population to the total is the largest.