ANALYSIS 10. Before we ponder over the question whether the Concerned Goods are ‘portable’ or not, it would be appropriate to highlight their key characteristics which are as follows :- C a) The central processing unit is embedded within the display unit; b) The display unit is generally a touch screen which can be used as an input unit also, such as in the capacity of a keyboard or a mouse; c) The units generally come along with in-built speakers as well D as ports for further connectivity including a port for establishing links with internet network; d) The diagonal length of the display is at the minimum of 18.5 inches. It may be clarified that presently certain models of the Concerned Goods even exceed this aspect by having the display’s diagonal length E as wide as 25 inches while still being weighed under 10 kilograms;4 e) It needs a constant source of external power source to function; f) It is non-foldable and cannot be carried around in the usual laptop bags because of its dimensions; g) The Concerned Goods for efficient functioning need to remain F in a vertical state and to be tethered to a stand which is provided along with it or requires support of something else such as a wall. It must be noted that the user guides brought on record in respect of one of the models of the Concerned Goods indicate that any other method of usage including horizontal use was harmful and could cause damage to the G Concerned Goods. 11. The first aspect which we will address is with respect to the issue of constant source of power and whether the same is a necessary 3 Mathuram Agrawal v State of MP (1999) 8 SCC 667, para 12. 4 It must be noted that in respect of current market trends, generally the largest display H for laptops/notebooks is around 17 inches. HEWLETT PACKARD INDIA SALES PVT. LTD. v. COMMISSIONER 1131 OF CUSTOMS (IMPORT), NHAVA SHEVA [SURYA KANT, J.] characteristic to treat goods as ‘portable’. In this respect, the Appellants A argued that ‘Tariff Item 8471 30 10’ is only applicable to laptops/notebooks and that the applicable sub-heading HSN indicated this. The relevant part of the same reads as follows – “Subheading 8471.30 This subheading covers portable automatic data processing B machines weighing not more than 10 kg. These machines, which are equipped with a flat screen, may be capable of operating without an external source of electric power and often have a modem or other means for establishing a link with a network.” C (Emphasis Applied) 12. While it appears well settled that the HSN is to be normally taken as a safe guide for classifying goods under the First Schedule because it is based on an internationally recognized ‘harmonized nomenclature’5, a bare reading of the explanatory note applicable to the D sub-heading clearly lays out the fact that there is no mandatory condition for being operable without any external source of power.