The Appellate Tribunal reversed the of the Adjudicating Authority and while rejecting the resolution plan in question, remanded the matter to the CoC with directions to the resolution professional, interalia, to proceed from the stage of publication of Form ‘G’, and to invite the EOI afresh as per the CIRP Regulations. Having E regard to the questions raised in these appeals, it shall be apposite to take note of the observations, findings, and conclusions of the Appellate Authority as relevant for the present matter in necessary details20. 19.1. As regards the issue of valuation, the Appellate Tribunal, after discussing the requirements of Sections 30(2) and 61(3) of the Code and taking note of the minutes of the second CoC meeting as to F the appointment of valuators and the other legal issues concerning the valuation of assets, held that the valuation process had been in violation of the Regulation 27 and 35 of the CIRP Regulations for the reasons that the appraisal of a property situated in Tamil Nadu by Delhi-based valuers was a point of contention during the second CoC meeting; the G non-core assets were not valuated by the registered valuers; the valuation report was never circulated either to the promoters or to the other members of the CoC; and physical verification of the assets of the 20 It may be indicated that the emphasis in bold/italics/underlining in the extractions from the of the Appellate Tribunal are as in the copy thereof placed on record H before us. 820 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A corporate debtor was not carried out by the two valuers appointed by CoC. 19.1.1 The observations of the NCLAT as to the issue of valuation could be reproduced as under: - “76……Whether the approved Resolution Plan contravenes B Section 30 (2) and Sec 61(3) of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016? *** *** *** 80. It is pertinent to mention that the Approval of the Resolution Plan by the COC is directly attributable to the fact that the COC C was not properly apprised of the actual value of the Corporate Debtor’s assets. The choices of the valuers by the IRP have been questionable since the 2nd COC meeting. The concern stems from the fact that the valuers were based in Delhi and had little knowledge of the prevailing real estate market conditions in Tamil D Nadu. The circumstances were further separated by the fact that valuers lacked adequate experience with the hospitality industry. In this regard, it is pertinent to note the minutes of the 2nd COC meeting, which reads as follows; “At this juncture, the COC members have raised concerns E regarding the appointment of the valuers as the appointed valuers are Delhi-based and are not privy to the area/ properties of Tamil Nadu and might also a struggle to visit the collective sites of the corporate debtor located at Tamil Nadu given that travel restrains in the current period—— the competency of the process valuation might decrease. F The COC members also requested the chairman to circulate the profiles in a comparative chart.