But, no provision of the IBC bars the continuation of the criminal prosecution initiated against the directors and officials. It is equally true that once the corporate debtor comes under the resolution process, its erstwhile managing director(s) cannot continue to represent the company. Section 305(2) of the F CrPC states that where a corporation is the accused person or one of the accused persons in an inquiry or trial, it may appoint a representative for the purpose of the inquiry or trial and such appointment need not be under the seal of the corporation. Therefore, it is only the Resolution Professional who can G represent the accused company during the pendency of the proceedings under IBC. After the proceedings are over, either the corporate entity may be dissolved or it can be taken over by a new management in which event the company will continue to H AJAY KUMAR RADHEYSHYAM GOENKA v. TOURISM 989 FINANCE CORP. OF INDIA LTD. exist. When a new management takes over, it will have to make A arrangements for representing the company. If the company is dissolved as a result of the resolution process, obviously proceedings against it will have to be terminated. But even then, its erstwhile directors may not be able to take advantage of the situation. Where the proceedings under Section 138 of the NI B Act had already commenced and during the pendency the plan is approved or the company gets dissolved, the directors and the other accused cannot escape from their liability by citing its dissolution. What is dissolved is only the company, not the personal penal liability of the accused covered under Section 141 of the NI Act. They will have to continue to face the prosecution C in view of the law laid down in Aneeta Hada [Paras 49, 50 and 52][1030-H; 1031-B-D; 1032-B-C] 4. While interpreting Sections 14, 31 & 32A resply of the IBC vis-a-vis Sections 138 and 141 resply of the NI Act, the principle of harmonious construction should be applied and D followed. By permitting to proceed against the signatories/ directors even after the approval of the plan, what is achieved is uniformity in the functioning of the law by removing the anomalous and absurd situations, thereby, making it compliant with Article 14 of the Constitution. The said interpretation shields the E relevant provisions from attack of being manifestly arbitrary. [Para 54][1033-C-E] 5. If the argument that extinguishment of debt under Section 31 of the IBC leads to the discharge of signatory/director under Section 138 proceedings is accepted, the same will lead to conflict F in law as laid down compared to the guarantor’s liability wherein in spite of the plan being approved, the guarantor is held separately liable for the remaining amount. If the guarantor does not get the benefit of extinguishment of debt under Section 31 of the IBC, then similarly for extinguishment of debt, the signatory/director cannot get any benefit. If accepted, this may lead to uncertainty G in the first Principles of law on interpretation of extinguishment of debt.