A legal framework that clearly defi nes the rights and liabilities of parties to contracts and provides for speedy resolution of disputes is a sine qua non for effi cient trade and commerce, especially for fi nancial intermediation. In our system, the evolution of the legal framework has not kept pace with 80 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. changing commercial practice and with the fi nancial sector reforms. As a result, the economy has not been able to reap the full benefi ts of the reforms process. As an illustration, we could look at the scheme of mortgage in the Transfer of Property Act, which is critical to the work of fi nancial intermediaries….” One of the measures recommended in the circumstances was to vest the fi nancial institutions through special statutes, the power of sale of the assets without intervention of the court and for reconstruction of assets. It is thus to be seen that the question of non-recoverable or delayed recovery of debts advanced by the banks or fi nancial institutions has been attracting attention and the matter was considered in depth by the Committees specially constituted consisting of the experts in the fi eld. In the prevalent situation where the amounts of dues are huge and hope of early recovery is less, it cannot be said that a more eff ective legislation for the purpose was uncalled for or that it could not be resorted to. It is again to be noted that after the Report of the Narasimham Committee, yet another Committee was constituted headed by Mr Andhyarujina for bringing about the needed steps within the legal framework. We are therefore, unable to fi nd much substance in the submission made on behalf of the petitioners that while the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act was in operation it was uncalled for to have yet another legislation for the recovery of the mounting dues. Considering the totality of circumstances and the fi nancial climate world over, if it was thought as a matter of policy to have yet speedier legal method to recover the dues, such a policy decision cannot be faulted with nor is it a matter to be gone into by the courts to test the legitimacy of such a measure relating to fi nancial policy.” 33. In this regard, reference may be made to the following observations of this Court in the case of Satyawati Tondon (supra). The relevant paras are being reproduced hereunder: “1. … With a view to give impetus to the industrial development of the country, the Central and State Governments encouraged the banks and other fi nancial institutions to formulate liberal policies for grant of loans and other fi nancial facilities to those who wanted to set up CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 81 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] new industrial units or expand the existing units. Many hundred thousand took advantage of easy fi nancing by the banks and other fi nancial institutions but a large number of them did not repay the amount of loan, etc.