50. The Full Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court had to consider, if Entry 7 of the Fourth Schedule to the APGST Act, which excluded tobacco, also resulted in exemption as long as it was not F subjected to tax under the ADE Act. The High Court held, interpreting the CET Act that each chapter contained a table, specifying against the description of “goods” in each sub-heading and the rates at which both basic duty as well as additional duty are levied. Chapter 21 deals with “Miscellaneous Edible Preparations”. Note 3 to that chapter states that in that chapter “pan masala” meant any preparations containing betel G nuts and any one or more of ingredients, namely, lime, katha (catechu) and tobacco, whether or not containing any other ingredients, such as cardamom, copra and menthol. It was held that “chewing tobacco and preparations containing chewing tobacco” is comprehensive enough H 29Kothari Products Limited v. Government of Andhra Pradesh, 1997 (107) S.T.C. 618 M/S TRIMURTHI FRAGRANCES (P) LTD. THR. ITS DIRECTOR SHRI 1073 PRADEEP KUMAR AGRAWAL v. GOVT. OF N.C.T. OF DELHI THR. ITS PRINCIPAL SECRETARY (FINANCE) [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] to take in its fold gutkha which contains 7% chewing tobacco. The A court then ruled that having regard to the ingredients of gutkha, it fell within the meaning of “pan masala” and was covered by heading 21.60 and subjected to basic duty of Central Excise, but no additional duty. Chapter 24 deals with “tobacco and manufactured tobacco substitutes, etc.”. The court held that there was no reference to “gutkha” B as such in any one of the headings and sub-headings of that chapter. 51. It was held by the Full Bench that provisions of explanation of the Fourth Schedule to the APGST Act, with reference to the heads and sub-heads in the CET Act, what was relevant in ascertaining the real import of the expression “chewing tobacco and preparations C containing chewing tobacco” was the breadth of the terms used in the entry, sub-heading or a notification, or statute. From that aspect, the court concluded that gutkha fell within the wide language of the said expression. However sub-heading 2404.40 “Chewing tobacco and preparations containing chewing tobacco” was a general sub-head. The court concluded that it is a settled rule of interpretation that a specific D reference prevails over a general entry. Since the court held that “gutkha” fell within the meaning of “pan masala” in the sub-heading 21.06, there could be no doubt that “pan masala” was a specific sub-head even assuming that it falls within the meaning of “chewing tobacco”. Therefore, the court concluded that in view of the specific head “pan masala” in E Chapter 21, that item was excluded from the general sub-head 2404.40 “Chewing tobacco and preparations containing chewing tobacco”. The court also concluded that though “gutkha” fell within the term “pan masala” in Chapter 21 under sub-head 21.06 yet as it is not subjected to additional duty, an essential condition envisaged by the explanation for claiming exemption, is lacking.