In the course of Part A, we propose to conduct a functional analysis comprising of: (a) A comparison between the stages of Part II and Part III of the IBC; (b) The role of the resolution professional in corporate as opposed to individual insolvency; (c) The impact of a moratorium under Section 14 of Part II, on one hand, and an interim-moratorium under Section 96 of Chapter III of Part III, on the other; and (d) The role of the adjudicating authority in applications under Part II, on one hand, and Part III, on the other. 41. Having carried out a functional analysis in the above terms, we propose in Part B of this , to analyse the applicability of the principles of natural justice. Finally, having put together the diff erent strands of thought, we would deal in Part C with the constitutional validity of the statutory provisions of Sections 95 to 100 which are challenged in these proceedings. A. Comparative Analysis of Part II and Part III of the IBC 1. Stages under Part II and III 42. Part II of the IBC provides for insolvency resolution and liquidation for corporate persons. In terms of Section 6, a financial creditor, an operational creditor or the corporate debtor itself may initiate a CIRP in respect of a corporate debtor who commits a default. 43. Section 7 provides for the initiation of a CIRP by a fi nancial creditor either on its own or jointly with other fi nancial creditors by fi ling an application before the adjudicating authority, when a default has occurred. Section 8 provides that an operational creditor may on the occurrence of a default furnish a demand notice of the unpaid operational debt, demanding payment of the amount which is in default from the corporate debtor. In terms of Section 9, on the expiry of a stipulated period of ten days from the DILIP B JIWRAJKA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS 593 date of the demand notice, the operational creditor is empowered to fi le an application before the adjudicating authority for initiating a CIRP if the debt has not been paid. Section 10, on the other hand, provides for the initiation of the CIRP by the corporate applicant, as defi ned in Section 5(5). 44. As opposed to the provisions of Chapter II of Part II of the IBC, Part III specifi cally deals with insolvency resolution and bankruptcy for individuals and partnership fi rms. Chapter II of Part III deals with the “fresh start process”, which is yet to be enforced. Chapter III of Part III provides for the insolvency resolution process. In Part III of the IBC, the IRP can be initiated by: (a) a debtor; or (b) a creditor acting as an individual entity or on behalf of other creditors. A debtor or a creditor is empowered to institute an application for the initiation of the IRP through a resolution professional as well. 45. The fundamental aspect which needs to be noticed is that Part II of the IBC, on one hand, and Part III, on the other, deal with distinct processes for the resolution of insolvencies.