In the process of quashing the impugned , the Chief Justice while referring to the decision in Ram Manohar Lohia (supra) also ruled: “3. *** Public was said to embrace more of the community than law and . Public is the even tempo of the life of the community taking the country as a whole or even a specifi ed locality. Disturbance of public is to be distinguished from acts directed against individuals which do not disturb the society to the extent of causing a general disturbance of public tranquillity. It is the degree of disturbance and its aff ect upon the life of the community in a locality which determines whether the disturbance amounts only to a breach of law and . … It is always a question of degree of the harm and its aff ect upon the community. … This question has to be faced in every case on facts. There is no formula by which one case can be distinguished from another.” 34. In Kuso Sah vs. The State of Bihar18, Hon’ble Y.V. Chandrachud, J. (as the Chief Justice then was) speaking for the Bench held that: “4. *** The two concepts have well defi ned contours, it being well established that stray and unorganised crimes of theft and assault are not matters of public since they do not tend to aff ect the even 17 (1970) 1 SCC 98 18 (1974) 1 SCC 195 AMEENA BEGUM v. THE STATE OF TELANGANA 987 & ORS. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] fl ow of public life. Infractions of law are bound in some measure to lead to dis but every infraction of law does not necessarily result in public dis. *** 6. *** The power to detain a person without the safeguard of a court trial is too drastic to permit a lenient construction and therefore Courts must be astute to ensure that the detaining authority does not transgress the limitations subject to which alone the power can be exercised. ***” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 35. Turning our attention to section 3(1) of the Act, the Government has to arrive at a subjective satisfaction that a goonda (as in the present case) has to be detained, in to prevent him from acting in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public . Therefore, we fi rst direct ourselves to the examination of what constitutes ‘public ’. Even within the provisions of the Act, the term “public ” has, stricto sensu, been defi ned in narrow and restricted terms. An of detention under section 3(1) of the Act can only be issued against a detenu to prevent him “from acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public ”. “Public ” is defi ned in the Explanation to section 2(a) of the Act as encompassing situations that cause “harm, danger or alarm or a feeling of insecurity among the general public or any section thereof or a grave wide-spread danger to life or public health”. 36. Ram Manohar Lohia (supra) is an authority to rely upon for the proposition that if liberty of an individual can be invaded under statutory rules by the simple process of making of a certain , he can be so deprived only if the is in consonance with the said rule.