13. The fi ling of an application under IX Rule 13 CPC as well as the fi ling of appeal under Section 96(2) of the CPC against the ex-parte decree are concurrent remedies available to a defendant. However, once the appeal preferred by the defendant against the ex-parte decree is dismissed, except when it is withdrawn, the remedy under IX Rule 13 CPC cannot be pursued. Conversely, if an application fi led under IX Rule 13 CPC is rejected, an appeal as against the ex-parte decree can be preferred and continued under Section 96(2) of the CPC. Thus, an appeal against an ex-parte decree even after the dismissal of an application under IX Rule 13 CPC is maintainable. 846 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 14. In Bhanu Kumar Jain vs. Archana Kumar, AIR 2005 SC 626 : (2005) 1 SCC 787, speaking through Sinha, J. observed in paragraph 26 as under: “When an ex parte decree is passed, the defendant (apart from fi ling a review petition and a suit for setting aside the ex parte decree on the ground of fraud) has two clear options, one, to fi le an appeal and another to fi le an application for setting aside the in terms of IX Rule 13 of the Code. He can take recourse to both the proceedings simultaneously but in the event the appeal is dismissed as a result whereof the ex parte decree passed by the trial court merges with the passed by the appellate court, having regard to Explanation appended to IX Rule 13 of the Code a petition under IX Rule 13 would not be maintainable. However, the Explanation I appended to the said provision does not suggest that the converse is also true.” 15. Against the passed under IX Rule 13 CPC rejecting an application for seeking setting aside the decree passed ex-parte, an appeal is provided. When an application is fi led seeking condonation of delay for seeking setting aside an ex-parte decree and the same is dismissed and consequently, the petition is also dismissed, the appeal under XLIII Rule 1(d) CPC is maintainable. Thus, an appeal only against the refusal to set aside the ex-parte decree is maintainable whereas if an allowing such an application is passed, the same is not appealable. 16. Thus, when an application or petition fi led under IX Rule 13 CPC is dismissed, the defendant can avail a remedy by preferring an appeal in terms of XLIII Rule 1 CPC. Thus, Civil Revision Petition under Section 115 of the CPC would not arise when an application/petition under IX Rule 13 CPC is dismissed. Thus, when an alternative and eff ective appellate remedy is available to a defendant, against an ex-parte decree, it would not be appropriate for the defendant to resort to fi ling of revision under Section 115 of the CPC challenging the refusing to set aside the of setting the defendant ex-parte. In view of the appellate remedy under XLIII Rule 1(d) CPC being available, revision under Section 115 of the CPC fi led in the instant case was not maintainable.