Further, if persons having diploma from private / unrecognised institutes were considered eligible, there could be no dispute regarding eligibility of those who possess higher qualifi cation. The learned counsel 24 (2019) 6 SCC 362 25 (1994) 6 SCC 151 ANKITA THAKUR & ORS. v. THE H.P. STAFF SELECTION 847 COMMISSION & ORS. [MANOJ MISRA, J.] sought to distinguish the decision of this Court in Zahoor Ahmad Rather & Ors. vs. Sheikh Imtiyaz Ahmad & Ors.26 relied by the High Court to reject their claim. 20. Mr. Dinesh Singh, who appeared for one of the selected candidates for Post Code 447, submitted that there exists no authority to recognise a private institute in the State. Considering this, the State Government considered registered institutes as recognised institutes. Moreover, selected candidates were appointed after undergoing tests and they have been working since long and have also been regularised. Therefore, their appointment must not be disturbed. Discussion and Analysis 21. We have considered the rival submissions and have perused the record. 22. The facts as regards which there exist no dispute are: (a) that recruitment under the fi rst two advertisements relating to Post Code 447 and 556 were to be made when the 2014 Rules were in vogue and validity of which has not been questioned by any of the parties; (b) that the fi rst two advertisements prescribed same eligibility qualifi cations as prescribed by the 2014 Rules; (c) that the advertisements specifi cally stipulated that candidates must hold prescribed essential qualifi cations by the last date for receipt of application or by the date specifi ed therein; (d) that relaxation / clarification was issued without consultation with the Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission; and (e) that when the relaxation or clarifi catory letter, as the case may be, was issued, the last date for receipt of application under the two advertisements had passed. 26 (2019) 2 SCC 404 848 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Issues: 23. In the aforesaid factual backdrop, the crucial issues that arise for our consideration are: (i) Whether relaxation in the essential eligibility qualifi cations could be made post the last date fi xed for receipt of application from the candidates? (ii) Whether the essential eligibility qualifi cations specifi ed in the 2014 Rules were ambiguous as to warrant clarifi cation or relaxation with a view to declare certain other qualifi cations as equivalent to the one specifi ed in the said Rules? (iii) Whether there was a statutory regime in place to accord recognition to an Institution? If yes, whether the clarifi catory letter / relaxation is in ignorance of such statutory regime and is, therefore, invalid? (iv) Whether, in absence of prior consultation with the Commission, the relaxation / clarificatory could be considered in conformity with the provisions of Rule 18 of the 2014 Rules? (v) Whether in view of requirement for a written and computer typing test prior to selection, possession of one year diploma in Computer Science / Computer Application / Information Technology from a recognised University / Institution by a candidate was not an essential eligibility qualifi cation?