The test is not wisdom but good faith in the classifi cation. It is too late in the day to contend otherwise. It is time and again observed by this Court that the legislature has a broad discretion in the matter of classifi cation. In taxation, “there is a broader power of classifi cation than in some other exercises of legislation”. When the wisdom of the legislation while making classifi cation is questioned, the role of the courts is very much limited. It is not reviewable by the courts unless palpably arbitrary. It is not the concern of the courts whether the classifi cation is the wisest or the best that could be made.” 17. The classifi cation of advocates under Section 16 of the said Act is a tangible diff erence established by the practice advocates have over decades, and the Court has devised a discernible and transparent mechanism to adjudicate the seniority of advocates in the profession. In to be able to fi le any matter in the Supreme Court, an extensive and strict examination for an Advocates-on-Record has been provided. Not any advocate can walk in to fi le a matter. The objective is the effi ciency of the system and proper assistance to the Bench as also to be in a better position to propagate the case of the client. Expertise and merit are the criterion. A lot of advocates prefer to remain as an Advocate-on-Record or advocates in the High Court and District Courts as the designation as Senior Advocate carries many inhibitions in the role that they can perform, i.e., they have to appear with an instructing counsel, not draft and fi le pleadings, and not deal with the 6 (2012) 1 SCC 226 MATHEWS J. NEDUMPARA & ORS. v. 1189 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] litigants, etc. Thus, a special entitlement to address the Court is coupled with restrictions on many acts which they could otherwise perform as advocates. The designation as a Senior Advocate is a recognition of merit by the Court, and the two s passed in Indira Jaising7 cases referred to aforesaid have endeavoured to make the process more transparent. 18. The challenge that the aforesaid classifi cation is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution is untenable since Article 14 permits the reasonable classifi cation of people by the legislature. The seniority of advocates is premised on a standardised metric of merit aimed at forwarding the standards of the profession. Thus, the classifi cation of advocates and the mechanism to grant seniority to advocates is not based on any arbitrary, artifi cial or evasive grounds. Such a classifi cation is a creation of the legislature, and there is a general presumption of constitutionality, and the burden is on the petitioners to show that there is a clear transgression of the constitutional principles – something which they have miserably failed to discharge. This rule is based on the assumption, judicially recognized and accepted, that the legislature understands and correctly appreciates the needs of the people.