Rejecting the contention, this Court observed thus: “145. Cautioning against the potential misuse of Section 184 by the executive, it was vehemently argued by the learned counsel G for the petitioner(s) that any desecration by the executive of such powers threatens and poses a risk to the independence of the tribunals. A mere possibility or eventuality of abuse of delegated powers in the absence of any evidence supporting such claim, cannot be a ground for striking down the provisions of the Finance H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 103 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] Act, 2017. It is always open to a constitutional court on challenge A made to the delegated legislation framed by the executive to examine whether it conforms to the parent legislation and other laws, and apply the “policy and guideline” test and if found contrary, can be struck down without affecting the constitutionality of the rule-making power conferred under Section 186 of the B Finance Act, 2017.” 193. It can thus be seen that this Court has held that a mere possibility or eventuality of abuse of delegated powers in the absence of any evidence supporting such claim, cannot be a ground for striking down such a provision. It has been held that if a challenge is made to the C delegated legislation framed by the executive, the same can be examined by the constitutional court. It has been held that applying the “policy and guideline” test, if it is found that the delegated legislation does not satisfy the said test, the legislation can be struck down without affecting the constitutionality of the rule-making power conferred under Section 186 of the Finance Act, 2017. D Status of the RBI 194. Having adverted to the various s on the issue of delegated legislation, we find it necessary to refer to certain s of this Court outlining the status of the RBI. E 195. The Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Joseph Kuruvilla Velukunnel (supra) was considering a challenge to Section 38(1) and (3)(b)(iii) of the Banking Companies Act, 1949 being violative of Articles 14, 19 and 301 of the Constitution of India, and was, therefore, ultra vires the Constitution of India. Though this Court held that Section 38 is an unreasonable restriction on the right of the Palai Bank to carry F on its business and, therefore, unconstitutional, it will be relevant to refer to paragraph 46 of the said , which is as follows: “46. In the present case, in view of the history of the establishment of the Reserve Bank as a central bank for India, its position as a Bankers’ Bank, its control over banking companies and banking G in India, its position as the issuing bank, its power to license banking companies and cancel their licences and the numerous other powers, it is unanswerable that between the court and the Reserve Bank, the momentous decision to wind up a tottering or unsafe banking company in the interests of the depositors, may reasonably H 104 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R.