For protecting the best interests of the child, the appellant-wife may be rewarded, but not punished with H APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 737 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] an adverse inference. By taking recourse to Section 114(h), the respondent A cannot throw the appellant to a catch-22 situation. 29. Therefore, Section 114(h) has no application to a case where a mother refuses to make the child undergo DNA test. It is to be remembered that the object of conducting a DNA test on the child is primarily to show that the respondent was not the biological father. Once B that fact is established, it merely follows as a corollary that the appellant was living in an adulterous relationship. 30. What comes out of a DNA test, as the main product, is the paternity of the child, which is subjected to a test. Incidentally, the adulterous conduct of the wife also stands established, as a by-product, C through the very same process. To say that the wife should allow the child to undergo the DNA test, to enable the husband to have the benefit of both the product and the by-product or in the alternative the wife should allow the husband to have the benefit of the by-product by invoking Section 114, if she chooses not to subject the child to DNA test, is really D to leave the choice between the devil and the deep sea to the wife. 31. In fact, in cases of this nature the Court must bear in mind that Section 114 uses only the word “may” and not the word “shall”. Therefore, the constraints articulated in the exposition to Illustration (h) under Section 114 may dissuade the Court not to presume at all. E 32. Hence, we reject the contention of the respondent that what is sought to be invoked is only Section 114(h) and not Section 112. Whose rights, are to tilt the balance in the scales of justice? 33. As rightly contended by Shri Huzefa Ahmadi, learned senior counsel for the appellant, the question as to whether a DNA test should F be permitted on the child, is to be analysed through the prism of the child and not through the prism of the parents. The child cannot be used as a pawn to show that the mother of the child was living in adultery. It is always open to the respondent-husband to prove by other evidence, the adulterous conduct of the wife, but the child’s right to identity should not G be allowed to be sacrificed. 34. It is contended by Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel for the respondent that after all the endeavour of every Court should be to find the truth and that every party to a litigation is entitled to produce the best evidence. Enabling the party to produce the best of evidence, is H 738 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A part and parcel of right to fair trial. Therefore, it is contended by learned senior counsel that the refusal to subject the child to DNA test would infringe upon the respondent’s right to fair trial.