164. This Court noted that Section 23(2A) of the Arbitration Act gives the respondent a right to submit a counter-claim or plead a set-off , which shall be adjudicated upon by the arbitral tribunal. It was held that since Section 18(3) of the MSME Act expressly provides that proceedings initiated under Section 18(3) shall be carried out as if they were in pursuance of an arbitration agreement under Section 7(1) of the Arbitration Act, the right to make a counter-claim before the statutory authorities exists under the MSMED Act. In this way, the two statutes were harmonized. 165. In the present reference, the challenge before this Court is to harmonize the provisions of the Arbitration Act and the Stamp Act. The object of the Arbitration Act is to inter alia ensure an effi cacious process of arbitration and minimize the supervisory role of courts in the arbitral process. On the other hand, the object of the Stamp Act is to secure revenue for state. It is a cardinal principle of interpretation of statutes that provisions contained in two statutes must be, if possible, interpreted in a harmonious manner to give full eff ect to both the statutes.154 In providing a harmonious interpretation, this Court has to be cognizant of the fact that it does not defeat the purpose of the statutes or render them ineff ective.155 The challenge, therefore, before this Court is to preserve the workability and effi cacy of both the Arbitration Act and the Stamp Act.156 i. The Arbitration Act will have primacy with respect to arbitration agreements 166. As discussed in the preceding segments, the Arbitration Act is a legislation enacted to inter alia consolidate the law relating to arbitration in India. It will have primacy over the Stamp Act and the Contract Act in relation to arbitration agreements for multiple reasons. 154 Jagdish Singh v. Lt. Governor, Delhi, (1997) 4 SCC 435 155 State of Tamil Nadu v. M K Kandaswami, (1975) 4 SCC 745 156 CIT v. Hindustan Bulk Carriers, (2003) 3 SCC 57 117 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. a. The Arbitration Act is a special law and the Indian Contract Act and the Stamp Act are general laws 167. It is trite law that a general law must give way to a special law. This rule of construction stems from the doctrine generalia specialibus non derogant. In LIC v. D.J. Bahadur,157 this Court held: “52. In determining whether a statute is a special or a general one, the focus must be on the principal subject-matter plus the particular perspective. For certain purposes, an Act may be general and for certain other purposes it may be special and we cannot blur distinctions when dealing with fi ner points of law.” In Sundaram Finance Ltd. v. T. Thankam,158 this Court held: “13. … Once it is brought to the notice of the court that its jurisdiction has been taken away in terms of the procedure prescribed under a special statute, the civil court should fi rst see whether there is ouster of jurisdiction in terms or compliance with the procedure under the special statute.