A good working test of perversity is contained in two s. In Excise and Taxation Offi cer-cum-Assessing Authority v. Gopi Nath & Sons [1992 Supp (2) SCC 312] , it was held: (SCC p. 317, para 7) “7. … It is, no doubt, true that if a fi nding of fact is arrived at by ignoring or excluding relevant material or by taking into consideration irrelevant material or if the fi nding so outrageously defi es logic as to suff er from the vice of irrationality incurring the blame of being perverse, then, the fi nding is rendered infi rm in law.” In Kuldeep Singh v. Commr. of Police [(1999) 2 SCC 10 : 1999 SCC (L&S) 429] , it was held: (SCC p. 14, para 10) “10. A broad distinction has, therefore, to be maintained between the decisions which are perverse and those which 12 Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, section 5: “5. Extent of judicial intervention.—Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, in matters governed by this Part, no judicial authority shall intervene except where so provided in this Part.” 13 (2021) 2 SCC 1, para 18. 14 (2015) 3 SCC 49. KONKAN RAILWAY CORP. LTD v. CHENAB BRIDGE PROJECT 231 UNDERTAKING [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] are not. If a decision is arrived at on no evidence or evidence which is thoroughly unreliable and no reasonable person would act upon it, the would be perverse. But if there is some evidence on record which is acceptable and which could be relied upon, howsoever compendious it may be, the conclusions would not be treated as perverse and the fi ndings would not be interfered with. 33. It must clearly be understood that when a court is applying the “public policy” test to an arbitration award, it does not act as a court of appeal and consequently errors of fact cannot be corrected. A possible view by the arbitrator on facts has necessarily to pass muster as the arbitrator is the ultimate master of the quantity and quality of evidence to be relied upon when he delivers his arbitral award. Thus an award based on little evidence or on evidence which does not measure up in quality to a trained legal mind would not be held to be invalid on this score.” (emphasis supplied) 24. Having considered the matter in detail, we are of the opinion that the Division Bench of the High Court committed an error in setting aside the concurrent fi ndings of the Arbitral Tribunal and the Single Judge of the High Court. The Award of the Arbitral Tribunal and the decision of the Single Judge of the High Court under Section 34 of the Act cannot be termed as perverse or patently illegal as concluded by the Division Bench of the High Court. The decision of the Arbitral Tribunal is a plausible view, and the Single Judge refrained from interfering with it under Section 34 of the Act. We are of the opinion that the Division Bench should not have interfered with these s. 25.