Such a burden of proof cannot get shifted on the revenue. Mere production of the invoices or the payment made by cheques is not C enough and cannot be said to be discharging the burden of proof cast under section 70 of the Karnataka Value Added Tax Act, 2003. The dealer claiming ITC has to prove beyond doubt the actual transaction which can be proved by furnishing the name and address of the selling dealer, details of the vehicle which has delivered the D goods, payment of freight charges, acknowledgement of taking delivery of goods, tax invoices and payment particulars etc. The aforesaid information would be in addition to tax invoices, particulars of payment etc. In fact, if a dealer claims Input Tax Credit on purchases, such dealer/purchaser shall have to prove and establish the actual physical movement of goods, genuineness E of transactions by furnishing the details referred above and mere production of tax invoices would not be sufficient to claim ITC. In fact, the genuineness of the transaction has to be proved as the burden to prove the genuineness of transaction as per section 70 of the KVAT Act, 2003 would be upon the purchasing dealer. F At the cost of repetition, it is observed and held that mere production of the invoices and/or payment by cheque is not sufficient and cannot be said to be proving the burden as per section 70 of the Act, 2003. If the purchasing dealer/s fails/fail to establish and prove the said important aspect of physical movement of the goods alleged to have been purchased by it/ G them from the concerned dealers and on which the ITC have been claimed, the Assessing Officer is absolutely justified in rejecting such ITC claim. [Paras 9.1, 10][656-F-H; 657-A-C, G] H THE STATE OF KARNATAKA v. M/S ECOM GILL COFFEE 649 TRADING PRIVATE LIMITED 2. Now so far as the reliance placed upon Rules 27 and 29 A of the Karnataka Value Added Tax Rules, 2005 and the submission on behalf of the purchasing dealers that under the provisions of the Rules 2005, more particularly under Rules 27 & 29, the only requirement is to issue the tax invoice and to produce the same and there is no other requirement is concerned, B the aforesaid has no substance. Rule 27 cast an obligation on the dealers to issue tax invoice and the particulars of the tax invoice are provided under Rule 29. Merely because the tax invoice as per Rule 27 and Rule 29 might have been produced, that by itself cannot be said to be proving the actual physical movement of the goods, which is required to be proved. [Para 13][658-G-H; 659- C A] 3. In absence of any further cogent material like furnishing the name and address of the selling dealer, details of the vehicle which has delivered the goods, payment of freight charges, acknowledgement of taking delivery of goods, tax invoices and D payment particulars etc. and the actual physical movement of the goods by producing the cogent materials, the Assessing Officer was absolutely justified in denying the ITC, which was confirmed by the first Appellate Authority.