41. The repudiation as noted is based on two reports (i) the forensic report of Screen Facts Service Pvt. Ltd. and of (ii) M/s Bhansali & Co. The fi rst one notably was inconclusive. The other reports suggest short-circuit as the likely cause, not negligence. The signifi cant time gap that exists between the welding work and the fi re at 16:30 has no logical explanation. The basis of the repudiation accordingly appears to be un-reasonable and is not acceptable. VALUE OF A SURVEYOR’S REPORT 42. According to the Insurance Act 1938, an approved surveyor’s assessment is necessary for a claim. The claimant however contends that the surveyor’s report is not defi nitive. The key question is the extent to which the report is binding and under what conditions can it be overridden in. To 104 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. address this, Section 64(UM)(4) of the Insurance Act, 1938 can be usefully read which concerns surveyors and loss assessors: 64-UM. (4) No claim in respect of a loss which has occurred in India and requiring to be paid or settled in India equal to or exceeding twenty thousand rupees in value on any policy of insurance, arising or intimated to an insurer at any time after the expiry of a period of one year from the commencement of the Insurance (Amendment) Act, 1968, shall, unless otherwise directed by the Authority, be admitted for payment or settled by the insurer unless he has obtained a report, on the loss that has occurred, from a person who holds a licence issued under this section to act as a surveyor or loss assessor (hereafter referred to as “approved surveyor or loss assessor”): Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall be deemed to take away or abridge the right of the insurer to pay or settle any claim at any amount diff erent from the amount assessed by the approved surveyor or loss assessors”.” 43. The above provision mandates that claims above Rs. 20,000 must be initially assessed by an approved surveyor. It is noteworthy that the insurer has the discretion to settle the claim for a diff erent amount, than what is assessed by the surveyor. 44. In New India Assurance Co. Ltd. v. Pradeep Kumar (supra), the court addressed whether one had to accept payment based on the surveyors’ assessment or could provide independent evidence to support higher costs for replacement and repairs. The court’s pertinent conclusion is as follows: “22. In other words 1although assessment of loss by approved surveyor is a prerequisite for payment or settlement of claim of twenty thousand rupees or more by insurer, yet surveyor’s report is not the last and fi nal word. It is not that sacrosanct that it cannot be departed from; it is not conclusive. The approved surveyor’s report may be basis or foundation for settlement of a claim by the insurer in respect of loss suff ered by insured but such report is neither binding upon the insurer nor insured.” 45.