The financial creditor may file an application before the adjudicating authority along with the proof of default and the name of a resolution professional proposed to act as the interim resolution professional in respect of the corporate B debtor. Once the adjudicating authority is satisfied, as to the extent of the default and is ensured that the application is complete and no disciplinary proceedings are pending against the proposed resolution professional, it shall admit the application. 38. Section 8 of the IBC provides that an operational creditor may, on the occurrence of a default, deliver a demand notice of unpaid C operational debt or copy of an invoice demanding payment of the amount involved in the default to the corporate debtor in such form and manner as may be prescribed. 39. Section 9 of the IBC stipulates that after the expiry of the period of 10 days from the date of delivery of the notice or invoice D demanding payment under sub-section (1) of Section 8 if the operational creditor does not receive payment from the corporate debtor or notice of the dispute under sub-section (2) of Section 8, it would be open for the operational creditor to file an application before the adjudicating authority for initiating a corporate insolvency resolution process. E 40. After the initiation of the CIRP the following takes place: (a) All the creditors are mandatorily required to put forward their claims before the CIRP in light of the public announcement. (b) In the aforesaid context, I must look into Sections 13 and 15 resply of the IBC. F Sections 13 and 15 resply are reproduced hereinbelow: “13. Declaration of moratorium and public announcement.— (1) The Adjudicating Authority, after admission of the application under section 7 or section 9 or section 10, shall, by an — G (a) declare a moratorium for the purposes referred to in section 14; (b) cause a public announcement of the initiation of corporate insolvency resolution process and call for the submission of claims under section 15; and H 1010 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A (c) appoint an interim resolution professional in the manner as laid down in section 16. (2) The public announcement referred to in clause (b) of sub- section (1) shall be made immediately after the appointment of the interim resolution professional. B Xxx xxx xxx 15. Public announcement of corporate insolvency resolution process.— (1) The public announcement of the corporate insolvency resolution process under the referred to in section 13 C shall contain the following information, namely:— (a) name and address of the corporate debtor under the corporate insolvency resolution process; (b) name of the authority with which the corporate debtor D is incorporated or registered; (c) the last date for submission of [claims, as may be specified]; (d) details of the interim resolution professional who shall be vested with the management of the corporate debtor E and be responsible for receiving claims; (e) penalties for false or misleading claims; and (f) the date on which the corporate insolvency resolution process shall close, which shall be the one hundred and eightieth day from the date of the admission of the F application under sections 7, 9 or section 10, as the case may be.