Hence, the conviction of the appellant under Section 3(5) of the TADA is also not sustainable.” C 2.2 At this stage it is required to be noted that at the time when Raneef (supra) and Arup Bhuyan (Supra) were decided neither Section 10(i) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘UAPA Act, 1967’) was under challenge and/or the constitutionality of the said provision was under challenge nor even the D Union of India was a party to the said proceedings and the Division Benches of the Court in the aforesaid two decisions made observations on Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA Act, 1967 without giving any opportunity to the Union of India. Therefore, the Union of India filed the applications seeking permission to file a review petition on the ground that the interpretation made by this Court in the aforesaid two decisions would be E prejudicial to their interests and therefore, the Union of India had a right to be heard. The State of Assam also preferred the review petitions. 2.3 Having regard to the important issue raised by the learned Solicitor General and the Senior Counsel for the State of Assam, by dated 26.08.2014 reported in (2015) 12 SCC 702 the matter is F referred to the larger Bench. While referring the matter to the larger Bench this Court noted the submissions made by the learned Solicitor General in paragraphs 4 to 7 and 10 to 11 as under: “4.Mr. Ranjit Kumar, learned Solicitor General appearing for the Union of India, has submitted that in the case of Arup G Bhuyan vs. State of Assam, 2011 (3) SCC 377, this Court has read down the provision to the detriment of the interest of the Union of India when it was not a party before it. He has also invited our attention to the decision in Sri Indra Das vs. State of Assam 2011 (3) SCC 380. In Arup Bhuyan’s case as well as in the case Sri Indra Das, the two-Judge Bench has referred to many H ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 511 [M. R. SHAH, J.] authorities of Supreme Court of United States of America and A thereafter quoted a passage from Kedar Nath vs. State of Bihar AIR 1962 SC 955 and relied on State of Kerala vs. Raneef (2011) 1 SCC 784 and eventually opined thus: “27. We may also consider the legal position, as it should emerge, assuming that the main s. 124A is capable of being B construed in the literal sense in which the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council has construed it in the cases referred to above. On that assumption, it is not open to this Court to construe the section is such a way as to avoid the alleged unconstitutionality by limiting the application of the section in the way in which the Federal C Court intended to apply it ? In our opinion, there are decisions of this Court which amply justify our taking that view of the legal position.