The submissions made on behalf of the related party and the observations of the Appellate Tribunal are difficult to be accepted. 54. The lengthy discussion of Appellate Tribunal in regard to the related party (the parts whereof have been reproduced in paragraph H M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 909 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 19.7 hereinabove) depict rather unsure and irreconcilable observations A of the Appellate Tribunal. 54.1. After taking note of the fact that related party is prohibited to be a part of CoC and is further prohibited to be a resolution applicant or an authorized representative etc., the Appellate Tribunal has rightly observed that involvement of a related party in CIRP in any capacity B was seen as giving unfair benefit to the corporate debtor; and that the statutory recognition of related party as a different class would apply even to resolution plan when CoC would decide whether in its commercial wisdom it should pay to related party at all because that would mean paying to the same persons who are behind the corporate debtor. However, C thereafter the Appellate Tribunal proceeded to observe that related party was required to be equated with the promoters as equity share-holders and then, further made certain observations about discrimination between related party unsecured financial creditor and other unsecured financial creditors as also between related party operational creditor and other operational creditors. Such far-stretched observations of the Appellate D Tribunal are difficult to be reconciled with the operation of the statutory provisions. 54.2. It has rightly been argued on behalf of the appellants and had rightly been observed by the Adjudicating Authority (vide extraction in paragraph 15.4.1 hereinabove) that there was no provision in the Code E which mandates that the related party should be paid in parity with the unrelated party. So long as the provisions of Code and CIRP Regulations are met, any proposition of differential payment to different class of creditors in the resolution plan is, ultimately, subject to the commercial wisdom of CoC and no fault can be attached to the resolution plan merely F for not making the provisions for related party. 54.3. On the facts of the present case, we find no reason to discuss this matter any further when it is noticed that the promoter and erstwhile director, the contesting respondent before us, has been holding the position of Chairman of the said related party. Suffice it would be to observe for the present purpose that the Appellate Tribunal has erred in applying the G principles of non-discrimination and thereby holding against the resolution plan in question for want of provision for related party. H 910 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Point F – NCLAT’s findings regarding settlement offer of promoter 55. The discussion foregoing, particularly with answers to points C2, C3 and D1 is decisive of the matter so far as approval of the resolution plan in question is concerned. As noticed, for want of eligibility of the B resolution applicant and for want for approval of the finally revised resolution plan by CoC meeting, the resolution plan in question is required to be rejected and the process as adopted in seeking approval of the Adjudicating Authority is required to be disapproved.