[B. V. NAGARATHNA J.] such property, including the obligation to maintain A relatives in the family of his or her birth; (c) the adopted child shall not divest any person of any estate which vested in him or her before the adoption.” 8.4. However, the present case pertains not merely to a question as to the capacity of a Hindu widow to adopt, but involves B issues of entitlement of a child adopted by a Hindu widow, to family pension payable to certain categories of legal heirs of a deceased government servant. It is necessary to refer to the relevant Rules of the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972, as amended from time to time. C Rule 3(1)(f) of the CCS (Pension) Rules defines the term ‘family pension’ in the following manner: “Family pension means `Family Pension, 1964', admissible under Rule 54 but does not include dearness relief.” D Rule 54 deals, inter alia, with the amount of family pension payable, and the procedure to be followed for payment thereof. Rule 54(14)(b) which is relevant to the present case, defines ‘family’ for the purpose of Rule 54, in the following terms: E “(b) “family” in relation to a government servant means– i. Wife in the case of a male Government servant, or husband in the case of a female Government servant; F ia. A judicially separated wife or husband, such separation not being granted on the ground of adultery and the person surviving was not held guilty of committing adultery; G ii. Unmarried son who has not attained the age of twenty-five years and unmarried or widowed or divorced daughter, including such son and daughter adopted legally”; iii. Dependent parents; H 942 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A iv. Dependent disabled siblings (i.e., brother or sister) of a government servant.” With that primer, we shall proceed to consider the question as to the entitlement of a child adopted by a Hindu widow, to family pension payable under Rule 54 of the CCS B (Pension) Rules. Analysis: 9. Section 8 of HAMA Act, 1956 pertains to the capacity of a female Hindu to take a son or a daughter in adoption. The said provision permits a female Hindu who is not a minor or of unsound mind, to take a C son or daughter in adoption to herself, in her own right. The provision requires that a female Hindu who has a husband, shall not adopt except with the express consent of her husband. However, no such pre-condition is applicable in relation to a Hindu widow; a divorced female Hindu; or a female Hindu whose husband has, after marriage, finally renounced the world or has been declared by a Court of competent jurisdiction to be of D unsound mind. 9.1. Therefore, there exists an unequivocal statutory declaration as to the capacity of a female Hindu, including a widow, to take a son or daughter in adoption, in her own right. The question would therefore arise as to what would be the E adoptive family of a child who is adopted by a widow, or by a married woman whose husband has completely and finally renounced the world, or has been declared to be of unsound mind.