3 SCC 147, (“Dr. A. K. Sabhapathy”). Learned senior counsel for the appellants submitted that the said has F specifically been overruled by a three-judge bench in Dr. Mukhtiar Chand. It was thus, submitted that the view taken by the High Court is contrary to the decision in Dr. Mukhtiar Chand. iv. Learned senior counsel for the appellants refuted the G reliance placed by the Respondent-Medical Council of India on Gujarat University vs. Krishna Ranganath Mudholkar, 1963 Supp. (1) SCR 112, (“Gujarat University”) wherein it was held that a State Legislation can be unconstitutional even if there is no contrary Union Legislation. It may be declared ultra vires if it effectively H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 933 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] impinges on the field reserved for the Union under Entry A 66 and infringes upon the Union field. It was contended that it is only where the State Legislation makes it impossible or difficult for the Parliament to legislate under Entry 66 of List I, that the State Law can be declared to be bad. v. The learned senior counsel for the appellants placed reliance B on the of a Constitutional Bench of this court in R. Chitralekha vs. State of Mysore, AIR 1964 SC 1823, (“R. Chitralekha”) wherein it was held that it is only when the State Legislation makes it impossible or difficult for the Parliament to legislate under Entry 66 of List I, and only if C the impact of the State Law is so heavy or devastating on Entry 66 of List I, so as to wipe out or appreciably abridge the Central field of legislation, can it be struck down but not otherwise. Learned senior counsel contended that in the present case, there is no question of the Assam Act, making it impossible or difficult for the Parliament to exercise its D power for co-ordination and determination of standards in medical institutions. If the Parliament wanted, they could easily legislate to say that no person who does not hold qualifications recognised by the IMC Act can practice allopathic medicine. That Parliament has not said so and E Section 15 of the IMC Act indicates that the Parliament recognises that persons enrolled in State Medical Registers under State Acts can practice medicine in the State. vi. Learned senior counsel for the appellants contended that accepting the argument of the MCI that allopathic medicine F can be practiced only by M.B.B.S. doctors with a MBBS degree would not only be totally contrary to the scheme of the IMC Act but would effectively declare unconstitutional a number of State Acts of various States, which have prescribed qualifications other than M.B.B.S. to practice medicine in the State. G vii. That the Medical Council of India (MCI) in the Meeting of its Board of Governors at New Delhi on 16.07.2012, along with the Secretary (Health), Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Government of India in its proposal for a B.Sc. (Community Health) Program sought to draw experience H 934 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R.