It is, therefore, plain that it is only after the Advisory Board, to which the case has been referred, reports that the detention is justifi ed, the Government should determine what the period of detention should be and not before. The fi xing of the period of detention in the initial itself in the present case was, therefore, contrary to the scheme of the Act and cannot be supported.” (Emphasis supplied) 32. It was argued by the learned Advocate General in that case that if the Advisory Board reports that there is no suffi cient cause for the detention the person concerned would be released forthwith and therefore the direction that he should be detained upto 31.03.1952, could be ignored as a mere surplusage. The said argument was repelled by this Court by observing as under:- “We cannot accept that view. It is obvious that such a direction would tend to prejudice a fair consideration of the petitioner’s case when it is placed before the Advisory Board. It cannot be too often emphasised that before a person is deprived of his personal liberty the procedure PESALA NOOKARAJU v. THE GOVERNMENT OF 559 ANDHRA PRADESH & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] established by law must be strictly followed and must not be departed from to the disadvantage of the person aff ected.” 33. Thus, had the detaining authority specifi ed the period of detention in the of detention, it could have been argued that the detaining authority has usurped the power of the Government and the Advisory Board as per the scheme mentioned in the provisions of the Act 1986 and that the detention was contrary to the constitutional mandate expressed in Article 22(4) of the Constitution. 34. It also appears that the attention of the learned Judges while deciding Cherukuri Mani (supra) was not drawn to yet one another decision of this Court in the case of Harpreet Kaur Harvinder Singh Bedi v. State of Maharashtra, (1992) 2 SCC 177, wherein a Bench of two-Judge interpreted Section 3(2) of the Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Slumlords, Bootleggers and Drug Off enders Act, 1981, which is parimateria to Section 3(2) of the Act 1986. We quote the relevant observations:- “31. Coming now to the second argument of Dr Chitale to the eff ect that proviso to Section 3(2) of the Act, prohibited the State Government to make an of detention in the fi rst instance, exceeding three months, and since the of detention in the instant case had been made for a period exceeding three months, it was vitiated. 32. Section 3 reads as follows: “3. Power to make s detaining certain persons.— (1) The State Government may, if satisfi ed with respect to any person that with a view to preventing him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public , it is necessary so to do, make an directing that such person is detained. (2) If, having regard to the circumstances prevailing or likely to prevail in any area within the local limits of the jurisdiction of a District Magistrate or a Commissioner of Police, the State Government is satisfi ed that it is necessary so to do, it may, by in writing, direct, that during such period as may be specifi ed in the such District Magistrate or Commissioner 560 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R.