(2) In holding trial of child sex abuse or rape: (i) a screen or some such arrangements may be made where the victim or witnesses (who may be equally vulnerable like the victim) do not see the body or face of the accused; (ii) the questions put in cross-examination on behalf of the accused, insofar as they relate directly to the incident, should be given in writing to the presiding offi cer of the court who may put them to the victim or witnesses in a language which is clear and is not embarrassing; (iii) the victim of child abuse or rape, while giving testimony in court, should be allowed suffi cient breaks as and when required.” (Emphasis supplied) 72. The power and discretion of the complaints committee to put question to the witnesses is further refl ected though implicitly in Clause 10(viii) of the 2006 Standing which provides that, the delinquent offi cer shall not cross-examine the complainant directly and instead should hand over the questions to the chairperson of the committee who in turn would then put them to the complainant, to ensure no fear or embarrassment is caused to the complainant. The provision reads as under: “10. COMPLAINT MECHANISM viii) Cross examination of the witnesses should be allowed by the complainant and alleged offi cer. However, cross examination of complainant by the alleged officer is permissible as per Indian Evidence Act, 1872 subject to the directions as laid down by Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in AIR 2004 SC 3566-Sakshi vs. UOI & Others, i.e. to say “Questions put in cross-examination on behalf of accused 558 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. (charged offi cer in our case), which relate directly to incident, should be given in writing to the Chairperson of the Complaints Committee who may put them to victim or witnesses in a language which is clear and NOT EMBARRASSING.” The questions shall thus be vetted by the Chairperson of such Complaints Committee.” 73. There appears to be neither any statutory bar nor any logic to restrict the power of the complaints committee to put questions to the witnesses only to the context enumerated in the aforesaid provision. The complaints committee being an inquiry authority and in some sense equivalent to a presiding offi cer of the court as inferred from Sakshi (supra), must be allowed to put questions on its own if a proper, fair and thorough inquiry is to take place. 74. If the observations of the High Court are accepted, it would lead to a chilling eff ect, whereby the complaints committee which is deemed to be an inquiry authority would be reduced to a mere recording machine. 75. We fail to understand what other purpose the complaints committee which is deemed to be an ‘inquiry authority’ would serve, if we are to hold that the complaints committee cannot put questions to the witnesses. 76. Even otherwise, the aforesaid issue has been answered by this Court in Pravin Kumar v. Union of India and Others reported in (2020) 9 SCC 471.