One view which is accepted by a majority of the High Courts is that the expression “case” includes an interlocutory proceeding relating to the rights and obligations of the parties, and the expression record of any case includes so much of the proceeding as relates to the disposing of the interlocutory proceeding. The High Court has therefore power to rectify an of a Subordinate Court at any stage of a suit or proceeding even if there be another remedy open to the party aggrieved i.e. by reserving his right to fi le an appeal against the ultimate decision, and making the illegality in the a ground of that appeal. The other view is that the expression “case” does not include an issue or a part of a suit or proceeding and therefore the on an issue or a part of a suit or 708 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. proceeding is not a “case which has been decided”, and the High Court has no power in exercise of its revisional jurisdiction to correct an error in an interlocutory . 7. An analysis of the cases decided by the High Courts — their number is legion — would serve no useful purpose. In every High Court from time to time opinion has fluctuated. The meaning of the expression “case” must be sought in the nature of the jurisdiction conferred by Section 115, and the purpose for which the High Courts were invested with it. Xxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx 10. The expression “case” is a word of comprehensive import; it Includes civil proceedings other than suits, and is not restricted by anything contained in the section to the entirety of the proceeding in a civil court. To interpret the expression “case” as an entire proceeding only and not a part of a proceeding would be to impose a restriction upon the exercise of powers of superintendence which the jurisdiction to issue writs, and the supervisory jurisdiction are not subject, and may result in certain cases in denying relief to an aggrieved litigant where it is most needed, and may result in the perpetration of gross injustice. 11. It may be observed that the majority view of the High Court of Allahabad in Buddhulal v. Mewa Ram [ILR 43 All 564 FB] founded upon the supposition that even though the word “case” has a wide signification the jurisdiction of the High Court can only be invoked from an in a suit, where the suit and not a part of it is decided, proceeded upon the fallacy that because the expression “case” includes a suit, in defining the limits of the jurisdiction conferred upon the High Court the expression “suit” should be substituted in the section, when the sought to be revised is an passed in a suit. The expression “case” includes a suit, but in ascertaining the limits of the jurisdiction of the High Court, there would be no warrant for equating it with a suit alone. (Emphasis supplied) RAHIMAL BATHU & OTHERS v. ASHIYAL BEEVI 709 [MANOJ MISRA, J.]