He did not know when she died but stated that she died by 1985. 14. PW 13 is the Advocate who attested Ex. C2 affi davit. He admitted in his cross-examination that he previously did not know Pydi Appala Suranna, the deponent thereto. PW 14 was an invitee to the adoption ceremony at Berhampur. He claimed to be in Ex. A4 photograph. However, in his cross- examination, he admitted that Venkubayamma must have been about 65 to 70 years old but the lady in Ex. A4 photograph was about 45 years of age. He also admitted that he was only acquainted with PW 2, the natural father of the adopted child, and that he had no relationship or friendship either with Venkubayamma or her husband and except by way of PW 2’s introduction that she was Venkubayamma, he had no other source of information. PW 15 was an identifying witness in Ex. A10 Will. According to him, Pydi Appala Suranna and a person, whose name he did not know, attested Ex. A10 Will on the Sub-Registrar’s Offi ce verandah. He claimed he was present when the attestors and the scribe signed on Ex. A10. He said that he could identify Venkubayamma and claimed that she was the third person, wearing spectacles, in Ex. A2 photograph. He identifi ed her as the woman sitting, wearing glasses, with a baby in her lap, in Ex. A3. He also identifi ed her in Ex. A4. He asserted that he knew Venkubayamma for the last 10 years but he did not know any other details or when she died. 15. Kaliprasad deposed as DW 1. He stated that Venkubayamma was his mother’s mother and asserted that she never adopted any boy during her lifetime. He asserted that Venkubayamma only had one daughter and he was the son of that daughter. He claimed to be the sole heir to the properties of late Venkubayamma. He claimed that since childhood, he was brought up in Venkubayamma’s house and that his marriage was performed by her in February, 1982. According to him, Venkubayamma was between 75 to 80 years of age at the time of her death. He said that she told him about a Will in his favour after his marriage but he had not seen the document. He denied that she had adopted a boy. According to him, she went to Srikakulam till the second week of July, 1982, and after that, she wanted to go to her relations’ houses at Vizianagaram, Berhampur and Khurda Road. He further stated that, by the time he attained the age of discretion, Venkubayamma’s hair had 654 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. turned grey and asserted that it was false that Exs. A2 to A4 photographs were of Venkubayamma. He stated that she used to write letters to him whenever she was in camp and he was, therefore, acquainted with her signature and handwriting. He stated that Ex. A9 Adoption Deed did not bear the signature of Venkubayamma.