17. A Constitution Bench of this Court in R.S. Joshi vs Ajit Mills Ltd.3 held that “(F)orfeiture, as judicially annotated, is a D punishment annexed by law to some illegal act or negligence”. This Court referred to its earlier decision in Bankura Municipality vs Lalji Raja & Sons4 where it was observed: “According to the dictionary meaning of the word ‘forfeiture’ the loss or the deprivation of goods has got to be in E consequence of a crime, offence or breach of engagement or has to be by way of penalty of the transgression or a punishment for an offence. Unless the loss or deprivation of the goods is by way of a penalty or punishment for a crime, offence or breach of engagement it would not come within the definition of forfeiture”. F 18. Having regard to the terms of rule 9, the notice for auction constitutes the ‘invitation to offer’; the bids submitted by the bidders constitute the ‘offer’ and upon confirmation of sale in favour of the highest bidder under sub-rule (2) of rule 9, the contract comes into existence. Once the contract comes into existence, the bidder is bound G to honour the terms of the statute under which the auction is conducted and suffer consequences for breach, if any, as stipulated. Rule 9(5) legislatively lays down a penal consequence. ‘Forfeiture’ referred to in 3 (1977) 4 SCC 98 4 AIR 1953 SC 248 H 1082 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A sub-rule (5) of rule 9, in the setting of the SARFAESI Act and the Rules, has to be construed as denoting a penalty that the defaulting bidder must suffer should he fail to make payment of the entire sale price within the period allowed to him by the authorized officer of a secured creditor. 19. Though it is true that the power conferred by sub-rule (5) of B rule 9 of the Rules ought not to be exercised indiscriminately without having due regard to all relevant facts and circumstances, yet, the said sub-rule ought also not be read in a manner so as to render its existence only on paper. Drawing from our experience on the Bench, it can safely be observed that in many a case the borrowers themselves, seeking to frustrate auction sales, use their own henchmen as intending purchasers C to participate in the auction but thereafter they do not choose to carry forward the transactions citing issues which are hardly tenable. This leads to auctions being aborted and issuance of fresh notices. Repetition of such a process of participation-withdrawal for a couple of times or more has the undesirable effect of rigging of the valuation of the D immovable property. In such cases, the only perceivable loss suffered by a secured creditor would seem to be the extent of expenses incurred by it in putting up the immovable property for sale. However, what does generally escape notice in the process is that it is the mischievous borrower who steals a march over the secured creditor by managing to have a highly valuable property purchased by one of its henchmen for a song, E thus getting such property freed from the clutches of mortgage and by diluting the security cover which the secured creditor had for its loan exposure.