57. In the aforesaid context, we may also refer to and rely on a decision of this Court in Kalu alias Laxminarayan v. State of Madhya Pradesh reported in (2019) 10 SCC 211, wherein this Court after referring to its various other decisions on the applicability of Section 106 of the Evidence Act observed as under: “16. In view of our conclusion that the prosecution has clearly established a prima facie case, the precedents cited on behalf of the appellant are not considered relevant in the facts of the present case. Once the prosecution established a prima facie case, the appellant was obliged to furnish some explanation under Section 313 CrPC with regard to the circumstances under which the deceased met an unnatural death inside the house. His failure to off er any explanation whatsoever therefore leaves no doubt for the conclusion of his being the assailant of the deceased.” (Emphasis supplied) 58. We should also look into the decision of this Court in the case of Sawal Das v. State of Bihar reported in (1974) 4 SCC 193. In the said 850 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. case the trial court had come to the conclusion that, upon the established circumstances listed above, no other inference was left open to the Court except that the appellant and his father and stepmother had conjointly committed the murder of the deceased Smt. Chanda Devi on the morning of 28.05.1965 and that the appellant and his father had then hastily and stealthily disposed off the body in to conceal the commission of the off ence. It had also taken into account, in coming to this conclusion, the fact that the appellant had unsuccessfully set up a plea, in his written statement, that, Smt. Chanda Devi, who was alleged by him to be wearing a nylon Saree said to have caught fi re accidentally while she was using a kerosene stove in her room, died of extensive burns on her body and collapsed. The appellant had alleged that Smt. Chanda Devi was debilitated and kept bad health due to frequent pregnancies and was also suff ering from asthma, a weak heart, and abdominal complaints. She had given birth to six children. 59. In view of the aforesaid facts, this Court held as under: “8. We think that the burden of proving the plea that Smt. Chanda Devi died in the manner alleged by the appellant lay upon the appellant. This is clear from the provisions of Sections 103 and 106 of the Indian Evidence Act. Both the trial Court and the High Court had rightly pointed out that the appellant had miserably failed to give credible or substantial evidence of any facts or circumstances which could support the pleas that Smt. Chanda Devi met her death because her Nylon Saree had accidentally caught fi re from a kerosene stove. The trial Court had rightly observed that the mere fact that some witnesses had seen some smoke emerging from the room, with a kitchen nearby at a time when food was likely to be cooked, could not indicate that Smt.