Section 69B provides for power with the Assessing Officer to deal with investments made by an assessee in bullion, jewellery and other valuable article, when such assets are found to be owned by the 4 (1980) Suppl. SCC 660 H 550 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A assessee and he finds a mismatch between the amount spent for acquiring them or investing in them and the amount recorded in the Books of Accounts for any source of income and no explanation is offered or the explanation offered is not found satisfactory, the excess amount can be brought to tax. Section 69C, inserted w.e.f. 01.04.1976, deals with unexplained expenditure, being deemed to be the income of B the assessee. 26. Section 69 and Section 69A, apart from being close neighbours, do bear resemblance with one another. Section 69 deals with unexplained investment. Section 69A deals with unexplained money, bullion, jewellery or other valuable articles. Section 69A was inserted by Amending Act 5 C of 1964 and it came into effect w.e.f. 01.04.1964. Both Sections require that the subject matter of the provisions, viz., investments in the case of Section 69 and money, bullion, jewellery or other valuable articles in the case of Section 69A are not recorded in the Books of Account. That is, in a case where Books of Accounts are maintained. In the case of D investments under Section 69, necessarily, the Law-Giver contemplates the Assessing Officer finding that the assessee had made the investments. In the case of Section 69A, the assessee must be found to be the owner of the money, bullion, jewellery or other valuable articles. In both cases, if the assessee is able to offer an explanation for the nature and the source for the investments and money, bullion, jewellery or other valuable E articles, respectively, and it is not found unsatisfactory, there can be no deemed income under either Section. 27. Turning more to Section 69A, it may be broken down into the following essential parts: a. The assessee must be found to be the owner; F b. He must be the owner of any money, bullion, jewellery or other valuable articles; c. The said articles must not be recorded in the Books of Account, if any maintained; G d. The assessee is unable to offer an explanation regarding the nature and the source of acquiring the articles in question; or The explanation, which is offered, is found to be, in the opinion of the Officer, not satisfactory; H M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 551 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] e. If the aforesaid conditions are satisfied, then, the value of A the bullion, jewellery or other valuable article may be deemed as the income of the financial year in which the assessee is found to be the owner; f. In the case of money, the money can be deemed to be the income of the financial year; B 28. Applying the provision to the facts of the case, it is noticed that the points that arise are as follows: I.