9. At the outset, it is required to be noted that the learned trial Court convicted the respondent – accused for the offence under Section G 302 IPC with the aid of Section 149 IPC. However, the High Court has observed and held that as the initial charge-sheet was filed only against two persons /accused and further three persons were subsequently arrayed as the accused and they are being tried separately, Section 149 IPC shall not be attracted. The High Court has also observed that even as per the FIR three accused came at the place of occurrence when H SURENDRA SINGH v. STATE OF RAJASTHAN AND ANR. 361 [M. R. SHAH, J.] they saw Narendra Singh was filling water and it was thus not assembly A of five accused. 10. However, the High Court has not properly and considered the fact that in the report/FIR there were specific allegations against five accused persons and five accused persons were named in the FIR. However, the investigating officer charge-sheeted only two persons. B The remaining three accused persons came to be added as accused by the learned trial Court while allowing the application under Section 319 Cr.P.C. As they absconded and therefore their trial came to be ed to be separated and it is reported that the trial against the remaining accused is still pending who are also facing the charges for the offence C under Section 302/149 IPC. In that view of the matter when five persons were specifically named in the FIR and five persons are facing the trial may be separately, Section 149 IPC would be attracted. At this stage the decision of this Court in the case of Bharwad Mepa Dana (supra) on applicability of Section 149 IPC is required to be referred to. Before this Court it was the case on behalf of the prosecution that thirteen D named persons formed an unlawful assembly and the common object of which was to kill the three brothers. Twelve of them were tried by the Sessions Court who acquitted seven and the High Court acquitted one more. This brought the number to four. It was the case on behalf of the accused that as the High Court convicted only four persons falling below E the required number of five, they could not have been convicted with the aid of Section 149 IPC. The aforesaid contention was negated by this Court. This Court observed that merely because two other persons forming part of the unlawful assembly were not convicted as their identity was not established, the accused cannot be permitted to say that they are not forming part of the unlawful assembly and they cannot be F convicted with the aid of Section 149 IPC. In the said decision it is specifically observed and held that the essential question in a case under Section 147 is whether there was an unlawful assembly as defined under 141, I. P. C., of five or more than five persons. The identity of the persons comprising the assembly is a matter relating to the determination G of the guilt of the individual accused, and even when it is possible to convict less than five persons only, Section 147 still applies, if upon the evidence in the case the Court is able to hold that the person or persons who have been found guilty were members of an assembly of five or more persons, known or unknown, identified or unidentified.