In view of the discussion above, a restriction based on a marker of identity protected by Article 15 cannot be equated to a restriction based on the exercise of choice. For this reason, we fi nd that the apprehension of the Union of India is unfounded when tested on constitutional principles. xi. The right of transgender persons to marry 256. Some petitioners have sought a declaration that the right to marry a person of their choice applies to transgender persons. The Union of India seems to have a mixed response to this claim. On one hand, it asserts that marriage must only be between ‘biological’ men and ‘biological’ women. On the other hand, the written submissions of the learned Attorney General state that “The issues relating to transgender persons arising out of The Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019 stand on a diff erent footing and can be addressed without reference to the Special Marriage Act.” Before addressing the issue, it is necessary to briefl y advert to the diff erence between sex, gender, and sexual orientation, as well as to note the development of the law in relation to transgender persons. a. Sex, gender, sexual orientation 257. The term ‘sex’ refers to the reproductive organs and structures that people are born with.220 Intersex persons are those whose sex characteristics 220 “Sex.” Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary, Merriam-Webster <https://www.merriam- webster.com/dictionary/sex> 137 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. do not fi t the typical notions of ‘male’ and ‘female.’221 Sex and gender are not the same. The Yogyakarta Principles describe one’s gender identity as: “each person’s deeply felt internal and individual experience of gender, which may or may not correspond with the sex assigned at birth, including the personal sense of the body (which may involve, if freely chosen, modifi cation of bodily appearance or function by medical, surgical or other means) and other expressions of gender, including dress, speech and mannerisms.”222 The gender of a person may not correspond to the sex they were assigned at birth. A transgender person is one whose gender identity does not conform with their sex. Transgender people may choose to undergo hormonal therapy or surgery (commonly known as gender affi rming surgery or sex reassignment surgery) to alter their bodies to make them conform to their gender. People may be transgendered regardless of whether they choose to or are able to undergo a surgery. As noted in preceding segments of this , the term ‘transgender’ does not fully capture the rich variation in gender identities in India. Historically and socio-culturally, Indian persons223 with a genderqueer identity go by diff erent names including hijras, kothis, aravanis, jogappas, thiru nambis, nupi maanbas and nupi maanbis. Persons who are known by these names may identify as male, female, or the ‘third gender.’ Intersex persons are not the same as transgender persons. They have atypical reproductive characteristics. Intersex people may identify as male, female, or transgender. 258. Sexual orientation differs from both sex and gender. The Yogyakarta Principles describe sexual orientation as: “each person’s capacity for profound emotional, aff ectional and sexual attraction to, and intimate and sexual relations with, individuals of a diff erent gender or the same gender or more than one gender.”224 221 ‘Intersex people,’ Offi ce of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights <https://www.ohchr.org/en/sexual-orientation-and-gender-identity/intersex- people> 222 Introduction to the Yogyakarta Principles, Yogyakarta Principles 223 As also persons in other South Asian countries 224 Ibid SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR.