Forum shopping may become the of the day as the accused would choose the most convenient Court for seeking anticipatory bail. This would also make the concept of territorial jurisdiction which is of importance under the CrPC pale into insignifi cance. Therefore, in to avoid the abuse of the process of the Court as well as the law by the accused, it is necessary for the Court before which the plea for anticipatory bail is made, to ascertain the territorial connection or proximity between the accused and the territorial jurisdiction of the Court which is approached for seeking such a relief. Such a link with the territorial jurisdiction of the Court could be by way of place of residence or occupation/work/profession. By this, we imply that the accused cannot travel to any other State only for the purpose of seeking anticipatory bail. The reason as to why he is seeking such bail from a Court PRIYA INDORIA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA AND ORS. 585 ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] within whose territorial jurisdiction the FIR has not been fi led must be made clear and explicit to such a Court. Also there must be a reason to believe or an imminent apprehension of arrest for a non-bailable off ence made out by the accused for approaching the Court within whose territorial jurisdiction the FIR is not lodged or the inability to approach the Court where the FIR is lodged immediately. 41. Having regard to the vastness of our country and the length and breadth of it and bearing in mind the complex nature of life of the citizens, if an off ence has been committed by a person in a particular State and if the FIR is fi led in another State and the accused is a resident in a third State, bearing in mind access to justice, the accused who is residing in the third State or who is present there for a legitimate purpose should be enabled to seek the relief of limited anticipatory bail of transitory nature in the third State. 42. While we so hold, we are conscious of the fact that the expression High Court in Section 2(e) of the CrPC reads as follows: (i) in relation to any State, the High Court for that State; (ii) in relation to a Union Territory to which the jurisdiction of the High Court for a State has been extended by law, that High Court; (iii) in relation to any other Union Territory, the highest Court of criminal appeal for that territory other than the Supreme Court of India. Section 6 of the CrPC states that besides the High Courts and the Courts constituted under any law, other than the CrPC, there shall be, in every State, inter alia, Courts of Session. Section 7 speaks about territorial divisions. Sub-section (1) of Section 7 states that every State shall be a sessions division or shall consist of sessions divisions; and every sessions division shall, for the purposes of CrPC, be a district or consist of districts.