Part II deals with insolvency resolution and liquidation for corporate persons. Part III deals with insolvency resolution and bankruptcy for individuals and partnership fi rms. Part IV provides for the regulation of insolvency professionals, agencies and information utilities. Part V contains miscellaneous provisions. 9. Chapter I of Part III contains preliminary provisions, including, defi nitions. Section 78 indicates that the Part shall apply to matters relating to “fresh start, insolvency and bankruptcy of individuals and partnership fi rms where the amount of the default is not less than one thousand rupees”. However, the Central Government is empowered to specify a higher threshold not exceeding one lakh rupees. Section 79(1) indicates that the adjudicating authority for the purpose of Part III “means the Debt Recovery Tribunal constituted under sub-section (1)of section 3 of the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993”. Chapter II, which is yet to be brought into force, contains provisions in relation to the “fresh start process”. 10. Chapter III provides for the insolvency resolution process . Under Chapter III, the insolvency resolution process can be initiated by a debtor or a creditor. Section 94(1)5 enables a debtor who commits a default to apply, 4 “Tribunal” 5 94. Application by debtor to initiate insolvency resolution process.— (cid:2) DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI (cid:3) 576 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. either personally or through a resolution professional, to the adjudicating authority for initiating the insolvency resolution process. 11. Section 956 enables the creditor to apply for the initiation of (1) A debtor who commits a default may apply, either personally or through a resolution professional, to the Adjudicating Authority for initiating the insolvency resolution process, by submitting an application. (2) Where the debtor is a partner of a fi rm, such debtor shall not apply under this Chapter to the Adjudicating Authority in respect of the fi rm unless all or a majority of the partners of the fi rm fi le the application jointly. (3) An application under sub-section (1) shall be submitted only in respect of debts which are not excluded debts. (4) A debtor shall not be entitled to make an application under sub-section (1) if he is— (a) an undischarged bankrupt; (b) undergoing a fresh start process; (c) undergoing an insolvency resolution process; or (d) undergoing a bankruptcy process. (5) A debtor shall not be eligible to apply under sub-section (1) if an application under this Chapter has been admitted in respect of the debtor during the period of twelve months preceding the date of submission of the application under this section. (6) The application referred to in sub-section (1) shall be in such form and manner and accompanied with such fee as may be prescribed. 6 95. Application by creditor to initiate insolvency resolution process.— (1) A creditor may apply either by himself, or jointly with other creditors, or through a resolution professional to the Adjudicating Authority for initiating an insolvency resolution process under this section by submitting an application.