[2023] 14 S.C.R. 935 : 2023 INSC 939 CASE DETAILS KESHAV BHAURAO YEOLE (D) BY LRS. v. MURALIDHAR (D) & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 11104 of 2014) OCTOBER 19, 2023 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT AND ARAVIND KUMAR, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether the High Court was justifi ed in ing remand of the matter for examination of afresh bonafi de requirement of the heirs of the landlord for personal cultivation, in light of the changed circumstances-death of landlord; and whether the holding of the landlord exceeds one economic holding and whether the landlord earns his livelihood principally by agriculture or by agricultural labour. Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act, 1948 – s. 43A – Application under – Dispute between the legal heirs of the original landlord and the tenants of leased lands – Survey No. 291 leased for sugarcane cultivation, while the other Survey leased for general cultivation, for 13 years – Expiration of lease period – Issuance of notice as regards Survey No. 291 by the landlord to terminate the tenancy for personal cultivation, however possession not vacated – Proceedings for resumption of lands by the landlord – Original authority directed the restoration of 22 acres of the suit land to the landlord, based on the premise that both parties had an equal area for personal cultivation – Said fi nding upheld by the appellate authority but modifi ed the restored land to 17 acres 17 guntas – Thereafter, in Revision, the case was remanded – High Court also ed remand of the matter for examination afresh of the bonafi de requirement of the heirs of the landlord for personal cultivation – Correctness: Held: Holding of the landlord is 13 acres of jirayat land – Only such land which a person holds (is in possession) as an owner or tenant, must be taken into account – Land leased to the tenants cannot be said to be held 935 936 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. by the landlord either as an owner, or as a tenant – s. 6 provides that one unit of economic holding in the context of jirayat land is equivalent to a holding of 16 acres – Thus, the holding of the landlord cannot be said to be in excess of one unit of economic holding – Original authority held that the landlord’s principal source of income is from agriculture, which was upheld by the appellate authority and the revisional authority – As per s. 33(B)(5) (b), the landlord’s entitlement to terminate tenancy and recover possession of land leased is only to the extent ‘of so much thereof as would result in both the landlord and the tenant holding thereafter in the total an equal area for personal cultivation’ – Original authority and appellate authority disagreed on the extent of land to be resumed to the landlord – In deciding the extent of land to be restored, the Original authority was correct in applying the provision contained in s. 33B(5)(b) but erred in its interpretation and application – Appellate authority could not have applied s. 31B since the application of s. 31B stands excluded by s. 43A and the amended notifi cation – Further, from the evidence on record, the landlord has 13 acres of jirayat land, which he holds as owner – Litigation having been pending for nearly 50 years – Relegating the parties to the authorities would add acrimony between the parties, as such the formula prescribed u/s.33B(5)(b) is applied to allocate the respective shares of the parties – Also, the High Court erred in remanding the case by considering, events which occurred subsequent to the date of fi ling of the petition – It was unnecessary for the revisional authority to remand the case – Impugned passed by the High Court set aside – Legal heirs of original landlord entitled to 8.34 Acres in Survey No.291.