No separate entry for Service Tax existed in the Constitution at the time it was enacted. In T.N.Kalyana Mandapam Assn. v. Union of India2, this court held that service tax as a subject matter was within the “residuary power” of the Union; nevertheless, Entry 92C was introduced into the Union List by the Constitution (88th Amendment) Act, 2004 clarifying that the Union had exclusive authority to impose a service tax. Taxation of sale and movement of goods was within the exclusive purview of the States,by Entries 52 and 54 of the State List (List II of the VIIth Schedule to the Constitution). The delineation of Union and State taxation powers through the Union and State Lists of the Seventh Schedule was precise and clear, leaving little room for 1 Entries 83 and 84, List I, Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India. 2 2004 Supp (1) SCR 169; (2004) 5 SCC 632 150 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. any overlap in the kind of taxes that the Union could impose and those that a State could levy. The “Concurrent List” (or List III of the VIIth Schedule) contained no taxing entries, signifying that the constitutional scheme for taxation was to apportion two distinct, exclusive spheres of taxation for the Union and the States. 4. The initial move to introduce GST was through the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Report and the first official announcement for a transition to GST, was made by the Government of India in 2006-07 by the Budget Speech of the then Finance Minister; this was reiterated in the Budget Speech of 2008-09 and followed up in 2009-10 when certain policy changes were announced in the Budget for that year. The “First Discussion Paper on Goods and Services Tax in India” released by the Empowered Committee in November 2009 was the fi rst offi cial document publicly delineating the contours of the proposed reform and nuances of the GST Model. 5. The First Discussion Paper, in fact, explained the rationale for a constitutional amendment to introduce GST. It noted that while the Centre is empowered to tax services and goods up to the production stage, the States have the power to tax the sale of goods. The States do not have the power to levy a tax on the supply of services while the Centre does not have the power to levy a tax on the sale. It suggested for a constitutional amendment that would contain a mechanism for a harmonious structure of GST that would not aff ect the federal fabric. 6. Then, with the deliberations between the Centre and States, aided by the Empowered Committee, the constitutional amendment process to usher in GST began. It resulted in the “Constitution (One Hundred and Fifteenth Amendment) Bill, 2011” After that failed attempt, the 2014 Amendment Bill was adopted and passed on 8 September 2016. The Bill became “the Constitution (One Hundred and First Amendment) Act, 2016”. 7. The GST Council was constituted in September 2016. It is a constitutional institution comprising as its members the Finance Ministers of the Union and the States including Union Territories with members of the legislatures.