It would be appropriate to reproduce the letter dated 27.09.2019 minus the annexure: D “GOVERNMENT OF INDIA MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS Major Dhyan Cand National Stadium, Women Safety Division, 2nd Floor, India Gate, New Delhi – 110 002 E September 27, 2019 Adviser to the Administrator, No.227010 Dated 10-10-2019 F PA/PSH 229010 Dated 11/10/19 To The Chief Secretary G Government of Punjab/Gujarat/Haryana/Karnataka/ NCT of Delhi Sub: Commemmoration of 550th Birth Anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev Ji – Special Remission and Release of Prisoners. H 270 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A I am directed to say that on the occasion of commemoration of 550th Birth Anniversary of Guru Nanak Devi Ji, the Government of India has decided that 8 such prisoners may be granted special remission and death sentence of one Sikh prisoner may be commuted to life imprisonment. The details of these nine Sikh prisoners are given at Annexure. B 2. It has been decided that 8 Sikh prisoners be given special remission under Article 161 of the Constitution and released from prison. The proposal for commutation of death sentence to life imprisonment of one prisoner is to be processed under Article 72 of the Constitution of India. The State Government/Union Territory C Administration concerned and Centre-State Division of Ministry of Home Affairs are requested to take all required action in this regard. 3. I am also directed to convey the concurrence of the Central Government to the State Government/ Union Territories to the D remission and release of eight Sikh prisoners (details mentioned in Annexure) for the cases where approval/concurrence/ consultation of/with the Central Government is required under Article 161 or Article 72 of the Constitution of India, as the case may be or under any other law in force. E 4. This issues with the approval of the competent authority. Encl: As above Yours sincerely, Sd/-(Arun Sobti) F Deputy Secretary (PR & ATC), Phone:075297 Email: dspr.atc@mha.gov.in Copy to: G Joint Secretary (CS), Ministry of Home Affairs, New Delhi.” 7. The eight prisoners who were granted remission as per the annexure are: (i). Lal Singh @ Manjit Singh (ii). Devinder Singh Bhullar H BALWANT SINGH v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 271 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] (iii). Subheg Singh A (iv). Nand Singh (v). Harjinder Singh Kali (vi). Waryam Singh @ Sabir @ Giani (vii). Gurdeep Singh Khera B (viii). Balbir Singh The only prisoner whose commutation of death sentence was to be processed under Article 72 of the Constitution of India was the petitioner. C 8. Learned senior counsel has thereafter drawn our attention to the correspondence between different organs of the state with respect to commutation of death sentence of the petitioner. However, it is stated that till date no decision has been taken. It is under these circumstances that Shri Rohtagi, learned senior counsel prayed that as the State and D the Union of India have not been able to decide the Mercy Petition which is pending for more than 10 years, this Court itself may grant that commutation.