Findings recorded by the CIT(A): 1) That the appellate authority upheld the findings of the AO, G more specifically regarding commission alleged to have been received by reiterating that the summons sent to different persons who had allegedly paid amounts as commission had not responded to him and that the assessees had also not produced any worthwhile evidence to prove the genuineness H of commission received. MANSAROVAR COMMERCIAL PVT. LTD. v. COMMISSIONER 479 OF INCOME TAX, DELHI [M. R. SHAH, J.] 2) That even U.P. Karma was examined on 8th October, 1998 A and he confirmed that he had joined in 1998 and had no idea of earlier annual general body meetings and could not produce any minutes. He also confirmed that he did not have any idea about the business in which all the 5 companies were involved earlier. That he is a working director claiming that he had B never visited Gangtok, which shows that Sikkim has been merely used without actual rendition of any affairs. 3) As regards the charging of interest, the CIT(A) gave a finding that the interest was charged as per the workings mentioned in ITNS 150 which was forming part of the assessment , C which is sufficient and good enough to uphold interest in terms of the decision of this Court. Findings recorded by the ITAT: 1) After confirming the fact that the notices were dispatched only in the name of the respective companies in c/o Rattan D Gupta, Chartered Accountant, it was observed that Rattan Gupta would not qualify as a principal officer within the meaning of section 2(35)(a) of the Act. At this stage, it is required to be noted that the High Court has observed that in any event the authorised representative of the assessee E appeared before the AO and accepted that the notices has been issued. In that view of the matter, thereafter it is not open for the assessees to make a grievance with respect to non-service of the notice; 2) On the aspect relating to the control and management of the affairs, the ITAT recorded the findings as under: F i) It is important to highlight that the ITAT had neither reserved nor found the findings of the AO as upheld by the CIT(A), as not maintainable or factually erroneous or perverse. G ii) The findings of fact rendered by the AO as upheld by the CIT(A) remain undisturbed and unquestioned. iii) The entire discussion by the ITAT has only been an analysis of various case law on this point without questioning the underlying findings. H 480 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A iv) The ITAT finally came to a conclusion that since all the 5 companies had been registered in Sikkim, Sikkim will get the jurisdiction to tax. Thereafter, the ITAT concluded that the revenue could not discharge its burden and, therefore, control and management was only in B Sikkim and the income had accrued only in Sikkim. 6.1 While reversing the finding of the AO on whether the commission was not earned in Gangtok, though the AO found that the notices were sent to those who had allegedly paid the commission to the assessees and the summons under Section 131 had not been complied C with, the ITAT gave a finding that the AO did not proceed further and thus, since no adverse material has been brought on record, the AO could not have proceeded to draw adverse inference as the burden was heavily on the revenue.