Even the subsequent acknowledgment by the ROC G was on 21.02.2007 and 03.03.2011 even much after Section 4(1) notification. Therefore, as rightly observed and held by the High Court legally, the appellant was not converted to public company, which as such was a Section 25 company and therefore, not a public company. [Para 8.7][1015-D-G] H 972 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 2. From the material on record, the High Court has given the specific findings that there is a non-compliance of mandatory provisions under Rules 3 and 4 of the Rules, 1963 and therefore, the entire acquisition proceedings for the beneficiary company has been vitiated and there are checks and balances and certain mandatory procedures and requirements are to be satisfied, more B particularly, when the lands are to be acquired for the company, the same have to be adhered to and non-consideration of the relevant aspects, which are mandatory to be considered under Rule 4 would vitiate the entire acquisition proceedings as the subjective satisfaction by the State Government has been vitiated C on non-consideration of the relevant aspects, more particularly, the aspects mentioned in Rule 4. [Para 8.15][1021-C-D] 3. The most important aspect, which is required to be considered is the non-application of mind by the State Government on environmental aspects and passing of two rivers from the acquired lands in question. It is not in dispute that from the lands D in question two rivers namely ‘Nuanai’ and ‘Nala’ are flowing, which as such were acquired by the State Government. How the maintenance of the rivers etc. can be handed over to the beneficiary company. If the lands in question are continued to be acquired by the beneficiary company, the control of the rivers E would be with the said private company, which would violate the Doctrine of Public Trust. Even requiring the beneficiary company to maintain the flow of above two rivers may also affect the residents of the locality at large. It is also required to be noted that just across the road, there is a Wildlife Sanctuary, which is just adjacent across the road to the proposed university and the F lands acquired. Therefore, the large-scale construction for the establishment of the proposed university as observed by the High Court will also adversely affect the Wildlife Sanctuary, entire Eco system and the ecological environment in the locality. It is a duty of the State to protect the Wildlife Sanctuary and it may affect the G entire Eco system and the ecological environment in the locality. It is also required to be noted that even the distance of the sea from the proposed Vedanta University is approximately 2000 meters. Merely because the Balukhand Wildlife Sanctuary is separated from the proposed site by a highway – Puri-Konark Marine Drive, cannot be a ground to acquire the huge lands for H ANIL AGARWAL FOUNDATION ETC. ETC. v. STATE OF 973 ORISSA AND ORS. the proposed university and as rightly observed by the High A Court, the same will adversely affect the Wildlife Sanctuary and the entire Eco system and the ecological environment in the locality.