InMaru Ram Vs. Union of India2, a Constitution Bench endorsed this view and affirmed that a life sentence is nothing less than life-long imprisonment and would last until the last breath. Again, in Union of India Vs. V. Sriharan alias Murugan and others3, another Constitution Bench reiterated that imprisonment for life means E imprisonment for the rest of the life of the convict. 8. However, in actual practice, one finds that a sentence of life imprisonment works out only to a term of 14 years, in terms of Section 433 Cr.P.C., and may prove to be grossly inadequate to the gravity of the offence for which the convict had been so sentenced. In Swamy F Shraddananda Vs. State of Karnataka4, this Court noted that the days of remission earned by a prisoner are added to the period of his actual imprisonment to make up the term of the sentence and the question that then arises is how such remission can be applied to life imprisonment, as the way in which remission is allowed can only apply to a fixed term of imprisonment and life imprisonment, being for the rest of the life, is G indeterminate by nature. It was observed that, in the States of Karnataka and Bihar, remissionis granted to life convicts by ‘deemed’ conversion 1 AIR 1961 SC 600 2 (1981) 1 SCC 107 3 (2016) 7 SCC 1 4 (2008) 13 SCC 767 H 486 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A of life imprisonment into a fixed term of 20 years by executive s issued by the State Government, flying in the face of a long line of decisions by this Court, and no provision of law exists sanctioning such a course. It was pointed out that life convicts are granted remission and released from prison upon completing a 14-year-term, without any sound legal basis, and one can safely assume that the position would be no better in B other States. This Court, therefore, took judicial notice of the fact that remission is allowed to life convicts in the most mechanical manner without any sociological or psychiatric appraisal of the convict and without proper assessment as to the effect of an early release of a particular convict on the society. This Court also noted that grant of remission is C the rule and remission is denied, one may say, in the rarest of rare cases. Faced with this conundrum, while commuting a death sentence to life imprisonment in that case, this Court pondered over what should be done in such a situation. It was observed that, if the option is limited only to two punishments - one, being a sentence of life imprisonment, for all intents and purposes, of not more than 14 years, and the other, death, the D Court may feel tempted and find itself nudged into endorsing the death penalty and such a course would indeed be disastrous. It was therefore held that a far more just, reasonable and proper course would be to expand the options and to take over what, as a matter of fact, lawfully belongs to the Court, i.e., the vast hiatus between 14 years’ imprisonment E and death, and substitute a death sentence by life imprisonment or by a term in excess of 14 years and, further, to direct that the convict must not be released from prison for the rest of his life or for the actual term as specified in the , as the case may be.