Firstly, the Tribunal and thereafter the High Court had failed to appreciate this aspect of the matter. 12.1. He submits that while the assessee was selling power to the State Electricity Board at Rs. 2.32 per unit, it was selling the very same power to its sister concern (industrial units) for self-consumption at a much higher price of Rs. 3.72 per unit. It was thus clear that assessee was showing higher receipts and thereby higher profi ts from power generation which in turn was used to claim higher deduction under Section 80 IA of the Act. 12.2. Learned counsel has referred to the assessment dated 26.03.2004 and submits therefrom that the assessing offi cer was fully justifi ed in holding that Rs. 3.72 per unit shown by the assessee as the rate at which it was supplying electricity to its captive industrial units, was not the true market value. Refuting the contention of the assessee, it is contended that the rate of Rs. 3.72 charged by the State Electricity Board from its consumers could not be treated as the true market value because the State Electricity Board had to take into account various factors while determining the rate of electricity. This included distribution losses, expenses on infrastructure for distribution of power, subsidy allowed to some categories of consumers like farmers, other administrative and management expenses including expenses on collection of bills etc. 12.3. He further submits that supply of surplus electricity by the assessee to the State Electricity Board was governed by an agreement entered into between the assessee and the State Electricity Board. This agreement was voluntarily entered into by the two parties i.e. the assessee and the State Electricity Board. It was a voluntarily agreement without any element of COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX v. M/S JINDAL STEEL & POWER 499 LTD. THROUGH ITS MANAGING DIRECTOR [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] compulsion or force. Nobody had compelled the assessee to agree to the price fi xed by the State Electricity Board. He submits that there is no evidence to prove that the contracted rate of electricity of Rs. 2.32 per unit was imposed upon the assessee by the State Electricity Board. Therefore, the assessing offi cer was justifi ed in treating Rs. 2.32 per unit as the fair market rate. 12.4. Elaborating on this aspect, Mr. Rupesh Kumar, learned counsel submits that the defi nition of “market value” as appearing in sub-section (8) of Section 80 IA has to be given a reasonable meaning. He has referred to Section 80 IA of the Act as it stood at the relevant point of time, more particularly to sub-section (8) thereof. He also lays emphasis on the proviso to sub-section (8) and the explanation below the proviso. Thereafter, learned counsel has referred to the dictionary meaning of the expression “market value” and how the same is to be determined. 12.5. Adverting to the provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, learned counsel submits that under Section 43 thereof, the State Electricity Board may enter into agreements with any person producing electricity within the state for the purchase of the same by the said board of any surplus electricity which that person may be able to dispose of, on such terms as may be agreed upon.