In other words, his submission was that a constitutional interdict cannot be overcome in the manner it has been suggested by the respondents and a harmonious interpretation of the judicial service rules in the light of the directions in Malik Mazhar Sultan (3) [Malik Mazhar Sultan (3) v. U.P. Public Service Commission, (2008) 17 SCC 703 : (2010) 1 SCC (L&S) 942] should have been resorted to by the High Court. We are in agreement with this line of submissions, based as it is on the precedent of this Court. 71.2. It is a settled principle of service jurisprudence that when vacancies are notifi ed for conducting a selection for appointments to public posts, the number of appointments cannot exceed the vacancies which are notifi ed. The answer to this submission, which has been proff ered by the respondents is that under Rule 7(1) a probable number of vacancies is required to be notifi ed and since an exact number is not notifi ed, there is no constitutional bar in exceeding the 37 probable vacancies that were notifi ed in 2019. The diffi culty in accepting the submission is simply this : it attributes to the expression “probable number of vacancies” a meaning which is inconsistent with basic principles of service jurisprudence, the requirement of observing the mandate of equality of opportunity in public employment under Articles 14 and 16 and is contrary to the ordinary meaning of the expression. Black’s Law Dictionary [ 11th Edn. (Thomson Reuters West, 2019).The defi nition of “Probable” in the 4th Edn., Revision 6 (1971) of the Black’s Law Dictionary was:“Having the appearance of truth; having the character of probability; appearing to be founded in reason or experience …; having more evidence for than against; supported by evidence which inclines the mind to believe, but leaves some room for doubt; Apparently true yet possibly false.”] defi nes the expression “probable” as: VIVEK KAISTH & ANR v. THE STATE OF HIMACHAL 633 PRADESH & ORS [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] “Probable : likely to exist, be true, or happen” “Probable number of vacancies”, as we have seen, is based on computing the existing vacancies and the vacancies anticipated to occur during the year. It also accounts for the possibility of inclusion of some of the candidates that are in the wait list. However, the expression “probable” cannot be interpreted as a vague assessment of vacancies that is not founded in reason and can be altered without a statutorily prescribed cause. To allow the concept of probable number of vacancies in Rule 7(1) to trench upon future vacancies which will arise in a succeeding year would lead to a serious constitutional infraction. Candidates who become eligible for applying for recruitment during a succeeding year of recruitment would have a real constitutional grievance that vacancies which have arisen during a subsequent year during which they have become eligible have been allocated to an earlier recruitment year. If the directions of the High Court are followed, this would seriously aff ect the fairness of the process which has been followed by glossing over the fact that vacancies which have arisen during 2020 will be allocated for candidates in the select list for the year 2019.