Against the impugned and passed by the High Court directing to release the respondent-accused Vikas Mishra on statutory/default bail, the CBI has preferred the present appeal. C 3. While issuing notice on 27.02.2023, this Court passed the following : “Issue notice to consider the prayer of the Investigating Agency to have the custodial interrogation of the accused, making it D returnable on 13.03.2023. Shri Rajat Sehgal, learned counsel accepts notice on behalf of the respondent, who is on caveat. To be notified within first ten items.” 4. Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, learned ASG appearing on behalf of the E CBI has vehemently submitted that as such the CBI got the police custody remand for a period of seven days on 16.04.2021 till 22.04.2021. It is submitted that however the accused got himself first admitted to hospital and thereafter got interim bail which came to be subsequently cancelled on 08.12.2021, the CBI could not exercise the police custody remand F which as such was allowed by the learned Special Judge on 16.04.2021. 4.1 It is submitted that as such the granting seven days police custody remand attained finality and therefore the CBI should be given the police custody remand of the accused for the remainder period of seven days. G 4.2 It is submitted that as such all throughout the respondent- accused managed to get himself hospitalised on one ground or the other and therefore as such successfully frustrated the of police remand allowed by the learned Special Judge. It is submitted that nobody can be permitted to frustrate the court’s process. H 326 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 4.3 Making above submissions, it is prayed to grant the police custody remand of the respondent-accused for the remainder period of seven days which the CBI could not exercise because of the respondent got himself hospitalised and was released on interim bail. 5. The present application and the prayer of the CBI for further B police custody remand is vehemently opposed by Shri Neeraj Kishan Kaul, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent – accused. 5.1 Relying upon the decisions of this Court in the case of Central Bureau of Investigation v. Anupam J. Kulkarni, reported in (1992) C 3 SCC 141 and the subsequent decision in the case of Budh Singh v. State of Punjab, reported in (2000) 9 SCC 266, it is vehemently submitted by Shri Neeraj Kishan Kaul, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the accused that as such no police custody can be granted/ allowed beyond the first 15 days from the date of arrest. It is submitted that therefore now the police custody which shall be beyond the period D of 15 days from the date of arrest is not permissible. 5.2 It is further submitted that even otherwise in the present case the respondent-accused was hospitalised from time to time due to his grave and fragile medical condition. That on 18.04.2021, the health of the respondent heavily deteriorated due to which he had to be admitted E in the hospital by the appellant agency itself.