However, to do complete justice and in exercise of powers under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, I direct that over and above the sale consideration mentioned in the agreement to sell and the amount already deposited by the plaintiff, the plaintiff to pay a further sum of D Rs. 10,00,000/- (Rupees Ten Lakhs only) to the original defendants, to be paid within a period of six weeks from today. The amount which might have been deposited by the original defendants, deposited pursuant to the impugned and passed by the High Court, i.e., Rs. 3,10,000/- be also returned/paid to the original defendants. E 9. The present appeal is accordingly allowed in the aforesaid terms. However, in the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no as to costs. NAGARATHNA, J. 1. I have had the advantage of reading the proposed by F His Lordship M.R. Shah, J. However, I regret to agree with the reasoning as well as the conclusion arrived at by His Lordship. Hence, my separate . 2. The plaintiff in Original Suit No. 205/2006 has assailed the dated 03rd November, 2021, passed by the High Court of Kerala G at Ernakulam in Regular First Appeal No. 63 of 2009. By the impugned , the High Court has set-aside the and decree passed by the Trial Court, i.e., the Court of the Subordinate Judge, Tirur in O.S. No. 205/2006, by which the suit for specific performance of an agreement of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights, filed by the plaintiff, was allowed. H Hence, the appeal by the plaintiff in the suit. C. HARIDASAN v. ANAPPATH PARAKKATTU VASUDEVA 259 KURUP [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 3. For the sake of convenience, the parties herein shall be referred A to in terms of their rank and status before the Trial Court. 4. The case of the plaintiff in a nutshell is stated as under: 4.1 That the defendants who have Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights over the suit property, measuring 37 cents since 1989, assigned such B rights over the same in favour of the plaintiff for a consideration of Rs. 8750/- per cent. That an agreement of sale in respect of the Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights over the suit property was entered into between the defendants-sellers and the plaintiff-buyer on 7th August, 2005 in the presence of witnesses. An advance sale consideration of Rs. 10,000/- was paid by the plaintiff. The remaining sale consideration was required C as per the agreement to be paid within six months from the date on which agreement of sale was entered into, following which the sale deed was to be executed in favour of the plaintiff or his nominees, in respect of the Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights, which are valuable usufructuary rights and possession of the suit property was to be handed D over to the plaintiff. 4.2 That before the expiry of six months, the defendants were to make available to the plaintiff documents pertaining to the suit property, such as tax receipts, non-encumbrance certificate, purchase certificate etc.