As we have noticed, there was severe criticism, E particularly by Shri Kunzuru and Professor Shiben Lal Saxena, and it was thereupon, that Shri K.M. Munshi while supporting Ambedkar’s amendment to the original article, recommended that the appointment be subject to the law made by the Parliament. It is on this fundamental basis that the amendment which was proposed by Dr. Ambedkar to the F original article was adopted. 31. Professor Saxena was emphatic that the draft amended Article 289, which contemplated appointment being made by the President, without anything more, would necessarily mean that the Prime Minister would end up appointing the Commission. He warned that it would not G ensure their independence. He was clear that in future, no Prime Minister should abuse the right to appoint.Shri H.V. Pataskar felt Article 289(2) sufficed. The thought which comforted the Member was not merelysome official of the Government could be appointed as Election Commissioners but people in the position of High Court Judges. Pandit Hirday Nath Kunzru clearly articulated the anxiety and the need for the preparation H 54 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A of the electoral roll and the conduct of the elections, being entrusted to people, who were free from political bias and whose impartiality could be relied upon ‘in all circumstances’. The plight of the President, who has to act on the advice of the Prime Minister, was highlighted. It was the learned Member, who suggested the remedy for the defect, thatis that the Parliament should be authorised to make provisions for these B matters, by law. This was also the view of the Sub-Committee on Fundamental Rights. Shri K. M. Munshi, took the view that the Election Commission must remain to a large extent an ally of the Government. The pursuit of independence of the Election Commission, he felt, should not result in there arising ‘a kingdom within a kingdom’. It was not to be C a quasi-independent organ of the Government. This is on the basis that the Election Commission would necessarily have to rely upon Officers, who would have to be provided by the Government. Finally, we find Dr. Ambedkar acknowledging the existence of a great deal of merit in the fear that guaranteeing a fixed and secured tenure, was of no use, if there was no provision in the Constitution, which would stand in the way D of either an incompetent or unfair official, becoming and running the Election Commission. In particular, Dr. Ambedkar foresaw the danger of the Election Commissioners, being persons who were likely to be under the control of the Executive. The provision, as proposed to be amended by Dr. Ambedkar, it was admitted by Dr. Ambedkar himself, E did not provide against an ‘unfit’ person being appointed to the Election Commission. Thereafter, he predicted that the question will emerge as one of the greatest headaches. He found solace in the prospect of an instrument of instructions being issued to the President, which would guide the President in the matter of appointment to the Election.