33. We further fi nd that the 2012 Service Rules as framed by the State of Uttarakhand were framed on the basis of notifi cations issued by NCTE on 23rd August 2010 and 29th July 2011. These 2012 Service Rules were amended from time to time and as existing on the date of advertisement, they 614 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. specifi cally provide for a 2 years D.El.Ed. course known as B.T.C. training in the State of Uttarakhand as a minimum qualifi cation. It also provided that a person to be eligible to apply for the said post must have completed 2 years D.El.Ed. course from NIOS and qualifi ed Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) or who has completed 2 years D.El.Ed. course from any other Institute recognized by NCTE and qualifi ed TET. The advertisements issued by various District Education Offi cers also provided the same qualifi cations. It can thus be seen that acquiring of 2 years Diploma in Elementary Education was a minimum qualifi cation as prescribed under the statutory Rules. It will be apposite to refer to the following observations of this Court in the case of Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (supra), wherein this Court has referred to its earlier s including that of a Constitution Bench: “15. A Constitution Bench in Sant Ram Sharma v. State of Rajasthan [Sant Ram Sharma v. State of Rajasthan, AIR 1967 SC 1910 : (1968) 1 SCR 111] considered the applicability of the letters issued by the Government of India detailing the administrative practice for promotions, against the Indian Police Service (Regulation of Seniority) Rules, 1954. The Constitution Bench held that : (AIR p. 1914, para 7) “7. We proceed to consider the next contention of Mr N.C. Chatterjee that in the absence of any statutory rules governing promotions to selection grade posts the Government cannot issue administrative instructions and such administrative instructions cannot impose any restrictions not found in the Rules already framed. We are unable to accept this argument as correct. It is true that there is no specifi c provision in the Rules laying down the principle of promotion of junior or senior grade offi cers to selection grade posts. But that does not mean that till statutory rules are framed in this behalf the Government cannot issue administrative instructions regarding the principle to be followed in promotions of the offi cers concerned to selection grade posts. It is true that Government cannot amend or supersede statutory rules by administrative instructions, but if the rules are silent on any particular point Government can fi ll up the gaps and supplement the rules and issue instructions not inconsistent with the rules already framed.” (emphasis supplied) JAIVEER SINGH AND OTHERS v. THE STATE OF 615 UTTARAKHAND AND OTHERS [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 16. In Union of India v. Ashok Kumar Aggarwal [Union of India v. Ashok Kumar Aggarwal, (2013) 16 SCC 147 : (2014) 3 SCC (L&S) 405] a two-Judge Bench of this Court speaking in the context of service regulations governing a departmental enquiry reiterated that an offi ce or offi ce memorandum cannot contravene statutory rules.