The rejection of their objection is also reiterated. Judicial Officers cannot be left in the lurch for prolonged periods of time without a revision of pay on an alleged paucity of financial resources. 29. This Court in its Review dated 05.04.2023 has explained G this position in the following words: “4. In view of the above discussion, the issue is whether there is any compelling need to reduce the quantum of increase 12 dated 28.02.2020 in WP(C) No.643/2015 at para 7. 13 dated 27.07.2022 in WP(C) No.643/2015 at para 13. H 14 dated 05.04.2023 in Review Petition (Diary No) 34780/2022 at para 19. ALL INDIA JUDGES ASSOCIATION v. UNION OF INDIA 51 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] proposed by applying a lower multiplier so as to marginally A reduce the gap between entry level IAS officers (in Junior and Senior time scales) and Judicial Officers at the first two levels (Civil Judge, Junior and Senior Divisions). Such an exercise is not warranted for more than one reason. Firstly, the initial starting pay must be such as to offer an incentive B to talented youngsters to join judicial service. Secondly, the application of a multiplier/ factor less than 2.81 would result in a deviation from the principle adopted by SNJPC that the extent of increase of pay of judicial officers must be commensurate with the increase in the pay of High Court judges. This principle has been accepted by this Court by C approving the recommendations of the SNJPC. Therefore, there is no valid reason to depart from the principle applied by JPC that the pay of judicial officers should be higher when compared to All India Service Officers of the corresponding rank. This principle has been approved by this Court in AIJA D (2002) Thirdly, in All India Judges Association (II) v. Union of India this court rejected the comparison of service conditions of the judiciary with that of the administrative executive: “7. It is not necessary to repeat here what has been stated in E the under review while dealing with the same contentions raised there. We cannot however, help observing that the failure to realize the distinction between the judicial service and the other services is at the bottom of the hostility displayed by the review petitioners to the directions given in the . The judicial service is not service in the sense F of ‘employment’. The Judges are not employees. As members of the judiciary, they exercise the sovereign judicial power of the State. They are holders of public offices in the same way as the members of the council of ministers and the members of the legislature. When it is said that in a democracy such as G ours, the executive, the legislature and the judiciary constitute the three pillars of the State, what is intended to be conveyed is that the three essential functions of the State are entrusted to the three organs of the State and each one of them in turn represents the authority of the State.