That apart, once the claim of the employee for granting compassionate appointment was rejected on 11.02.2015 without challenge to this , the question would be as to whether the application itself was maintainable before the Tribunal is also a crucial question. As all these questions have not been adverted to by the Tribunal in right perspective, we allow this petition, quash the passed by the Tribunal and remand the matter back to the Tribunal for reconsideration. The Tribunal is directed to proceed in the matter and decide the application now within a period of three months. With the aforesaid, the petition stands allowed and disposed of.” On remand, the Tribunal vide dated 18.12.2017 dismissed the same with an observation that the Board Circular dated 12.11.2014 gives clarification to the words “medically de-categorised” which is clarificatory to the original circular dated 14.6.2006 and would apply from the date of the said circular. In view of the clarificatory nature of the circular, it was observed that the appellant has been declared fit in his original medical category but unfit for the post he occupied, therefore, he is not entitled for the relief as prayed. The review filed by the Appellant against the said was dismissed on 16.7.2018 by the Tribunal. Being aggrieved, the appellant filed Writ Petition No. 25302 of 2018 before the High Court of Madhya Pradesh, Principal Bench at Jabalpur which came to be dismissed vide dated 13.11.2018, putting a stamp of approval to the findings recorded by the Tribunal, which resulted in filing of this appeal. During pendency of the appeal in the proceedings of the case, this Court on 10.10.2023 passed the following : ASHOK KUMAR MEWARI v. UNION OF 1539 INDIA & OTHERS “The petitioner was an employee of the Railways who applied for voluntary retirement on medical ground and submitted an application on 18.06.2013 with a request to retire him voluntarily and instead of granting alternative post, his son Mukesh Mewari who is B.Com (Pass) may be considered for appointment at his place. On considering the said application, by the office of Divisional Railway Manager vide communication dated 12.09.2013 informed to the petitioner that his request for voluntary retirement has been accepted by the competent authority from 18.09.2013 (Afternoon) and he be treated as retired but no was passed on the prayer of grant of compassionate appointment to his son. During hearing, it is urged by the petitioner that a composite prayer was made by him asking voluntary retirement and to grant compassionate appointment to his son, therefore, accepting the prayer of voluntary retirement only is not justified. In support of his contention, reliance is placed on the of this Court in the case of Food Corporation of India and Another v. Ram Kesh Yadav and Another (2007) 9 SCC 531. In the facts and circumstances of this case, we find substance in the argument as advanced by the petitioner. We have also perused the passed by the Tribunal and the High Court. On perusal thereof, it appears that the clarification issued subsequently on 12.11.2014 by the Railways has been made applicable in the case of the petitioner though the request for voluntary retirement and to grant compassionate appointment to the petitioner’s son was prior to the said clarification.