The present, however, is certainly not such a case, and the High Court was, therefore, in error in brushing aside this serious infi rmity in the prosecution case on unconvincing premises.” 21. A similar view with regard to non-explanation of injuries has been taken by this Court in the cases of State of Rajasthan v. Madho and Another4, State of M.P. v. Mishrilal (Dead) and Others5, Nagarathinam and Others v. State Represented by Inspector of Police6 and recently in the case of Nand Lal (supra). 22. Undisputedly, in the present case also, the witnesses are interested witnesses. The injuries sustained by three accused persons are not at all explained. The trial court and the High Court have not considered this aspect of the matter. 23. Non-explanation of injuries on the persons of the accused would create a doubt, as to, whether, the prosecution has brought on record the real genesis of the incident or not. Undisputedly, as observed hereinabove, a cross case was also registered against the complainant party for the injuries sustained by the accused persons. 24. The defence taken by the accused persons is that when they were coming back from the Police Station, it was the complainant party which started assaulting them resulting into a free fi ght. Their further case is that in the said free fi ght, the persons from both the sides received injuries. As a result of the injury caused in the said free fi ght, Madan died. 4 1991 Supp (2) SCC 396 5 (2003) 9 SCC 426 6 (2006) 9 SCC 57 198 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 25. From the material placed on record, it is also not clear as to whether the common object of the unlawful assembly was to cause the death of the deceased or not. The entire incident arose on account of the happening on a day prior to the day of occurrence of the present incident, i.e. the buff alo of the complainant party spoiling the taparia built by accused Jalim Singh. It is quite possible that the accused persons did not have an intention to cause death of anybody from the complainant party. It is possible that the accused persons only assembled to teach a lesson to the complainant party on account of the buff alo from their party damaging the taparia of the accused Jalim Singh. 26. We are therefore of the considered view that the appellants are entitled to benefi t of doubt. The conviction under Section 302 IPC would not be sustainable. The prosecution has failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the unlawful assembly had an intention to cause the death of the deceased. As such, we fi nd that the case would fall under Part-II of Section 304 of IPC. 27. In the result, the appeals are disposed of with the following directions: (i) The conviction under Section 302 IPC is altered to Part-II of Section 304 of IPC; (ii) The appellants are sentenced to suff er rigorous imprisonment for 7 years.