31. Tested against this backdrop, the manner and method in which the panchnamas and memos were prepared in the case on hand leave the prosecution high and dry. For instance, the Naksha Panchnama (Ex. P3) dated 29.03.2013 records the names of fi ve witnesses, including PW-2 and PW-8, and states that the witnesses inspected the body of deceased Ajit Pal @ Bobby; that there was a big wound on the right side of the neck of the deceased; that, in the opinion of the panch witnesses, the deceased was murdered by Rajesh Yadav and Raja Yadav by cutting his throat with a knife; that his body was stuff ed in a sack; and that the sack was thrown in a well. It then goes on to record the opinion of the Investigating Offi cer (PW-16) wherein, after noting the factual aspects, he stated that Ajit Pal was murdered by Rajesh Yadav and Raja Yadav by cutting his throat with a knife. Notably, the narrative is not that of the panch witnesses but mostly of PW-16 himself and the panch witnesses merely signed the panchnama. Akin thereto, the Crime Details Form (Ex. P13) notes that the scene of the crime was visited on 29.03.2013 at 15:15 hours and records that, 15 metres from the Khandari Canal, an old well is situated; that there are bushes growing around the well; that there was a body inside a white sack which was fl oating in the water in the well; that the width of the well was 2 metres 70 cms. ; that the well was 6 metres deep; and that there was 1 metre water in the well and 5 metres was empty. Signifi cantly, though the Crime Details Form notes that two panch witnesses were present, there is no narrative by them and they simply signed the form. The same is the position with the Crime Details Form (Ex. P14), relating to the fi nding of blood on the walls of the washing area and the fl oor; black plastic slippers; and an empty bottle of liquor. The same panch witnesses fi nd mention in this Crime Detail Form and they affi xed their signatures but again, it is not their narrative and there is no recording of how they went about fi nding these objects. Further, the form straightaway records the opinion that Rajesh 22 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Yadav and Raja Yadav had murdered Ajit Pal, put his body in a plastic sack and threw it into the well. 32. Property Seizure Memos (Ex. P18 and Ex. P23), relating to the seizure of the blood-stained clothes of Rajesh Yadav and Raja Yadav respectively, are drafted likewise wherein the witnesses, Bambam (PW-9) and Surjeet Singh, are named but there is no narrative on their part as to how they were led and assisted by someone to fi nd these objects. On the same lines, Property Seizure Memo (Ex. P9), relating to the seizure of the blood-stained soil, controlled soil and the plastic slippers; Property Seizure Memo (Ex.