undistributed profi ts consist wholly or partly of profi ts or income arising in such other Contracting State.” The signifi cant provision concerning avoidance of double taxation is contained in Article 25, which is re-produced hereinunder: “25. AVOIDANCE OF DOUBLE TAXATION. (1) The law in force in either of the Contracting States will continue to govern the taxation of the income in the respective Contracting States except where provisions to the contrary are made in this Agreement. (2) Where a resident of India derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, may be taxed in the Sultanate of Oman, India shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the income of that resident an amount equal to the income tax paid in the Sultanate of Oman, whether directly or by deduction. Such deduction shall not, however, exceed that part of the income tax(as computed before the deduction is given) which is attributable to the income which may be taxed in the Sultanate of Oman. (3) Where a resident of the Sultanate of Oman derives income which, in accordance with the provisio0ns of this Agreement, may be taxed in India, the Sultanate of Oman shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the Income of the resident an amount equal to the income tax paid in India, whether directly or by deduction. Such deduction shall not, however, exceed that part of the income tax (as computed before the deduction is given) which is attributable to the income which may be taxed in India. (4) The tax payable in a Contracting State mentioned in paragraph 2 and Paragraph 3 of this Article shall be deemed to include the tax which would have been payable but for the tax incentive granted under the laws of the Contracting State and which are designed to promote development. (5) Income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, is not to be subjected to tax in a Contracting State, may be taken into account for calculating the rate of tax to be imposed in that Contracting State.” PRINCIPAL COMMISSION ER OF INCOME TAX-10 v. M/S KRISHAK 597 BHARTI COOPERATIVE LTD. [PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, J.] The provisions contained in Omani Tax Laws, relied upon by the assessee read as follows: “Article 8 (bis) – In exception to the provisions of Article 8 of this law, tax shall not apply on the following: 1. Dividends received by the company against equity shares, portions or stocks in the capital of any other company. 2. Profi ts or gains realized by the company from the sale of securities listed in Muscat Securities Market or from their disposal.” 13. Article 25 (2) of the DTAA provides that where a resident of India derives income, which in accordance with this agreement, may be taxed in the Sultanate of Oman, India shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the income of that resident an amount equal to the income tax paid in the Sultanate of Oman, whether directly or by deduction.