17. Instruments executed in India. — All instruments chargeable with duty and executed by any person in [India] shall G be stamped before or at the time of execution. 18. Instruments other than bills and notes executed out of India.—(1) Every instrument chargeable with duty executed only out of [India], and not being a bill of exchange or promissory note, may be stamped within three months after it has been first received H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 399 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] in [India]. (2) Where any such instrument cannot, with reference A to the description of stamp prescribed therefore, be duly stamped by a private person, it may be taken within the said period of three months to the Collector, who shall stamp the same, in such manner as the [State Government] may by rule prescribe, with a stamp of such value as the person so taking such instrument may require B and pay for.” 34. ‘Instrument’ as defined under Section 2(14) of the Act, 1899 includes every document by which any right or liability is, or purports to be, created, transferred, limited, extended, extinguished, or recorded. The term ‘Instrument’ as defined under Section 2(14) refers to the original C instrument and not a copy or a duly certified copy of the same. It is only on production of the original instrument, the deficiencies in the stamp duty/penalty can be paid to validate the same. 35. Chapter IV (Section 33 to Section 48) of the Act, 1899 titled ‘Instruments not duly stamped’ provides for the procedure to be followed D when an instrument which ought to have been stamped is not stamped. 36. Section 33 of the Act, 1899 provides for ‘Examination and impounding of instruments’. Under sub-section (1) of Section 33, “Every person having by law or consent of parties authority to receive evidence, and every person in charge of a public office, except an officer of police, E before whom any instrument, chargeable, in his opinion, with duty, is produced or comes in the performance of his functions, shall, if it appears to him that such instrument is not duly stamped, impound the same”. Section 33(2) of the Act, 1899 provides that every instrument chargeable with duty shall be examined by such person as explained in sub-section (1), “in to ascertain whether it is stamped with a stamp of the F value and description required by the law in force in India when such instrument was executed or first executed”. The definition of ‘duly stamped’ as contained in Section 2(11) as applied to an instrument means that the instrument bears an adhesive or impressed stamp of not less than the proper amount and that such stamp has been affixed or used in G accordance with law for the time being in force in India. 37. A plain reading of Section 33 of the Act, 1899 thus explains that when an instrument or a document is produced before the authority, it is the duty of such authority to examine whether the instrument is duly stamped or not, and if it is found that the instrument is not “duly stamped” H 400 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R.