LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 993 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 29. The plea of estoppel is closely connected with the plea of waiver, the object of both being to ensure bona fi des in day-to-day transactions. In Basheshar Nath v. CIT [1959 Supp 1 SCR 528 : AIR 1959 SC 149 : (1959) 35 ITR 190], a Constitution Bench of this Court considered the question whether the fundamental rights conferred by the Constitution can be waived. Two members of the Bench (Das, C.J. and Kapoor, J.) held that there can be no waiver of the fundamental right founded on Article 14 of the Constitution. Two others (N.H. Bhagwati and Subba Rao, JJ.) held that not only could there be no waiver of the right conferred by Article 14, but there could be no waiver of any other fundamental right guaranteed by Part III of the Constitution. The Constitution makes no distinction, according to the learned Judges, between fundamental rights enacted for the benefi t of an individual and those enacted in public interest or on grounds of public policy.” (Emphasis supplied) Issue No. IV 86. The issue as regards, the validity of arbitration clause empowering the Principal Secretary/Secretary (Irrigation), Government of Uttarakhand to appoint an arbitrator of his choice is concerned, the same could be said to be covered by the decision of this Court in Perkins Eastman (supra): 87. If circumstances exist giving rise to justifi able doubts as to the independence and impartiality of the person nominated or if other circumstances warrant appointment of an independent arbitrator by ignoring the procedure prescribed, the Chief Justice or his designate may, for reasons to be recorded ignore the designated arbitrator and appoint someone else. [See: IOC v. Raja Transport Pvt. Ltd, (2009) 8 SCC 520] 88. In the aforesaid context, we must look into the amended Section 12 of the 1996 Act. Section 12 reads thus: “12. Grounds for challenge. (1) When a person is approached in connection with his possible appointment as an arbitrator, he shall disclose in writing any circumstances,— 994 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. (a) such as the existence either direct or indirect, of any past or present relationship with or interest in any of the parties or in relation to the subject-matter in dispute, whether fi nancial, business, professional or other kind, which is likely to give rise to justifi able doubts as to his independence or impartiality; and (b) which are likely to aff ect his ability to devote suffi cient time to the arbitration and in particular his ability to complete the entire arbitration within a period of twelve months. Explanation 1.—The grounds stated in the Fifth Schedule shall guide in determining whether circumstances exist which give rise to justifi able doubts as to the independence or impartiality of an arbitrator. Explanation 2.—The disclosure shall be made by such person in the form specifi ed in the Sixth Schedule.] (3) An arbitrator may be challenged only if— (a) circumstances exist that give rise to justifi able doubts as to his independence or impartiality, or (b) he does not possess the qualifi cations agreed to by the parties.