criminal liability for the offences which the amalgamating entity- the erstwhile LVB is accused of. 23. There was some divergence of opinion amongst certain High Court about the liability of corporate entities. The Calcutta High Court’s view was that that only natural persons, could be ascribed with intention or “mens rea”. Resultantly, a juristic person such as a company could not be ascribed with criminal intent [Ref Champa Agency v. R. Chowdhury16, Sunil Banerjee v. Krishna Nath17, and AK Khosla v. Venkatesan18 ]. The Bombay High Court, differed, and had taken note of developments in the United Kingdom. In Esso Standard Inc. v. Udharam Bhagwandas Japanwalla19arguments were advanced before the court on whether a company can have mens rea, and on how the process of attribution would, in fact, operate, with the precise question being whose mens rea would be attributed to the company. The High Court accepted that a strict test of mens rea was required to locate or ascribe criminal responsibility of a company, on the concerned decision maker. The Court adopted this line of reasoning, approving Lord Diplock’s opinion in Tesco Supermarkets Ltd. v. Nattrass20, including the following relevant observations: “In my view, therefore, the question: what natural persons are to be treated in law as being the company for the purpose of acts done in the course of its business, including the taking of precautions and the exercise of due diligence to avoid the commission of a criminal off ence, is to be found by identifying those natural persons who by the memorandum and articles of association or as a result of action taken by the directors, or by the company in general meeting pursuant to the articles, are entrusted with the exercise of the powers of the company.” In Meridian Global Funds Management Asia Ltd v Securities Commission21, a more nuanced approach was adopted: 16 1974 CHN 400. 17 AIR 1949 Cal 689. 18 1992 (98) CrLJ 1448 (Cal). 19 [1975] 45 Comp Cas 16 (Bom). 20 1971 (2) All ER 127. 21 [1995] 3 All ER 918. RELIGARE FINVEST LIMITED v. STATE OF NCT OF 209 DELHI & ANR. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] “These primary rules of attribution are obviously not enough to enable a company to go out into the world and do business. Not every act on behalf of the company could be expected to be the subject of a resolution of the board or a unanimous decision of the shareholders. The company therefore builds upon the primary rules of attribution by using general rules of attribution which are equally available to natural persons, namely, the principles of agency. It will appoint servants and agents whose acts, by a combination of the general principles of agency and the company’s primary rules of attribution, count as the acts of the company. And having done so, it will also make itself subject to the general rules by which liability for the acts of others can be attributed to natural persons, such as estoppel or ostensible authority in contract and vicarious liability or tort.