It is submitted by the learned senior counsel that in this case, the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate examined as PW-18 had not complied with the requirement of Section 306(4)(a) of the Code and that therefore the B evidence of the approver is liable to be eschewed. 56. Shri S. Nagamuthu, learned senior counsel also submitted that the requirement of examining an approver once as a court witness before committal and then as a prosecution witness during trial, prescribed by Section 306(4)(a), will not be applicable to a case covered by Section C 307 of the Code, which empowers the Court to which the case is committed for trial, itself to grant pardon. But in the case on hand, the case was not committed by any Magistrate/Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate to the Special Court and hence, the prosecution cannot even rely upon Section 307 of the Code. 57. Adverting to the provisions of sub-sections (1) and (2) of D Section 5 of the PC Act, it was contended by Shri S. Nagamuthu, learned senior counsel that the power to tender a pardon was available even to the Special Court. The pardon so tendered by the Special Court is deemed under sub-section (2) of Section 5 to be a pardon tendered under Section 307 of the Code. But this deeming fiction is limited in its applicability E only for the purposes of sub-sections (1) to (5) of Section 308 of the Code. In other words, the power of the Court to grant pardon under Section 307 of the Code is materially different from the power of the Special Court under Section 5(2) of the PC Act. In fact, Section 5(1) of the PC Act empowers the Special Court to take cognizance without the case being committed to it by any Magistrate. The provisions of F Section 193 of the Code thus stand excluded in their application. The Special Court is thus conferred by Section 5(1) of the PC Act, original jurisdiction to take cognizance. This principle has been recognized by this Court in Bangaru Laxman vs. State (through CBI)11, wherein it was held that the Special Judge has a dual power, namely that of a G Court of Session and that of a Magistrate. Relying upon the decision in Harshad S. Mehta vs. State of Maharashtra12 and the decisions in P.C. Mishra vs. State (Central Bureau of Investigation)13 and State 11 (2012) 1 SCC 500 12 (2001) 8 SCC 257 13 (2014) 14 SCC 629 H 46 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A through Central Bureau of Investigation, Chennai vs. V. Arul Kumar14, the learned senior counsel contended that the request for pardon should have been made in this case at the stage of investigation only before the Special Court. Even assuming that it was a curable defect, there must be an evidence of good faith on the part of PW-18 (the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate). In the absence of such an evidence, B it is contended that the testimony of the approver was liable to be eschewed in this case.