The Delimitation Act, 2002 is silent about the term C of the appointment of the Chairperson. [Para 36][546-B-C] Exclusion of the North-Eastern States from the purview of the notification dated 6th March 2020 4.1. Another challenge is to that part of the second impugned notification dated 31st March 2021 by which the States D of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur and Nagaland were excluded from the purview of the Delimitation Commission constituted under the notification dated 6th March 2020. In the counter affidavit filed by the Union of India, reliance has been placed on the letter dated 22nd February 2021 issued by the Deputy E Secretary (NE-III), Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India. In paragraphs 5 and 6 of the counter affidavit, it is stated that the Delimitation Commission set up on 12th July 2002 under the Chairmanship of a retired Judge of this Court had completed the delimitation exercise in respect of the entire country except for four North-Eastern States of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, F Manipur and Nagaland. It is stated that delimitation of these four States was deferred due to security reasons. Section 10A of the Delimitation Act, 2002 permitted such a course to be adopted. Though these four States were a part of the notification dated 6th March 2020, it is stated in the letter dated 22nd February 2021 G that there were number of petitions pending in this Court as well as in the Manipur High Court concerning delimitation exercise in North-Eastern States and that in the Court cases, discrepancies in census figures of 2001 in relation to these States were pointed out. In fact, it is stated that a number of notices have been issued H HAJI ABDUL GANI KHAN & ANR. v. UNION OF INDIA & 515 ORS. regarding the said discrepancies. Therefore, the said letter was A issued with the approval of the competent authority in which it was stated that it may not be conducive to grant an extension for the process of delimitation in the four North-Eastern States. The term of the Chairman of the Delimitation Commission constituted under the first impugned notification dated 6th march 2020 was to B expire on 5th March 2021. In view of the aforesaid letter, while extending the term of the Chairman by one more year by the second impugned notification dated 3rd March 2021, the said four States were excluded. Thus, in effect, the term of the Delimitation Commission constituted under the notification dated 6th March 2020 was extended by a period of one year only in relation to the C Union territory of J & K. By the third impugned notification, the period was further extended by a period of two months. Section 10A of the Delimitation Act, 2002 itself permits the postponement of the exercise of delimitation in certain contingencies. Moreover, the position and the status of the newly created Union Territory D of J&K under the Constitution is completely different from the four North-Eastern States. In its applicability to the Union Territory of J & K, Sections 4 and 9 of the Delimitation Act, 2002 stand amended by requiring readjustment to be carried out on the basis of the census figures of 2011.