82. Relying on the of this Court in the case of Internet B and Mobile Association of India (supra), Shri Gupta submits that to consider the question of proportionality, a four-pronged test, as set out in the of this Court in the case of Modern Dental College and Research Centre and Others v. State of Madhya Pradesh and Others50 is required to be applied. It is submitted that since the measure C is designated for the purpose of dealing with fake currency, black money and terror funding, the first test stands satisfied. The measure, i.e. demonetization, has a reasonable nexus for the fulfillment of the purpose of aforesaid three objectives and, as such, the second test is also fulfilled. Insofar as the third test is concerned, it is submitted that it is a matter of economic policy as to what measure is found to be appropriate for D achieving the objective of dealing with the menace of aforesaid three evils. It is submitted that it is for the experts in the economic and monetary fields to take a decision in that regard and, as such, the third test, as to whether there was no alternative less invasive measure, would not be applicable to a decision pertaining to economic policy. Insofar as the E fourth test is concerned, it is submitted that, as a matter of fact, there has been no infringement of the rights of the citizens. As a matter of fact, no currency is being taken away. Full value of the legitimate currency has been exchanged. It is submitted that non-cash transactions such as credit card, debit card, on-line transaction, etc. were permitted even during the period between 8th November 2016 and 31st December 2016. F In any case, it is submitted that immediately after the demonetization was notified, in spite of enormity of operations, immediate steps were taken for the betterment of the public and to ensure adequate cash supply. It is submitted that various measures were taken in to alleviate the genuine grievances of the citizens, which have been enumerated in G paragraphs 11 to 17 of the affidavit dated 19th December 2018 filed on behalf of the RBI.It is, therefore, submitted that the proportionality test would not be applicable in the present case. 83. Shri Gupta relying on the of this Court in the case of Small Scale Industrial Manufactures Association (Registered) v. H 50 (2016) 7 SCC 353 VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 59 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] Union of India and others51 submits that normally, it is not within the A domain of any court to weigh the pros and cons of the policy or to scrutinize it except only when it is found to be arbitrary and violative of any constitutional or any statutory provisions of law. 84. Shri Gupta further submits that a similar provision providing for a specified time for exchange of notes has already been found to be B valid by the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Jayantilal Ratanchand Shah (supra).