This, in our view, is not the true operation of the scheme of the process of corporate insolvency resolution nor could the commercial wisdom of CoC be a matter of assumption. Looking to the nature and form of decision taken by the CoC in its ninth meeting, such a conditional approval could not have been treated as a final approval. Whereafter, whatever be the revision, the plan was only to be presented to CoC and F could have been presented to the Adjudicating Authority only after final approval of CoC by the requisite majority. In other words, when the modified resolution plan, even if carrying minor modification/revision was not finally approved by CoC, its presentation to the Adjudicating Authority amounts to a material irregularity and this defect cannot be cured. G 48.2. The suggestion of post facto approval of the revised resolution plan in the tenth CoC meeting has only been noted to be rejected. There is no and there cannot be any concept of post facto approval of any resolution plan by CoC which had not been placed before it prior to the filing before the Adjudicating Authority. Moreover, in the H tenth CoC meeting dated 15.06.2021, Agenda Item No. A1 only related M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 907 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] to the updates of resolution professional where he, of course, stated A about the plan having been revised and filed with NCLT on 04.02.2021. Such updates by resolution professional, even if taken note of by CoC, could hardly be considered as of approval by requisite majority of voting share in the CoC. In any case, prior to this meeting, the plan had already been presented to the Adjudicating Authority. That plan could not have B been approved thereafter by the CoC. 49. We would hasten to observe that the requirement of CIRP Regulations, particularly of placing the resolution plan in its final form before the CoC, has to be scrupulously complied with. No alteration or modification in the process could be countenanced. We say so for the C specific reason concerning law that if the process as adopted in the present matter is approved, the very scheme of the Code and CIRP regulations would be left open-ended and would be capable of inviting arbitrariness at any level. The minor procedural aspects which we have held to be not of material bearing hereinbefore and this aspect pertaining to approval of financial resolution plan by CoC stand at entirely different D footing. The irregularity in the process of approval by CoC and filing before Adjudicating Authority are not the matters of such formal nature that deviation in that regard could be ignored or condoned. As stated above, when commercial wisdom of CoC is assigned primacy, it presupposes a considered decision on the resolution plan in its final form. E 50. For what has been discussed hereinabove, disapproval of the resolution plan by the Appellate Tribunal for want of presentation of final resolution plan before CoC remains unexceptionable and calls for no interference.