[Sharad Birdhichand Sarda Vs. State of Maharashtra (1984) 4 SCC 116] The limitations under Article 136 are self-imposed limitations where D in the ordinary course appreciation of evidence is not to be done in the absence of manifest error or the , subject matter of the special leave, being ex facie perverse. [Kalamani Tex Vs. P. Balasubramanian (2021) 5 SCC 283] 18. Learned counsel for the appellants would have this Court hold E that the learned Trial Court and the High Court erred in convicting the accused as PW-1’s statements, which are indirect in respect of number of the accused in no way form a solid basis for the conviction to hold. 19. Having considered the submissions across the Bar, the material objects and the exhibits forming the record of the case, the learned Trial F Court observed that on the basis of the sole evidence of the complainant PW-1 and the supporting evidence of PW-7 (a hostile witness) the prosecution had proven its case beyond reasonable doubt. It was observed as under: “The prosecution has proved its case against the accused G persons by adducing acceptable evidence of the complainant and other witnesses referred to above and as such the accused persons are found guilty of the offences of unlawful assembly, commission of rioting who were armed with deadly weapons and they have abused the deceased Satyappa in filthy language and then they H 978 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A have committed murder of the deceased Satyappa on 13.08.2004 in the afternoon at about 3.00 p.m., on a public road leading from Terdal to Kaltippi and as such they have to be punished accordingly.” The view stands affirmed by the High Court substantiating cogent B reasons, in full appreciation of entire evidence on record that the assistance of Hanamant Bhimappa Reddi (PW-24) in drafting the complaint does not put a question to its credibility; discrepancy in the time of entrustment of FIR to PW-28 as to the working hours being 8 a.m. to 8.00 p.m. does not dislodge the statement in the examination-in-chief where the time mentioned was 4.45 p.m. C 20. In regard to the delay in the FIR reaching the Magistrate, it is the settled position of law that each and every delay caused is not fatal to a case in the absence of demonstrated prejudice [Bhajan Singh @ Harbhajan Singh Vs. State of Haryana (2011) 7 SCC 421]. In Chotkau (supra) it has been held that a Court is “duty bound to see the D effect of such delay on investigation and even the credit worthiness of the investigation.” In the present case, though, while there is reliance at the Bar on this principle no submission has been made to show prejudice having been caused to the accused. Statements sans adequate backing cannot sway the Court. Even the delay in the receipt of the FIR with the E concerned Magistrate cannot be a reason to disbelieve the prosecution case. It is not a case of non-compliance of provisions equally the delay is not inordinate so as to cast any doubt.