It is, inter alia, disclosed that based on the of the High Court, a Valuation Report was obtained from a Valuer. According to the Valuation Report, the land, building and civil works were valued at Rs.4013000/-. Plant and machinery were valued at Rs.6,22,10,000/-. That apart, raw D materials were valued at Rs.15,00,000/- and furniture, etc., were valued at Rs.3,50,000/-. A Valuation Report was also submitted on behalf of the Canara Bank wherein the value was shown as Rs. 25,10,275/- as FMV and Rs.1510705/- as disposal value. The Official Liquidator proceeded to set the value, taking the value as indicated hereinbefore, given by the Valuer, in regard to land, building and civil works and plant and machinery. E The current assets, raw materials, furniture and fittings were shown as carrying the value of Rs.43,60,000/-. The second respondent herein made the highest offer of Rs.8,35,00,000/- for the properties of the company as a lot. Shri Gopal Jha would, in fact, point out that the High Court had made it clear that while permitting the sale in favour of the first respondent F the stamp duty would be as determined by the authority and that the liquidator could not be blamed. ANALYSIS 23. The expression “instrument” is defined under Section 2(14) of the Act as under: G “(14) “instrument” includes— (a) every document, by which any right or liability is, or purports to be, created, transferred, limited, extended, extinguished or recorded; H 1122 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (b) a document, electronic or otherwise, created for a transaction in a stock exchange or depository by which any right or liability is, or purports to be, created, transferred, limited, extended, extinguished or recorded; and (c) any other document mentioned in Schedule I, B but does not include such instruments as may be specified by the Government, by notification in the Official Gazette.” 24. Sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Act must be noticed and they read as follows: C “3. Instruments chargeable with duty. —Subject to the provisions of this Act and the exemptions contained in Schedule I, the following instruments shall be chargeable with duty of the amount indicated in that Schedule as the proper duty therefore respectively, that is to say— D (a) every instrument mentioned in that Schedule which, not having been previously executed by any person, is executed in India on or after the first day of July, 1899; (b) every bill of exchange payable otherwise than on demand] or promissory note drawn or made out of India on or after that day E and accepted or paid, or presented for acceptance or payment, or endorsed, transferred or otherwise negotiated, in India; and c) every instrument (other than a bill of exchange, or promissory note) mentioned in that Schedule, which, not having been previously executed by any person, is executed out of India on or after that F day, relates to any property situate, or to any matter or thing done or to be done, in India and is received in India: Provided that no duty shall be chargeable in respect of— (1) any instrument executed by, or on behalf of, or in favour of, the Government in cases where, but for this exemption, the G Government would be liable to pay the duty chargeable in respect of such instrument; (2) any instrument for the sale, transfer or other disposition, either absolutely or by way of mortgage or otherwise, of any ship or vessel, or any part, interest, share or property of or in any ship or H THE SUB REGISTRAR, AMUDALAVALASA & ANR.