It may be added that that there is no evidence that the malefactor had been D frequenting the public house that is shown in the picture; we do not know who he was, nor is there any evidence or presumption that persons who do frequent that particular public house are particularly likely to steal vehicles and engage in joy-riding.” (underlining is ours) E The above reasoning appeals to us to conclude that the present case was an eminently fit case, where the claim at 75% ought to have been awarded on a non-standard basis. Even if there was some carelessness, on the peculiar facts of this case, it was not a fundamental breach of Condition No.5 warranting total repudiation. It was rightly so F ed by the District Forum and affirmed by the State Commission. 17) Learned counsel for the Insurance Company, in his written submissions, has placed before us an unreported dated 29.03.2022 passed by this Court in SLP (C) No. 6518 of 2018 titled Kanwarjit Singh Kang vs. M/s ICICI Lombard General Insurance Co. Ltd. & G Anr. to support his case on the breach of Condition No.5. We have carefully perused the . In the said , it is recorded that concurrently the Claimant lost before the fora below and it is also recorded that the State Commission did not find the ground of leaving the ignition keys in the vehicle to be a valid reason to repudiate the H claim. However, on the ground of unexplained and inordinate delay in ASHOK KUMAR v. NEW INDIA ASSURANCE CO. LTD. 1259 [K. V. VISWANATHAN, J.] lodging the FIR, the repudiation was upheld. In that case, while the loss A was on 25.03.2010, the intimation to Police was only on 02.04.2010 so clearly it was a breach of Condition No.1. No doubt, in the penultimate paragraph of the it is recorded that the want of reasonable care on the part of the petitioner in that case operated heavily against the petitioner and it was concluded that the repudiation could not be faulted. However, B the primary reason for repudiation was the violation of condition No.1 viz. the delay in intimation to the Police. Further since there was a fundamental breach of Condition No.1, there was no occasion to raise points for settlement of claim on non-standard basis. There is no whisper about the breach of Condition No.5 being not a fundamental breach. We find the present case, on facts, completely different as there is no breach C of Condition No.1 because the intimation to the police was immediate. There have been concurrent awards by the District Forum and State Commission on non-standard basis by applying Nitin Khandelwal (supra) and Amalendu Sahoo (supra). Hence, the will in no manner assist the respondent-Company. D 18) In Amalendu Sahoo (supra), this Court noticed the guidelines issued by the New India Assurance Co. Ltd. in settling claims on non- standard basis. The guidelines read as under:- E F The above guidelines were followed by this Court in Amalendu Sahoo (supra) as is clear from para 14 of the said .