(6) In addition to the taxes specifi ed in sub-section (1), the Corporation may, for the purpose of this Act, subject to any general or special M/S HARSH AUTOMOBILES PRIVATE LIMITED v. INDORE 37 MUNICIPAL CORPORATION [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] which the State Government may make in this behalf, impose any of the following taxes, namely: (a) a latrine or conservancy tax payable by the occupier or owner upon private latrines, privies or cesspools or open premised or compounds cleansed by Corporation agency; (b) a drainage tax, where a system of drainage has been introduced; (c) a tax on persons exercising any profession or art or carrying on any trade or calling within the city; (d) omitted (e) omitted. (f) fees on the registration of cattle sold within the city; (g) market dues on persons exposing goods for sale in any market or in any place belonging to or under the control of the Government or of the Corporation; (h) a betterment tax on properties whose value may have improved as a result of town planning scheme under taken by the Corporation; (i) a tax on pilgrims resorting periodically to a shrine within the limits of the Corporation; (j) a tax on persons occupying houses, buildings or lands within the limits of the Corporation according to their circumstances and property ×××× (1) a tax on advertisement other than advertisements published in newspapers.” 14. A perusal of the above provision would indicate that a tax on “advertisement” other than the advertisement published in newspapers, can be imposed. Sub-section (1) of Section 133 of the Act provides that Corporation may, by a special meeting bring forward a resolution to propose imposition of any tax under Section 132 defi ning classes of persons or description of property proposed to be taxed, amount or rate of tax to be imposed and system of assessment to be adopted. By virtue of power vested under Section 427 of the Act, respondent Corporation has made the 38 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Municipal Corporation (advertisement) bye-laws, 1976 which came to be approved by the State Government under Section 430 of the Act and it was duly published in the offi cial gazette on 18.08.1978 as required under Section 429 and 431 of the Act of 1956. The respondent-Corporation is tracing its source of power to levy and collect advertisement tax under clause 4, 5 and 6 of the bye-laws of 1976. 15. In the teeth of aforesaid statutory provisions, it requires to be examined as to whether the display boards or sign boards or name boards as displayed by the appellants would partake the character of “advertisement” so as to attract Section 132 of the Act and thereby the demand is to be sustained? If the answer is in the affi rmative, necessarily the demand deserves to be sustained. On the contrary, if the answer is in the negative it would not detain us for long to quash the same. The incidental question which may also arise would be whether all modes of display would tantamount to advertisement?