Also, in such a case, the Civil Court beyond the territory in relation to which the High Court exercises jurisdiction cannot be considered to be a court subordinate to such High Court in the sense H section 3 of the CPC is to be understood. SHAH NEWAZ KHAN v. STATE OF NAGALAND 1009 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 40. The creases that were sought to be ironed out by radically A altering section 25 of the CPC and presenting it in an altogether new avatar have to be given due consideration in the light of the SOR and the provisions of Chapter V of the Constitution. Bestowing such consideration, we hold that what is of primordial importance to attract section 25 is the involvement of two civil courts (transferor and transferee) in the B proceedings for transfer, which are not only situate in two different States, but are also subject to the power of judicial superintendence and administrative control of the High Courts of each such State. 41. While focusing on section 25, one cannot be completely oblivious of the terms of section 24(1)(b)(ii). As and when it is approached with C an application under section 24 for transfer, the High Court, subject to its satisfaction that the facts and circumstances do warrant an to be made, is empowered to “transfer … to any Court subordinate to it”. These words are of immense significance. In directing a transfer, the High Court can transfer a suit, appeal or other proceeding to “any Court” but bearing in mind the fetter that any such court, to which the relevant D case or matter is proposed or sought to be transferred, must be subordinate to it and otherwise competent to deal with the subject matter; if such court is either not subordinate or not competent, the power is not available to be exercised. However, there is no such fetter in section 24 that power under sub-clause (ii) of clause (b) of sub-section (1) thereof E cannot be exercised if the transferee court, though subordinate to the High Court, is situate in a different State. Similar is the case with clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 24. The power is available so long the Civil Court continues to remain subordinate to it under Article 227 read with Article 235 and under section 3 of the CPC. To this extent, the High Court enjoys a supreme power which is not even subject to the power of F the Supreme Court under section 25. The only caveat is that this power of transfer under section 24(1)(a) and 24(1)(b)(ii), however, cannot be exercised by the Gauhati High Court, say for transfer of a civil suit from a court in Assam or Nagaland to a Civil Court in Tripura or Manipur or Meghalaya because the said States, from 2012, are no longer part of the G Gauhati High Court and are since having High Courts of their own. 42. It is time all concerned realize that a High Court ~ howsoever big or small, old or new ~ is as much a Constitutional Court as this Court is and enjoys wide ranging powers vested in it by law.