[DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] electricity or to provide the line or plant or meter for the A period during which the failure continues.” (emphasis supplied) 34. Section 47 indicates that a distribution licensee can refuse to supply electricity under Section 43 if the applicant fails to furnish the B requisite security. Under Section 48, a distribution licensee may require the applicant, who requires a supply of electricity in pursuance of Section 43, to accept (i) any restrictions which may be imposed for the purpose of enabling the distribution licensee to comply with the regulations made under Section 53; and (ii) any terms restricting any liability of the distribution licensee for economic loss resulting from negligence of the C person to whom electricity is supplied. Thus, it is implicit that the distribution licensee may refuse electricity supply to the applicant until they accept such terms and restrictions reasonably imposed by the distribution licensee incidental to the statute. 35. Further, Section 50 empowers the State Commission to specify D an Electricity Supply Code providing for recovery of electricity charges, among other things. The Electric Utilities have urged that the duty to supply electricity is subject to the Electricity Supply Code specified under Section 50. As mentioned in the preceding paragraphs, an applicant is required to submit a completed application along with documents showing E the payment of necessary charges and other compliances. The Electricity Supply Code can stipulate such other compliances that an applicant has to observe for getting the supply of electricity under Section 43. Therefore, reading Section 43 along with Sections 45, 46, 47, 48, and 50, it becomes evident that the right of an applicant to seek supply of electricity under Section 43 is not absolute. The right is subject to the payment of charges, F security deposit, as well as terms and restrictions imposed by the distribution licensee. 36. The distribution licensee can stipulate such terms and conditions as it deems necessary when an owner or occupier of the premises approaches it seeking the supply of electricity. A two-judge Bench of G this Court in Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam (supra) held that a distribution licensee can stipulate terms and conditions subject to which it will supply electricity to the applicant which are not arbitrary and unreasonable. H 672 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 37. The auction purchasers have urged that the “charges” levied by the distribution licensee are explicitly dealt with by Section 45. It was further urged that Section 45 does not provide that charges should include the arrears of the previous owner or occupier of the premises. On the contrary, the distribution licensees have argued that the term ‘price’ used in Section 43 is the consideration for the supply of electricity as determined B by the State Commission. It has been argued that the arrears of the previous owner or occupier of the premises is also a ‘price’ determined by the State Commission and payable at the time of making an application for the supply of electricity.