They argue that this court should adopt a purposive construction of the provisions of SMA, and interpret it in light of this court’s previous decisions in Dharani Sugars and Chemicals Ltd v. Union of India (hereafter, “Dharani Sugars”)80 and X v. Principal Secretary (supra). 89. In Dharani Sugars, the challenge was against a new policy introduced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The petitioners contented that there was no authorization under the RBI Act to frame the impugned policy. Although the court acknowledged that new facts can infl uence the interpretation of existing law, it ultimately upheld the policy based on existing provisions that empowered the RBI to issue such policies. A careful examination of this would reveal that even though discussion on the interpretation that “unless a contrary intention appears, an interpretation should be given to the words used to take in new facts and situations, if 80 [2019] 6 SCR 307 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1477 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] the words are capable of comprehending them” indeed occurred81; but, the court also noticed that “this doctrine does not however mean that one can construe the language of an old statute to mean something conceptually diff erent from what the contemporary evidence shows that Parliament must have intended”82. 90. This court, in X v. Principal Secretary (supra) while reading down the exclusion of unmarried women from the benefi t of the Medial Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971 (MTP Act), also relied on Dharani Sugars (supra) to invoke the principle that a statute “always speaks”. Noting that the Act, and more so its amendment, was to enable women to terminate unwanted pregnancies, the reasons for which could be manifold, the court held that such exclusion was arbitrary and discriminatory. Further, the court relied on Badshah v. Sou. Urmila Badshah Godse83 which held that “change in law precedes societal change and is even intended to stimulate it” and that “just as change in social reality is the law of life, responsiveness to change in social reality is the life of the law”. Similarly, in All Kerala Online Lottery Dealers Association v. State of Kerala & Ors.,84 this court referred to decision of court in State v. SJ Choudhary85 wherein it was observed that “in its application on any date, the language of the Act, though necessarily embedded in its own time, is nevertheless to be construed in accordance with the need to treat it as current law.”86 81 This court indeed cited a number of decisions of the House of Lords, or the UK Court of Appeals: Royal College of Nursing of the United Kingdom v. Department of Health and Social Security, 1981 (1) All ER 545 [HL]; Comdel Commodities Ltd. v. Siporex Trade S.A., 1990 (2) All ER 552 [HL]; McCartan Turkington Breen (A Firm) v. Times Newspapers Ltd., [2000] 4 All ER 913; R v Ireland, R v Burstow 1997 (4) All ER 225; Birmingham City Council v. Oakley [2001] 1 All ER 385 [HL].