C Dealing with Law of Procedure, it is stated: “What, then, is the true nature of the distinction? The law of procedure may be defined as that branch of the law which governs the process of litigation. It is the law of actions- jus quod ad actiones pertinent-using the term action in a wide sense to include all legal proceedings, civil or criminal. All the residue is substantive D law, and relates, not to the process of litigation, but to its purposes and subject-matter. Substantive law is concerned with tPhe ends which the administration of justice seeks; procedural law deals with the means and instruments by which those ends are to be attained. The latter regulates the conduct and relations of courts E and litigants in respect of the litigation itself; the former determines their conduct and relations in respect of the matters litigated.” (Emphasis supplied) 69. The Stamp Act, while it may be a fiscal measure, it may not fall within the fold of procedural law. The mere fact that Sections 33 and F 35 may apply at a stage, when the person approaches a Court, inter alia, would not mean that the Stamp Act, providing for a duty on the executants to stamp the instrument at the point of time, as declared in Section 17, and what is more, penalising a deviation under Section 62, falls within the domain of procedural law. Pertinently, we may, in the Fourteenth G Edition of The Indian Contract and Specific Relief Acts by Pollock and Mulla, note as follows: “Unenforceable Contracts Unenforceable contracts are valid in all respects, but may not be sued upon by the parties. Such disability may arise for want of H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 351 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] registration; or because the time prescribed for filing the suit has A expired; or because the plaintiff firm has not been registered; or the document or instrument does not bear the requisite stamp duty; or because the lender of money does not possess a licence under money-lending laws.” (Emphasis supplied) B 70. We would find that an agreement, which is unenforceable on account of a substantive law, which would include the Stamp Act, would not be a contract, applying Section 2(h) of the Contract Act. It is only if an agreement is enforceable, that it would become a contract. It is only a ‘contract’, which would be the ‘Arbitration Agreement’, which is C contemplated in Section 11(6A) of the Act. It may not be apposite to merely describe an unstamped Arbitration Agreement as a ‘curable defect’. As long it remains an unstamped instrument, it cannot be taken notice of for any purpose, as contemplated in Section 35 of the Stamp Act. It remains unenforceable. Section 17 declares the time at which an D instrument, executed in India, must be stamped. The said provision contemplates that stamping of such an instrument must take place before or at the time of the execution of document.