24. There is no attempt on the part of the respondent or by Mr. Datar to canvass that Section 6A of the DSPE Act is not part of procedural law and that it in any manner introduces any conviction or enhances any sentence post the commission of off ence. It is, therefore, held that 6A of the DSPE Act is a part of the procedure only in the form of a protection to senior government servants. It does not introduce any new off ence nor it enhances the punishment or sentence. 25. It would be useful to reproduce Article 20 of the Constitution at this stage itself for its proper analysis and appreciation of the arguments of the respective counsels. It reads as follows: “20. Protection in respect of conviction for off ences. (1) No person shall be convicted of any off ence except for violation of a law in force at the time of the commission of the Act charged as an off ence, nor be subjected to a penalty greater than that which might have been infl icted under the law in force at the time of the commission of the off ence. (2) No person shall be prosecuted and punished for the same off ence more than once. (3) No person accused of any off ence shall be compelled to be a witness against himself.” 26. In the present case we are only concerned with sub-article (1) to Article 20 of the Constitution. Hence, we need not examine sub-article (2) and (3). 27. Sub-article (1) of Article 20 of the Constitution consists of two parts. The fi rst part prohibits any law that prescribes judicial punishment for violation of law with retrospective eff ect. Sub-article (1) to Article 20 of the Constitution does not apply to civil liability, as distinguished from punishment for a criminal 32 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. off ence. Further, what is prohibited is conviction or sentence for any off ence under an ex post facto law, albeit the trial itself is not prohibited. Trial under a procedure diff erent from the one when at the time of commission of an off ence, or by a court diff erent from the time when the off ence was committed is not unconstitutional on account of violation of sub-article (1) to Article 20 of the Constitution. It may be diff erent, if the procedure or the trial is challengeable on account of discrimination under Article 14 of the Constitution or violation of any other fundamental right. 28. The right under fi rst part of sub-article (1) to Article 20 of the Constitution is a very valuable right, which must be safeguarded and protected by the courts as it is a constitutional mandate. The Constitution bench of this Court in Rao Shiv Bahadur Singhv.State of Vindhya Pradesh50, highlighted the principle underlying the prohibition by relying upon of Willes, J. in Phillipsv.Eyre51 and of the United States Supreme Court in Calder v. Bull52, to hold that it would be highly unjust, unfair and in violation of human rights to punish a person under the ex post facto law for acts or omissions that were not an off ence when committed.