It is submitted that the High Court has wrongly applied the ratio in Lalita Kumari (supra), which lays down the guidelines for the police and the investigating officer and not applicable to a Magistrate exercising the jurisdiction under Section E 156(3) Cr.P.C. 3.17 It is submitted that the High Court has observed that as held by this Court in the case of Lalita Kumari (supra), when the police officer at the stage of registering the FIR has no jurisdiction to verify the veracity and truth of the allegations, how a Magistrate in exercise of F powers under Section 156(3) can verify the veracity of the allegations in the complaint. It is submitted that the directions issued by this Court in the case of Lalita Kumari (supra) shall be confined to the police and shall not be applicable to a Magistrate exercising the jurisdiction under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. G 3.18 It is further submitted that even the subsequent conduct on the part of the complainant creates serious doubts about her credibility. It is submitted that the complainant having realised the serious doubt that her delayed complaint casts upon the veracity of her allegations completely, before this Court in the counter affidavit, she has stated on H 150 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A oath and has come out with a case now that she had in fact lodged a complaint with the police against the alleged rape incident on 29.11.2018 by lodging complaint on the very next day at 11:00 a.m.at the Behala Police Station. It is submitted that that was not her case even in the application under Section 156(3) and/or even in the complaints before the concerned police officers. It is submitted that even the learned Senior B Advocate for the State of West Bengal has informed the Court that there was no such record of the complaint being filed. It is submitted that thus the complainant has made a false statement before this Court on oath only to get out of delay and to get out the fact that till October, 2020, no complaint was given by her in respect of the alleged incident of C rape on 29.11.2018. 3.19 Making above submissions, it is submitted that the present case is a glaring example of abuse of process and abuse of law. It is submitted that accusation of rape is prima facie false and manufactured with an intent to extort or blackmail the accused on the pretext of these D false allegations. It is submitted that such a serious allegation of rape after a period of about two years from the date of alleged incident have been made to tarnish the image of the appellants and to take a political revenge and to finish the political career of the appellants. Therefore, it is prayed to allow the present appeals and quash and set aside the impugned and passed by the High Court. It is submitted E that during the pendency of the present proceedings, despite the fact that the present appeals were pending before this Court, the learned CJM has passed an dated 08.10.2021 directing the Officer in Charge of Bhowanipore Police Station for treating the application as an FIR and pursuant to the of the learned CJM, FIR No.