police shall record his reasons for so doing. (4) If such is given by a Magistrate other (4) Any Magistrate other than the Chief than the District Magistrate or Subdivisional- Judicial Magistrate making such Magistrate, he shall forward a copy of his shall forward a copy of his , with his , with his reasons for making it, to reasons for making it to the Chief Judicial the Magistrate to whom he is immediately Magistrate. subordinate. As we could see, there is no diff erence between the provision as it existed earlier and now, except by way of an addition of a proviso, which we shall deal with later. 51. Seeds of liberty are sown in this provision while facilitating further investigation, upon being satisfi ed that the same cannot be completed within 24 hours. It is not a mere procedural provision but one having an inherent element of substantivity. While facilitating a fair play, it is introduced as a limb of Article 21 and 22(2) of the Constitution of India, 1950. 52. Under sub-section (1) of Section 167 of the CrPC, 1973, a competent offi cer shall forward the accused to the Magistrate when it appears that the investigation cannot be completed within 24 hours. Two factors are important as envisaged under sub-section (1). They are, it must be a case where investigation cannot be completed within 24 hours of arrest of an accused and that he has to be forwarded to the Magistrate, meaning thereby he comes into the judicial custody from that of the investigating agency. The object and rationale behind this provision is rather clear. By restricting the custody to 24 hours, the liberty of the accused is meant to be considered and taken note of by an independent authority in the form a Magistrate. It is also an act of confi rmation by the Magistrate on the arrest, followed by grant of custody of an accused person. 53. Sub-section (2) of Section 167 of the CrPC, 1973 deals with the power of the Magistrate. Such a Magistrate may or may not have the jurisdiction to try a case. There is no question of jurisdiction in any form that would stand in the way of the Magistrate from exercising the said power. By a mere designation he assumes such power. This is for the reason that 890 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. liberty is paramount and any delay would amount to its curtailment. It may also delay further investigation. The words “time to time” would clearly indicate that a power to grant custody is not restricted to the fi rst 15 days of remand, but the whole period of investigation. It is not referable to judicial custody as against police custody. It only means “as the occasion arises”, which is from the point of investigation. Thus, when an investigation reveals new materials to be confronted with the accused, a need for custody might arise, subject to the satisfaction of the Magistrate. In State of Rajasthan v. Basant Agrotech (India) Ltd., (2013) 15 SCC 1 this Court has dealt with the words “time to time”: 50.