Now the admitted position in the State of Himachal Pradesh is that under Section 118 of the Himachal Pradesh Tenancy and Land Reforms C Act, 1972 (for short ‘1972 Act’), only an agriculturist, which is defined under Section 2(2) of the 1972 Act, can purchase land in Himachal Pradesh, which would mean a landowner who personally cultivates his land in Himachal Pradesh. If a non-agriculturist has to purchase a land, it can only be done with the prior permission of the State Government under Section 118 of the Act. M/s. Himalayan Ski Village was a private D company, which was admittedly not an ‘agriculturist’ and therefore was not capable under the law to purchase the land in Himachal Pradesh and therefore it was a condition of the agreement to sale that the defendant would secure the necessary approval from the government within a stipulated period of time. The admitted position is that this approval was E not given to the defendant by the State Government and then the defendant assigned his right to the plaintiff who thereafter filed the suit for specific performance. Section 118 of the Himachal Pradesh Tenancy and Land Reforms Act, 1972 reads as under: F “1[118. Transfer of Land to non-agriculturist barred: - (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any law, contract, agreement, custom or usage for the time being inforce but save as otherwise provided in this Chapter, no transfer of land (including transfer by a decree of a civil court or for recovery of arrears of land revenue) by way of G sale deed, gift, will, exchange, lease, mortgage with possession, creation of a tenancy or in any other manner shall be valid in favour of a person, who is not an agriculturist.] 2[Explanation. For the purpose of this sub-section the expression “Transfer of land” shall not include. H 460 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A i. Transfer by way of inheritance; ii. Transfer by way of gift made or will executed, in favour of any or all legal heirs of the donor or the testator, as the case may be; iii. Transfer by way of lease of land or building in a B municipal area; but shall include a) a benami transaction in which land is transferred to an agriculturist for a consideration paid or provided by a non- agriculturist; and C b) an authorization made by the owner by way of special or general power of attorney or by an agreement with the intention to put a non-agriculturist in possession of the land and allow him to deal with the land in the like manner as if he is a real owner of that land.] D (2) Nothing in sub-section (1) shall be deemed to prohibit the transfer of land by any person in favour or, (a)…. (b)…. E (c)…. (d)…. (e)…. (f)…. F (g)…. (h) a non agriculturist with the permission of the State Government for the purposes that may be prescribed.” 12. The admitted position is that M/s Himalayan Ski Village Pvt.