To ascertain if any such requirement exists or otherwise, one will have to refer to the respective clauses itself. It is urged that the subject MFN clause in the Protocol to India-Netherlands DTAA has no such requirement. 20. The contrast between India’s DTAAs with Netherlands and Switzerland, is that the relevant MFN clause in the India-Switzerland DTAA originally required initiation of negotiation, to apply the benefi cial provision agreed with other OECD member. This was repealed by notifi cation No. SO 2903(E), dated 27-12-2011 and both India-Switzerland agreed on the present MFN clause which does not require negotiation to give the benefi t of reduced rate of tax, and it was argued applies automatically just like the India-Netherlands MFN. Counsel also highlighted that the MFN Clause in the Protocol to the India-Finland DTAA also clearly requires India to immediately inform the Finland authorities and notify such benefi cial provision whenever the MFN clause gets triggered. Counsel also referred the MFN clause in the Protocol to the India-Philippines DTAA, to say that 115 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. that too clearly requires the countries to inform each other and review the provisions with a view to extend the benefi cial provisions. 21. Learned counsel submitted that the diff erence in language, is unimportant, because Article 7(3) of the India-Netherlands DTAA shows that treaty partners are same; yet the instrument uses diff erent language to denote the same terms. Article 7(3) specifi cally notes that where the expense limit is relaxed for computing the profits attributable to the permanent establishment in any other convention, the competent authority of one state would notify such competent authority of the other state, and at the request of that competent authority which is notifi ed, the terms of the treaty shall be amended by Protocol to refl ect such benefi cial terms. Naturally, once that amendment is agreed pursuant to bilateral negotiations, it has to be notifi ed. This language, it is pointed out, is absent in the MFN clause. 22. There is no requirement in the subject MFN clause to issue any notifi cation to bring into force the benefi cial provisions from subsequent DTAAs or by way of a notifi ed protocol or negotiation. The MFN clause simply states that the reduced rate as extended to an OECD country “shall also apply” under this current convention and, hence, such clause is automatic in operation. The use of diff erent language in the DTAA by the two contracting states is indicative of their intent and cannot be disregarded whilst interpreting their terms. Likewise, in the case of the India-Switzerland DTAA, the nature of the existing MFN clause is such that no negotiation is needed but for change in scope, for which requirement for negotiation has still been retained by the treaty partners. Obviously, these diff erences in the language of the clauses bear signifi cance. 23. This court was shown the observations of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) Mumbai in SCA Hygiene Products AB v. DCIT13, and the ITAT Delhi decision in Mitsubishi Electric India Pvt Ltd v Commissioner of Income Tax 14 where the tribunal has noted the diff erence in triggers of the MFN clause such as one which is (a) automatic (India-Sweden) (b) requiring notifying authority of other state (India-Philippines) (c) requiring negotiation.