SUMMING UP 155. To sum up, our answers to the five questions referred to the C Bench, are as follows: QUESTIONS ANSWERS 1. Are the grounds specified in Article 19(2) in relation The grounds lined up in Article 19(2) for to which reasonable restrictions on the right to free restricting the right to free speech are exhaustive. speech can be imposed by law, exhaustive, or can Under the guise of invoking other fundamental restrictions on the right to free speech be imposed on rights or under the guise of two fundamental rights grounds not found in Article 19(2) by invoking other staking a competing claim against each other, D fundamental rights? additional restrictions not found in Article 19(2), cannot be imposed on the exercise of the right conferred by Article 19(1)(a) upon any individual. 2. Can a fundamental right under Article 19 or 21 of the A fundamental right under Article 19/21 can be Constitution of India be claimed other than against enforced even against persons other than the State the ‘State’ or its instrumentalities? or its instrumentalities. 3. Whether the State is under a duty to affirmatively The State is under a duty to affirmatively protect the E protect the rights of a citizen under Article 21 of the rights of a person under Article 21, whenever there is Constitution of India even against a threat to the a threat to personal liberty, even by a non-State actor. liberty of a citizen by the acts or omissions of another citizen or private agency? 4. Can a statement made by a Minister, traceable to any A statement made by a Minister even if traceable to affairs of State or for protecting the Government, be any affairs of the State or for protecting the attributed vicariously to the Government itself, Government, cannot be attributed vicariously to the especially in view of the principle of Collective Government by invoking the principle of collective Responsibility? responsibility. F 5. Whether a statement by a Minister, inconsistent with A mere statement made by a Minister, inconsistent the rights of a citizen under Part Three of the with the rights of a citizen under Part-III of the Constitution, constitutes a violation of such Constitution, may not constitute a violation of the constitutional rights and is actionable as constitutional rights and become actionable as ‘Constitutional Tort”? Constitutional tort. But if as a consequence of such a statement, any act of omission or commission is done by the officers resulting in harm or loss to a person/citizen, then the same may be actionable as a constitutional tort. G 156. Now that we have answered the questions, the writ petition and the special leave petition are directed to be listed before the appropriate bench after getting s from Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India. H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 717 NAGARATHNA, J. A B C 1. I have had the benefit of reading the erudite proposed D by His Lordship V. Ramasubramanian, J. While I agree with the reasoning and conclusions arrived at by his Lordship on certain questions referred to this Constitution Bench, I wish to lend a different perspective to some of the issues by way of my separate opinion.