It is also stated that they paid twenty times the revenue for the Suit Land and accordingly were granted a ‘Bhumidhari’ F certificate under Section 137 of the U.P. Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950. Therefore to sum up, it was submitted that the entire chronological sequence as narrated above bears testimony to the logical progression of rights of the predecessor of the Respondents culminating into title as ‘Bhumidhar’ as per the object of the U.P. Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms G Act, 1950. This argument is further supplemented by stating that the Appellants have failed to produce anything on record to support the plea that the concerned revenue entries during this period have been made fraudulently or through suppression of any fact. H 962 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A d) It was also submitted that Appellants have deliberately failed to take any steps to correct the abovementioned revenue entries, which carry the presumption to be correct in law, despite suggestions to the contrary by the adjudication authorities in multiple proceedings, including in the 1978 Mutation Proceedings. Therefore in effect, it is stated by Respondents by relying on B multiple decisions2 that favourable s passed in the erstwhile proceedings between parties have become final, especially in light of the fact that the Appellants never took steps to get them set aside by competent authorities. e) It was argued that the Respondents have acquired rights over C the Suit Land by way of acquiescence and the conduct of the Appellants wherein it is alleged that in addition to failure to initiate proper proceedings to evict them, the Appellants accepted the enhanced rent, raised revenue demands and allowed them approvals for further development of the Suit Land. D f)Finally, it has been argued that the lease did not end after the expiry of the initial thirty year period in June 1954 and instead the lease got extended on an yearly basis on account of application of Section 116 of the Transfer of Property Act of 1882, through which tenancy has been lawfully continued by holding over on account E of continuous possession by Respondents. Reliance was placed on the decision rendered in State of Uttar Pradesh v Zahoor Ahmad3 to argue that Section 116 of the Transfer of Property Act of 1882 would be applicable notwithstanding the 1960 State amendment to the Government Grant Act of 1895 and the fact that predecessor of Respondents deposited enhanced rent as per F the 1924 Lease Deed which was never rejected by the Appellants. C. ANALYSIS 34.Before we analyse the rival contentions raised by the parties, it would be appropriate to broadly highlight the issues which arise for our consideration – G 2Smith v East Elloe Rural District Council [1956] 1 All ER 855; State of Punjab v Gurdev Singh (1991) 4 SCC 1, para 8-9; State of Kerala v M.K. Kunhikannan Nambir Manjeri Manikoth Naduvil (1996) 1 SCC 435, para 7-8; Tayabbhai M. Bagasarwalla v. Hind Rubber Industries Pvt. Ltd. (1997) 3 SCC 443, para 17-18.