There is no finding by the Arbitrator that the final bill and the no claims certificate were vitiated. The clauses in the contract were binding on the respondent. It cannot be departed from invoking the principle in Central Inland Water Transport Corporation5. It is not the case of the contractor that when the contract was entered into, it was in circumstances which attracted the principles laid down therein. D 26. If the clauses operate, the inevitable result is the arbitrator could not have traveled outside of the contractual prohibition and passed an award allowing claims which were submitted after the submission of the final bill. E 27. We cannot be entirely unmindful, however, of the fact that after submission of the final bill on 13.02.2002, the said bill was settled only after long delay of over an year. While it may be true that there is no finding that the final bill was the product of any duress or coercion, the respondent did have a case that the final bill was the result of the pressure on account of non-payment of her claims and therefore, the F respondent agreed to receive the undisputed amounts. But at the same time, there is no finding as such. 28. While we cannot subscribe to the reasoning adopted by the High Court, we cannot also lose sight of the fact that the amounts in question are fairly meagre and the final bill remained unpaid for long G period of time. It was apparently the long delay in the payment of the final bill amount which led to the raising of the new claims. Perhaps, if the final bill itself was not kept pending for such a long time, the entire dispute may not have arisen at all. We cannot lose sight of another aspect also. This Court has, in the reported in Tahera Khatoon (D)By LRs. v. Salambin Mohammad (1999) 2 SCC 635 laid down the guiding H UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. M/S. BHARAT ENTERPRISE 827 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] principles for the exercise of jurisdiction in an appeal generated under A Article 136 of the Constitution even after the grant of leave under Article 136. We may notice in this regard, the following paragraphs: 19. We may in this connection also refer to Municipal Board, Pratabgarh v. Mahendra Singh Chawla [(1982) 3 SCC 331 : 1983 SCC (L&S) 19] wherein it was observed that in such cases, B after declaring the correct legal position, this Court might still say that it would not exercise discretion to decide the case on merits and that it would decide on the basis of equitable considerations in the fact situation of the case and “mould the final ”. C 20. In view of the above decisions, even though we are now dealing with the appeal after grant of special leave, we are not bound to go into merits and even if we do so and declare the law or point out the error — still we may not interfere if the justice of the case on facts does not require interference or if we feel that the relief D could be moulded in a different fashion.” 29.