This Court dismissed the appeal and confirmed the death sentence on 5 February 2013. Even the review petition was dismissed in chambers on 20 March 2013 before being re-opened in the instant proceeding in view of the Constitution Bench’s in Mohd. Arif alias Ashfaq. 39. Accordingly, none of the courts had the benefit of the law laid F down vis-à-vis the mandatory requirement of the Section 65B certificate in Anvar P.V.. The courts as well as the investigative agency proceeded in accordance with the law that was then prevailing. 40. In Sonu alias Amar v State of Haryana14 this court considered the impact of the retrospective application of Anvar P.V. G upon trials that had already been held during the period when Navjot Sandhu held the field and observed that: 37. The interpretation of Section 65-B(4) by this Court by a dated 4-8-2005 in Navjot Sandhu held the field till it H 14 2017 (8) SCC 570 SUNDAR @ SUNDARRAJAN v. STATE BY INSPECTOR OF 1041 POLICE [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] was overruled on 18-9-2014 in Anvar case. All the criminal courts A in this country are bound to follow the law as interpreted by this Court. Because of the interpretation of Section 65-B in Navjot Sandhu, there was no necessity of a certificate for proving electronic records. A large number of trials have been held during the period between 4-8-2005 and 18-9-2014. Electronic records B without a certificate might have been adduced in evidence. There is no doubt that the of this Court in Anvar case has to be retrospective in operation unless the judicial tool of “prospective overruling” is applied. However, retrospective application of the is not in the interest of administration of justice as it would necessitate the reopening of a large number of criminal C cases. Criminal cases decided on the basis of electronic records adduced in evidence without certification have to be revisited as and when objections are taken by the accused at the appellate stage. Attempts will be made to reopen cases which have become final. D 41. However, it did not decide upon this issue being a two judge bench and kept the question of law open for it to be decided in an appropriate case. In Arjun Panditrao Khotkar this court did not consider the question raised in Sonu. 42. On the other hand, Sonu did deal with the question of whether, E at the appellate stage, the reliance upon CDRs can be reconsidered if the objection was not raised during the trial. As the counsel for the State of Tamil Nadu has argued, the defense as well did not raise the plea of the CDRs being inadmissible in the absence of a Section 65B certificate at the trial or at the appellate stage. On this issue, this Court in Sonu F noted that: 32. It is nobody’s case that CDRs which are a form of electronic record are not inherently admissible in evidence. The objection is that they were marked before the trial court without a certificate as required by Section 65-B(4).