In our opinion, the 942 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. period already undergone (as undertrial and after conviction) would meet the ends of justice.” 22. In Dinesh Seth’s case (supra) it has been held that in certain situations, an accused can be convicted for an off ence with which he may not have been specifi cally charged and an error, omission or irregularity in framing of charge is, by itself not suffi cient for upsetting the conviction. The only exception to this general rule as can be noticed from Section 464 of Cr.P.C. is, unless the accused is able to demonstrate a failure of justice has in fact been occasioned thereby. It has been held thereunder as: “21. The ratio of the abovenoted s is that in certain situations an accused can be convicted for an off ence with which he may not have been specifi cally charged and that an error, omission or irregularity in the framing of charge is, by itself not suffi cient for upsetting the conviction. The appellate, confi rming or revisional court can interfere in such matters only if it is shown that error, omission or irregularity in the framing of charge has caused prejudice to the accused and failure of justice has been occasioned.” 23. After noticing the meaning to be attached to the plain language of Section 221 and Section 464 of Cr.P.C. this Court in Dinesh Seth-supra has opined: “11. A reading of the plain language of Sections 221(1) and (2) shows that if a single act or a series of acts constitute several off ences and the prosecution is not certain about the particular off ence then the accused can be charged with the allegation of having committed all, some or any of the off ences. In such a case the accused can be convicted of the off ence with which he may not have been specifi cally charged but evidence produced by the prosecution proves that such an off ence has, in fact, been committed. 12. Section 222(1) lays down that when a person is charged with an off ence consisting of several particulars and combination of only some of the particulars constituting a minor off ence is proved then he can be convicted of the minor off ence with which he may not have been charged. Section 222(2) lays down that when a person is charged with an off ence but the facts proved constitute a minor off ence then he can PARANAGOUDA AND ANOTHER v. THE STATE OF 943 KARNATAKA AND ANOTHER [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] be convicted of the minor off ence despite the fact that he may not have been charged with that off ence. Sub-section (3) of Section 222 lays down that a person charged with an off ence, can be convicted of an attempt to commit such off ence even though a separate charge may not have been framed on that account. 13. Section 464(1) lays down that any error, omission or irregularity in the framing of charge including any misjoinder of charges, will not invalidate a fi nding, sentence or by a court of competent jurisdiction unless the higher court comes to a conclusion that failure of justice has been occasioned.