According to the learned counsel, the passed by a Co-ordinate Bench of the High D Court in Crl. O.P. No. 6371 of 2014 was binding to another Co-ordinate Bench and same could not have been over-looked or ignored on the ground that while deciding Crl. O.P. No. 6371 of 2014, the attention of the High Court was not drawn to the decision of this Court in the case of Vinit Tyagi (supra). Mr. Sud further submitted that it is not that the decision of this Court in Vinit Tyagi (supra) was not considered in the E earlier round of the litigation i.e., while deciding Crl. O.P. No. 6371 of 2014 as is evident from para 5 of the passed by the High Court dated 11.09.2014 in Crl. O.P. No. 6371 of 2014. 29. In such circumstances as referred to above, the learned counsel prays that there being merit in all his appeals, those may be allowed and F the impugned be set aside. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE ACCUSED PERSONS 30. On the other hand, all the appeals have been vehemently opposed by the learned counsel appearing for the accused persons, G submitting that no error, much less an error of law could be said to have been committed by the High Court in passing the impugned s. The learned counsel would submit that the acceptance of a closure report by the Special Court (CBI) would terminate the proceedings finally and the same would thereafter operate as a legal bar for the investigating agency H to undertake any further investigation in connection with the alleged STATE THROUGH CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. 149 HEMENDHRA REDDY & ANOTHER. ETC. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] offence. The learned counsel laid much stress on the fact that for the A purpose of granting permission to conduct further investigation, something must be pending before the court concerned in the primary report to enable to file a supplementary report. In the instant case, according to the learned counsel, nothing was pending at the time of passing the under Section 173(8) of the CrPC. It was pointed out that the FIR was B closed and all the evidence collected during the investigation was ed to be returned to the CBI for the purpose of departmental proceedings. In such circumstances, according to the learned counsel, there was no scope for further investigation and even if further investigation is ed then it is as good as re-investigation or fresh investigation or de novo investigation, which is otherwise not permissible in law. C 31. The learned counsel submitted that further investigation cannot be ed at any point of time. It was argued that in the case on hand, the further investigation was undertaken after a period of four years from the date of the closure report. If further investigation is permitted to be undertaken after an indefinite period of time, the same would result D in delaying the trial thereby violating the Article 21 of the Constitution, i.e., the right of the accused to have a speedy trial.