[DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 3.2. On the same date i.e., 07.04.2005, a supplementary agreement A was also executed between the appellant-licensor, respondent-licensee, and the sister concern as confirming party. As per the terms of this agreement, appellant requested respondent No. 1 for some financial assistance to arrive at a settlement with its creditors, employees as well as statutory authorities for discharging their dues. The respondent No. B 1, therefore, agreed to advance a sum of Rs. 5,30,00,000/- (Rupees Five Crore Thirty Lakh) to the appellant with interest at 10% p.a. and as consideration for the financial assistance rendered, it was agreed that respondent No. 1 would be permitted to create a mortgage on the three licensed manufacturing units in to secure the ad hoc advance. This advance was recoverable in ten quarterly instalments commencing C from the 90th day of payment of the ad hoc advance out of the licence fee and bonus under clauses 8 and 15 of the main agreement. A few relevant clauses of the supplementary agreement dated 07.04.2005 could also be usefully reproduced as under: - “NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the D mutual covenants set forth herein, and also in the main License Agreement dated 7th April 2005 and for other good and valuable considerations, the parties hereto hereby agrees as follows: 1. The LICENSOR requested the LICENSEE for some financial assistance to arrive at an amicable settlement with the creditors; E employees and statutory authorities for discharging of their dues. 2. The LICENSEE, in consideration of facilitating the smooth operation of the main agreement dated 7th April 2005 between LICENSOR and CONFIRMING PARTY and main agreement dated 7th April 2005 between LICENSOR and LICENSEE F including smooth operation of A. C. Pipes, A. C. Sheets and Cement Units, have agreed to advance a sum of Rs. 5,30,00,000 (Rupees Five Crores Thirty Lakhs only) to the LICENSOR fetching interest at 10% per annum to be calculated at monthly rests after receipt of the approval of LICENSOR’S secured creditors as per Clause 4 of the main agreement and upon creation G of mortgage on A.C. Sheet, A. C. Pipe and Cement manufacturing Unit including building, plant, and machineries in favour of LICENSEE for securing the above adhoc advance. LICENSOR shall use the said (illegible) for entering into a settlement with its secured creditors by making a down payment towards their dues H 110 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A and for payment of balance in an agreed manner and for obtaining their consent to the above agreement and to pay and discharge various other pressing liabilities of LICENSOR including payment of dues of workers, statutory liabilities etc. This advance along with interest thereon shall be recoverable in Ten. (10) quarterly instalments, commencing from the 90th day of the payment of ad- B hoc advance amount, out of the licence fee payable as per Clause 8 and Bonus as per Clause 15 of the main Agreement.” 3.3. Subsequently, clauses 11 and 15 of the original licence agreement, (pertaining to repurchase of assets and entitlement of licensor to bonus) were amended by means of execution of an amendment C agreement dated 25.06.2005 between appellant and respondent No.