But where such courts are subordinate to different High Courts, it is only the Supreme Court (this Court) which may H SHAH NEWAZ KHAN v. STATE OF NAGALAND 1003 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] pass an of transfer. In other words, if two courts are A subordinate to different High Courts, one High Court has no power, jurisdiction or authority to transfer a case pending in any court subordinate to that High Court to a court subordinate to other High Court. It is only the Supreme Court (this Court) which may the transfer. B 48. Section 25, as originally enacted in the Code of 1908 and the decisions prior to the Amendment Act of 1976, have no application after substitution of Section 25 as it stands today. To us, Section 23 has no application to such cases and the only provision attracted is Section 25. C 49. The language of Section 25 also supports the view which we are inclined to take. Sub-section (1) of Section 25 of the Code enacts that ‘On the application of a party’, this Court may pass an appropriate of transfer. Thus, Section 25 is ‘self-contained code’ and comprises substantive as well as procedural law on D the point. It allows a party to move the Court by making an application as also it empowers the Court to make an of transfer. 50. The matter can be examined from another angle also. Every court has its own local or territorial limits beyond which it cannot E exercise the jurisdiction. So far as this Court is concerned, its jurisdiction is not circumscribed by any territorial limitation and it extends over any person or authority within the territory of India. But, it has no jurisdiction outside the country. So far as a High Court is concerned, its jurisdiction is limited to territory within which it exercises jurisdiction and not beyond it. On that analogy F also, a High Court cannot pass an transferring a case pending in a court subordinate to it to a court subordinate to another High Court. It would be inconsistent with the limitation as to territorial jurisdiction of the Court. *** G 54. After the commencement of the Constitution and establishment of the Supreme Court (this Court), Parliament thought it proper to amend Section 25 of the Code and accordingly, it was substituted by empowering this Court to transfer from one High Court H 1004 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A to another High Court or to one civil court in one State to another civil court in any other State. 55. It is no doubt true that even when Section 25 in the present form was substituted by the Amendment Act of 1976, sub-section (3) of Section 23 of the Code has neither been deleted nor amended. B That, however, is not relevant. Since in our considered view, Section 23 is merely a procedural provision, no of transfer can be made under the said provision. If the case is covered by Section 25 of the Code, it is only that section which will apply for both the purposes, namely, for the purpose of making application and also for the purpose of effecting transfer.