(2) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to apply to any statement falling within the provisions of clause (1) of section 32 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872); or to aff ect the provisions of section 27 of that Act. Explanation.--An omission to state a fact or circumstance in the statement referred to in sub-section (1) may amount to contradiction if the same appears to be signifi cant and otherwise relevant having regard to the context in which such omission occurs and whether any omission amounts to a contradiction in the particular context shall be a question of fact.” 1044 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 46. Section 162 CrPC says that no statement made by any person to a police offi cer in the course of an investigation, whether it be recorded or not, shall be used for the purpose save as provided in the fi rst proviso to the Section. The fi rst proviso says that when any witness, whose statement has been reduced into writing by the police in accordance with the provisions of the CrPC, is called for the prosecution in inquiry or trial the accused with the permission of the court may contradict the witnesses in the manner provided by Section 145 of the Evidence Act. It could be argued that, as the fi rst part of Section 162 prohibits the use of the statement of a witness to a police offi cer for any purpose, other than that subsequently provided for in the proviso, and as the proviso says that the Court may permit the accused to contradict the witness with his previous statement, the Court has no power to do anything suo motu. In our opinion, this would be a misreading of the Section. The fi rst part of Section 162 says that the statement made by a person to a police offi cer during investigation cannot be used for any purpose other than that mentioned in the proviso. We lay stress on the word “purpose”. The purpose mentioned in the proviso is the purpose of contradicting the evidence given in favour of the State by a prosecution witness in Court by the use of the previous statement made by such witness to the police offi cer. The purpose is to discredit the evidence given in favour of the prosecution by a witness for the State. The Section prohibits the use of the statement for any other purpose than this. It does not say that the statement can only be used at the request of the accused. The limitation or restriction imposed in the fi rst part of Section 162 CrPC relates to this purpose for which the statement may be used; it does not relate to the procedure which may be adopted to eff ect this purpose. The proviso which sets out the limited purpose also mentions the way in which an accused person may contradict the witness with his previous statement made to the Police, but it does not in any way purport to take away the power that lies in the Court to look into any document, that it considers necessary to look into for the ends of justice and to put such questions to a witness as it may consider necessary to elicit the truth.