Any procedure prescribed to deprive such a right to livelihood or continued employment must be just, fair and reasonable procedure. G In other words an employee in a public employment also must not be arbitrarily, unjustly and unreasonably be deprived of his/her livelihood which is ensured in continued employment till it is terminated in accordance with just, fair and reasonable procedure. Otherwise any law or rule in violation thereof is void.” H [emphasis added] AURELIANO FERNANDES v. STATE OF GOA AND OTHERS 801 [HIMA KOHLI, J.] 40. The significant role played by procedural fairness in the A backdrop of internalising the principles of natural justice into the Constitution cannot be overstated. This aspect has been highlighted by a Division Bench of this Court of which one of us, [Hima Kohli, J], was a member, in Madhyamam Broadcasting Limited v. Union of India & Others49. Speaking for the Bench, Chief Justice D. Y. Chandrachud B stated : “53. The of this Court in Maneka Gandhi (supra) spearheaded two doctrinal shifts on procedural fairness because of the constitutionalising of natural justice. Firstly, procedural fairness was no longer viewed merely as a means to secure a just C outcome but a requirement that holds an inherent value in itself. In view of this shift, the Courts are now precluded from solely assessing procedural infringements based on whether the procedure would have prejudiced the outcome of the case. Instead, the courts would have to decide if the procedure that was followed infringed upon the right to a fair and D reasonable procedure, independent of the outcome. In compliance with this line of thought, the courts have read the principles of natural justice into an enactment to save it from being declared unconstitutional on procedural grounds. Secondly, natural justice principles breathe reasonableness into the procedure. Responding to the argument that the principles of natural justice E are not static but are capable of being moulded to the circumstances, it was held that the core of natural justice guarantees a reasonable procedure which is a constitutional requirement entrenched in Articles 14, 19 and 21. The facet of audi alterum partem encompasses the components of F notice, contents of the notice, reports of inquiry, and materials that are available for perusal. While situational modifications are permissible, the rules of natural justice cannot be modified to suit the needs of the situation to such an extent that the core of the principle is abrogated because it is the core that infuses procedural reasonableness. The G burden is on the applicant to prove that the procedure that was followed (or not followed) by the adjudicating authority, in effect, infringes upon the core of the right to a fair and reasonable hearing.” - [emphasis supplied] 49 (2023) SCC Online 366 H 802 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 41. In A.K. Kraipak and Others v. Union of India and Others50 quoting with approval the In re:H.K. (All Infant)51, this Court held that : “20. The aim of the rules of natural justice is to secure justice or to put it negatively to prevent miscarriage of justice.