Illustration (f) under Section 405 is apposite and it reads as E follows: - “Illustration f. A, a carrier, is entrusted by Z with property to be carried by land or by water. A dishonestly misappropriates the property. A has committed a criminal breach of trust.” G. THE SALE OF GOODS ACT, 1930 F 42. Section 39 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930,inter alia, contemplates delivery pursuant to a contract of sale by the seller to the carrier as prima facie to be deemed to be the delivery of the goods to the buyer. It becomes the responsibility of the buyer of a carrier to fulfil its contractual obligations and deliver the goods to the consignee or as per G its instructions. Section 27 of the Sale of Goods Act deals with sale by a person who is not the owner. It reads as follows: - “27. Sale by person not the owner. — Subject to the provisions of this Act and of any other law for the time being in force, where goods are sold by a person who is not H M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 559 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] the owner thereof and who does not sell them under the authority A or with the consent of the owner, the buyer acquires no better title to the goods than the seller had, unless the owner of the goods is by his conduct precluded from denying the seller’s authority to sell: Provided that, where a mercantile agent is, with the consent of B the owner, in possession of the goods or of a document of title to the goods, any sale made by him, when acting in the ordinary course of business of a mercantile agent, shall be as valid as if he were expressly authorised by the owner of the goods to make the same; provided that the buyer acts in good faith and has not at the C time of the contract of sale notice that the seller has not authority to sell.” 43. Sale by a carrier does not pass title except when it is immunised by the conduct of the owner of the good which would in turn estop the owner from impugning the title of the buyer. Under Section 15 of the D Carriage by Road Act, 2007, a sale by a carrier is permitted and it can convey good title to the buyer. H. IS A THIEF AN OWNER? OWNERSHIP BEING ILLEGAL. 44. Can a thief be treated as the owner of the goods? In this E regard, this Court notices the following discussion in the commentary on Sampath Iyengar’s, Law of Income Tax. “12. Sine qua non is “ownership”.- The words “is found to be the owner” appearing in this section clearly show that the mere fact that, on a search, certain articles are found in the possession of a F person cannot be said to attract the provisions of this section unless it is established that the person in whose possession articles were found is the owner thereof.