Even otherwise, in the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall not be any deemed lapse under Section 24(2) of the Act, 2013 on the ground that the amount of compensation was not paid. It is C an admitted position that after the consent award, under Section 11 of the Act, 1894, was passed on 11.06.1993, the amount of compensation was in fact offered to the land owner alongwith other land owners and the respondent – original land owner was called upon to remain present in the office of Talati-cum-Mantri to receive / accept the compensation. D However, the land owner refused to accept the compensation though offered. In that view of the matter, once the compensation was offered, which as such was offered pursuant to the consent award under Section 11 of the Act, 1894, but the land owner refused to accept the same, how there can be any deemed lapse of acquisition under Section 24(2) of the Act, 2013? E 6.1 As per the law laid down by this Court in the case of Indore Development Authority (Supra) and even otherwise considering the object of providing the deemed lapse of acquisition under Section 24(2) of the Act, 2013 seems to be that if there is any lapse on the part of the Acquiring Body / agency in not taking the possession and not paying the F compensation there shall be deemed lapse of acquisition. Therefore, for a deemed lapse under Section 24(2) of the Act, 2013, there shall be a lapse on the part of the Acquiring Body / beneficiary in not taking the possession and not paying the compensation. In the present case, both the conditions are not satisfied. In fact, the amount of compensation G under the consent award under Section 11 of the Act, 1894 was offered and the land owner was called upon to accept the compensation however, the land owner refused to accept the same. Even the possession was taken by drawing the panchnama at the time of declaration of the consent award under Section 11 of the Act, 1894. However, thereafter, because of the reluctance on the part of the original land owner, the physical and H STATE OF GUJARAT AND ORS. v. JAYANTIBHAI 711 ISHWARBHAI PATEL [M. R. SHAH, J.] actual possession of the land could not be taken by the Acquiring Body. A From the aforesaid it can be seen that there was no lapse at all on the part of the Authority neither in offering / paying the compensation nor in not taking the possession. Therefore, the Division Bench of the High Court has materially erred in declaring that the acquisition with respect to the land in question is deemed to have lapsed under Section 24(2) of B the Act, 2013. 7. Now, so far as the impugned and passed by the High Court in setting aside the award dated 11.06.1993 on the ground that the award has not been implemented for number of years and the amount of compensation has not been paid for number of years and the C land is not utilized / used for number of years is concerned, at the outset it is required to be noted that it was the original owner who refused to accept the compensation offered in the year 1993.