Further, it was that the Petitioner is absconding and he is suspected to have left the country. d) During investigation, the statement of Complainant was recorded under section 161 Cr.P.C. and other material evidence was collected wherein the claim of the complainant is proved. e) In the above FIR/Crime No. 175/2022 U/s 147, 148, 149, 195A, 386, 504,506 IPC, registered at P.S. Mirjapur, District Saharanpur, there are total four (4) accused persons namely Khurshid, Farukh, Maharaj, Suleman Kabadi. Further during the investigation,the name of the petitioner was also added but only the petitioner come before this Hon’ble Court to quash the said FIR. f) The Investigation has been completed and chargesheet is ready to fi le against the Petitioners but due to stay dated 02.01.2023 of this Hon’ble Court, the chargesheet could not be submitted. g) During investigation, the statement of Complainant/Victim under section 161 Cr.P.C. was recorded, wherein the victim has revealed that she was pressurized to make settlement in the aforementioned FIR No. 122 of 2022 by the Gang members of the Petitioner No. 1 Mohd. Iqbal. Further, it was also informed that Khurshid S/o Asgar, Farooq S/o Mutaaq, Mehraj S/o Farooq and Suleman Kabadi S/o Khurfan has threaten the victim and Suleman Kabadi has shown the 66 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. pistol and warned that if she has not settled the issues, she would have to face the consequences. In view of the aforementioned factual & legal submissions, it is most respectfully submitted that the present special leave petition of the Petitioners is liable to be dismissed with exemplary cost and the impugned dated 17.10.2022 passed by the Hon’ble High Court in Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 13339 of 2022 is liable to be upheld.” ANALYSIS 9. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the FIR should be quashed so far as the appellant herein is concerned? 10. We take notice of the following facts:- 1.The appellant herein has not been named in the FIR as one of the accused persons. There is no allegation worth the name in the entire FIR against the appellant herein. 2.It appears that further statement of the fi rst informant was recorded under Section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and in the said statement, the name of the appellant herein surfaced. 11. The fi rst informant in her further statement dated 12.08.2022 stated thus:- “… Yesterday morning at around 7.00 am I along with my daughter Salia was going to Shahpur Gada to see my brother at my mother’s house as soon as I reached ahead of the petrol pump, then a Bolero car colour white number unknown came and stopped next to me, the people sitting in it lowered the glass of the car. So I recognized that this is Suleman kabaadi. That’s why Suleman, sitting on the front seat, got down from the car and said that you did not understand after saying it repeatedly.