1 retained a lease came under the control of RIICO. The 1979 Rules were brought into force in the same year, and were meant to provide guidelines on the basis of which RIICO would carry out its D functions, including permissions for sub-division, change of land use, and allotment of industrial areas. xv) The State Government has, in fact, taken a stand in SLP (Civil) No. 8552 of 2021, filed in respect of neighbouring land situated in the same industrial area, whereby it accepts E the transfer of such lands to RIICO has already taken place. It has acknowledged that RIICO has stepped into the shoes of the State Government and the Corporation provides services that are similar to that of a civic body or municipal corporation in the areas managed by it. That is why Rule 12 was specifically inserted into the 1959 Rules, to accord F all powers that the State Government would have had, to RIICO as well. Hence, the Corporation steps into the shoes of the government; xvi) Further, as the 1979 Rules were mentioned in the 1959 Rules in Rule 12, the 1979 Rules were specifically incorporated G into them. The 1979 Rules were not only given statutory recognition by virtue of this mention in the 1959 Rules, but additionally, all the allotments done under the 1979 Rules also received statutory endorsement and recognition; 11 (2010) 9 SCC 437. H 276 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A xvii) In a similar matter concerning the Bharatpur Industrial Area, an allotment had been made by the Collector to Perfect Potteries. The lease stated that no use other than industrial use would be permissible. However, subsequently, the industrial area was transferred to RIICO and the Corporation granted permission for subdivision and B conversion of the land. The Collector had terminated the lease as a result. The matter was referred to a High-Level Committee of the State of Rajasthan presided over by the Chief Secretary and comprising of the Advocate General, Principal Secretary of Law, Principal Secretary of C Industries, and others. The Committee held that by virtue of the insertion of Rule 12 of the 1959 Rules, the actions taken by RIICO were valid and the Collector’s of termination was to be set aside. The relevant extracts of the Committee’s decision are as follows: D “DECISION OF THE COMMITEE After due deliberations, Members of the Committee were of the opinion that RIICO Is having undisputed jurisdiction. In the matter of all those industrial areas which were notified/developed by the State Government and came to be transferred to RIICO vide dated E 18.09.1979 and in view of subsequent amendment in Rajasthan Industrial Area Amendment Rule, 1959 vide notification dated 13.07.1982 by Insertion of rule 12. In view of the above, it was decided by the committee that the dated 22.08.2019 of Collector F Bharatpur needs to be set aside. For this purpose, RIICO should file a revision petition before the Govt. of Rajasthan in Revenue Department through Pr.