v. A.K. NAIR & ORS. 779 permissible in respect of Group ‘A’ posts. It is equally true that A this Court while interpreting sections 32 and 33 of the PwD Act, 1995 did not declare the law laid down by it to have prospective application. It is a principle, well-settled in law, that the interpretation of a provision of law relates back to the date of the law itself. This is essentially for the reason that the duty of the B Court is not to legislate but to interpret the law. However, such principle is subject to the exception that this Court may, in a given case, declare that its interpretation would have effect prospectively. That is not the express intention of this Court in any of the decisions referred. This being the position in law, there is no doubt that the respondent did have a statutorily conferred C right all through to claim that reservation in promotional appointment in Group ‘A’ posts is ingrained in the PwD Act, 1995. [Para 46][802-D-G] 1.8 As regards, whether the RBI was justified in not condoning the shortfall of 3 (three) marks pertaining to the 2003 D exa Indra Sawhney’s mination taken by the respondent to enable him secure promotion at par with the relaxed standards applicable to SC/ST candidates, it is noted from the communication dated 18.10.2006 issued by the Banking Division, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, GoI that the same surfaced E as a follow-up step to comply with this Court’s dated 19.03.2002 in A.I. Confederation’s case. Even otherwise, to reach out to persons with disabilities and grant them the facilities and benefits that the 1995 Act envisaged, it was rather harsh to apply standards which are applicable to general candidates to the respondent while he competed with such general candidates for F securing his promotion. RBI, as a model employer, ought to have taken an informed decision in this regard commensurate with the aspirations of persons with disabilities. [Para 47 and 48][802- H; 803-A-C] 1.9 Persons with disabilities are not entitled to be judged G by the same relaxed standards that are applied to assess candidature of SC/ST candidates. The omission or failure of the RBI in condoning the shortfall in marks coupled with the neglect to identify a Group ‘A’ post suitable for reservation to H 780 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A accommodate the respondent on promotion appears to to be indefensible. [Para 49 and 50][803-C-D] 1.10 There was no authoritative pronouncement of this Court interpreting the PwD Act, 1995, making available reservation in promotional appointments for persons with B disabilities in Group ‘A’ posts, when the respondent took the examination for promotion to the post of Assistant Manager, Grade-I in 2004. The first time it came to be so declared was when the decision in Rajeev Kumar Gupta’s case was pronounced. As regards whether the RBI, in the circumstances, be directed to relax the standard of assessment and grant promotion to the C respondent with retrospective effect, the High Court did not mandatorily direct grant of promotion to the respondent.