One of them was employed as a peon in a school and the other was unemployed. They ran away in 2004 and are reported to have told the police that they would live together regardless of any attempts to separate them; f. Also in 2004, a twenty-one year old Christian woman and a twenty-three year old Hindu woman from a southern state in India declared their life-long commitment to one another after a tabloid alleged that they were lesbians; g. Two young Muslim men (one aged twenty-two and the other aged twenty-eight) married in Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh. Their friends and family physically assaulted them for marrying but it was reported that they continued to intend to live together; and h. Two nurses in Patel Nagar, Delhi met as students, fell in love, declared that they were life partners, and decided to live together. At the time the book was written, they had shared a home for fi fteen years. Their neighbours were aware of their relationship and were unfazed by it. SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1299 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 88. In addition, other sources record varied instances of persons entering into atypical unions or expressing their homosexuality or gender identity: a. Two women who happened to be Adivasi married according to the customs of their tribe, in a small village in Koraput district, Orissa;86 b. A woman who was the daughter of a government school teacher and a woman whose father was a labourer garlanded each other in Hamirpur district, Uttar Pradesh and sought to register their marriage at the local sub-registrar’s offi ce. They each divorced their husbands before entering into this union;87 c. Two women from Kanpur travelled to Delhi to marry each other;88 and d. Young, gay men in a small town called Barasat in West Bengal expressed their desire to be a part of the queer community. One of them worked in a clerical job.89 89. The AIDS Bhedbhav Virodhi Andolan (the AIDS Anti- Discrimination Movement) released a citizen’s report on the status of homosexuality in India, titled ‘Less Than Gay’ in 1991.90 The report discusses some of the arguments which were put forth more than three decades ago. In its attempt to address whether homosexuality is a ‘western’ concept or is restricted to the socioeconomically privileged classes, it asserts that the queer community is not a “coherent, easily defi nable group.”91 The report details the various lived experiences of gay men and lesbian women, information regarding which was collected by interviewing them. It tells the stories of 86 Satyanarayan Pattnaik, ‘Two Orissa girls defy norms, get married’ (Times of India, 5 November 2006) 87 India Today ‘UP: In love for 7 years, two women divorce husbands to marry each other’ (India Today, 1 January 2019) 88 Deccan Herald ‘Two girls from Kanpur elope, ‘marry’ each other in Delhi’ (Deccan Herald, 19 September 2015) 89 Paul Boyce and Rohit K Dasgupta, ‘Utopia or Elsewhere: Queer Modernities in Small Town West Bengal’ in Tereza Kuldova and Mathew A Varghese (eds.