We are not elaborating the same in detail as the prosecution is yet to take place and the concerned persons are to be tried. The proceedings before the B High Court were at the stage of direction under section 212(14) to allow the prosecution and the sanction to prosecute. Ample opportunity shall be available to the concerned accused against whom the prosecution was ed for the offences punishable under section 447 of the Companies Act and other relevant provisions of the IPC. Therefore, the C High Court has erred in setting aside the direction under section 212(14) to prosecute at this stage and on the aforesaid grounds. Conclusion: 16. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, challenge to the constitutional validity of section 140(5) of the Companies Act, D 2013 fails and it is observed and held that section 140(5) is neither discriminatory, arbitrary and/or violative of Articles 14, 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India, as alleged. The impugned and passed by the High Court quashing and setting aside the application/proceedings under section 140(5) on the ground that as the auditors have resigned E and therefore thereafter the same is not maintainable is hereby quashed and set aside. Consequently, the impugned and passed by the High Court quashing and setting aside the NCLT holding that even after the resignation of the auditors, the proceedings under section 140(5) shall be maintainable is hereby quashed and set aside. The application/proceedings under section 140(5) of the Act, 2013 is F held to be maintainable even after the resignation of the concerned auditors and now the NCLT therefore to pass a final on such application after holding enquiry in accordance with law and thereafter on the basis of such final , further consequences as provided under the second proviso to section 140(5) shall follow. However, it is made G clear that we have not expressed anything on merits on the allegations against the concerned auditors and it is ultimately for the NCLT/Tribunal to pass a final on the application filed by the Central Government under section 140(5) of the Act, 2013. 17. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the impugned and passed by the High Court quashing and H UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER V. DELOITTE HASKINS 1015 AND SELLS LLP [M. R. SHAH, J.] setting aside the direction under Section 212(14) of the Companies Act, A 2013 dated 29.05.2019 issued by the Union of India to SFIO is hereby quashed and set aside. The impugned and passed by the High Court quashing and setting aside the prosecution lodged by the SFIO vide Criminal Complaint CC No.20/2019 on the file of Special Court (Companies Act) and Additional Sessions Judge, Greater Mumbai B is also hereby quashed and set aside. Now the said Criminal Complaint CC No. 20/2019 be proceeded further by the concerned Trial Court in accordance with law and on its own merits. 18. Accordingly, in view of the above, the appeals filed by the Union of India, viz., Criminal Appeal Nos.