12. This Court in case of Nanjappa Vs. State of Karnataka1 has very aptly dealt with the intricacies of Section 19(1) as also Section 19(3) and 19(4) of the said Act as to at what stage the question of validity of sanction accorded under Section 19(1) of the said Act could be raised, and what are the powers of the court in appeal, confi rmation or revision under sub-section (3) of Section 19 of the said Act. “22. The legal position regarding the importance of sanction under Section 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act is thus much too clear to admit equivocation. The statute forbids taking of cognizance by the court against a public servant except with the previous sanction of an authority competent to grant such sanction in terms of clauses (a), (b) and (c) to Section 19(1). The question regarding validity of such sanction can be raised at any stage of the proceedings. The competence of the court trying the accused so much depends upon the existence of a valid sanction. In case the sanction is found to be invalid the court can discharge the accused relegating the parties to a stage where the competent authority may grant a fresh sanction for the prosecution in accordance with law. If the trial court proceeds, despite the invalidity attached to the sanction , the same shall be deemed to be non est in the eyes of law and shall not forbid a second trial for the same off ences, upon grant of a valid sanction for such prosecution. 23. Having said that there are two aspects which we must immediately advert to. The fi rst relates to the eff ect of sub-section (3) to Section 19, which starts with a non obstante clause. Also relevant to the same aspect would be Section 465 CrPC which we have extracted earlier. 1 (2015) 14 SCC 186 30 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 23.1. It was argued on behalf of the State with considerable tenacity worthy of a better cause, that in terms of Section 19(3), any error, omission or irregularity in the sanctioning prosecution of an accused was of no consequence so long as there was no failure of justice resulting from such error, omission or irregularity. It was contended that in terms of Explanation to Section 4, “error includes competence of the authority to grant sanction”. The argument is on the face of it attractive but does not, in our opinion, stand closer scrutiny. 23.2. A careful reading of sub-section (3) to Section 19 would show that the same interdicts reversal or alteration of any fi nding, sentence or passed by a Special Judge, on the ground that the sanction suff ers from an error, omission or irregularity, unless of course the court before whom such fi nding, sentence or is challenged in appeal or revision is of the opinion that a failure of justice has occurred by reason of such error, omission or irregularity. Sub-section (3), in other words, simply forbids interference with an passed by the Special Judge in appeal, confi rmation or revisional proceedings on the ground that the sanction is bad save and except, in cases where the appellate or revisional court fi nds that failure of justice has occurred by such invalidity.