ICTL. Unless the debt is of the ICTL, the appellant cannot seek a recovery of the amount on the basis of being a creditor of the SPV ICTL. 21. We must note that the complexities of commercial documents depending on the nature of business. These are not layman’s agreements but agreements vetted by experts and thus each of the parties knows its obligations and the benefi ts which can arise from the agreement. We thus fi nd it diffi cult to read into or add to what the document says about a CCD. 22. Suffi ce for us to say that the aspect of interpretation of commercial documents was in extenso analyzed in Nabha Private Limited Vs. Punjab State Power Corporation Limited3. In respect of the factual scenario before us, it would suffi ce to extract para 72 as under: “72. We may, however, in the end, extend a word of caution. It should certainly not be an endeavour of commercial courts to look to implied terms of contract. In the current day and age, making of contract is a matter of high technical expertise with legal brains from all sides 3 (2018) 11 SCC 508 M/S. IFCI LIMITED v. SUTANU SINHA & ORS. 291 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] involved in the process of drafting a contract. It is even preceded by opportunities of seeking clarifi cations and doubts so that the parties know what they are getting into. Thus, normally a contract should be read as it reads, as per its express terms. The implied terms is a concept, which is necessitated only when the Penta test referred to aforesaid comes into play. There has to be a strict necessity for it. In the present case, we have really only read the contract in the manner it reads. We have not really read into it any “implied term” but from the collection of clauses, come to a conclusion as to what the contract says. The formula for energy charges, to our mind, was quite clear. We have only expounded it in accordance to its natural grammatical contour, keeping in mind the nature of the contract.” 23. The eff ect of the aforesaid is that a contract means as it reads. It is not advisable for a Court to supplement it or add to it. It is an unfortunate scenario where the appellant is being left high and dry as there is nothing which it can recover from the sponsor company, there being no assets and funds. While in the ICTL it is being treated as a shareholder and thus, does not benefi t as none of the shareholders i.e. original investors and the appellant get any benefi t under the scheme which has been approved. The debt assigned was of a lower rate, repurchased by a third party. However, these are commercial decisions of the respective parties. The obligations were of the sponsoring company and IVRCL in terms of Clause 2.4. 24. A reading of the impugned , specifi cally the rationale from para 19 onwards shows that the issue has been correctly crystallized as to whether CCDs could be treated as a debt instead of an equity instrument.