The State Act, 1951 was repealed by Section 110 of the State Act, 1969. Section 2(g) of the State Act, 1969 defi nes a co-operative society with limited liability. That on the enactment of the State Act, 1984, Section 2(a) thereof defi nes “agricultural and rural development bank” to mean the Kerala Co-operative Central Land Mortgage Bank Limited, registered under Section 10 of the State Act, 1951 which is known as “Kerala State Co-operative Agricultural and Rural Development Bank Limited”. Therefore, the appellant is not a co-operative bank within the meaning of Section 80P of the Act. 10.3. Referring to Explanation (a) to sub-section(4) of Section 80P of the Act which states that a co-operative bank shall have the same meaning assigned to it in Part V of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (hereinafter referred to as “BR Act, 1949”, for the sake of convenience), Part V of the BR Act, 1949 which applies to co-operative banks was adverted to. That Section 56 in Part V of the said Act begins with a non-obstante clause and it states that notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, the provisions of the BR Act, 1949 shall apply to, or in relation to, co-operative societies as they apply to, or in relation to banking companies subject to the following modifi cations, namely, (a) throughout the said Act, unless the context otherwise requires references to a ‘banking company’ shall be construed as reference to a ‘co-operative bank’. Further, a co-operative bank is defi ned to mean a state co-operative bank, a central co-operative bank and a primary co-operative bank; that these expressions have the meaning respectively assigned to them in the NABARD Act, 1981. 10.4. It was contended that the appellant bank is not a banking company within the meaning of Section 5(c) of the BR Act, 1949 which defi nes a 328 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. “banking company” to be any company which transacts the business of banking in India and Section 5(b) defi nes “banking” to mean the accepting, for the purpose of lending or investment, of deposits of money from the public, repayable on demand or otherwise, and withdrawal by cheque, draft, or otherwise. That the appellant is a co-operative society and not a co-operative bank. That initially the appellant was registered as land mortgage bank under the provision of the State Act, 1951. That if an entity is engaged in banking business then it would be construed as referring to a co-operative bank in which case, under Section 22 of the BR Act, 1949, it is necessary for a company to hold a licence issued by the Reserve Bank if it has to carry on banking business in India and such licence is issued subject to such conditions as the Reserve Bank may think fi t to impose. That in the instant case, the appellant is not a licenced company under the provisions of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (“RBI Act”, for short) as the appellant does not transact ‘banking business’ and therefore, does not require any licence under the RBI Act.