The facts involved in Balbir Singh (supra) would indicate that the police offi cer eff ected the arrest, search and seizure on reasonable suspicion that a cognizable off ence was committed and not based on any prior information that any off ence punishable under the NDPS Act was committed and, therefore, it was argued that complying with the provisions of the NDPS Act at the time of the said arrest, search and seizure did not arise inasmuch as such arrest, search and seizure was substantially in accordance with the provisions of CrPC 1973. It was, therefore, contended that such arrest, search and seizure cannot be declared as illegal. While examining the contention in the said background, Principle 1 in para 25 RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 315 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] referred to above came to be rendered. (See : Gurjant Singh v. State of Punjab (2014) 13 SCC 603). 43. It all started with the Constitution Bench decision of this Court in the case of State of Punjab v. Baldev Singh, (1999) 6 SCC 172. The Constitution Bench had to be constituted in view of the cleavage of opinion expressed by this Court in the State of Punjab v. Balbir Singh reported in (1994) 3 SCC 299, Ali Mustaff a Abdul Rahman Moosa v. State of Kerala reported in (1994) 6 SCC 569, and Saiyad Mohd. Saiyad Umar Saiyad and Ors. v. State of Gujarat reported in (1995) 3 SCC 610. 44. This Court in Baldev Singh (supra) held that Section 50 would come into play only in cases where search of a person is conducted under the NDPS Act as contemplated under Section 42. Where there is no search of a person under the NDPS Act, Section 50 would have no application. However, where in the course of a general search being conducted under the CrPC, 1973 in connection with any off ence or suspected off ence except one under the NDPS Act, there is recovery of any contraband, the provisions of the NDPS Act shall forthwith apply in such cases also. The relevant observations made are reproduced below:- “12.On its plain reading, Section 50 would come into play only in the case of a search of a person as distinguished from search of any premises etc. However, if the empowered offi cer, without any prior information as contemplated by Section 42 of the Act makes a search or causes arrest of a person during the normal course of investigation into an off ence or suspected off ence and on completion of that search, a contraband under the NDPS Act is also recovered, the requirements of Section 50 of the Act are not attracted. 13. Vide Section 51, the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 shall apply, insofar as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of the NDPS Act, to all warrants issued and arrests, searches and seizures made under the NDPS Act. Thus, the NDPS Act, 1985 after incorporating the broad principles regarding search, seizure and arrest etc.