95. The aforesaid would indicate that this is not a case of “no evidence”. Some evidence has come on record to indicate or rather substantiate the allegations of sexual harassment levelled by the complainant. What is most important to note at this stage is that the High Court has not gone into the suffi ciency of evidence as it was aware that the law does not permit it to go into the issue of suffi ciency of evidence for the purpose of holding a public servant guilty of the alleged misconduct. It is in such circumstances that in the entire the High Court has concentrated only on technical pleas raised by the respondent. It is only on the issue of point 7(a) that the High Court seems to have taken the view that the fi ndings in that regard are based on conjecture and surmises. 96. The High Court took the view that in respect of the allegations contained in Point 7(a) which relates to the respondent making unsolicited phone calls to the complainant, although no evidence of the call recordings had been produced to substantiate the same, yet the Central Complaints Committee accepted the allegations as true, and therefore its fi ndings could be said to be based on conjectures and surmises. 97. The aforesaid in our opinion is not correct. The allegation in Point 7(a) was rightly accepted by the Central Complaints Committee keeping in mind the background of the case. The Central Complaints Committed duly noted that the non-availability of the call records was owed to the fact that the inquiry into the complainant’s grievances was undertaken after a lapse of signifi cant time. Moreover, the said fi nding is fortifi ed by the oral evidence of one of the witnesses who deposed that he was aware of the respondent making calls to the complainant. The relevant portion is reproduced below: - “POINT 7 “x. … Shri Samir Nandi has also stated that he knew that Shri Dilip Paul was calling Smt. X on her mobile. xxx xxx xxx 570 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. B. The Complaints Committee made every eff ort to substantiate the charge that Shri Dilip Paul often telephoned Smt. X, and that too at odd hours, but since call records for Shri Dilip Paul’s mobile phone were not available and Smt. X had a prepaid SIM card, it has failed to do so. xxx xxx xxx ... The Complaints Committee also notes that the unavailability of corroboration from call records cannot be laid at Smt. X’s door because, had the enquiry into her complaint been timely and speedy, these records would have been available as on date.”” 98. Before we close this judgement, we must deal with one submission very vociferously canvassed on behalf of the respondent as regards the multiple inquiries conducted by the appellant. It was submitted on behalf of the respondent that the normal rule is that there can be only one inquiry. It was also submitted that once the on-spot / preliminary inquiry revealed nothing incriminating against the delinquent, no further committee could have been constituted to inquire into the allegations once again.