Since circulars issued by the GoI contemplated condonation of short fall to the B extent of 5 (five) marks for SC/ST candidates, Mr. Nair submitted a representation dated 18th December, 2004 seeking grant of benefit of relaxation as available to him“on par with SC/ST category candidates” and also requested to include his name in the panel of selected candidates. By a reply dated 25th May, 2005, the RBI informed Mr. Nair that there C is no provision for extending grace marks to persons with disabilities in promotional examinations. Immediately on the next day, Mr. Nair submitted a further representation and while inviting attention to circular dated 5th July, 2000 (extending reservation to physically handicapped persons in promotions up to S.O. Grade ‘A’ in the general side where not much of moving from the seat is involved) and the Master Circular D dated 19th October, 2004 (hereafter ‘Master Circular’, for short) on the subject of ‘Reservation in Recruitment and Promotions in Bank’ for persons with disabilities, both issued by the RBI, sought remedial action. This was followed by a spate of representations which, however, proved abortive. E 4.The pursuit to have the shortfall in marks condoned not having been favourably considered by the RBI, thereby resulting in his non- promotion to the post of Assistant Manager Grade - I, drove Mr. Nair to knock the doors of the High Court by instituting a writ petition seeking, inter alia, the following relief: - F “a) This Hon’ble Court be pleased to call for the records of the case and after perusing the same be pleased to issue a writ of mandamus or a writ in the nature of mandamus or any other writ or direction, directing Respondents to provide relaxation of conditions and/or providing grace marks to the G candidate with disabilities for the purpose of placing the disabled candidates in the zone of consideration in All India Merit Test for the Panel Year 2003 in the Respondents’ establishment and further be pleased to direct the Respondents to place the Petitioner in the panel of selected candidates for promotion in All India Merit Test for the Panel Year 2003 H RESERVE BANK OF INDIA & ORS. v. A.K. NAIR & ORS. 787 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] conducted by the Respondents in the year 2004 and be A pleased to direct the Respondents to consider the candidature of the Petitioner for promotion to Grade A in the Physically Handicapped Employees category. b) The Respondents be ed to implement the 3% Reservation in promotion for the persons with disability in B toto to all the posts identified by the Respondents under Circular Nos.49 and 18 dated 05.07.2000 and 19.10.2004 respectively.” 5.The writ petition was contested by the RBI by filing a counter affidavit dated 8th February, 2008. Referring to Office Memorandum C (hereafter ‘OM’, for short) dated 29th December, 2005 on the subject of “Reservation for the Persons with Disabilities” which consolidated all existing instructions in line with the PwD Act, 1995 and clarified certain issues including procedural matters, it was contended that for persons with disabilities 3 (three) per cent of vacancies in case of direct D recruitment to Groups ‘A’, ‘B’, ‘C’ and ‘D’ have to be reserved; and (three) per cent of the vacancies in case of promotions, only to identified Groups ‘C’ and ‘D’ posts in which the element of direct recruitment, if any, does not exceed 75 (seventy-five) per cent, have to be reserved.