262. We, therefore, find that the impugned notification dated 8th November 2016 does not suffer from any flaws in the decision-making F process. ISSUE NO. (iv): AS TO WHETHER THE IMPUGNED NOTIFICATION DATED 8TH NOVEMBER 2016 IS LIABLE TO BE STRUCK DOWN APPLYING THE TEST OF PROPORTIONALITY? G 263. It is sought to be urged on behalf of the petitioners that before taking such a drastic measure, which caused enormous hardship to a number of citizens, the government ought to have found out as to whether there was an alternate course of action which could have resulted in lesser hardship to the citizens. In this respect, reliance is placed on the H 128 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A of this Court in the case of Internet and Mobile Association of India (supra) and K.S. Puttaswamy (Retired) and another (Aadhaar) (supra). 264. In the case of Internet and Mobile Association of India (supra), the RBI had issued a directive to the entities regulated by RBI B (i) not to deal with or provide services to any individual or business entities dealing with or settling virtual currencies and (ii) to exit the relationship, if they already have one, with such individuals/business entities, dealing with or settling virtual currencies. 265. The said action came to be challenged by writ petition filed C under Article 32 of the Constitution of India. The challenge was on several grounds, including the ground of proportionality. Though the Court did not find favour with the other grounds raised on behalf of the petitioners therein, it held that the concern of the RBI is and ought to be about the entities regulated by it. It found that, till date, RBI had not come out with a stand that any of the entities regulated by it, namely, the nationalized D banks/scheduled commercial banks/cooperative banks/NBFCs had suffered any loss or adverse effect directly or indirectly, on account of the interface that the virtual currency exchanges had with any of them. The Court held that there must have been at least some empirical data about the degree of harm suffered by the regulated entities. The Court, E therefore, while upholding the power of the RBI to take pre-emptive action,upon testing the proportionality of the measure, found that in the absence of RBI pointing out at least some semblance of any damage suffered by its regulated entities, the impugned measure was disproportionate. Four-pronged test of proportionality F 266. The Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Modern Dental College and Research Centre (supra), while considering a balance between the right under Article 19(1)(g) and the reasonable restrictions under clause (6) of Article 19 of the Constitution of India, observed thus: G “60. ……Thus, while examining as to whether the impugned provisions of the statute and rules amount to reasonable restrictions and are brought out in the interest of the general public, the exercise that is required to be undertaken is the balancing of fundamental right to carry on occupation on the one hand and the restrictions H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 129 [B. R. GAVAI, J.]