A distinction was sought to be carved out between the Instrument of Accession and the Merger Agreement. Historically, the Instrument of Accessions were signed for the release of ‘external sovereignty’ and Merger Agreements were signed for the release of ‘internal sovereignty’. In this regard, observations of this Court in Promod 80 supra 81 Prem Nath Kaul (Para 38) 330 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Chandra Deb v. State of Orissa82 were referred to, to highlight this distinction. In this context, it was submitted by both Mr. Rajiv Dhawan and Mr. Zafar Shah that the Maharaja Hari Singh or his successors never signed any merger agreement with the Dominion and, thus, retained their legislative powers. v. The assimilation of more than 600 States as part of India through the mechanism of Instruments of Accession and Merger Agreements must be understood in the historical context in which they were executed. The submission, thus, was that such historical agreements cannot be negated unilaterally by the Union of India by relying on the observations in Madhav Rao Jivaji Rao Scindia v. Union of India83 in the context of the unilateral action by the President therein, which was not upheld then, though the abolition of privy purses was later upheld on account of the Parliament having passed a law in regard to that. vi. Mr. Zafar Shah in addition to the aforesaid sought to contend that Article 370(3) of the Constitution at best could have been used only to de-operationalise Article 370 of the Constitution. vii. The Constitution of Jammu & Kashmir was stated to derive its authority from the sovereignty of Maharaja Hari Singh, which was retained in the State, as refl ected by the Merger Agreement not being signed. Thus, it stands on its own feet and not by virtue of the Constitution of India. The arrangement envisaged two Constitutions to coexist, as enunciated by Y.V. Chandrachud, J. (as he then was) in Kesavananda Bharati84 case. viii. The observations made in the State Bank of India v. Santosh Gupta85 opining that Jammu & Kashmir possessed no sovereignty was urged to be treated as merely an obiter as the Court had already decided that the legislative competence to enact the SARFAESI Act, 2002 was to be found in List I. Thus, it was submitted that there was 82 1962 Supp (1) SCR 405 83 (1971) 1 SCC 85 84 (supra) para 2072 85 (2017) 2 SCC 538 IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 331 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] no occasion to determine the sovereignty (if any) inhering in Jammu & Kashmir and were alternatively urged to be per incuriam in the light of the in Prem Nath Kaul86. 2. The Impugned Executive s are not competent to alter the relationship between the State and the Union: A. C.O. 272 is illegal and mala fi de: i. Mr. Sibal urged that while interpreting the constitutional provisions, the constitutional values must be kept in mind and any interpretation must be consistent with such constitutional values.