Advs., Ms. Kawalpreet Kaur, Satya Mitra, Gurmeet E Singh Makker, Dr. Arun Kumar Yadav, Digvijay Dam, Praveena Gautam, Akshit Pradhan, A K Kaul, Abhinav Mukerji, Akshay Shrivastava, Mrs. Bihu Sharma, Ms. Pratishtha Vij, Arpit Parkash, Ms. Shubhangi Agarwal, Milind Kumar, Sumeer Sodhi, Gaurav Arora Advs. for the appearing parties. F The of the Court was delivered by DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI 1. A public interest litigation has been instituted by Dr Narendra Gupta in 2013 highlighting the fact that in the States of Bihar, Chhattisgarh G and Rajasthan, in particular, “unnecessary hysterectomies” were carried out under the Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana as well as other government schemes related to healthcare. The petition also highlights the involvement of private hospitals in performing such hysterectomies. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare1 is the first respondent, H 994 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A while the States of Bihar, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh are impleaded as the second, third and fourth respondents respectively. Based on his field work, the petitioner has brought to our notice the fact that women, who should not have been subjected to hysterectomies and to whom alternative treatment could have been extended, were subjected to hysterectomies, seriously endangering their health in the process. The petitioner also B submitted that most women who were subjected to hysterectomies of this kind belonged to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, or Other Backward Communities. 2. On 13 December 2022, this Court directed the Secretary, C MoHFW to examine the grievance which was raised in the petition and to file a response after collating relevant information. 3. Before we advert to the status report which has been filed by the Union of India, it must be recorded, at the outset, that from the counter affidavits filed by the States of Rajasthan, Bihar and Chhattisgarh, D it emerges that there is a considerable degree of substance in the facts which have been highlighted in the petition. For instance, the affidavit filed by the State of Bihar indicates that steps were taken by the district authorities in Kishanganj, Madhubani, Samastipur and Saran to enquire into complaints regarding unnecessary hysterectomies. Finding that many of the allegations in regard to the performance of unnecessary E hysterectomies were true, the State has taken consequential action. It issued a circular inter alia directing that empanelled hospitals must obtain permission from the concerned insurance provider before conducting hysterectomies on women aged forty or below. This Court has been apprised of the fact that several hospitals have been blacklisted and de- F empanelled from the Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana pursuant to the investigation conducted in the state. In certain cases, First Information Reports have been filed. 4. The State of Rajasthan has placed on the record the steps which were taken by the District Collector, Dausa for constituting G committees to enquire into the alleged incidents. The State of Rajasthan framed the Rajasthan Government Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Rules 2013.The State of Chhattisgarh constituted a High H 1 “MoHFW” DR NARENDRA GUPTA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS.