Where the amount or value of the consideration of such conveyance as set B forth therein or market value of the property which is the subject of such conveyance, whichever is greater…….” 4. So this provision which is applicable to the case in hand provides that if the market value of the immovable property is higher than C the value of the consideration as set forth in the deed of conveyance, the stamp duty will be payable on the market value of the immovable property which is the subject matter of the conveyance deed.” (emphasis added) D Article 23 of Schedule IB applicable to the State of Uttar Pradesh, reads thus: - “Description of Instrument Proper Stamp-duty 23. Conveyance [as defined Sixty rupees. E by section 2(10)] not being a Transfer charged or exempted under No.62 – (a) if relating to immovable F property where the amount or value of the consideration of such conveyance as set forth therein or the market value of the immovable property which is the G subject of such conveyance, whichever is greater does not exceed Rs.500. Where it exceeds Rs.500 One hundred and twenty- but does not exceed five rupees. H 524 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Rs.1,000. and for every Rs.1,000 One hundred and twenty- or part thereof in excess five rupees. or Rs.1,000. Provided that the duty payable shall be rounded off to the B next multiple of ten rupees. (b) if relating to movable property Twenty rupees where the amount or value of the consideration of such conveyance C as set forth therein does not exceed Rs.1,000. and for every Rs.1,000 or part Twenty rupees” thereof in excess of Rs.1,000. 18. At this stage, we may note that the Stamp Act is a taxing D statute. In interpreting such a statute, equitable considerations cannot be applied. A taxing statute has to be interpreted in accordance with what is clearly expressed therein. While interpreting such a statute and determining the liability to pay tax, the provisions are required to be construed strictly. In other words, the rule of literal construction must be applied while interpreting a taxing statute. It must be interpreted in terms E of the natural construction of the words used. There is no scope to imply anything which is not expressly provided. 19. In view of Article 23 of Schedule I of the Stamp Act, the stamp duty payable on a conveyance will be in accordance with the market value of the subject property on the date of the conveyance F unless the consideration shown therein is more than the prevailing market value. A useful reference can be made to a decision of this Court in the case of the State of Rajasthan and others v. Khandaka Jain Jewellers5. Paragraphs 18 and 19 of the said decision read thus: “18. The contention of the learned counsel for the State that as G per Section 17 of the Act, the market value has to be taken into consideration because Section 17 stipulates that all the instruments chargeable with duty and executed by person of India shall be stamped before or “at the time of execution”.