Experimenting on animals and eating their flesh are stated to be two major forms of speciesism in our society. Over and above, the F legislature, by virtue of Section 28, has favoured killing of animals in a manner required by the religion of any community. Entertainment, exhibition or amusement do not fall under these exempted categories and cannot be claimed as a matter of right under the doctrine of necessity.” G xxx “44. Bulls, therefore, in our view, cannot be performing animals, anatomically not designed for that, but are forced to perform, inflicting pain and suffering, in total violation of H 448 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Section 3 and Section 11(1) of the PCA Act. Chapter V of the PCA Act deals with the performing animals. Section 22 of the PCA Act places restriction on exhibition and training of performing animals, which reads as under: “22.Restriction on exhibition and training of performing B animals.—No person shall exhibit or train— (i) any performing animal unless he is registered in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter; (ii) as a performing animal, any animal which the Central C Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify as an animal which shall not be exhibited or trained as a performing animal.” xxx “53. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the TNRJ Act D refers to ancient culture and tradition and does not state that it has any religious significance. Even the ancient culture and tradition do not support the conduct of Jallikattu or bullock cart race, in the form in which they are being conducted at present. Welfare and the well-being of the bull E is Tamil culture and tradition, they do not approve of infliction of any pain or suffering on the bulls, on the other hand, Tamil tradition and culture are to worship the bull and the bull is always considered as the vehicle of Lord Shiva. Yeru Thazhuvu, in Tamil tradition, is to embrace bulls and not overpowering the bull, to show human bravery. F Jallikattu means, silver or gold coins tied to the bull’s horns and in olden days those who got at the money to the bull’s horns would marry the daughter of the owner. Jallikattu or the bullock cart race, as practised now, has never been the tradition or culture of Tamil Nadu.” G xxx “73. Jallikattu and other forms of bulls race, as the various reports indicate, cause considerable pain, stress and strain on the bulls. Bulls, in such events, not only do move their H THE ANIMAL WELFARE BOARD OF INDIA AND ORS. v. 449 UNION OF INDIA & ANR. [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] head showing that they do not want to go to the arena but, as A pain inflicted in the vadi vasal is so much, they have no other go but to flee to a situation which is adverse to them. Bulls, in that situation, are stressed, exhausted, injured and humiliated. Frustration of the bulls is noticeable in their vocalisation and, looking at the facial expression of the bulls, ethologist or an B ordinary man can easily sense their suffering.