Stamp Act, 1899 – Interpretation of – In interpreting a taxing statute, equitable considerations cannot be applied – The rule of C literal construction must be applied while interpreting a taxing statute – It must be interpreted in terms of the natural construction of the words used – There is no scope to imply anything which is not expressly provided. Allowing the appeal, the Court D HELD:1. The Stamp Act is a taxing statute. In interpreting such a statute, equitable considerations cannot be applied. A taxing statute has to be interpreted in accordance with what is clearly expressed therein. While interpreting such a statute and determining the liability to pay tax, the provisions are required E to be construed strictly. In other words, the rule of literal construction must be applied while interpreting a taxing statute. It must be interpreted in terms of the natural construction of the words used. There is no scope to imply anything which is not expressly provided. [Para 18][524-D-E] F 2. In view of Article 23 of Schedule I of the Stamp Act, the stamp duty payable on a conveyance will be in accordance with the market value of the subject property on the date of the conveyance unless the consideration shown therein is more than the prevailing market value. When a sale deed is presented for registration, the registering authority must ascertain the correct G market value of the property subject matter of the document on the date of execution of the document. The stamp duty is payable on the basis of such market value and not on the consideration mentioned in the document. If the consideration mentioned is H SHANTI BHUSHAN (D) THR. LR. & ORS. v. STATE OF U.P. 515 AND ORS. more than the market value, the stamp duty will be payable on A the consideration shown. Moreover, the market value mentioned in the agreement for sale or the market value prevailing on the date of the agreement or the market value prevailing on the date on which the bargain was struck is of no relevance for deciding the stamp duty. The relevant market value is the one which prevails B on the date of execution of the conveyance. Therefore, this Court had no manner of doubt that the appellants were under an obligation to pay stamp duty calculated on the market value of the sale deed property on the date of execution of the sale deed. [Paras 19, 20][524-F; 525-H; 526-A-C] C 3. Stamp duty was paid by the appellants by taking the market value of the sale deed property at Rs.6,67,200/- . This market value was fixed by adopting method used for levy of property tax under the Municipal laws. Such a value cannot be taken as the basis for determining the market value for the purposes of Article 23. [Para 21][526-D] D 4. The test for determination of the market value is very simple. The market value is the one which a bona fide and willing buyer will offer.