41. It reveals from the record that after a few rounds of litigation, the Financial Commissioner set aside the of mutation by H 274 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A dated 10th February, 1995, the matter later travelled to the Division Bench of the High Court of Delhi and by dated 22nd November, 2012, it was held that once the rural area is urbanized by issuance of notification under Section 507(a) of the Act, 1957, it ceases to be governed by the provisions of Act, 1954. B 42. What persuaded this Court is that even after upholding the of the Division Bench of the High Court dated 22nd November, 2012, it gives a fresh life to the respondents to go ahead in taking possession of the subject property despite the fact that registered sale deed dated 4th May, 1989 was executed in their favour by Maman Singh(Bhumidhar) but they are still deprived of possession and the C defence of the appellants in counter is that they are in possession of the subject land by adverse possession. At the same time, this Court may also record that the registered sale deed dated 4th May, 1989 executed in favour of the respondents by Maman Singh (Bhumidhar) was never the subject matter of challenge and no such proceedings are pending in D the Court of law. 43. At this point of time, it reminds us that the civil suit filed at the instance of the respondents for taking possession of the subject land which is pending for the last 32 years has not started its journey as yet and this is called the travesty of injustice to a person who is indisputedly E the title holder still unable to enjoy the property. 44. In the given facts and circumstances, in exercise of our power under Article 142 of the Constitution and to do complete justice to the parties, we direct the appellants to hand over physical possession of the subject land free from all encumbrances to the respondents within a period of two months from the date of passing of this . If the F appellants fail to hand over possession within the time stipulated, it will be open to the respondents to make an application to the concerned jurisdictional Judicial Magistrate and after obtaining necessary s with assistance of the local administration may proceed for taking possession of the subject land. It goes without saying that the possession G has to be handed over in terms of the registered sale deed dated 4th May, 1989 which has been executed by Maman Singh (Bhumidhar) in the names of the respective respondents. 45. The pending civil suit in the above terms stands disposed of. H MOHINDER SINGH(DEAD) THROUGH LRS AND ANOTHER 275 v. NARAIN SINGH AND OTHERS [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] 46. We find no substance in the instant appeal. The same is hereby A dismissed with the observations afore-stated. No costs. 47. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Nidhi Jain Appeal dismissed.