As noticed, the State Commission merely referred to the decision of COMPAT in Dr. Monga’s case and then referred to the prayer of the respondent for award of compound interest coupled with D the fact that possession cannot be handed over to her. On this and with reference to the observations in the case of Malay Kumar Ganguly (supra)9, for awarding compensation with such sum of money as to put the wronged person in the position as he would have been if he had not sustained the wrong, the State Commission straightaway jumped to the E conclusion of awarding compound interest @ 14%. Apart from other shortcomings as noticed above, the State Commission, even while awarding compound interest @ 14%, did not even take into account the fact of attempted refund of money by the appellants by the cheque dated 08.11.2005 and did not specify the period of such operation of compounding of interest. The open-ended and the assumptive by F the State Commission had been bereft of logic and had been wanting in the requisite reasoning as also specification of the relief sought to be granted. The position in the National Commission had been no better and in fact, the Commissions proceeded as if nothing else was required to be considered because of Dr. Manjeet Kaur Monga’s case. G 9Malay Kumar Ganguly had been a case relating to compensation on account of medical negligence. The referred passage in the said decision reads as under: - “Indisputably, grant of compensation involving an accident is within the realm of law of torts. It is based on the principle of restitution in interregnum. The said principle provides that a person entitled to damages should, as nearly as possible, get that sum of money which would put him in the same position as he would have been if he had not sustained the wrong.” H 1150 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A In extraordinary measure, money received by respondent allowed to be retained 27. For what has been discussed hereinabove, the impugned s are required to be set aside. However, as indicated, the pertinent factors are that Dr. Monga’s case related to the very same project and very B same builder with similar grievance of the complainant. In the said case, award of compound interest until the date of attempted refund by the builders has attained finality. In this view of the matter, even while disapproving the proposition of providing compound interest as such, we deem it appropriate to take into consideration, only for the purpose of the present case, the other requirements of balancing the equities. C 27.1. For the peculiar factors of the present case, we are inclined to examine the matter with reference to the alternative submission on the part of the appellants that if at all awarding of compound interest was to be considered, their efforts to make refund of the sum of Rs. 10,68,031/- on 08.11.2005 by way of a cheque cannot be ignored. It has D been argued in this regard on behalf of the respondent that the said cheque was promptly returned by the respondent and accepted by the appellants.