Criminal Trial – Motive – Motive, when proved, supplies additional link in the chain of circumstantial evidence – But, absence thereof cannot, by itself, be a ground to reject the prosecution case; E although absence of motive in a case based on circumstantial evidence is a factor that weighs in favour of the accused – When the evidence on record unambiguously proves the guilt of the accused-appellant, the factor relating to motive cannot displace or weaken the conclusions naturally flowing from the evidence. F Constitution of India – Art.136 – Appeal by special leave – Distinction in the scope of a regular appeal and an appeal by special leave. Dismissing the appeal, the Court HELD: G Chain of circumstances, last seen theory, s.106 Indian Evidence Act 1.1. When the facts established by the evidence on record and the surrounding factors are put together, the chain of H 802 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A circumstances had unfailingly been that the deceased children were lastly seen alive in the company of the appellant; they died because of manual strangulation and obviously, their death was homicidal in nature; their dead bodies were recovered from the canal; and the appellant attempted to project that they had accidentally fallen into the canal. In the given set of circumstances, B when the deceased children were in the company of the appellant, who was none else but their father and when their death was caused by manual strangulation, the burden, perforce, was heavy upon the appellant to clarify the facts leading to the demise of his sons, which would be presumed to be specially within his C knowledge. Thus, the principles of Section 106 of the Evidence Act operate heavily against the appellant. [Para 16.4][850-G-H; 851-A-B] 1.2. It is, of course, the duty of prosecution to lead the primary evidence of proving its case beyond reasonable doubt D but, when necessary evidence had indeed been led, the corresponding burden was heavy on the appellant in terms of Section 106 of the Evidence Act to explain as to what had happened at the time of incident and as to how the death of the deceased occurred. There had not been any explanation on the part of the appellant and immediately after the incident, he E attempted to create a false narrative of accidental drowning of the children. There had not been any specific response from the appellant in his statement under Section 313 CrPC either. [Para 16.4.1. ][851-C-D] Question of Motive F 2.1. Motive, when proved, supplies additional link in the chain of circumstantial evidence but, absence thereof cannot, by itself, be a ground to reject the prosecution case; although absence of motive in a case based on circumstantial evidence is a factor that weighs in favour of the accused. [Para 17.1][851-F- G G] 2.2. The question of motive in the present case cannot be examined only with reference to the testimony of the wife of the appellant who has, even while admitting that she left the children in the company of the appellant and thereafter heard only about H their demise, chosen not to support the accusations against the PREM SINGH v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 803 appellant.