It is submitted that Explanation 1 to Section 37(1) of the Act expressly disallows any expenditure incurred by an assessee for any purpose which is an offence or is prohibited by law, which may be claimed as an B expenditure incurred for the purpose of business/profession. 3.5 It is submitted that in the case of TA Quereshi (supra), this Court clarified that the facts of the said case pertained to business loss and not business expenditure. It is submitted that in the said case, ITAT found the assessee engaged in the business of manufacturing and selling C heroin and thus, this Court held that assessee’s claim of business loss was allowable as he was in the business of heroin. It is submitted that the case of Apex Laboratories (supra) distinguishes the in TA Quereshi (supra) and states that the case relating to the assessee bribing doctors, did not deal with business loss but business expenditure which was disallowable under Explanation 1 to Section 37(1). It is D submitted that thus either way, neither can the Respondent-Assessee claim business loss due to him not being in the smuggling business nor can he claim business expenditure as the same is prohibited under Explanation 1 to Section 37(1). 3.6 Making above submissions and relying upon the above E submissions, it is prayed to allow the present appeals and restore the ITAT s. 4. Shri Arijit Prasad, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the assessee has vehemently submitted that in the present case the respondent – assessee is engaged in the business of purchase and sale F of silver. Total sales of Rs.1,46,07,314/- of Silver was declared by the respondent – assessee with a gross profit of Rs.1,32,712/- for the assessment year in question. Search was conducted by the officers of DRI when unaccounted 146 slabs of silver was recovered. The Collector of Customs ed absolute confiscation of the said 146 slabs of silver G valued at Rs.3,06,036,909/- was proposed to be added as deemed income under Section 69A of the Act. The respondent – assessee disputed being the owner of the slabs. In the alternative, the respondent also requested that 146 silver slabs having been absolutely confiscated by the Customs Department, the value of such tradable silver slabs should be allowed as loss. However, the Assessing Officer made the addition of H 96 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Rs.3,06,036,909/- as income under Section 69A of the Act being a value of 146 silver bars seized from the possession of the respondent. The said of addition came to be confirmed upto ITAT, however by the impugned and the High Court has answered the reference in favour of the assessee by holding that when the value of material is added to the income of the respondent, as a natural consequence, the B loss by confiscation of the said material is required to be allowed as business loss. It is submitted that it is through that before the High Court, the assessee did not press the argument regarding the ownership of the silver slabs and therefore, the said question was not answered by the High Court.