4.8 It is further submitted that as per Section 55, the land for a town development scheme would be land needed for public purpose under the Land Acquisition Act. That once a declaration under section 6 is issued under section 6(3) of the LA Act, the declaration becomes D conclusive evidence that the land is needed for public purpose. It is submitted that the statutory fiction under section 55 also continues for a period of three years, for, if the scheme lapsed under section 54, the statutory fiction under section 55 also comes to an end. That therefore, before the period lapses, a declaration under section 6(3) takes over and E necessity of a statutory fiction under section 55 thereafter is no longer necessary. 4.9 It is averred that in a case where a notification under section 4 is issued after expiry of 3 years from the date of final scheme under section 50(7), the statutory fiction under section 55 would come to an F end and acquisition for a lapsed scheme would not be for a public purpose. It is submitted that acquisition of land for a “public purpose” is a sine- qua-non, absent which no acquisition would be valid. 4.10 It is next submitted that taking steps for acquisition by agreement cannot be said to amount to “taking steps” to implement the G scheme within a period of three years. That as rightly observed by the learned Single Judge, even assuming that IDA was making efforts to acquire the lands through private negotiations with the land owners, this effort of the IDA would not create any bar against getting the scheme implemented under the Adhiniyam. That as rightly observed by the learned Single Judge, both the steps could have been taken by the IDA H INDORE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY v. BURHANI GRIH NIRMAN 103 SAHAKARI SANSTHA MARYADIT SNEH NAGAR [M. R. SHAH, J.] simultaneously. Therefore, the learned Single Judge as well as the Division A Bench of the High Court have rightly held that the scheme in question had lapsed in view of Section 54 of the Adhiniyam as the scheme was not implemented within a period of three years. 4.11 As regards the competence of the Collector to act as “appropriate government” for the purposes of section 5A and 6 of the B LA Act, 1894, it is submitted that in the present case after the issuance of the notification under section 4, objections under section 5A were invited which were collated by the Deputy Collector and Land Acquisition Officer who filed his report before the Collector. The collector proceeded to decide the objections under section 5A of the Act. That thereafter, the C collector proceeded to issue a declaration under section 6 of the Act. It is submitted that in the present case, the Hon’ble Minister did not delegate his powers under section 5A of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 to the Collector, who was empowered to act under sections 4, 5, 6 and 17 of the Act.