(4) A party may challenge an arbitrator appointed by him, or in whose appointment he has participated, only for reasons of which he becomes aware after the appointment has been made. (5) Notwithstanding any prior agreement to the contrary, any person whose relationship, with the parties or counsel or the subject-matter of the dispute, falls under any of the categories specifi ed in the Seventh Schedule shall be ineligible to be appointed as an arbitrator: Provided that parties may, subsequent to disputes having arisen between them, waive the applicability of this sub-section by an express agreement in writing.” 89. The Amendment 2015 is also based on the recommendation of the Law Commission which specifi cally dealt with the issue of “Neutrality of Arbitrators” and a discussion in this behalf is contained in paras 53 to 60 of the Law Commission’s Report No. 246 published in the August 2004. We reproduce the entire discussion hereinbelow: LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 995 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] “Nਅਕਔ਒ਁ਌ਉਔਙ ਏਆ A਒ਂਉਔ਒ਁਔਏ਒ਓ 53. It is universally accepted that any quasi-judicial process, including the arbitration process, must be in accordance with principles of natural justice. In the context of arbitration, neutrality of arbitrators viz. their independence and impartiality, is critical to the entire process. 54. In the Act, the test for neutrality is set out in Section 12(3) which provides— ‘12. (3) An arbitrator may be challenged only if— (a) circumstances exist that give rise to justifi able doubts as to his independence or impartiality.…’ 55. The Act does not lay down any other conditions to identify the “circumstances” which give rise to “justifi able doubts”, and it is clear that there can be many such circumstances and situations. The test is not whether, given the circumstances, there is any actual bias for that is setting the bar too high; but, whether the circumstances in question give rise to any justifi able apprehensions of bias. 56. The limits of this provision has been tested in the Indian Supreme Court in the context of contracts with State entities naming particular persons/designations (associated with that entity) as a potential arbitrator. It appears to be settled by a series of decisions of the Supreme Court (see Executive Engineer, Irrigation Division v. Gangaram Chhapolia [Executive Engineer, Irrigation Division v. Gangaram Chhapolia, (1984) 3 SCC 627] , Transport Deptt. v. Munuswamy Mudaliar [Transport Deptt. v. Munuswamy Mudaliar, 1988 Supp SCC 651] , International Airports Authority v. K.D. Bali [International Airports Authority v. K.D. Bali, (1988) 2 SCC 360] , S. Rajan v. State of Kerala [S. Rajan v. State of Kerala, (1992) 3 SCC 608] , Indian Drugs & Pharmaceuticals Ltd. v. Indo Swiss Synthetics Gem Mfg. Co. Ltd. [Indian Drugs & Pharmaceuticals Ltd. v. Indo Swiss Synthetics Gem Mfg. Co. Ltd., (1996) 1 SCC 54] , Union of India v. M.P. Gupta [Union of India v. M.P. Gupta, (2004) 10 SCC 504] and ACE Pipeline Contracts (P) Ltd. v. Bharat Petroleum Corpn. Ltd. [ACE Pipeline Contracts (P) Ltd. v. Bharat Petroleum Corpn.