This is very different from saying that a suit based on possession alone is incompetent after the expiry of six months. Under Section 9 of the Civil Procedure Code, it is all suits of civil nature are triable except suits of which their cognizance G would either expressly or impliedly barred.” 6 (1989) 4 SCC 131 7 AIR 1968 SC 1165 H 386 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 28.In Nair Service Society Ltd. case (supra) this Court quoted the following observations made in Mustapha Saheb v. Santha Pillai8, with agreement: - “…..that a party ousted by a person who has no better right is, with reference to the person so ousting, entitled to recover B by virtue of the possession he had held before the ouster even though that “possession was without any title.” 29. In view of the aforesaid decisions and the factual position obtained in this case, in our opinion, the decisions sought to be relied on by the appellants are really of no assistance. C 30.It is evident that on a careful consideration of the available pleadings of the defendants, the High Court held that they did not disclose their defence in their written statement and at the same time did not even contend therein that they are in possession of the suit property. According to us, in such circumstances, when the facts disclose no title in either party, at the relevant time, prior possession alone decides the D right to possession of land in the assumed character of owner against all the world except against the rightful owner. In that context, it is worthy to refer to the maxim ‘Possessio contra omnes valet praeter eur cui ius sit possessionis’ (he that hath possession hath right against all but him that hath the very right)”. E 31. In the light of the factual position obtained in this case and legal position settled in the decisions referred supra we are of the firm view that the High Court is correct in holding the question of maintainability of the suit in the affirmative and in favour of the respondent herein. F 32.Now, we will consider the question whether the suit ought to have been held as abated against all the defendants as contended by the appellants for non- substitution and owing to the failure to implead all the legal representatives on the death of the original third defendant- Hanumaiah. The contention that the suit is bad for non-joinder of G necessary parties is also raised based on the same reason. Hence, these questions are to be considered jointly. Obviously, the Courts below declined to uphold the said contentions of the defendants. It is to be noted that the appellants have also raised a contention that Sriman Madhwa Sangha H 8 (1900) ILR 23 Mad 179 SHIVSHANKARA & ANR. v. H.P. VEDAVYASA CHAR 387 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] which is an organization and Sri Vittal Rao ought to have been impleaded A as parties to the suit and in view of their non impleadment, the suit is bad for non-joinder of necessary parties.