[2023] 1 S.C.R. 1055 1055 MAHANADI COALFIELDS LTD. A v. STATE OF ODISHA & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 220 of 2023) JANUARY 20, 2023 B [M. R. SHAH AND C.T. RAVIKUMAR, JJ.] Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957– ss.11(2),2(d)– ‘Person interested’ –Lands in question owned by respondent-State was acquired by the Central Govt. –In exercise of powers u/s.11(1), the Central Govt. directed that the lands and rights so vested shall instead of continuing to vest in the Central Govt., C vest in the appellant-Govt. Company subject to the terms and conditions as mentioned– Demand notice issued by State for premium and compensation – Challenged by appellant– Demand confirmed by High Court– On appeal, held: As per s.11(2), where the rights under any mining lease acquired under this Act vest in a Govt. company, the Govt. company shall, on and from the date of such D vesting, be deemed to have become lessee of the State Govt. as if a mining lease under the Mineral Concession Rules had been granted by the State Govt. to the Govt. company–It shall be liable to pay compensation/rental, etc., to the State Govt. being ‘person interested’– Person interested’ is defined u/s.2(d) – State Govt. being the original owner can be said to be deemed lessor and ‘person E interested’ in getting the compensation – Therefore, the High Court is right in observing that being ‘person interested’, the State Govt. is entitled to the compensation/rental, etc.– Demand(s) upheld – Impugned not interfered with. Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 F – ss.11, 18(a) – Plea of the appellant that the Govt. company in whose favour the is passed u/s.11,except the amount of royalty u/s.18(a) it is not liable to pay any amount – Held : The argument has no substance –Compensation/rental payable with respect to the lands by the lessee/deemed lessee is altogether different than the royalty – Royalty is for extraction of minerals in the lands in question G – Over and above the amount of royalty, the coal company/ Government company shall be liable to pay the compensation and surface land rent, etc. –Amount of royalty cannot be mixed with the compensation/loss caused to the State Government due to loss of land and surface land rent as the State Government is entitled for H 1055 1056 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A the adequate compensation – High Court justified in confirming the respective demand(s). CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No.220 of 2023. From the and dated 02.04.2019 of the High Court of Orissa at Cuttack in WP (C) No.2477 of 2009. B K. M. Nataraj, ASG, Soumyajit Pani, Aishwary Bajpai, Siddharth Jain, Advs. for the Appellant. Umakant Mishra, Niranjan Sahu, Apoorva Sharma, Debabrata Dash, Sibo Sankar Mishra, Advs. for the Respondents. The of the Court was delivered by C M. R. SHAH, J. 1. Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied withthe impugned and dated 02.04.2019, passed by theHigh Court of Orissa at Cuttackin W.P. (C) No. 2477/2009, by which, the High Court has dismissed the said writ petition preferred by the appellant herein and D has confirmed the demand made by the District Magistrate & Collector, Sambalpur, of Rs.