Offence of money-laundering. —Whosoever directly or indirectly attempts to indulge or knowingly assists or knowingly is a party or is actually involved in any process or activity connected [proceeds of crime including its concealment, possession, acquisition or use and projecting or claiming] it as untainted D property shall be guilty of offence of money-laundering. [Explanation. —For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that, — (i) a person shall be guilty of offence of money-laundering if such person is found to have directly or indirectly attempted to indulge E or knowingly assisted or knowingly is a party or is actually involved in one or more of the following processes or activities connected with proceeds of crime, namely: — (a) concealment; or F (b) possession; or (c) acquisition; or (d) use; or (e) projecting as untainted property; or G (f) claiming as untainted property, in any manner whatsoever; (ii) the process or activity connected with proceeds of crime is a continuing activity and continues till such time a person is directly or indirectly enjoying the proceeds of crime by its concealment or H ANOOP BARTARIA & ETC. v. DY. DIRECTOR 541 ENFORCEMENT DIRECTORATE [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] possession or acquisition or use or projecting it as untainted A property or claiming it as untainted property in any manner whatsoever. ]” 26. Section 2(u) defines what is “proceeds of crime” and Section 2(y) defines what is “Scheduled offence”. As discernable from the record, the Prosecution complaint in ECIR was lodged against the petitioners B and others under the PMLA by the ED, pursuant to the investigation carried out by the CBI in the FIR No. RCBD1/2016/E/0002 dated 07.03.2016 and the charge-sheet dated 14.06.2016 filed by the CBI against Bharat Bomb and others for the offences under Sections 120B, 420, 467, 468, 471, 472 and 474 of IPC and Section 13(2) read with C Section 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 at the Designated CBI Court at Jaipur. All the said offences are scheduled offences within the meaning of Section 2(y) of the said Act. The allegations against the petitioner no.1-Anoop Bartaria (Accused No.5) as the Chairman and Managing Director of M/s. World Trade Park Ltd. and the petitioner no.2- World Trade Park Ltd. (accused No.8) are stated D in detail in para 10.5 and 10.8 respectively in the Prosecution complaint. The Court at this juncture is not required to go into the merits of the said allegations. Suffice it to say that serious allegations of money laundering are alleged against both the petitioners in the Prosecution complaint and sufficient material particulars have been narrated in the said complaint E to substantiate the said allegations, which prima facie show the direct involvement of the petitioners in the alleged offences of money laundering as defined in Section 3 of the said PMLA. 27. Having regard to the definition contained in Section 3, it would be a folly to hold that the knowledge of the accused that he was dealing F with the proceeds of crime, would be a condition precedent or sine qua non required to be shown by the prosecution for lodging the complaint under the said Act.