The HSIDC’s special leave petition to this court succeeded, and an was made on 10.11.20035 directing the NCDRC, to hear and dispose of the appeal on its merits. 6. The NCDRC, after remand, allowed HSIDC’s revision B application. It held that the grounds taken and the reasons given by the appellant were vague and evasive and does not disclose any particular date or any time frame for taking up and completing construction. It was also held that the appellant did not show what concrete steps were taken and that his conduct and correspondence could not be taken to be a proper explanation or sufficient ground for non-completion of the C construction and non-installation of the machines and not starting the production in terms of the agreement. The NCDRC also held that the plot remained in possession of the complainant from 29-12-1995 till 18- 12-1998. Relying on the decision of this court in Indu Kakkad v Haryana State Industrial Development Corporation Ltd6, where this court relied on a clause similar to clause 6 of the current agreement, the NCDRC D held that the HSIDC was justified in resuming the plot. Contentions of the appellant 7. Mr. Rajiv K. Garg, learned counsel appearing for the appellant, urged that the appellant did not violate any of the terms of the allotment E letter and took due steps in terms of the allotment letter. After the allotment of the plot (No 182-M, Udyog Vihar, Phase - IV, Gurgaon) he took all the required steps such as: (a) obtaining the required certificate from the Industrial Department; F (b) applying to the electrical department for grant of power connection for which he had deposited the requisite amount with the HSEB; (c) applying for financial assistance with the Financial Corporation. However, on account of change in policy of the Government, the G same was not granted, therefore, the appellant arranged the same from 4 In Revision Petition No 3125 of 2003 5 In Civil Appeal No 5672/2004 6 Indu Kakkad v Haryana State Industrial Development Corporation Ltd, 1999 (2) H SCC 37 AMAN SEMI- CONDUCTORS (PVT.) LTD v. HARYANA STATE 135 INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORP. LTD. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] outside. Thus, the appellant took all effective steps for implementation A of the project which were within his power and control. 8. It was urged that the appellant is a duly qualified engineer, who wanted to be an entrepreneur, and acted upon the novel idea of manufacturing components for FM radios and audios. However, the delay in granting permission and not releasing capital resulted in no construction. B 9. Learned counsel further submitted that the NCDRC’s impugned is in error, because it overlooked the fact that the resumption was issued without granting any opportunity to the appellant; furthermore, the was also vitiated as it was non-speaking. Learned counsel relied on the of this court in Managing Director, Haryana C Industrial Development Corporation & Ors. V. Hari Om Enterprises & Ors.7, in support of the argument that cancellation of allotment without adherence to principles of natural justice vitiates the action of HSIDC.