The Bank also filed the counter affidavit in the writ petition seeking dismissal of the writ petition primarily on the ground that an alternative remedy under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act was available. The High Court allowed the impleadment application. Despite the above, H 632 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A by the impugned and the High Court has allowed the writ petition filed by respondent no.1 herein. That thereafter the appellant herein the auction purchaser filed the review petition which has been dismissed by the High Court. Hence,against the final decision of the High Court in the main writ petition allowing the same in favour of the respondent no.1 herein and rejecting the review application filed by the B appellant, the appellant – successful auction purchaser has preferred the present appeals. 3. Shri A. Sirajudeen, learned Senior Advocate has appeared on behalf of the appellant. Shri Buddy A. Ranganadhan, learned counsel has appeared on behalf of respondent no.1 – original writ petitioner and C Shri Ananga Bhattacharyya, learned counsel has appeared on behalf of respondent no.3. 4. Shri A. Sirajudeen, learned Senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant has made the following submissions: (i) That the High Court has materially erred in entertaining the D writ petition filed by respondent no.1 which was against the steps taken by the Bank under Section 13(4) of the SARFAESI Act namely against e-auction notice; (ii) That the respondent no.1 being the agreement to sale holder had no right title in the flat in question and therefore could E not have filed the writ petition challenging e-auction notice on the basis of the agreement to sale in his favour; (iii) Even if the respondent no.1 had any right, if any, in that case also he had alternative efficacious statutory remedy available under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act challenging F the e-auction notice; (iv) That there was suppression of material facts on the part of respondent no.1 which was specifically pointed out by the appellant in the counter affidavit that at the time when the writ petition was filed and the interim relief was obtained G the auction had taken place in which the appellant was declared the successful bidder; (v) That in fact the DRT in the earlier dated 24.08.2016 declared the sale agreement in favour of the respondent no.1 by the borrower as void as the same was entered into without prior permission of the DRT or even the Bank; and H G. VIKRAM KUMAR v. STATE BANK OF HYDERABAD & 633 ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] (vi) The High Court has materially erred in relying upon Section A 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act. 4.1 It is further submitted by learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant that the High Court has not properly appreciated the fact that a sale agreement holder cannot seek redemption of a property under Section 91 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 and cannot be B treated at par with an auction-sale purchaser under Section 54 of the Transfer of Property Act makes it clear that no interest /charge is created upon a property only by way of sale-agreement.