27. The principal argument canvassed by the learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent No. 1 is that the provisions of FR 56(bb) would apply to the respondent No. 1 in his capacity as an employee of the Council in view of Clause 35 of the Bye-Laws of the Council referred to above, by which the provisions of the FR and SR would apply to the employees of the Council mutatis mutandis. On the other hand, the case put up by the appellants is that the said provisions are not applicable to the employees of the Council in view of the clarifi cation of the Ministry dated 31.10.2017. In regard to the clarifi cation of the Ministry vide its letter dated 31.10.2017, the stance of the respondent No. 1 is that such clarifi cation cannot override the decision of the Cabinet or the provisions of the FR 56 as amended. 28. The aforesaid aspect was duly considered by the CAT. The CAT rightly took the view that the argument canvassed on behalf of the respondent No. 1, that the Council failed to consider the Clause 35 of the Bye-Laws referred to above, which states that the FR, SR and (GFR) as amended from time to time shall apply mutatis mutandis to employees of the Council, was without any merit and deserved to be rejected. The CAT in our opinion rightly rejected such argument. We say so because the applicability would be subject to the provision specifi c to the Clause 34 governing superannuation of the employees of the Council. 29. There is nothing in Clause 35 of the Bye-Laws referred to above on the basis of which, it could be said that the same will have an overriding eff ect on Clause 34 as regards the age of retirement. Clause 47 of the Bye- Laws makes it abundantly clear that for the matters not specifi cally provided in the Bye-Laws, the rules applicable to the government employees would apply. However, as there is a specifi c provision regarding superannuation in Clause 34, the rules governing the government services in respect of superannuation are not applicable to the employees of the Council unless it is in accordance with Clause 34 of the Bye-Laws. 30. We shall now deal with one another submission canvassed by Mr. R. Balasubramanian, the learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent No. 1. It was submitted that Clause 34 of the Bye-Laws 764 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. should be read in two parts. The fi rst part states that the Rules governing the retirement of employees of the Government of India as amended from time to time would apply to the employees of the Central Council. According to the learned Senior Counsel, the second part of the Clause 34 which reads “or as desired by the governing body” is merely an enabling provision empowering the governing body to take a decision whether an employee deserves to be retained beyond the prescribed age of superannuation.