Therefore, the High Court has committed a grave error in drawing the statutory presumption in favour of the plaintiffs and more particularly with respect to alleged PoA alleged to have been executed by the original owner in favour of plaintiff No.2. As such, there were concurrent findings recorded by both the courts below on C non-compliance and/or non-fulfilling the conditions mentioned in Section 33(1)(c) of the Registration Act. By drawing the statutory presumption and without properly appreciating and/or considering the fact that there is a non-compliance of Section 33(1)(c) of the Registration Act there cannot be any statutory presumption, the High Court has set aside the D concurrent findings recorded by both the courts below, in exercise of powers under Section 100 CPC. 8. Even the conduct on the part of the plaintiffs, more particularly on the part of plaintiff No.2, executing the second sale deed in favour of plaintiff No.1 – his own wife as a PoA of original land owner deserves E serious consideration. It is required to be noted and even according to the plaintiffs, on the basis of the PoA alleged to have been executed by the original land owner – Braja Mohan Dey, plaintiff No.2 executed the registered sale deed in his own favour dated 3.9.1968. If that be so, in that case, there was no reason for him to execute the subsequent sale deed in favour of plaintiff No.1 – his own wife as a PoA of the original F land owner. Once he became the owner on the basis of a registered sale deed dated 3.9.1968, which was executed by him in his own name as a PoA of the original owner, he could have executed the sale deed in favour of plaintiff No.1 as the owner and not as a PoA of the original owner. G 9. Even another conduct on the part of the plaintiffs submitting the application to amend the plaint under 6 Rule 17 CPC submitted before the first appellate Court also creates doubts about the genuinity of the PoA. It was never the case on behalf of the plaintiffs before the trial Court and in the suit that the PoA was handed over by the plaintiffs H 162 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A to original defendant No.1 and that despite his demands he never returned the same. Having found and realised that the non-production of the PoA had gone against them, subsequently, before the first appellate Court, the plaintiffs sought to make out a case that the PoA was handed over by plaintiff No.2 to original defendant No.1 and that despite his demands, never returned the same. The amendment sought under 6 Rule B 17 CPC was rightly refused by the first appellate Court. The plaintiffs tried to make out altogether a new case which was not even the case of the plaintiffs earlier. This conduct on the part of the plaintiffs also deserves serious consideration and it creates serious doubts on the genuinity of the PoA.