It is submitted that thereafter on 20.04.2021 he was transferred to another hospital – a government hospital for better treatment and medical facilities. It is submitted that therefore there is no substance in the submission on behalf of the investigating agency that on 18.04.2021 the accused got himself admitted to the hospital to evade his custody. F 5.3 It is further submitted that even otherwise between 08.04.2022 to 18.04.2022 when the respondent was remanded to police custody in another case, during that time, he was extensively interrogated in the present RC as well. It is submitted that even while on interim bail the respondent accused was interrogated. It is submitted that therefore the G prayer on behalf of the CBI made now to have the police custody of the respondent-accused may not be granted. 5.4 Shri Neeraj Kishan Kaul, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the accused has drawn our attention to the pendency of the Special Leave Petition(Criminal) Nos. 1620-1621/2021 filed by the co- H CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. VIKAS MISHRA 327 @ VIKASH MISHRA [M. R. SHAH, J.] accused in which the investigation by the CBI itself is under challenge A and this Court passed an interim that no coercive steps be taken against the petitioner of that special leave petition. 5.5 Making above submissions, it is prayed to dismiss the present appeal. B 6. We have heard learned counsel for the respective parties at length. While considering the prayer of the CBI for police custody for the remainder period of seven days, it is required to be noted that as such the learned Special Judge granted seven days police custody of the C respondent-accused on 16.04.2021. The granting seven days police custody as such had attained finality. However, it so happened that before the seven days police custody is over and before the CBI exercises the power of interrogation for full seven days which as per the passed by the learned Special Judge was available to the CBI, the respondent- accused got himself hospitalised on 18.04.2021. On 21.04.2021, the D learned Special Judge granted interim bail to the accused. As per the settled position of law therefore once on bail/interim bail, during that period there cannot be any police custody. Therefore, the CBI could not interrogate the respondent-accused for full seven days under the police custody remand, which otherwise the CBI was entitled to. That thereafter, E the accused remained in the hospital from time to time during the interim bail which also came to be extended from time to time. That thereafter, by dated 08.12.2021, the learned Special Judge cancelled the interim bail by observing that the respondent accused has misused the interim bail and has not cooperated with the CBI in investigation and that there was no valid reason for his hospitalisation. The learned Special Judge F also observed that in view of the non-cooperation by the accused, the interrogation of the accused under judicial custody/police custody has necessitated. Some of the observations made by the learned Special Judge made in the dated 08.12.2021 cancelling the interim bail are relevant, which are as under: G “Heard both sides, perused the materials in the CD and in the case record and considered.