1 who at the E relevant time was working as an Additional Chief Secretary. 3.7 Making the above submissions and relying upon above decision as well as the decision of this Court in the case of P. Chidambaram Vs. Directorate of Enforcement; (2019) 9 SCC 24 as well as the decision in the case of Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy Vs. CBI; (2013) 7 SCC 439, it is prayed to allow the present appeal and quash and set aside the F impugned and passed by the High Court. 4. Present appeal is vehemently opposed by Shri Vijay Agarwal, learned counsel appearing on behalf of respondent No. 1 herein. 4.1 It is vehemently submitted by learned counsel appearing on G behalf of respondent No. 1 that in the facts and circumstances of the case the High Court has not committed any error in granting anticipatory bail to respondent No. 1. 4.2 It is vehemently submitted that in the present case so far as the main FIR is concerned, the other accused have been acquitted/ H 86 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A discharged. It is submitted that as held by this Court in the catena of decision that if the person is finally discharged/acquitted of the scheduled offence or the criminal case against him is quashed by the Court of competent jurisdiction, there can be no offence of money- laundering against him or any one claiming such property being the property linked to stated scheduled offence through him. B 4.3 It is further submitted that in the present case even respondent No. 1 was not named in the FIR for the scheduled offence(s). 4.4 It is further submitted that the offence under the Act, 2002 is dependent on predicate offence which would be ordinary law including C the provisions of the IPC. It submitted that therefore, as other accused persons have been acquitted/discharged for the predicate offence/ schedule offence there is no question of any offence by respondent No. 1 under the Act, 2002/money laundering. 4.5 It is further submitted by learned counsel appearing on behalf of respondent No. 1 that while granting the anticipatory bail the High D Court has followed the decision of this Court in the case of Nikesh Tarachand Shah (supra), the law which was prevalent at the relevant time. 4.6 It is submitted that the prospective overruling of the said decision by this Court in the case of Dr. V.C. Mohan (supra) therefore, cannot E be pressed into service while challenging the impugned and passed by the High Court granting anticipatory bail relying upon the decision/law prevalent at the relevant time. 4.7 It is further submitted by learned counsel appearing on behalf of respondent No. 1 that in the present case cogent reasons have been F given by the High Court while granting anticipatory bail to respondent No. 1 and considering the fact that respondent No. 1 has cooperated in the investigation and appeared twice earlier before the IO/ED, the impugned and passed by the High Court granting anticipatory bail may not be interfered with by this Court.