E ii. What ? Legal Scheme: 8. Before proceeding further, it would be useful to refer to the relevant provisions of the HAMA Act, 1956 and the CCS (Pension) Rules. F 8.1. HAMA Act, 1956 seeks to codify the law relating to adoptions and maintenance among Hindus. Chapter II of the Act pertains to adoption and prescribes inter-alia, the manner in which an adoption is to be made, the legal obligations created by way of adoption and the consequences that are to follow an adoption. G 8.2. Section 5 of the said Act provides that no adoption shall be made by a Hindu, except in accordance with the provisions of the Act; and any adoption made in contravention of the provisions of the Act shall be void and shall neither create any rights in the adoptive family, in favour of the person so H 940 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A adopted, nor destroy the rights of any person in the family of his or her birth. Further, Section 6 lists the requisites of a valid adoption under the said Act. Section 7 pertains to the capacity of a male Hindu to take in adoption, while Section 8 deals with the capacity of a female Hindu to adopt. Section 8 is relevant to the present case and is usefully extracted B as under: “8. Capacity of a female Hindu to take in adoption.¯Any female Hindu who is of sound mind and is not a minor has the capacity to take a son or daughter in adoption: Provided that, if she has a husband living, she shall not C adopt a son or daughter except with the consent of her husband unless the husband has completely and finally renounced the world or has ceased to be a Hindu or has been declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be of unsound mind.” D 8.3. Section 12 of HAMA Act, 1956, which is relevant to the present case, lists the effects or consequences of adoption by providing that an adopted child shall be deemed to be the child of his or her adoptive father or mother for all purposes with effect from the date of the adoption and from such date, all the ties of the child in the family of his or her E birth shall be deemed to be severed and replaced by those created by the adoption in the adoptive family. The said provision is extracted as under: “12. Effects of adoption. —An adopted child shall be deemed to be the child of his or her adoptive father or F mother for all purposes with effect from the date of the adoption and from such date all the ties of the child in the family of his or her birth shall be deemed to be severed and replaced by those created by the adoption in the adoptive family: G Provided that— (a) the child cannot marry any person whom he or she could not have married if he or she had continued in the family of his or her birth; (b) any property which vested in the adopted child before the adoption shall continue to vest in such person subject to the obligations, if any, attaching to the ownership of H SHRI RAM SHRIDHAR CHIMURKAR v. UNION OF INDIA & 941 ANR.