It also did not examine whether in the proven facts and circumstances of the case it would be safe to rely on the expert C report. It be noted that section 73 of the IEA, 1872 enables a Court to compare the words or figures written by a person present in Court with any words or figures alleged to have been written by such person. The Trial Court therefore could have undertaken such an exercise. But, in the instant case, there appears no such exercise undertaken by the Trial D Court. What is important is that in the instant case there is no witness statement identifying the handwriting of Neeraj or disclosing that Neeraj wrote the suicide letter in his presence. There is also no evidence to explain the relevance of the contents of the suicide letter. Interestingly, the suicide letter indicts one Chhote Porwal. As to why such indictment was made; whether it was with reference to some other event E contemplated, the prosecution evidence is silent. Besides that, there is no evidence to show that the investigating officerqueried person(s) conversant with the handwriting of the deceased to rule out possibility of the suicide letter being in the writing of the deceased himself. In our view, such an exercise was necessary to lend assurance to the prosecution story of the suicide letter being written by Neeraj to mask the murder, F because, firstly, the death on its face was not suicidal, and, secondly, it could have ruled out possibility of it being written in contemplation of some other event. Seen in that light, barring the expert report, there exists no internal or external evidence to lend assurance to the prosecution story that the suicide letter was written by Neeraj. G 67. In addition to the above, we find it quite difficult to accept as to why Neeraj would leave a suicide letter written by him in a pocket of the trouser worn by the deceased, particularly, when the injuries even to a layman were homicidal. Notably, there were eight ante-mortem injuries found on the body of the deceased. In paragraph 72 of Trial Court’s H the injuries have been extracted. The same is reproduced below: SANTOSH @ BHURE v. STATE (G.N.C.T.) OF DELHI 761 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] “External Injuries: A i) One perforating injury on sternal region vertically placed, located at 10 cms left to right nipple and 9 cms below sternal, size 3 cms x 1.1 cms x cavity deep. ii) Another penetrating injury on left side of chest, 6 cms left B to injury No.1, placed vertically, located 1.5 cms above left nipple and 6.5 cms left to mid-sternal line, size 4 cms x 1.8 cms x cavity deep. iii) Another penetrating injury on left side of abdomen horizontally placed, located at 14.4 cms below right nipple, C 4 cms from mid-abdominal line, size 3.8 cms x 1.4 cms x cavity deep. iv) Another penetrating injury on right abdomen 5.8 cms below injury No.3 horizontally placed, size 4.6 cms x 2.1 cms x cavity deep.