There cannot be any disagreement with the ratio laid down in the afore-stated case of Sohan Lal, which has stated that till the result is declared, it may not be possible for the party to apply for re-counting of votes to the Returning Offi cer, and his only remedy would be to fi le Election Petition, and that in such a case, a Court or the Tribunal is bound to consider the plea and where a case is made out, it may direct re-counting depending upon the evidence laid down by the parties. However, in the instant case the question involved is whether the election petition could be fi led seeking the prayer only for re-counting of votes, without seeking any reliefs as contemplated in Rule 6 of the said Rules of 1995. 12. It is well settled principle of law that where a right or a liability is created by a statue, which gives a special remedy for enforcing it, the remedy provided by the statue must be availed of. It is also well settled salutary principle that if a Statue provides for doing a thing to be done in a particular manner, then it has to be done in that manner and in no other manner. In Cherukuri Mani w/o Narendra Chowdari vs. Chief Secretary, Government of Andhra Pradesh and Others3,it is observed that “where the law prescribes a thing to be done in a particular manner following a particular procedure, it shall be done in the same manner following the provisions of law, without deviating from the prescribed procedure.” 13. So far as the facts of the present case are concerned, Section 122 of the said Act provides that an election under the said Act could be called in question only by a petition presented in the prescribed manner. The manner prescribed is in the Rules of 1995. Rule 5 pertains to the “contents of the election petition” and Rule 6 thereof pertains to “the relief that may be claimed by the petitioner”. In the said Rule 6, it has been provided that the petitioner may claim a declaration that the election of all or any of the returned candidates is void; and in addition,thereto a further declaration that he himself or any other candidate has been duly elected. In view of the said Rule 6, there remains no shadow of doubt that in the Election Petition fi led under Section 122 of the said Act, the reliefs claimed have to be in consonance with the said Rule 6 of Rules of 1995. 3 (2015) 13 SCC 722 158 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. It is true that as laid down in Sohan Lal’s case, the Court or Tribunal may direct re-counting of votes in the Election Petition, depending upon the evidence laid down by the parties in the Election Petition, nonetheless the Election Petition seeking the relief for re-counting of votes only, without seeking any other reliefs i.e., declarations as contemplated in Rule 6, would not be tenable in the eye of law.