For what has been discussed hereinabove, the submission of resolution plan by the appellant-resolution applicant was directly hit by Section 88 of the Trusts Act and could not have been approved. In this view of the matter, no other aspect appears requiring consideration as regards the question of eligibility of the resolution applicant. However, B we have formulated point C3 for determination in view of the submissions made in this case as regards another feature of ineligibility of the resolution applicant and it appears appropriate to deal with this aspect of the matter too. 45.1. The status of the appellant-resolution applicant as Managing C Director of another company MGM Healthcare Private Limited is not of any dispute. Rather, the particulars of this company and projections for taking this company forward had been stated extensively by the resolution applicant in his profile submitted with the resolution plan. As per the resolution plan, the appellant-resolution applicant had proposed D to convert the Coimbatore property of the corporate debtor into a hospital. The said MGM Healthcare Private Limited is also said to be a super- speciality hospital and the company is said to be looking forward to set- up new hospitals and aspires to be a leading hospital chain in India. 45.2. In the backdrop of the aforesaid facts, noticeable it is that E Section 166(4) of the Companies Act prohibits a director of a company from involving himself in a situation in which he may have a direct or even indirect interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interest of the company. Given the status of the resolution applicant as Managing Director of MGM Healthcare Private Limited, his dealing with property of the corporate debtor and converting the same into a F hospital cannot be said to be having no impact on the activities of the said MGM Healthcare Private Limited. A direct conflict of interest being writ large on the face of the record, it cannot be said that the prohibition in terms of Section 166(4) does not operate and the resolution plan does not stand in contravention of any of the provisions of law for the time G being in force. For this reason too, in our view, the appellant-resolution applicant could not have been accepted as eligible applicant. Point D1 – Revision of resolution plan after approval by CoC H 904 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 46. Even when the findings of the Appellate Tribunal as regards valuation process and non-compliance of other procedural requirements have not been approved by us, a material factor which otherwise may appear to be of another procedural requirement, has its significant bearing and cannot be ignored as mere technicality. It is concerning want of presentation of finally revised plan to the committee of creditors before B being presented to the Adjudicating Authority. 47. As noticed hereinbefore, commercial wisdom of CoC is given such a status of primacy that the same is considered rather a matter non-justiciable in any adjudicatory process, be it by the Adjudicating Authority or even by this Court.