At this stage, it is required to be noted that as per the claim of the assessee and H 1020 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A the entry made and reflected in the ledger account of the assessee as on 31.03.2008, an amount of Rs. 15,94,06,500/- was paid to a third party i.e., SICCL. However, thereafter, according to the assessee there was a rectification deed dated 30.05.2008 and the amount was reduced from Rs. 15,94,06,500/- to Rs. 5,24,27,354/-. The ITAT has not even questioned the factum of refund of differential amount of Rs. 10,69,79,146/- to the B purchaser on account of rectification deed dated 30.05.2008. The ITAT ought to have appreciated that the moment the receipt of amount is received and recorded in the books of accounts of the assessee unless shown to be refunded/returned, it is to be treated as income in the hands of the recipient. However, the ITAT has also not considered the aforesaid C aspect. 7.2 In view of the above and as observed hereinabove, the ITAT has not considered the relevant aspects/relevant factors while considering the transaction in question as stock in trade and has not considered the relevant aspects as above which as such were required to be considered D by the ITAT, the matter is required to be remanded to the ITAT to consider the appeal afresh in light of the observations made hereinabove and to take into consideration the relevant factors while considering the transaction as stock in trade or as sale of capital assets or business transaction. E 8. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the present appeal succeeds in part. The impugned and passed by the High Court and that of the ITAT are hereby quashed and set aside and the matter is remitted back to the ITAT to consider the appeal afresh in accordance with law and on its own merits, while taking into consideration the observations made hereinabove and to take an F appropriate decision on whether the transaction in question is the sale of capital assets or sale of stock in trade and other aspects referred hereinabove. It is observed that we have not expressed anything on merits in favour of either of the parties. It is ultimately for the ITAT to take an appropriate decision in accordance with law and on its own G merits as above. Ankit Gyan Appeal partly allowed. (Assisted by : Abhishek Pratap Singh and Tamana, LCRAs) H