H 118 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Recommendation of the RBI 238. The next submission in this regard is that the procedure prescribed under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act is breached inasmuch as the proposal has emanated from the Central Government whereas the requirement under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI B Act is that the proposal should emanate from the Central Board. The contention is that, since the Central Government is required to act on the recommendation of the Central Board, the proposal should emanate from the Central Board. 239. As already discussed hereinabove, the RBI has a pivotal role C insofar as monetary and economic policies are concerned and, particularly, in all the matters pertaining to management and regulation of currency. Moreover, perusal of Sections 22, 24 and 26 of the RBI Act would reveal that in various matters pertaining to currency, the course of action is to be taken by the Central Government on the recommendation of the Central Board. It cannot be disputed that the final say with regard to D economic and monetary policies of the country will be with the Central Government. However, in such matters, it has to rely on the expert advice of the RBI. In a matter like the present one, it cannot be expected that the RBI and the Central Government will act in two isolated boxes. An element of interaction/consultation in such important matters pertaining E to economic and monetary policies cannot be denied to the RBI and the Central Government. 240. As already discussed hereinabove, the record would reveal that the matter was under active consideration for a period of six months between the RBI and the Central Government. As such, merely because the Central Government has advised the Central Board to consider F recommending demonetization and that the Central Board, on the advice of the Central Government, has considered the proposal for demonetization and recommended it and, thereafter, the Central Government has taken a decision, in our view, cannot be a ground to hold that the procedure prescribed under Section 26 of the RBI Act was G breached. The two requirements of sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act are (i) recommendation by the Central Board; and (ii) the decision by the Central Government. As already discussed hereinabove, both the Central Board while making recommendation and the Central Government while taking the decision, have taken into consideration all the relevant factors. H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 119 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 241. The dictionary meaning of the word “recommend” is “to A advise as to a course of action”, or “to praise or commend”. In P. Ramanatha Aiyar’s Law Lexicon, the meaning of the word “recommendation” is “a statement expressing commendation or a message of this nature”. The word “recommendation”, therefore, will have to be construed in the context in which it is used. Reference in this B respect would be made to the s of this Court in the cases of V.M.