A resolution plan which does not meet the requirements of SubSection (2) of Section 30 of the IBC, would be invalid and not binding on the Central Government, any State Government, any statutory or other authority, any fi nancial creditor, or other creditor to whom a debt in respect of dues arising under any law for the time being in force is owed. Such a resolution plan would not bind the State when there are outstanding statutory dues of a Corporate Debtor. 49. Section 31(1) of the IBC which empowers the Adjudicating Authority to approve a Resolution Plan uses the expression “it shall by approve the resolution plan which shall be binding ... “ subject to the condition that the Resolution Plan meets the requirements of subsection (2) of Section 30. If a Resolution Plan meets the requirements, the Adjudicating Authority is mandatorily required to approve the Resolution Plan. On the other hand, Sub-section (2) of Section 31, which enables the Adjudicating Authority to reject a 11 (2021) 9 SCC 657 12 (2022) 2 SCC 401 SANJAY KUMAR AGARWAL v. STATE TAX OFFICER (1) & 239 ANR. [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] Resolution Plan which does not conform to the requirements referred to in sub-section (1) of Section 31, uses the expression “may”. 50. Ordinarily, the use of the word “shall” connotes a mandate/binding direction, while use of the expression “may” connotes discretion. If statute says, a person may do a thing, he may also not do that thing. Even if Section 31(2) is construed to confer discretionary power on the Adjudicating Authority to reject a Resolution Plan, it has to be kept in mind that discretionary power cannot be exercised arbitrarily, whimsically or without proper application of mind to the facts and circumstances which require discretion to be exercised one way or the other.” 26. After considering the Waterfall mechanism as contemplated in Section 53 and other provisions of IBC for the purpose of deciding as to whether Section 53 IBC would override Section 48 of the GVAT Act, it was fi nally concluded in the impugned as under: - “55. In our considered view, the NCLAT clearly erred in its observation that Section 53 of the IBC over-rides Section 48 of the GVAT Act. Section 53 of the IBC begins with a non-obstante clause which reads: - “Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any law enacted by the Parliament or any State Legislature for the time being in force, the proceeds from the sale of the liquidation assets shall be distributed in the following of priority. .......... 56. Section 48 of the GVAT Act is not contrary to or inconsistent with Section 53 or any other provisions of the IBC. Under Section 53(l) (b)(ii), the debts owed to a secured creditor, which would include the State under the GVAT Act are to rank equally with other specifi ed debts including debts on account of workman’s dues for a period of 24 months preceding the liquidation commencement date. 57.