Rule 9 prescribes that the candidate should submit evidence as to educational qualifi cations; certifi cate of character from the Heads of the Colleges, where he/she has studied; the reference of two known persons; certifi cate of medical practitioner in prescribed form; and the certifi cate of the duration of practice from the respective authorities. The second note to Rule 9 indicates that the certifi cates and other documents required should 562 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. be true copies of the originals and each of them should be certifi ed by a gazetted offi cer, specifying that after seeing the original, he certifi ed the true copy of the same. The candidate may be required to produce the original before BPSC at the time of viva voce test. 14. In view of this position in the rules it can safely be perceived that the candidate must be of good character so as to satisfy BPSC in this regard by submitting true photocopies and upon requirement by BPSC, the original may be produced at the time of viva voce test. Therefore, it is clear that the candidate should possess the character certifi cate and if required, it may be made available at the time of interview. The said language makes it clear that the production of the original certifi cates at the time of interview is not mandatory but directory. This is apparent from the language of second note to Rule 9 which uses the word “may be required to produce the originals before commission at the time of viva-voce test”. 15. In furtherance to the Rules, the advertisement No. 6 of 2018 was issued. Clause 7(ii) of the said advertisement is regarding online applications which prescribes that for any defects in entry made by candidate in the course of fi lling the online application, the commission shall not be responsible, and correction and change in this regard shall not be permissible. As per Clause 8(1) of the advertisement, the documents attached to the online application form may be produced when the commission demands at the time of the interview or at any point of time. As per Clause 9, the certifi cates regarding qualifi cation is required to be possessed prior to the last date. As per Clause 10, all the certifi cates and marksheets are required to be submitted at the time of interview and the commission shall have discretion to take a decision regarding eligibility of candidates not complying with the said directions. Clause 11 of the advertisement relates to the fact that the candidate shall ensure that he has all the required certifi cate in original at the time of fi lling of application form. 16. In view of the various clauses, as referred to hereinabove, even going by the advertisement, the certifi cates of educational qualifi cation and other required documents on the date of the submission of the online application form must be necessarily possessed but its production is not mandatory. In clause 3 of the interview letter sent to the candidates, indeed it was mentioned that they shall be present with the certifi cates, mark-sheet SWEETY KUMARI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR 563 [J. K. MAHESHWARI, J.]