In compliance with this line of thought, the courts have read the principles of natural justice B into an enactment to save it from being declared unconstitutional on procedural grounds.36 Secondly, natural justice principles breathe reasonableness into the procedure. Responding to the argument that the principles of natural justice are not static but are capable of being moulded to the circumstances, it was held that the core of natural justice guarantees C a reasonable procedure which is a constitutional requirement entrenched in Articles 14,19 and 21. The facet of audi alterum partem encompasses the components of notice, contents of the notice, reports of inquiry, and materials that are available for perusal. While situational modifications are permissible, the rules of natural justice cannot be modified to suit the needs of the situation to such an extent that the core of the principle is D abrogated because it is the core that infuses procedural reasonableness. The burden is on the applicant to prove that the procedure that was followed (or not followed) by the adjudicating authority, in effect, infringes upon the core of the right to a fair and reasonable hearing.37 E. 3 Standard to test reasonableness of procedure: E proportionality as reasonableness 48. Once the applicant proves that the procedure that was followed was not reasonable with reference to the core of the principles of natural justice, the burden shifts on the State to prove that the limitation of the right is justified and reasonable. The State usually claims that the limitation F of the right is justified because following a fair procedure would, inter alia, be prejudicial to public interest. What standard of review should the courts employ to test the reasonableness of the limitation? Rights 35 SL Kapoor v. Jagmohan, (1980) 4 SCC 379; “The non-observance of natural justice is itself prejudice to any man and proof of prejudice independently of proof of denial G of natural justice is unnecessary; also see Swadeshi Cotton Mills v. Union of India, AIR 1981 SC 818. 36 Olga Tellis v. Bombay Municipal Corporation (1985) 3 SCC 545); C B Gautam v. Union of India (1993) 1 SCC 78; Sahara India (Firm), Lucknow v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Central-I (2008) 14 SCC 151; Kesar Enterprises Ltd v. State of Uttar Pradesh (2011) 13 SCC 733 H 37 See paragraph 12 of Justice Bhagwati’s in Maneka Gandhi. MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 639 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] are not absolute in a constitutional democracy. The jurisprudence that A has emanated from this Court is that rights can be limited but such a limitation must be justified on the ground of reasonableness. Though, only Article 19 of the constitution expressly prescribes that the limitation must be reasonable, after the s of this Court in RC Cooper (supra)and Maneka Gandhi (supra) it is conclusive that the thread of B reasonableness runs through the entire chapter on fundamental rights guiding the exercise of procedural and substantive limitations. That leaves us to answer the question of the standard used to assess the ‘reasonableness’ of the limitation.