Contextually, it is apposite to state that though in a suit a defendant is entitled to raise alternative inconsistent plea he could not be permitted to raise pleas which are mutually destructive of each other and raising such pleas would only work out to his detriment. H 192 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 20.Evidently, while entertaining the contentions founded on the Fragmentation Act raised by the second defendant, the trial Court as also the High Court have not bestowed attention to the statutory bar of jurisdiction under Section 36A of the Fragmentation Act which reads thus:- B [36A. (1) No Civil Court or Mamlatdar’s Court shall have jurisdiction to settle, decide or deal with any question which is by or under this Act required to be settled, decided or dealt with by the State Government or any officer or authority. 21.In the above context, it is also relevant to refer to Section 36 C B (1) of the Fragmentation Act. It reads as under: [36B. (1) If any suit instituted in any Civil Court or Mamlatdar’s Court involves any issues which are required to be settled, decided or dealt with by any authority competent to settle, decide or deal with such issues under this Act (hereinafter referred to as the ‘competent authority’) the Civil D Court or Mamlatdar’s Court shall stay the suit and refer such issues to such competent authority for determination. 22. It is also worthwhile in the contextual situation to refer to Section 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (hereinafter referred to as, ‘the CPC’), which confers jurisdiction upon the Civil Courts to E determine all disputes of civil nature, unless the same is barred under a statute, either expressly or by necessary implication. We shall not be oblivious of the fact that the second defendant had not so far approached the competent authority under the Fragmentation Act to nullify the action undertaken under the conveyance, resorting to the remedy contemplated F under the Fragmentation Act, going by the materials on record. At any rate, there is no such case for him. We made this statement because the first proviso to Section 9(3) of the Fragmentation Act would reveal that the automatic voidness would not be attracted to a transfer of land contrary to the provisions of the Fragmentation Act, if it was made on or after 15th day of November, 1965 and before the date of commencement G of Maharashtra Prevention of Fragmentation and Consolidation of Holdings (Amendment) Act, 2017 and that apart, Section 31, referred therein, which puts bar for sale, makes it clear under clause (iii) Sub- section (3) thereof, that the said bar would not apply to any land which is to be transferred to an agriculturist, in its entirety provided such transfer H is not creating a fragment. We may hasten to add here that we shall not DAMODHAR NARAYAN SAWALE (D) THROUGH LRS. v. SHRI 193 TEJRAO BAJIRAO MHASKE & ORS. [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] be understood to have held that the subject suit involves any issue(s) A which is required to be settled, decided or dealt with any authority competent to settle, decide or deal with such issue under the Fragmentation Act.