A behalf. SICOM shall not be liable to pay any arrears if charges and costs/ expenses, if any, in respect of power, water or any other facilities required. The purchaser shall make own inquiries about arrears of dues for supply of power, water and other facilities, if any, and the same shall be borne and paid by the purchaser alone.” B (emphasis supplied) 204. The aforesaid terms and conditions of the auction as set out by SICOM indicate that the property was being sold on “as is where is and what is basis”. The auction purchaser was at all times on clear C notice of the fact that the property was being sold on an “as is where is” basis and that SICOM did not undertake any liability for the payment of dues. This clause was further subject to another provision in Clause 6, where the purchaser was liable to make their own inquiries about arrears of dues for supply of power, water and other facilities and the auction purchaser was made liable to pay such arrears. This makes it clear that D apart from the MSEB Conditions of Supply, which have statutory effect, the purchaser who purchased property in auctions conducted under Section 29 of the State Financial Corporations Act also had knowledge of his liability for the past arrears of electricity of the premises when he bid in the auction. By virtue of the stipulations in the sale deed, as far as E the first respondent is concerned, it was liable to discharge the electricity dues payable to the Electricity Board by the erstwhile consumer. 205. In light of what we have stated above, we set aside the judgement of the Division Bench and allow the appeal. Item 101.10: Supdt. Engg. Maharashtra State Electricity F Board v. M/s Umang Enterprises; Civil Appeal No. 5314 of 2005 206. The first respondent was a successful auction purchaser of the property of M/s Creekay Yarn Industries Ltd, which was put to sale in consequence of an arbitral award. The respondent-purchaser took out a Judges 94 in a civil suit before the Bombay High Court, seeking G a clarification that it was not liable for past dues and liabilities of any kind in respect of the property purchased through the auction sale. The Bombay High Court by its dated 29 January 2003 declared that the respondent-purchaser was not liable to pay any arrears payable by the erstwhile owner. The appellant alleges that this was passed H 94 Judges No. 10 of 2003 in Civil Suit no. 2978 of 1991 K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 739 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] ex-parte. The of the Bombay High Court in Judges dated A 29 January 2003 has not been placed on record before this Court. 207. The respondent-purchaser requested the appellant for a new electricity connection, which was denied on 6 June 2003 on the ground that the respondent was not eligible for a new connection unless the dues of the erstwhile consumer were discharged in terms of Condition B 23 of the MSEB Conditions of Supply.