Another decision in Lalaram and Ors. vs. Jaipur Development Authority and Ors.25also laid down the following: E “104…Thus, Article 166(3) mandates the making of the Rules of Business for more convenient transactions of the affairs of the Government. Clause (1) stipulates the mode of expression of an executive action taken in conformity therewith and Clause (2) ordains the manner of authentication of the consequential s and instruments. Having regard to the F role assigned to the Council of Ministers with the Chief Minister at the summit, the Rules of Business framed Under Article 166(3) meant for convenient transaction of the affairs of the Government, by allocation thereof among the Ministers, secures their collective participation in the administration of G the governance of the State. This scheme of executive functioning, assuredly thus, is in assonance with the constitutional edict with regard thereto, modelling the steel frame of the State machinery.” 24 (1996) 2 SCC 26. 25 (2016) 11 SCC 31. H 302 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 87. The purpose behind Article 166(3) is to form regulations for the convenient administration of government. The Minister of Industries was not, at any point, missing from the overall decision to review the actions taken by RIICO and to take necessary steps thereafter. The cabinet sub-committee was merely acting on behalf of the entire Council of Ministers, when carrying out the exhaustive fact-finding enquiries. B 88. We must not overlook the overall objective of ensuring that governance is carried out in a convenient and efficient manner. Rule 7 of the Rules of Business embodies this spirit as well, in that it advocates for collective governance by the Council of Ministers in terms of recommendations made to the Governor. The Council was collectively C involved in the decision to have sub-committees set up to revisit different decisions taken by the prior government, including with respect to actions by RIICO. 89. The in MRF (Supra) formulated its final conclusion on the basis of a construction of the Rules of Business of Goa and only D after interpreting the Rules, was the mandatory nature of the sign off from the Finance Department distilled. In our case, the sign off from the Minister for Industries is clear from the authorization granted on 01.01.2019 to the sub-committee to look into the decisions of the prior government and RIICO. Therefore, the spirit behind the Rules of Business E stand complied with in the present case. 90. We hasten to emphasize once more that it was a collective decision of the Council of Ministers to constitute the Committees to look into irregularities of various kinds. The specific committee that was authorized to investigate RIICO and its alleged misuse of non-existent powers in favour of Respondent No. 1, was a creation of the entire F Council, including the Minister for Industries. The sub-committee’s actions in this context were completely validated and backed by the Minister and the rest of the Council. It is, thus, difficult to hold that Rules of Business have not been followed by the State Government in the course of its decision making process.