(xxviii) Challenging the of the High Court dated 31.10.2022 directing de novo investigation, the ED has come up with one appeal, two candidates who were unsuccessful in the selection have come up with two separate appeals, Anti-Corruption Movement has come up with D one appeal, the person who compromised the matter with the accused and supported the accused before the High Court for quashing the complaint has come up with one appeal and one of the accused has come up with another appeal. (xxix) In other words, we have four appeals on hand arising out E of the of the High Court dated 01.09.2022 quashing the summons issued by ED. Similarly, we have six appeals challenging the dated 31.10.2022 passed by the High Court directing de novo investigation. (xxx) We have two more appeals, which do not form part of the main stream. One of them is by an accused challenging the of the F High Court dated 30.03.2022, permitting the ED to conduct an inspection of the documents before the Trial Court under Rule 237 of the Rules, 2019. Another appeal is filed by the unsuccessful candidate challenging an passed by the High Court dismissing a petition for extension of time to complete investigation. G (xxxi) Thus, we have on hand 12 appeals, four of them challenging the quashing of summons issued by ED, six of them challenging the for de novo investigation, one of them challenging an permitting ED to have inspection of documents and the last arising out of the refusing to grant further time for completion of investigation. H 1050 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (xxxii) Other than the appeals, we also have two contempt petitions filed by the Anti-Corruption Movement, complaining willful disobedience by the State of the directions issued by this Court in the dated 08.09.2022 in Criminal Appeal Nos.1515-1516 of 2022. (xxxiii) We also have an application in IA No.26527 of 2023 filed B by the appellant in one of these appeals, who is an unsuccessful candidate. The prayer in this application is for the constitution of a Special Investigation Team to undertake a comprehensive investigation into the entire scam and for the appointment of a senior lawyer of repute as the Special Public Prosecutor to prosecute the accused. This application is taken out on the ground that a similar prayer made in Criminal Appeal C Nos.1514-1516 of 2022 was turned down by this Court, in the dated 08.09.2022, in the hope that the State Police would act fairly and impartially. According to the applicant/appellant, the State Police had belied the hope expressed by this Court and that therefore it is now time to constitute a Special Investigation Team. D 7. Since the batch of appeals on hand (not including the contempt petitions and the application for constitution of a Special Investigation Team) arise out of four different s of the High Court, let us divide this into four parts, the first dealing with the challenge to the for de novo investigation; the second dealing with the challenge to E the setting aside the summons issued by ED; the third dealing with the permitting the ED to have inspection of the records of the Trial Court; and the fourth dealing with an refusing to grant extension of time to complete investigation.