Even assuming for the sake of argument that there is a diff erence in the two statements of PW-2 as she evidently does not disclose in her examination-in-chief that Jethnath was also working in the adjacent fi eld and there was altercation between the two, this may discredit the witness only so far as the beginning of the incident; how it started. The fact that the incident happened is not in doubt. The off enders were the accused is also not in doubt. There is no doubt that the incident took place, which resulted in one death and grievous injuries to another. It may not have happened exactly as narrated by PW-2, yet for this discrepancy the entire testimony of PW-2 cannot be discarded. 23. The so called injuries sustained by two of the assailants, Meghnath and Jethnath, were again relied upon by the High Court to reach a fi nding that this case could be the case of free fi ght between the two parties which was not pre-meditated particularly where both sides had sustained injuries! 24. In our opinion, the High Court has given undeserved credit to the evidence placed by the defence in this regard. The Trial Court on the other hand had examined this aspect in detail and ultimately did not fi nd the evidence placed by defence as credible. It is not very diffi cult for us to appreciate why this was done. To prove that the accused too had sustained injuries in the incident, the defence had produced DW-4 Dr. Devkaran as their BIRBAL NATH v. THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ORS 97 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] witness. This witness is a Government Doctor, and was under suspension at the time of his deposition, and from his own statement before the Trial Court this was so because he was charged of giving a post mortem report, though he had not conducted any post mortem. So much for the credibility of this witness. He was cross examined by the prosecution as to the overwriting and mistakes in his medical report. He denies having made the changes in the report. The Trial Court held that the medical report of this witness (DW-4) to be “suspicious”, for the reasons that there was no explanation as to how the two accused had sustained these injuries. The only proof of injuries suff ered by Jethnath was that there was a mention of these injuries in his arrest memo, when it was mentioned as ‘abrasion on hand’. This the Trial Court rightly held could be caused due to the force this assailant had exerted in attacking the deceased. Moreover, the injuries were in any case simple in nature. 25. The High Court, though examines this aspect in a totally diff erent perspective. It has magnifi ed simple, doubtful and totally unexplained injuries of the accused and has belittled the brutal and murderous attack on PW-2 and her deceased husband, and most importantly expressed serious doubt on the testimony of an injured witness, i.e., PW-2.