The District Forum categorically directed that the opposite party i.e., respondent-insurer herein had to settle the D claim as per the terms and conditions incorporated in the insurance policy and to release the payment which was legally payable to the appellant herein and to indemnify as per the insurance policy. However, the insurer has failed to do so. In fact, the observations of the State Forum are to a similar effect i.e. to release the amount found admissible, to the extent of the insured’s entitlement after the expiry of forty five days. E 12. However, the learned counsel for the insurer submitted before the NCDRC that there was “no evidence on record” to show that the payment was made. Therefore, on the said submission, the amount of Rs.6,54,000/- (Nepalese Rupee) towards medical bills has not been ed to be disbursed to the appellant, hence, the appellant has filed F this appeal by way of special leave petition. 13. In this regard, our attention was also drawn to the copies of the said Exhibits by way of filing an application for filing additional documents. Learned counsel for the respondent-insurer did not dispute the fact that the evidence in the form of Exhibits C-19 to C-28 were on G record. We have perused the said Exhibits (Annexure P9 to P28) which have been issued by Charak Hospital and Research Centre, as per which appellant had incurred expenditure of Rs.6,54,000/- (Nepalese Rupee) equivalent to Rs.4,09,000/- (Indian Rupee) in the medical treatment of Ram Prashad Tharu. Learned counsel for the insurance company has H 1192 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A not disputed these documents, instead, the contention of the insurer before the NCDRC was that “there is no evidence on record” to show that the payment was made. This is not a correct submission or statement made on behalf of the insurer. 14. NCDRC has also noted that since the appellant herein did not B assail the of the District Forum regarding disallowing of the said amount, the same had been disallowed. We do not think that is a correct reading of the of the District Forum inasmuch as the District Forum had specifically referred to medical bills at Exhibits C-19 to C-28 and had directed the insurance company to release the amount found admissible to the complainant-appellant. The appellant herein was C naturally under the impression that the amounts covered under the medical bills would also be payable. Even, the State Commission had stated to the same effect that the claims as per the terms and conditions incorporated in the insurance policy had to be released if found admissible and to the extent of entitlement of the insured. D However, the NCDRC, on the basis of the submission of the learned counsel for the insurer, disallowed the disbursement of the medical bills on the premise that there was no evidence on record and that the appellant herein had not contested the of the District Forum before the State Commission. As a consequence, the appellant had to approach E this Court for seeking reimbursement of the medical bills paid by the appellant for the treatment of Ram Prasad Tharu.