This Court has very recently, in Sukhpal Singh Khaira vs. The State of Punjab2, succinctlyexplained the powers bestowed on the Court under section 319 Cr.P.C. and ruled that: E “15. At the outset, having noted the provision, it is amply clear that the power bestowed on the Court is to the effect that in the course of an inquiry into, or trial of an offence, based on the evidence tendered before the Court, if it appears to the Court that such evidence points to any person other than the F accused who are being tried before the Court to have committed any offence and such accused has been excluded in the charge sheet or in the process of trial till such time could still be summoned and tried together with the accused for the offence which appears to have been committed by such persons summoned as additional accused.” G 15. In Hardeep Singh (Supra), it has been eloquently held that the word “evidence” in Section 319 Cr.P.C. has to be broadly understood and thus materials which have come before the Court in course of enquiry can be used for : - H 2 (2023) 1 SCC 289 JUHRU & ORS. v. KARIM & ANR. 525 [SURYA KANT, J.] (i) corroboration of evidence recorded by Court after A commencement of trial; (ii) for exercise of power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. ; and (iii) also to add an accused whose name is shown in column no.2 of the chargesheet. B It was further explained that statement made in examination-in chief also constitutes “evidence” and the Court while exercising power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. post commencement of trial, need not wait for evidence against person proposed to be summoned, to be tested by cross-examination. C 16. In Sukhpal Singh Khaira (Supra), the Constitution Bench refreshed the guidelines that the competent court must follow while exercising power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. It was ruled that :- (i) if the competent court finds evidence or if application under Section 319 Cr.P.C. is filed, regarding involvement of any D other person in committing the offence based on evidence “recorded at any stage in the trial” before passing of the on acquittal or sentence, it shall pause the trial at that stage and the Court shall proceed to decide the fate of the application under Section 319 Cr.P.C. ; E (ii) if the Court decides to summon an accused under Section 319 Cr.P.C., such summoning shall be passed before proceeding further with the trial in the main case and depending upon the stage at which the is passed, the Trial Court shall apply its mind to the fact as to whether such summoned accused is to be tried along with other F accused or separately; and (iii) if the power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. is not invoked or exercised in the main trial till its conclusion and if there is a split-up case, such power can be invoked or exercised only if there is evidence to that effect, pointing to the involvement G of the additional accused to be summoned in the spilt-up (bifurcated trial).