The first is the fact that she states D that her father took her mother forcibly on the cycle and while doing so he was seen by Ganga Bai (PW-1) and Sushila (PW-12) but both these witnesses have clearly denied this fact or any knowledge about the incident and have been declared hostile. Secondly, this witness Madhuri (PW-4) in her statement, on the E one hand, states that her father came back after committing the crime in bloodstained clothes, changed them in the night of 1.2.2010, hid them in the cattle shed and thereafter washed the clothes in the morning of the next day and spread them to dry on the roof whereas in the same paragraph she has stated that her father the accused appellant was arrested in the night of the incident i.e. F 1.2.2010 from the ‘nala’ with an axe in his hand. Thirdly, it is also apparent that she states that her father hid the clothes in the house itself and subsequently he washed and dried them in the house itself whereas the bloodstained clothes of the accused appellant are said to have been seized from the hut situated in the field vide G seizure memo Exhibit P-9 and seizure panchnama Exhibit P-10. The statement of Madhuri (PW-4) is in direct conflict with and in contradiction of the prosecution story which in turn makes it clear that one of them is false thereby casting a deep shadow of doubt on the case against the appellant. H STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH v. PHOOLCHAND RATHORE 613 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] 32. From a perusal of the aforesaid facts and circumstances it is A also clear that: (1) the statement made by Madhuri (PW-4) is unreliable and is full of embellishments, exaggerations as well as contradictions and omissions on account of the fact that her statement regarding fighting between the appellant on account of jewellery B is apparently false in view of the clear and specific statement of Jaimataiya Bai (PW-8) who has emphatically stated that she had returned the jewellery eight days before the incident; (2) her statement regarding constant fighting between her parents on account of the jewellery is not corroborated and C supported by her elder sister Kiran @ Rambai (PW-7) who has in fact stated that the fight between her parents was usual and normal fight between husband and wife; (3) that she has stated that her father, after committing the crime, returned back with bloodstained clothes, hid them in the D cattle shed, changed his clothes and went away and thereafter washed his clothes in the morning of the next day after the incident i.e. on 2.2.2010 whereas in the same breath she has also asserted that her father was arrested on the same night of the incident itself i.e. on 1.2.2010 by the police with an axe in his hand whereas there is no mention in her statement to the E effect that her father had gone to the field with an axe in his hand or that he had taken the axe after the incident from the cattle shed.