2002 as amended from time to time contains the list of items which A are exempted from customs duty. It is observed that Notification 21 of 2002-Customs clearly demarcates the power projects and mining projects separately. It is seen that at Ser No.399 of the list, coal mining projects are liable to pay customs duty. Ser No. 400 only exempts the mega power project from payment of customs B duty and there is no mention that it includes captive power plants. Therefore, it cannot be said that as on the cut-off date, there was exemption on mining equipment and the petitioner had taken into consideration such exemption while quoting the bids. Nothing has been produced in the petition which could indicate that any such impression was given by the procurers or their representative prior C to bidding. In view of the foregoing discussion, the submission of the petitioner that the decision of the Ministry of Power detailed in its office memorandum dated 17.06.2011 and refusal by Energy Department, Government of Madhya Pradesh to provide recommendation letter to import mining equipments for Sasan D UMPP under nil custom duty amounts to a “Change in Law” under Article 13.1 of the PPA and the petitioner is entitled to be compensated for the same is not acceptable and hence no compensation would be available in this regard.” THE APPEAL BEFORE THE TRIBUNAL E (15) This led to the appeal being filed by the first respondent under Section 111 of the Act. It is apposite that we set out the exact case which has been set up by the first respondent before the Tribunal. “9.5 The Report identified the water intake pump house location and pipeline route from the intake pump house to the power plant in its report. This report was made available to all the bidders F before bid submission so that the bidders could factor in the cost of water intake system in preparation of their financial bids i.e., the tariff at which power be supplied to the Procurers. The total cost for the construction of water intake system for the location and route of indicated in the report by WAPCOS was estimated G to be Rs.92 Crores. The water intake system is an integral part of the Project without with it is not possible to set up and operate the Project. The WAPCOS report along with estimated cost are annexed herewith and marked as Annexure A-14. 9.6 After RPower was declared the successful bidder and the Appellant Company was transferred to RPower, WAPCOS was H 26 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A re-appointed to confirm the technical feasibility as part of the detailed engineering exercise. During this process, it emerged that the water intake location as finalized by WAPCOS vide its earlier report prepared for PFC/ Procurers and made available to all bidders prior to bid submission was not an appropriate location and does not ensure reliable supply of water to the power plant. It B also emerged that the water intake at the original location indicated by WAPCOS in the pre-bid report would have resulted in shutdown of the power plant for a considerable period in a year during the lean season.