In other words, is Section 4(2) exhaustive of abuse of dominant position prohibited under Section 4(1) or is it only illustrative of what can constitute abuse of dominant position? The learned Additional Solicitor General would submit that this question F may not be gone into in the facts of this case. We agree with his request. 92. Dealing with what would indeed constitute abuse of dominant position as declared imperatively in Section 4(2), if we take Section 4(2)(a), it forbids imposing of unfair or discriminatory condition in purchase or sale of goods and services either directly or indirectly. It further likewise G forbids an imposition of an unfair or discriminatory price in purchase or sale including a predatory price of goods or service. The explanation indicates that discriminatory conditions or prices, which may be adopted to meet competition, is not within the scope of the mischief. Next, under Section 4(2)(b), the Law-Giver has proclaimed that there will be abuse H 874 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A of a dominant position by an enterprise or group if it limits or restricts production of goods or provision of services or market therefor. 93. The appellants are Government Companies. They were brought into being in the context of Sections 3 and 5 of the Nationalisation Act. Undoubtedly, they were created to take the place of the Central B Government in the matter of supervising control and managing the affairs of the mines. Still further, and, more importantly, the Nationalisation Act itself was intended to achieve the goals in Article 39(b) of the Constitution. This means that the Nationalisation Act contemplated coal to be a material resource and it was to be distributed so as to subserve common good. The exclusive right in regard to the mines as also the power to manage C and supervise the mines was vested with thefirstappellant company and its subsidiaries. The ambit of the power is unquestionably wide. We proceed on the basis that the appellants cannot be oblivious to its duty to bear in mind the sublime goal in the Directive Principle,viz., “distribution”, so as to subserve the ‘common good’. We agree further that the D expression State for the purpose of Part IV of the Constitution is to be understood with reference to its meaning in Article 12 contained in Part III having regard to Article 36 of the Constitution. The appellants may qualify as State for the purpose of Chapter IV if it fulfills the requirement of State under Article 12. We bear in mind in this regard the argument of the appellants that a remedy is open to a party against the appellant in E proceedings under Article 226 or Article 32 of the Constitution. Thus, the appellants also, even if the appellants areGovernment Companies but being State,have a duty to keep uppermost, in their minds, the goal in Article 39(b).The argument runs that it would require countenancing an irreconcilable conflict between such a duty and the mandate of Section F 4 (2) of the Act.