What would constitute a very exceptional case, however, must be determined by the tribunals/courts on the facts of each case and by recording cogent reasons for the conclusion reached. Insofar as challenge to an of forfeiture that is made upon rejection of an application for extension of time prior to expiry of ninety days and H 1086 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A within the stipulated period is concerned, the scrutiny could be a bit more intrusive for ascertaining whether any patent arbitrariness or unreasonableness in the decision- making process has had the effect of vitiating the under challenge. However, in course of such scrutiny, the tribunals/courts must be careful and cautious and direct their attention to examine each case in some depth to locate whether there is likelihood B of any hidden interest of the bidder to stall the sale to benefit the defaulting borrower and must, as of necessity, weed out claims of bidders who instead of genuine interest to participate in the auctions do so to rig prices with an agenda to withdraw from the fray post conclusion of the bidding process. In course of such determination, the tribunals/courts C ought not to be swayed only by supervening events like a subsequent sale at a higher price or at the same price offered by the defaulting bidder or that the secured creditor has not in the bargain suffered any loss or by sentiments and should stay at a distance since extending sympathy, grace or compassion are outside the scope of the relevant legislation. In any event, the underlying principle of least intervention by D tribunals/courts and the overarching objective of the SARFAESI Act duly complimented by the Rules, which are geared towards efficient and speedy recovery of debts, together with the interpretation of the relevant laws by this Court should not be lost sight of. Losing sight thereof may not be in the larger interest of the nation and susceptible to E interference. 25. In the present case, undisputedly, payment of 25% of the sale price was made by the contesting respondent on 15th September, 2017; hence sub-rule (3) of rule 9 stood complied with. The contesting respondent was notified to deposit the balance 75% of the sale price by 29th F September, 2017. Admittedly, he could not or did not so deposit till 27th September, 2017, whereupon he prayed for extension of time by 25 days by his request letter of even date, i.e., 27th September, 2017. The Authorized Officer responded favourably and extended the time for deposit by 25 days as prayed by the contesting respondent, i.e., till 23rd October, 2017. Extension of time till 23rd October, 2017, therefore, was G by mutual agreement – a course of action permitted by sub-rule (4). On 20th October, 2017, the contesting respondent made a further request for extension of time by 15 days citing pendency of proceedings at the instance of Stallion before the DRT. This request came to be rejected by the Authorized Officer by his letter dated 21st October, 2017 referring to H absence of any of stay in operation and that the contesting AUTHORISED OFFICER STATE BANK OF INDIA v. 1087 C. NATARAJAN & ANR.