The accused had used chilli powder as a weapon to stop him from fleeing away and pushed him to the ground. Though, the witness is not clear as to which one of the accused had assaulted the deceased after he fell down, but D then he is categorical with regard to the role played by each one of them. 13. PW-7, despite being hostile, in his undisputed testimony, has recorded the presence of accused Nos.1, 2 and 3 on the spot. Immediately after the incident they were seen fleeing towards Golabhavi Village. E Further he noticed the deceased to be inflicted with several injuries as also chilli powder found on his body. Here only we may record that Lakkappa Siddapur (PW-9) and Ashok Mareguddi (PW-19) though turned hostile in Court, had in fact made statements to similar effect before the police, with which they were confronted, which fact, in any event stands F proven through other prosecution witnesses. 14. In view of the aforesaid, the questions in respect of the testimony of the sole eye-witness PW-1 being worthy of credence, trust- worthy, truthful and believable are answered in the affirmative. 15. To answer the point of law as to whether the testimony of a G single eye-witness is sufficient to put all the eight persons behind bars, for life or not, we must deal with the submissions made at the bar. 16. It is stated that it is the quality and not the quantity of the witnesses that matters and since, PW-1 is an interested witness being the brother of the deceased, and that his statement is not “inherently H 974 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A believable” or of “sterling quality” as recently held by this Court, in the presence of two possible versions, the one that favours the accused is required to be taken. In support of their submissions, the learned senior counsel rely primarily on Marudanal Augusti Vs. State of Kerala (1980) 4 SCC B 425, specifically on the part where the learned Division Bench notes that 29 hours’ delay in the FIR reaching the Magistrate despite the same having been sent by express delivery, as a “serious infirmity”; and the recent in Chotkau Vs. State of U.P. (2022) SCC OnLine 1313. Both these cases have been cited to substantiate the submission that there is a delay in the FIR reaching the Magistrate. C 17. This Court has on numerous occasions considered cases similar in nature, and, from such consideration emanated various principles in deciding the cases. Some of the principles essential for the instant lis to be decided are – 17.1 Evidence of hostile witness: D a) Corroborated part of the evidence of a hostile witness regarding the commission of offence is admissible. Merely because there is deviation from the statement in the FIR, the witness’s statements cannot be termed totally unreliable; E b) The evidence of a hostile witness can form the basis of conviction. c) The general principle of appreciating the evidence of eye- witnesses is that when a case involves a large number of offenders, prudently, it is necessary, but not always, for the Court to seek F corroboration from at least two more witnesses as a measure of caution.