8 (2011) 11 SCC 1 9 At para 29 page 9 10 At para 36 page 10 328 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. In view of the amendment, we see no reason why such children will have no share in such property since such children are equated under the amended law with legitimate off spring of valid marriage. The only limitation even after the amendment seems to be that during the lifetime of their parents such children cannot ask for partition but they can exercise this right only after the death of their parents.” (vi) While the relationship between the parents may not be sanctioned by law, the birth of a child in such a relationship has to be viewed independently of such relationship. The interpretation of Section 16(3) must be based on the constitutional values of equality of status and opportunity as well as individual dignity; (vii) A child born in such a relationship is innocent and is entitled to all the rights which are given to other children born in a valid marriage subject to the limitation that the right is confi ned to the property of the parents; and (viii) Section 16(3) as amended does not impose any restriction on the property rights of the children born of a void or voidable marriage except limiting it to the property of their parents. Hence, such children will have a right to whatever becomes the property of their parents, whether self-acquired or ancestral. Thus, the present reference arises before this three judge Bench. B. Statutory conferment of legitimacy 4. Section 5 of the HMA 1955 specifi es, as the marginal notes indicates, ‘Conditions for a Hindu Marriage’11. 11 5. Conditions for a Hindu marriage.- A marriage may be solemnized between any two Hindus, if the following conditions are fulfi lled, namely:- (i) neither party has a spouse living at the time of the marriage; (ii) at the time of the marriage, neither party- (a) is incapable of giving a valid consent to it in consequence of unsoundness of mind; or (b) though capable of giving a valid consent, has been suff ering from mental dis of such a kind or to such an extent as to be unfi t for marriage and the procreation of REVANASIDDAPPA & ANR. v. MALLIKARJUN & ORS. 329 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 5. Section 11 stipulates that a marriage solemnised after the commencement of the Act shall be null and void and be so declared by a decree of nullity if (i) either party has a spouse living at the time of the marriage; (ii) parties are within the degrees of prohibited relationship except where a custom or usage governing them permits of a marriage; and (iii) parties are sapinda of each other, unless a custom or usage governing them permits of a marriage.12 6. Section 12 provides for the circumstances in which a marriage shall be voidable and may be annulled by a decree of nullity.13 children; or (c) has been subject to recurrent attacks of insanity; (iii) the bridegroom has completed the age of twenty-one years and the bride, the age of eighteen years at the time of the marriage; (iv) the parties are not within the degrees of prohibited relationship unless the custom or usage governing each of them permits of a marriage between the two; (v) the parties are not sapindas of each other, unless the custom or usage governing each of them permits of a marriage between the two.