These notices were duly replied to by the appellant by objecting to the same and contending inter alia that it was not displaying any advertisement rather it was displaying its own trade name and business sign board and sought for withdrawal of the notice. It was also contended that notice issued was without jurisdiction as one of its premises situated at Lasudia Mori, AB Road, Tehsil and District Indore was situated outside the municipal limits and therefore no tax was leviable. Hence, sought for notices being withdrawn. 3. Subsequently, second respondent issued another notice on 08.02.2012 revising its earlier demand of sum of Rs.1,82,137.50 to Rs.46,050. This notice came to be challenged by fi ling a Writ Petition under article 226 of the Constitution of India before the High Court of Madhya Pradesh in Writ Petition No.2106 of 2012.The High Court by impugned dated 24.10.2017 relying upon the of Bharti Airtel (supra) dismissed the petition. Hence this appeal. 4. We have heard the arguments of learned advocates appearing for the parties namely Shri Kapil Arora and Mr. Niraj Sharma, learned counsel appearing for the appellants and Shri Mishra Saurabh, learned counsel appearing for the respondent. 5. It is the contention of the learned advocates appearing for the appellant that impugned s have been passed by relying upon the rendered by the coordinate bench of the High Court in Bharti Airtel (supra) which was inapplicable to the facts on hand as the issue involved in the said case related to whether the municipal corporation can appoint a tax collecting agent for the purpose of collection of advertisement tax? and the question relating to display of trade name and nature of business by a trader or a business establishment on its own premises where business is being carried on would tantamount to an advertisement, was neither in issue examined or decided in the said case. It is contended display of trade name and nature of business by a trader at its premises does not amount 32 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. to “advertisement” and this fact has not been considered by the High Court under the impugned . The learned advocates would further elaborate their submissions by contending that if putting up of a sign board at its own premises for identifi cation purposes or for the customers to know the identity of the premises would amount to advertisement then sign name boards of all business establishments, Government offi cers, public sector undertakings, sign boards put up by professionals like Doctors, Advocates, Engineers, Architects, Consultants, schools, colleges, hotels, restaurants etc. would also fall within the ambit of advertisement and would be liable to pay advertisement tax. Non-putting up of sign board displaying the name of the fi rm would result in the public or the customer making an extensive research and survey for buying a particular product or availing the services which the appellants were to provide. They would also contend that where the sign boards are put up to attract the customers and to promote the purchase of a particular product and providing information of the said product or service at a particular place would be an ‘advertisement’ whereas depicting the name of the business establishment and the products being dealt by it would only be an information to the general public and such display of information would not amount to advertisement and as such it would not be liable to be taxed.