The proviso to sub-section (2) therefore has nothing to do with the period of detention of a detenu. The maximum period of detention is prescribed under Section 13 of the Act 1986 referred 568 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. to above which lays down that the person may be detained in pursuance of any detention made under the Act which has been confi rmed under Section 12 of the Act 1986. 40. But this Court in Cherukuri Mani (supra), interpreted the proviso to mean that when an of detention is made by the State Government under Section 3(1) of the Act, then the period of detention can be only for a period of three months in the fi rst instance. A similar made under Section 3(2) would be for an initial period of twelve days unless approved by the State Government. According to this Court, if the State Government intends to detain an individual under the Act for the maximum period of twelve months, there must be an initial of detention for a period of three months and at least three s of extension for a period not exceeding three months each. In support of such an interpretation, reliance has been placed on Article 22(4)(a) of the Constitution, which is extracted as under for immediate reference: “22. Protection against arrest and detention in certain cases:— ××.××××× (4) No law providing for preventive detention shall authorise the detention of a person for a longer period than three months unless— (a) an Advisory Board consisting of persons who are, or have been, or are qualifi ed to be appointed as, Judges of a High Court has reported before the expiration of the said period of three months that there is in its opinion suffi cient cause for such detention: Provided that nothing in this sub-clause shall authorise the detention of any person beyond the maximum period prescribed by any law made by Parliament under sub-clause (b) of clause (7); or” 41. A reading of Article 22(4)(a) would clearly indicate that no law providing for preventive detention shall authorize the detention of a person for a period beyond three months. Thus, an of detention cannot be for a period longer than three months unless, the Advisory Board has reported before the expiration of the said period of three months that there is, in its opinion such suffi cient cause for detention. Article 22(4)(a) clearly indicates that even if the of detention does not prescribe any period of detention, PESALA NOOKARAJU v. THE GOVERNMENT OF 569 ANDHRA PRADESH & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] such an of detention cannot be in force for a period beyond three months, unless the Advisory Board before the expiration of three months opines that there is suffi cient cause for detention. In other words, if the Advisory Board does not give its opinion within a period of three months from the date of detention, in such a case, the of detention beyond the period of three months would become illegal and not otherwise.