The inquiry preceding fi ling of the complaint by the authorities under the 2002 Act, may have the semblance of an investigation conducted by them. However, it is essentially an inquiry to collect evidence to facilitate the Adjudicating Authority to decide on the confi rmation of provisional attachment , including to pass of confi scation, as a result of which, the proceeds of crime would vest in the Central Government in terms of Section 9 of the 2002 Act. In other words, the role of the Authorities appointed under Chapter VIII of the 2002 Act is such that they are tasked with dual role of conducting inquiry and collect evidence to facilitate adjudication proceedings before the Adjudicating Authority in exercise of powers conferred upon them under Chapters III and V of the 2002 Act and also to use the same materials to bolster the allegation against the person concerned by way of a formal complaint to be fi led for off ence of money-laundering under the 2002 Act before the Special Court, if the fact situation so warrant. It is not as if after every inquiry prosecution is launched against all persons found to be involved in the commission of off ence of money-laundering. It is also not unusual to provide for arrest of a person during such inquiry before fi ling of a complaint for indulging in alleged criminal activity. The respondent has rightly adverted to somewhat similar provisions in other legislations, such as Section 35 of FERA and Section 102 of Customs Act including the decisions of this Court upholding such power of arrest at the inquiry stage bestowed in the Authorities in the respective legislations. In Romesh Chandra Mehta v. State of West Bengal, (1969) 2 SCR 461: AIR 1970 SC 940, the Constitution Bench of this Court enunciated that Section 104 of the Customs Act confers power to arrest upon the Custom 882 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. Offi cer if he has reason to believe that any person in India or within the Indian Customs waters has been guilty of an off ence punishable under Section 135 of that Act. Again, in the case of Union of India v. Padam Narain Aggarwal & Ors., (2008) 13 SCC 305, while dealing with the provisions of the Customs Act, it noted that the term “arrest” has neither been defi ned in the 1973 Code nor in the Indian Penal Code, 1860 nor in any other enactment dealing with off ences. This word has been derived from the French word “arrater” meaning “to stop or stay”. It signifi es a restraint of a person. It is, thus, obliging the person to be obedient to law. Further, arrest may be defi ned as “the execution of the command of a court of law or of a duly authorised offi cer”. Even, this decision recognises the power of the authorised offi cer to cause arrest during the inquiry to be conducted under the concerned legislations. While adverting to the safeguards provided under that legislation before eff ecting such arrest, the Court noted as follows: “Safeguards against abuse of power 36.