Applying this reasoning to the evidence at hand, we disagree with the Trial Court observation that A11’s fi rm had a license for methyl alcohol and there is no connection between this piece of evidence and the occurrence of the incident. Per contra, there is no reason for the soil sample drawn from the residence of A11 to test positive for burnt plastic residue and methyl alcohol, connecting this material to the incident in question. 41. Notably, no less than 627 questions/circumstances were put to A10 and A11 each under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. This Court has clarifi ed on numerous occasions that in law, the accused has a duty to furnish some explanation of an incriminating circumstance, with the prosecution crossing the threshold of proving its case beyond reasonable doubt. However, no explanation, much less, a plausible one,is put forth. In the event of complete denial or silence, the Court is entitled 9 (2017) 8 SCC 204 256 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. to draw an adverse inference against the accused. [Ref: Phula Singh v. State of Himachal Pradesh10 (2-Judge Bench); Indrakunwar v. State of Chhattisgarh11 (2-Judge Bench)] Applying this to the case at hand, in the statements under Section 313, the accused persons failed to justify the incriminating circumstances appearing against them. 42. Apart from the off ences under the Penal Code, the accused stand convicted under provisions of the Abkari Act. Thus, it is pertinent to discuss the relevant Sections of the Abkari Act under which these accused persons have been convicted. The relevant portion of Section 57A of the Abkari Act reads as follows: “S.57A - For adulteration of liquor or intoxicating drug with noxious substances, etc. - (1)Whoever mixes or permits to be mixed any noxious substance or any substance which is likely to endanger human life or to cause grievous hurt to human beings, with any liquor or intoxicating drug shall, on conviction, be punishable- (i) if, as a result of such act, grievous hurt is caused to any person, with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than two years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and with a fi ne which may extend to fi fty thousand rupees; (ii) If, as a result of such act, death is caused to any person, with death or imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than three years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and with fi ne which may extend to fi fty thousand rupees; ….. (5) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872),- (a) where a person is prosecuted for an off ense under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), the burden of proving that he has not mixed or permitted to be mixed or, as the case may be, omitted to take reasonable precautions to prevent the mixing of, any 10 AIR 2014 SC 1256 11 2023 SCCOnline 1364 SAJEEV v. STATE OF KERALA 257 [SANJAY KAROL, J.]