The respondent filed an application before the High Court of Kerala for appointment of arbitrator. The High Court vide their dated H 13.10.2020 referred the disputes to arbitration. The appellant filed a M/S B AND T AG v. MINISTRY OF DEFENCE 625 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] review petition before the High Court against the dated 13.10.2020 A which was dismissed by the Court vide their dated 14.01.2021. Therefore, the appellant filed two Civil appeals before this Court. The appellant submitted the following before this Court- • The cause of action for invoking arbitration arose on B 04.08.2014 when the claim made by the respondent was rejected by making deductions from the final bill. • The respondent slept over its alleged rights for over 5.5 years, before issuing the notice of arbitration on 29.04.2020. • The respondent did not take any action in between the period C and therefore the notice invoking arbitration had become legally stale, non-arbitrable and unenforceable. • The High Court had erroneously proceeded on the premise of mere existence of a valid arbitration agreement, without considering that such an agreement was inextricably D connected with the existence of a live dispute. • In cases where the invocation of the arbitration agreement is ex facie time barred, the Court must reject the request for appointment of an arbitrator is at par with a civil action and would be covered under Article 137 of Schedule to the E Act 1963. • An action taken by a claimant must necessarily fall within the statutory period of 3 years from the date on which the right to apply accrues. The respondent submitted the following- F • The amendment to Section 11 by the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015 provides for a limited scope of enquiry at the pre-reference stage which is restricted only to the ‘existence; of an arbitration agreement under Section 11(6A). G • The objection with respect to the claims being allegedly time barred, could be decided by the arbitral tribunal. • The High Court rightly limited the enquiry at the pre- reference stage to the ‘existence’ of the arbitration agreement. H 626 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A • The starting point of limitation for initiating a proceeding under Section 11 is the expiry of 30 days from the date of issuing notice of arbitration on 29.04.2020. The cause of action was, therefore, a continuing one. The High Court had rightly held that the issue of limitation must be decided by the arbitral tribunal. B The following two questions fell for the consideration of this Court- • The period of limitation for filing an application under Section 11 of the Act 1996; and • Whether the Court may decline to make the reference C under Section 11 where the claims are ex facie time barred? This Court observed that the Act 1996 has been framed for expeditious resolution of disputes and various provisions have been incorporated in the Act 1996 to ensure that the arbitral proceedings are conducted in a time bound manner.