Section 498A having a wider scope, it will have to be examined as to whether the accused is to be convicted for the off ence punishable under Section 498A or in other words, the of conviction passed by Sessions Court and affi rmed by High Court deserves to be affi rmed, notwithstanding the conviction under Section 304B having been set aside. Irrespective of the fact that accused have been acquitted for the off ence punishable under Section 304B, Section 498A would cover the cases in which the wife is subjected to cruelty by husband or relatives of the husband which may result in death by way of suicide or cause grave injury or danger to life, 940 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. limb or health (whether mental or physical). In the light of dying declaration (Ex.P-45) having been accepted to have been made by the deceased and the contents of the same disclosing that she was unable to withstand the torture meted out, which resulted in her committing suicide would suffi ce to convict the accused for the off ence punishable under Section 498A. 22. This takes us to the next question as to whether the accused can be convicted for the off ence punishable under Section 306 IPC though not charged for said off ence. Similar situation arose before this Court in Dalbir Singh vs State of U.P. (2004) 5 SCC 334 where a charge for the off ence under Section 306 had not been framed against the accused though accused had faced trial in respect of the charges under Section 302, 498A and 304B IPC as has happened in the instant case where the accused have been tried for the off ences punishable under Section 498A, 304B IPC and Section 3 and 4 of DP Act and this Court had answered in the affi rmative in Dalbir Singh’s case by arriving at the following conclusion: “17. There is a catena of decisions of this Court on the same lines and it is not necessary to burden this by making reference to each one of them. Therefore, in view of Section 464 CrPC, it is possible for the appellate or revisional court to convict an accused for an off ence for which no charge was framed unless the court is of the opinion that a failure of justice would in fact occasion. In to judge whether a failure of justice has been occasioned, it will be relevant to examine whether the accused was aware of the basic ingredients of the off ence for which he is being convicted and whether the main facts sought to be established against him were explained to him clearly and whether he got a fair chance to defend himself. We are, therefore, of the opinion that Sangaraboina Sreenu [(1997) 5 SCC 348 : 1997 SCC (Cri) 690] was not correctly decided as it purports to lay down as a principle of law that where the accused is charged under Section 302 IPC, he cannot be convicted for the off ence under Section 306 IPC.