6.1 The aforesaid issue is now not res integra in view of the Three Judge Bench decision of this Court in the case of Shiv Kumar & H 740 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Anr. (supra), which has been subsequently followed by another Bench of this Court in the cases of Godfrey Phillips (I) Ltd. & Ors. (supra) and Pawan Kumar and Ors. (supra). The decision of this Court in the case of Shiv Kumar & Anr. (supra) is a Three Judge Bench decision by which a contrary view taken by the Two Judge Bench of this Court in the case of Government (NCT of Delhi) Vs. Manav Dharam Trust B and Anr., (2017) 6 SCC 751 has not been accepted and is found to be not a good law. That thereafter after following the Three Judge Bench decision in the case of Shiv Kumar & Anr. (supra) in the cases of Godfrey Phillips (I) Ltd. & Ors. (supra) and Pawan Kumar and Ors. (supra), this Court has subsequently observed and held that a C subsequent purchaser has no locus to challenge the acquisition proceedings / lapsing of the acquisition under the Act, 2013. 6.2 In that view of the matter, the High Court has committed a serious error in entertaining the writ petition at the instance of the respondent No. 1 herein – original writ petitioner and has materially erred in declaring that the acquisition with respect to the land in question D is deemed to have lapsed under Section 24(2) of the Act, 2013 in a writ petition filed by the respondent No. 1 herein – original writ petitioner, who is a subsequent purchaser. Under the circumstances and on that ground alone, the impugned common and passed by the High Court is required to be quashed and set aside. E 7. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, both these appeals succeed. The impugned and passed by the High Court is hereby quashed and set aside. The original Writ Petition No. 11230 of 2015 filed before the High Court stands dismissed. Present appeals are accordingly allowed. However, in the facts F and circumstances of the case, there shall be no as to costs. Pending application, if any, also stands disposed of. Nidhi Jain Appeals allowed. (Assisted by : Abhishek Agnihotri, LCRA) G H