[DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] establishment of Appellate Tribunal and for matters connected A therewith or incidental thereto.” 9. The 2003 Act has been enacted in pursuance of the policy of encouraging private sector participation in the generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity. Other objectives of the 2003 Act include vesting the regulatory responsibilities from government to the regulatory B commissions, delicensing of electricity generation, promotion of captive generation, and encouraging open access transmission. Section 2(15) of the 2003 Act defines ‘consumer ‘in terms similar to Section 2(c) of the 1910 Act. Part VI of the 2003 Act deals with distribution of electricity. Section 43 casts a Universal Service Obligation6 on the distribution C licensee to provide supply of electricity to the premises of an owner or occupier. The State Commission has been empowered under Section 50 to specify an Electricity Supply Code to provide among other things for the recovery of electricity charges, intervals for billing of electricity charges and disconnection of supply of electricity for non-payment. Under Section 56, the generating company or distribution licensee, as the case D may be, may disconnect electricity supply of any person who neglects to pay any charge or sum for electricity. Section 181(2)(x) provides that the State Commission may make regulations inter alia providing for, the Electricity Supply Code under Section 50. 10. In light of the provisions contained in the 1910 Act, 1948 Act, E and 2003 Act, various Electric Utilities such as State Electricity Regulatory Commissions, State Electricity Boards, and distribution licensees notified Conditions of Supply requiring the new owner of premises to clear the outstanding dues of the previous owner. The nineteen cases in the batch of appeals originate from the States of Kerala, Maharashtra, Gujarat, F Assam, and West Bengal. 11. In Kerala, the Kerala State Electricity Board7 notified the Conditions of Supply of Electrical Energy in 1990. Condition 15(e) of the Conditions of Supply provides that reconnection or a new connection shall not be given to any premises unless the arrears due to the Board are cleared. G 12. In Maharashtra, the Maharashtra State Electricity Board8 framed MSEB Conditions and Miscellaneous Charges for Supply of 6 “USO” 7 “KSEB” 8 “MSEB” H 656 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Electrical Energy, 19769 in exercise of power under the 1948 Act. Clause 23(b) of the MSEB Conditions of Supply allowed the Board to refuse to supply or give a new electricity connection to any person claiming to be an heir, legal representative, transferee, assignee or successor of the defaulting consumer. After the enactment of the 2003 Act, the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (Electricity Supply Code B and other Conditions of Supply) Regulations 200510 were framed. Regulation 10.5provides that unpaid electricity dues constitute a charge on the property and can be recovered from the transferee (subject to a maximum of six months of unpaid charges for electricity supplied). 13. In Gujarat, the Gujarat Electricity Board inserted Condition C 2(j) in the Conditions and Miscellaneous Charges for Supply of Electrical Energy in 2001.11 This condition empowered the Board to insist that the new occupier of the premises clear the pending electricity dues of the previous consumer as a precondition to reconnection or release of a fresh connection.