If a Magistrate taking cognizance of an off ence decides that a warrant should be issued in the fi rst instance against that person, he is empowered to issue a bailable warrant in conformity with the direction of the Court under Section 438(1). viii. The Parliament has inserted clause (4) to Section 438 of CrPC vide the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2018, thereby stipulating that the remedy under Section 438 of CrPC cannot be resorted to by any person accused of having committed an off ence under Sections 376(3), 376-AB, 376-DA or 376-DB of the IPC. 548 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. ix. The State Legislatures of Maharashtra, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have enacted State amendments to Section 438 of CrPC. Evolution of the Safeguard of Anticipatory Bail: 10. In Shri Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia vs. State of Punjab, (1980) 2 SCC 565 (Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia), a Constitution Bench of this Court speaking through Chandrachud, C.J., observed that society has a vital stake in preserving personal liberty as well as investigational powers of the police and their relative importance at any given time depends upon the complexion and restraints of political conditions. How best to balance these interests while determining the scope of Section 438 of CrPC was the focus of the said case while dealing with the historical background of the said provision. 10.1. The question of the grant of pre-arrest or anticipatory bail fell for consideration in the era when the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 was in vogue and the grant of such bail was governed by Sections 497 and 498 of the erstwhile Criminal Procedure Code. In Jamini Mullick vs. Emperor, (1909) ILR 36 Cal 174, the Calcutta High Court considered a case where the Presidency Magistrate had issued warrants for the arrest of certain persons as suspects in a murder case. The deceased had been found lying dead at night on the footpath and while at the inquest certain unknown persons were suspected, the Magistrate issued warrants when evidence casting suspicion on four individuals was produced. Therefore, the suspected individuals petitioned the Calcutta High Court for grant of bail. The Division Bench of Justices Mitra and Coxe granted pre-arrest bail to the suspected individuals. The was prefaced by remarking that ordinarily the Court did not grant bail in cases of that kind, but emphasised on Section 498 of the erstwhile Criminal Procedure Code to hold that the High Court could exercise revisionary jurisdiction and grant bail to any person. It was noted that the yardstick for the grant of relief of bail was whether there existed reasonable grounds to believe that the accused were guilty of the off ence. It was underlined that it was within the Magistrate’s jurisdiction to release the accused persons on bail but since the Magistrate did not consider the inconsistencies in the evidence produced to implicate four diff erent accused for the same crime, the High Court could correct the Magistrate’s failure to exercise his jurisdiction. PRIYA INDORIA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA AND ORS.