Further, the age determination H NARAYAN CHETANRAM CHAUDHARY v. THE STATE OF 1097 MAHARASHTRA [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] inquiry has to be completed and age be determined within A thirty days from the date of making the application; which is also an indication of the manner in which the inquiry has to be conducted and completed. The word “inquiry” has not been defined under the JJ Act, but Section 2(y) of the JJ Act says that all words and expressions used and not defined in B the JJ Act but defined in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in that Code. 27. Let us now examine the meaning of the words “inquiry”, “enquiry”, “investigation” and “trial” as we see in the Code C of Criminal Procedure and their several meanings attributed to those expressions. “Inquiry” as defined in Section 2(g) CrPC reads as follows: “2. (g) ‘inquiry’ means every inquiry, other than a trial, conducted under this Code by a Magistrate or court;” D The word “enquiry” is not defined under the Code of Criminal Procedure which is an act of asking for information and also consideration of some evidence, may be documentary. “Investigation” as defined in Section 2(h) CrPC reads as follows: E “2. (h) ‘investigation’ includes all the proceedings under this Code for the collection of evidence conducted by a police officer or by any person (other than a Magistrate) who is authorised by a Magistrate in this behalf;” The expression “trial” has not been defined in the Code of F Criminal Procedure but must be understood in the light of the expressions “inquiry” or “investigation” as contained in Sections 2(g) and 2(h) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. 28. The expression “trial” has been generally understood as the examination by court of issues of fact and law in a case G for the purpose of rendering the relating to some offences committed. We find in very many cases that the court/ the Juvenile Justice Board while determining the claim of juvenility forget that what they are expected to do is not to conduct an inquiry under Section 2(g) of the Code of Criminal H 1098 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Procedure, but an inquiry under the JJ Act, following the procedure laid down under Rule 12 and not following the procedure laid down under the Code. 29. The Code lays down the procedure to be followed in every investigation, inquiry or trial for every offence, whether under B the Penal Code or under other penal laws. The Code makes provisions for not only investigation, inquiry into or trial for offences but also inquiries into certain specific matters. The procedure laid down for inquiring into the specific matters under the Code naturally cannot be applied in inquiring into other matters like the claim of juvenility under Section 7-A C read with Rule 12 of the 2007 Rules. In other words, the law regarding the procedure to be followed in such inquiry must be found in the enactment conferring jurisdiction to hold the inquiry.