G 18.-19. *** 20. We, therefore, hold that when an insured has lodged the FIR immediately after the theft of a vehicle occurred and when the police after investigation have lodged a final report after the vehicle was not traced and when the surveyors/investigators H ASHOK KUMAR v. NEW INDIA ASSURANCE CO. LTD. 1255 [K. V. VISWANATHAN, J.] appointed by the insurance company have found the claim of A the theft to be genuine, then mere delay in intimating the insurance company about the occurrence of the theft cannot be a ground to deny the claim of the insured.” 12. In the opinion of the Court the aforestated ratio of the clinches the issue involved in the case on hand. In the instant case B also, the FIR was lodged immediately on the next day of the occurrence of theft of the vehicle by the complainant. The accused were also arrested and charge-sheeted, however, the vehicle could not be traced out. Of course, it is true that there was a delay of about five months on the part of the complainant in informing and C lodging its claim before the Insurance Company, nonetheless, it is pertinent to note that the Insurance Company has not repudiated the claim on the ground that it was not genuine. It has repudiated only on the ground of delay. When the complainant had lodged the FIR immediately after the theft of the vehicle, and when the police after the investigation had arrested the accused and also D filed challan before the court concerned, and when the claim of the insured was not found to be not genuine, the Insurance Company could not have repudiated the claim merely on the ground that there was a delay in intimating the Insurance Company about the occurrence of the theft.” E 10) The above s put the matter and the controversy to rest. There was no breach of Condition No.1 in the present case. In the present case, after the incident of theft on 26.06.2008, FIR was registered on 27.06.2008. The intimation was also given to the Insurance Company admittedly on 02.07.2008. The Police have also reported the vehicle as F untraced as the records indicate. 11) Insofar as the alleged breach of Condition No.5 is concerned, it is seen from the record that the driver of the claimant left the key in the keyhole of the vehicle when he got down to search the location of “Mittal Farm”, where he had to unload the stone dust. The investigator recommended the repudiation of claim because, according to him, steps G to safeguard the vehicle insured were not taken by the driver. It is contended by the appellant that breach of condition No.5, if any, cannot result in total repudiation of the claim. It is argued that the claim ought to be settled on non-standard basis, as was ed by the District Forum H 1256 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A and the State Commission. Reliance is placed on Nitin Khandelwal (supra) and Amalendu Sahoo (supra).