In other words, the Officer of the Police has no authority to impound an C unstamped or insufficiently stamped document produced before him. No doubt, a Criminal Court is not under compulsion vide the proviso. Section 33, no doubt, authorises delegation of power. ii. Under Section 35, the Law-Giver has disabled the admission D in evidence of an instrument not stamped or insufficiently stamped, for any purpose. This would include even a collateral purpose. This is in stark contrast with a document, which is compulsorily registerable but which is not registered. Under Section 49 of the Registration Act, 1908, an E unregistered document may be used for proving a collateral transaction. Even this is impermissible, if the document is not stamped or insufficiently stamped. Section 35 further proceeds to declare that such an unstamped or insufficiently stamped document shall not be acted upon. It is important to juxtapose the embargo cast on an unstamped document F as aforesaid with Section 2(h) of the Contract Act. Section 2(h) of the Contract Act provides that an agreement, which is enforceable in law is a contract whereas Section 2(g), an agreement not enforceable is void. The words ‘enforceable in law’ or ‘not enforceable in law’, understood in the context G of Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act, would mean that upon there being an occasion, which necessitates one of the parties to the agreement having to enforce the same through recourse to sanctions available in law, the same should be vouchsafed to him. Ordinarily, agreements are enforced through actions in Civil Courts. Remedies may be H 346 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A sought before Public Authorities. Both the Civil Courts and the Public Authorities are tabooed from giving effect to an unstamped instrument. Section 33 does not give a choice to the person, who has authority by law, or with consent, to take evidence, or to any Public Officer, but to impound the agreement. The unstamped or insufficiently stamped B document cannot be used as evidence for any purpose. It would be inconceivable, as to how, it could be in the same breath, be found that an unstamped document is yet enforceable in law or that it is not enforceable in law. It is another matter that the parties may act upon it. Goods or C services may change hands, for instance, under a document, which may be otherwise exigible to stamp duty. What is, however, relevant is that the State will not extend its protection, by appropriate sanctions. The rights, which would otherwise have been available, had the agreement been stamped, would remain frozen or rather they would not exist. D We are further reinforced in our view, therefore, that the views expressed by this Court in Garware (supra) in paragraph-22, following SMS Tea Estates (supra), represent the correct position in law. iii. Next, we must pass on to the correctness of the views E expressed in paragraph-29 of Garware (supra). The Court drew upon the in United India Insurance Company Limited and another v. Hyundai Engineering & Construction Company Limited and others25.