2, 3 and 4 as well. 5. The learned counsel appearing for the respondent urged that PW-2 has clearly identifi ed the appellant and has ascribed the role of snatching her gold chain to him. She submitted that time of only two years had elapsed between the date of occurrence and the date of deposition of PW-2, and therefore, it was easily possible for PW-2 to identify the appellant. She submitted that PW-2, being a woman, would never forget the face of the accused who had snatched the gold chain from her neck. She submitted that as far as accused nos.2,3 and 4 are concerned, their conviction has become fi nal and cannot be interfered with. OUR VIEW 6. Firstly, we deal with the case of the appellant. PW-25 (Arif Khan) and PW-26 (Sachinbhai Patel), who are alleged to be the eyewitnesses, are the police constables. Both of them claimed that at the time of the incident, a mob of about 1000-1,500 people had gathered at the spot where the incident JAVED SHAUKAT ALI QURESHI v. STATE OF GUJARAT 225 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] took place. Going by the impugned s, only PW-2 Gitaben has identifi ed the appellant and has ascribed a specifi c role of chain snatching to him. Thus, as far as the appellant is concerned, PW-2 is the solitary witness. PW-2 stated in the examination-in-chief that there were six passengers in the auto-rickshaw by which she was travelling. After seeing the mob near Shah Alam Gate, the driver stopped the auto-rickshaw and fl ed away. She stated that a mob surrounded the auto-rickshaw. She also stated that the members of the mob belonged to the Muslim community. She stated that two people sitting in the front seat of the auto-rickshaw were pulled out. She could not get out of the auto-rickshaw. She stated that someone pulled her gold chain from her neck, which was nearly weighing 10 grams. She stated that she was slapped and that she received injuries caused by a nail. She specifi cally stated that there were 50-100 people in the mob present around the auto-rickshaw, and she did not identify anyone from the mob. When her attention was invited to the accused present in the Court, she stated that one of them was present in the mob. The witness signalled toward one accused. The Trial Court has noted that the said accused was told to stand up who disclosed his name as Javed. Thereafter, the witness stated that the said accused pulled the chain from her neck. In the cross-examination, she accepted that no test identifi cation parade was held. It must be noted here that no other prosecution witness has identifi ed the appellant. The witness stated that a mob of around 50-100 people had gathered around the auto-rickshaw. It is not the case of the prosecution that she knew the appellant beforehand. Going by her version of the incident, there was no time available to her to observe the distinctive features of the appellant.