G 191. Second, the Governor relied on the letter dated 25 June 2022 from thirty-eight SSLP members claiming that the security provided to them and to their families was illegally withdrawn. The MLAs claimed that the security was withdrawn to coerce them into continuing to support the MVA government “against their free will.” Therefore, they demanded restoration of the security provided to them and to their family members. H SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 961 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] After receiving the letter, the Governor issued directions to the state A police to provide adequate protection to the MLAs, the members of their families, and their property. However, the lack of security to MLAs has no bearing on the question of whether the Government enjoys the confidence of the House. The appropriate response of the Governor in such cases is to ensure that the security that they are lawfully entitled to B continues to be provided to them, if it has been removed. This was an extraneous reason that was considered by the Governor. 192. The third communication that the Governor relied on is the letter dated 21 June 2022 addressed by Mr. Eknath Shinde to the Deputy Speaker stating that the appointment of Mr. Ajay Choudhari was illegal. C The Governor may not enquire into or express an opinion on the validity of proceedings of the legislature. That is exclusively within the domain of the legislature itself or in certain circumstances (discussed in the previous segment of this judgement) within the domain of Courts. The discretionary power of the Governor under Article 163 of the Constitution is limited to situations where a constitutional provision expressly provides D for it, or where the Constitution cannot be construed otherwise than to grant such discretion.62 Hence, the Governor ought not to have relied on the letter dated 21 June 2022. In any event, the contents of the letter did not indicate anything to suggest that the then-Chief Minister Mr. Thackeray had lost the confidence of the House. E 193. Finally, the Governor relied on the letters written by Mr. Fadnavis and seven ‘independent’ MLAs, calling upon him to direct Mr. Thackeray to prove his majority on the floor of the House. First, both Mr. Fadnavis as well as the seven MLAs could have well moved a motion of no-confidence. Nothing prevented them from doing so. Second, F a request by some MLAs for a direction to the Chief Minister to prove his majority does not, taken alone, amount to a relevant and germane reason to call for a floor test. There must be some objective material in addition to a mere request to call for a floor test. In the present case, the Governor did not have any objective material before him to indicate that the incumbent government had lost the confidence of the House and G that he should call for a floor test. Hence, the exercise of discretion by the Governor in this case was not in accordance with law.