D 3. In this case, the amount payable by the Corporate Debtor also included the amount repayable under fund-based credit facility of secured overdrafts. The facility granted to the Corporate Debtor was not confined to Bank Guarantees. Moreover, a demand notice under Section 13(2) of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security E Interest Act, 2002 dated 29th August 2018 was issued by the first respondent. As the Corporate Debtor did not honour the said notice, the original application for recovery has been filed by the first respondent before the Debt Recovery Tribunal at Hyderabad. Moreover, the Corporate Debtor acknowledged the F debt on 5th May 2019 to the extent of Rs. 63,36,61,897.26. Moreover, the Balance Sheet as of 31.03.2019 of the Corporate Debtor reflects the said liability of the Corporate Debtor. It is true that as far as Bank Guarantees are concerned, the Executive Engineer of the Government of Telangana addressed letters to the Bank requesting the Bank to revalidate the Bank Guarantees. G On 8th January 2020, the Government addressed a letter to Syndicate Bank to extend the seven Bank Guarantees mentioned therein. The letter mentions that if the action of revalidation or extension of the Bank Guarantees is not taken, the Bank H M. SURESH KUMAR REDDY v. CANARA BANK & ORS. 389 Guarantees be realized and the amount be paid by Demand Drafts A to the State Government. Thus, Bank Guarantees were invoked by the State Government. In view of the said letter, on 9th January 2020, the Corporate Debtor addressed a letter to the Syndicate Bank mentioning that the issue relating to the pre-closure of the two contracts granted by the State Government was under the B active consideration of the State Government. The letter mentions that if the Bank Guarantees were not extended, the same are likely to be encashed by the Government. Therefore, a request was made by the Corporate Debtor to the Bank to revalidate the Bank Guarantees. However, the first respondent by a letter dated 18th January 2021, specifically informed the Corporate Debtor C that the competent authority has not considered the proposal of the Corporate Debtor for extending Bank Guarantees and Secured Overdraft Facilities. By the same letter, the first respondent called upon the Corporate Debtor to clear the outstanding immediately. Thus, there is no doubt that the D Corporate Debtor committed a default within the meaning of Section 3(12) of the IB Code due to non-payment of the amounts due to the Bank. There are a large number of Guarantees issued by the Bank. The interim of the Telangana High Court does not relate to all Bank Guarantees. Moreover, there is no finding recorded in the interim that the Corporate Debtor E is not liable to pay the dues. The interim only prevents coercive action against the Corporate Debtor. Even assuming that NCLT has the power to reject the application under Section 7 if there were good reasons to do so, in the facts of the case, the conduct of the appellant is such that no such good reason existed F on the basis of which NCLT could have denied admission of the application under Section 7.