[Paras 30, 31.1][445-C-F; 446-E] D 1.14 In regard to the question of interest, the High Court rightly held that the arbitral tribunal was justified in following the contractual provisions and the provisions of Section 31(7) of the Act; and has rightly not interfered with the award of interest for the pre-reference period and the period during which the E proceedings were pending before the arbitral tribunal. The State is not right in contending that the interest could not have been awarded during the period of reference to the arbitrator. In regard to this aspect, the submissions to the effect that pre-reference period interest was not based on any compelling reasons and contractual provisions for interest were in terrorem are liable to F be discarded, could only be rejected for being not even standing within the periphery of Section 34 of the Act of 1996. However, insofar as post-award period is concerned, the High Court has reduced the rate of interest from 15% to 10% relying on the principles of proportionality. The said reduction of rate of interest G by the High Court is also unjustified. The provisions of Section 31(7)(b) that unless the award otherwise directs, the sum payable under the arbitral award shall carry interest at the rate of 2% higher than the current rate of interest prevalent on the date of the award, from the date of the award to the date of payment. The H 386 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A expression “current rate of interest” has been explained in the Explanation to the said Section to have the same meaning as assigned under Section 2(b) of the Interest Act, 1978. The High Court held that Court may reduce interest awarded by the arbitrator when such interest does not reflect the prevailing economic condition or where it is not found reasonable or where B it promotes interest of justice. There is no basis in the impugned of the High Court for reducing the rate of interest. [Paras 32.1, 33, 34][446-G-H; 447-A-B, F-H; 448-A] 1.15 The High Court seems to have not considered the relevant factual aspects. On the contrary, the prevailing interest C rate being the prime lending rate of State Bank of India was in the range of 13% to 14% per annum. Thus, the arbitral tribunal was justified in granting interest at the rate of 15% per annum post award. The arbitral tribunal was well within its jurisdiction under Section 31 of the Act to award interest at the rate of 15% D p.a. and there was no justification to reduce the same to 10% p.a. The High Court was not exercising any equity jurisdiction so as to resettle the rate of interest as deemed fit by it. It had been a matter relating to an award made by the arbitral tribunal in a commercial dispute. [Para 34.1][448-C-E] E 1.16 The High Court could only be said to have misdirected itself on the major issues concerning merits of the award. However, it is observed that it had not been as if the Commercial Court did not examine the material issues arising for determination while dealing with the case in terms of Section 34 of the Act of 1996.