institutions were being run by the same society. One institution was the Higher Secondary School and another one was the Nursery School (the appellant therein). The appellant contended that since the two institutions have separate and independent accounts and are managed by the two diff erent managing committees, thus both the institutions can’t be treated as one establishment for the purpose of clubbing and coverage under the EPF Act. The issue before this Court was to determine how far there is functional integrity between the two units and whether one unit can exist conveniently and reasonably without the other. This Court after pursuing the material available on record, held that two institutions were run by the same society and are located in one premises having same address, thereby, establishing geographical proximity, hence, were rightly clubbed for coverage under the EPF Act. 14. In L. N. Gadodia & Sons’s case (supra), the issue under consideration before this Court was regarding the clubbing of two companies namely, Delhi Cattle Farming Pvt. Ltd and Delhi Farming and Construction Pvt. Ltd. It was argued by the appellant therein, that both these companies were independently incorporated at diff erent times and there was no connection between their activities or the business. However, the Enforcement authority argued that both the companies had their registered offi ce at the same place wherein some of the directors were also common. There were fi nancial transactions between the two companies. Both the companies had the same telephone number and were using the same gram number. The issue before this Court was as to whether these two companies, despite having separate legal entities, common management, fi nancial integration and workforce proximity,should be considered a single establishment under the EPF Act. This Court held that despite being separate entities, both the institutions were eff ective branches of the same establishment because they were run by the same management, workforce and have common fi nancial integrity. Hence, the Court held that the EPF Act will be applicable and both the companies will be regarded as one establishment for the purpose of coverage under the EPF Act. 15. Now coming to the facts of the case in hand, as had already been noticed above, both the Institutes are being run by the same Society. The Ideal Institute was set up in the year 1965, whereas the Arts College (the M/s MATHOSRI MANIKBAI KOTHARI COLLEGE OF VISUAL ARTS v. THE 547 ASSISTANT PROVIDENT FUND COMMISSIONER [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] appellant) was set up in the year 1985-86. If the employees employed in both the institutes are added, the total number of employees would be 26, which will be suffi cient for coverage in terms of Section 1(3)(b) of the EPF Act, which stipulates that an institute employing 20 or more persons is liable to be covered under the provisions of the EPF Act. It is also a fact not in dispute that both the institutes are being run in the same campus. 16. From a perusal of various s and documents produced on record, it is evident that the appellant had taken the case very casually.