This approach is in consonance with the requirement of a written agreement and also subserves the important policy consideration as surmised in Section 5 of the Act. 16. It is in the context of the above referred legal regime, statutory as well as precedential, that we need to consider the questions referred to this Constitution Bench – whether the Group of Companies Doctrine is part of Indian arbitration jurisprudence and whether it has any statutory basis. C. Group of Companies Doctrine i. International Perspectives 17. I am in complete agreement with the opinion of the learned Chief Justice, who has in his scholarly exposition considered this matter in great detail. He has examined the precedents on the applicability of the doctrine in France, England, Switzerland, and the USA. 18. The Group of Companies Doctrine was formulated and initially applied by international arbitral tribunals to determine whether a person who has not formally signed an arbitration agreement can be made party to it. It is one of the various legal theories used to determine whether a 35 ONGC v. Saw Pipes Ltd (2003) 5 SCC 705, para 13 [2003 INSC 241]. 36 See Roop Kumar v. Mohan Thedani (2003) 6 SCC 595, paras 13, 16-18 [2003 INSC 206]. 728 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. non-signatory is a party to the arbitration agreement. Before we proceed to the doctrine itself, it may be relevant for us to briefl y set out the other legal bases, so as to locate the doctrine in the broader jurisprudence on non-signatories being a party. 19. The legal bases for making a non-signatory a party can be classifi ed as consensual and non-consensual. The consensual theories that are focused on determining the mutual intent of the parties include agency, implied consent, and assignment and transfer of contractual rights, and the non- consensual theories that are based on equity considerations include alter ego/ piercing the corporate veil, estoppel, succession, and apparent authority.37 The formulation of these principles, whether consensual or non-consensual, is not new. They are derived from general principles of contractual law and corporate law.38 20. The Group of Companies doctrine was formulated and theorised exclusively in international arbitration jurisprudence to specifically determine whether a company which is a non-signatory is party to the arbitration agreement. Gary Born clarifi es that this principle is not evoked outside the context of arbitration.39 21. With this background, I will now discuss the doctrine along with other considerations and legal tests that guide its application. 22. The doctrine was fi rst developed by a French arbitral tribunal in an interim award by the International Chamber of Commerce in Dow Chemical v. Isover Saint Gobain.40 In this case, Dow Chemical A.G. and Dow Chemical Europe (fully-owned subsidiaries of Dow Chemical Company (USA)) were signatories to two separate agreements containing arbitration clauses with Isover Saint Gobain. Dow Chemical France, a non-signatory to these agreements but a member of the Dow group, eff ectuated the deliveries under these agreements. When disputes arose and Isover instituted suits in the French courts against all four Dow companies, both the signatory and 37 Gary Born, International Commercial Arbitration, vol 1 (3rd edn, Kluwer Law International 2021) 1531.