3) That the Bank and the Central Government were together engaged in the finalization of new designs, G development of security inks and printing plates for the new designs, change in specifications of printing machines and other critical aspects. 17.6 The following points emerge upon perusal of the affidavits submitted on behalf of the Bank: H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 215 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 1) That a letter dated 7th November, 2016 was received A by the Bank, from the Ministry of Finance, Government of India, which contained a proposal to withdraw the character of legal tender of existing Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/- bank notes. 2) The said proposal was considered, together with a B draft scheme for implementing the withdrawal of existing Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/- bank notes, at the 561st meeting of the Central Board of Directors of the Bank, held on 8th November, 2016, at 05:30 p.m. at New Delhi. C 3) That the Central Board of Directors was assured that the matter had been the subject of discussion between the Central Government and the Bank for six months. The said Board was also assured that the Central Government would take adequate D mitigating measures to contain the use of cash. 4) That the Board, having observed that the proposed step presents a big opportunity to advance the objects of financial inclusion and incentivising use of electronic modes payment, recommended the E withdrawal of legal tender of old bank notes in the denomination of Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/-. 17.7 On a conjoint reading of the affidavits submitted by the Union of India and the Bank, the following deductions may be drawn: F 1) That the Central Government in its letter addressed to the Bank, dated 7th November, 2016 proposed to withdraw the character of legal tender of existing Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/- bank notes. 2) The Central Board of the Bank, at its 561st meeting G held on 8th November, 2016 resolved that the withdrawal of legal tender of old bank notes in the denomination of Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/- be made. 3) The objects guiding the Board’s opinion were two- fold: first, pertaining to financial inclusion, and H 216 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A second, being to incentivise the use of electronic modes of payment. 4) The object guiding the Government’s proposal to withdraw currency of the specified denominations, was to tackle black money, counterfeiting and B illegal financing. 17.8 In my view, there is contradiction as to the subject of demonetisation, as well the object thereof, as stated by the Bank vis-à-vis the Central Government as discernible from the affidavits. The same may be expressed as follows: C As stated in the affidavit of the As stated in the affidavit of Bank the Central Government Object of i) Financial inclusion To tackle: Demonetisation ii) incentivising use of i) black money, electronic modes of payment ii) counterfeiting, D iii) illegal financing. Subject of Old bank notes in the Existing Rs.500/- and Demonetisation denomination of Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/- bank notes Rs.1,000/- E The object of the measure and the subject are of relevance, in assessing the resolution of the Bank dated 8th November, 2016 because,the said considerations would have a bearing on the question, whether, the Bank’s opinion was inconsonance with the object sought to be achieved F through demonetisation by the Central Government’s proposal.