A GDRs were thereafter converted into equity shares and sold in the Indian Stock Market; that when Farmax was advised by the appellant to go for GDRs, Farmax was not eligible for the amount of GDR; that therefore, the appellant herein and the entity owned by him took the lead role in coordinating the offering; that the appellant was the central figure in the entire drama; that the appellant is a qualified Chartered Accountant, B having had experience of working with stock exchange filings related to GDRs; that the appellant was introduced by Arun Panchariya to Srinivas Reddy; and that the appellant and the others had committed the offence of money-laundering. 9. According to the Enforcement Directorate, the appellant was C responsible for creating the entire infrastructure for Farmax and Arun Panchariya to bring about the fraudulent GDR issue and that the appellant provided formats for Board Resolutions and also helped in transferring the funds from the account of Farmax with EURAM Bank to the Farmax subsidiary, namely, M/s. Farmax International FZE in UAE. D 10. In the background of the above facts, it is contended by Shri R. Basant, learned senior counsel: (i) that the appellant has been languishing in jail from 26.09.2022, without any charge-sheet having been filed against him in the predicate offence for the past more than nine years; (ii) that even Srinivas Reddy at whose instance a FIR was E registered way back in the year 2013 for the predicate offence was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate, but the application filed by the Enforcement Directorate for his remand was rejected by the Court; (iii) that the appellant is a Chartered Accountant by profession and that he offered only professional services within the framework of law; and (iv) that there is nothing in the prosecution complaint to show that the appellant F is in possession of “the proceeds of crime”. 11. However, it is contended by Shri S.V. Raju, learned Additional Solicitor General (i) that the appellant is the kingpin and the master mind behind all the transactions; and (ii) that the petition for bail deserves to be dismissed in view of the twin conditions prescribed in Section 45 of G PMLA. 12. We have carefully considered the rival contentions. 13. Since the main contention of the learned Additional Solicitor General revolves around Section 45 of PMLA, it is necessary to see the H specific role assigned to the appellant in the prosecution complaint lodged SANJAY RAGHUNATH AGARWAL v. THE DIRECTORATE OF 465 ENFORCEMENT [PANKAJ MITHAL, J.] by the Enforcement Directorate. The relevant portion of paragraph 8 of A the prosecution complaint reads as follows: “SPECIFIC ROLE OF THE ACCUSED/ CO-ACCUSED PERSONS IN THECOMMISSION OF OFFENCE OF MONEY LAUNDERING IN TERMS OFSECTION 3 OF PMLA: B • Role of Shri Sanjay Aggarwal (A-1):- a) Based on Sanjay Agarwal’s assurances, M/s Farmax India Limited decided to proceed with plans for a GDR listing. At this point of time M/s Farmax India C Limited was not eligible for USD 72.20 million GDR.