Further, as held in Vijay Madanlal (supra), the off ence of money laundering under Section 3 of the Act is an independent off ence regarding the process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime which had been derived or obtained as a result of criminal activity relating to or in relation to a scheduled off ence. The off ence of money laundering is not dependent or linked to the date on which the scheduled off ence or predicate off ence has been committed. The relevant date is the date on which the person indulges in the process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime. Thus, the involvement of the person in any of the criminal activities like concealment, possession, acquisition, use of proceeds of crime as much as projecting it as untainted property or claiming it to be so, would constitute the off ence of money laundering under Section 3 of the Act. 16. So far as facts of the present case are concerned, as transpiring from the supplementary complaint fi led against the appellant, apart from the statements of witnesses recorded under Section 50 of the said Act, there has been suffi cient material collected in the form of documents which prima facie show as to how the appellant was knowingly a party and actually involved in the process and in the activities connected with the proceeds of crime, and how he was projecting/ claiming such proceeds of crime as untainted and how he was the benefi ciary of the proceeds of crime acquired through the criminal activities relating to the scheduled off ences . 17. As well settled by now, the conditions specifi ed under Section 45 are mandatory. They need to be complied with. The Court is required to be satisfi ed that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accused is not guilty of such off ence and he is not likely to commit any off ence while on bail. It is needless to say that as per the statutory presumption permitted under Section 24 of the Act, the Court or the Authority is entitled to presume unless the contrary is proved, that in any proceedings relating to proceeds of crime under the Act, in the case of a person charged with the off ence of money laundering under Section 3, such proceeds of crime are involved in money laundering. Such conditions enumerated in Section 45 of PML Act will have to be complied with even in respect of an application for bail 830 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. made under Section 439 Cr.P.C. in view of the overriding eff ect given to the PML Act over the other law for the time being in force, under Section 71 of the PML Act. 18. The submission of learned Counsel Mr. Luthra to grant bail to the appellant on the ground that the other co-accused who were similarly situated as the appellant, have been granted bail, also cannot be accepted. It may be noted that parity is not the law.