E Note- Applicants from creamy layer category of Other Backward Class and More Backward Class of Rajasthan and Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes/ Other Backward Class (Creamy layer and non-creamy layer)/ More Backward Class (Creamy layer and non-creamy layer)/ Economically Weaker Sections of other states, shall be treated as general category F candidates. 6. Regarding certificates of various categories- i. For reservation as Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes/ Other Backward Classes and More Backward Class, certificate G issued by the Competent authority as per rules in the prescribed format, will have to be furnished. ii. For the applicants coming within Persons with Disability category, such candidates will have to furnish Certificate of Disability issued in the prescribed format by Authorized H 616 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Certifying Authority authorized by appropriate Government, as and when demanded by Rajasthan High Court. As per the extant rules applicable in this regard, only Disability Certificate Holder candidates shall be considered eligible for selection and appointment against the posts reserved for the Persons with Disabilities. B iii. In case of Economically Weaker Sections applicants, such candidates will have to furnish the certificate duly issued as per rules of the Competent Authority. iv. For availing benefit of reservation meant for married women C candidates of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, such women candidates will have to furnish caste certificate based on the name and address of father issued in the prescribed format as per rules. The certificate based on the basis of name, address and income of the husband shall not be applicable. v. For availing benefit of reservation meant for married women D candidates of Other Backward Classes and More Backward Classes, such women candidates will have to furnish caste certificate based on the name and address of father issued in the prescribed format as per rules. The certificate based on the basis of name, address and income of the husband shall E not be applicable. vi. In case of widow women candidate, she will have to furnish death certificate of her husband issued by the Competent authority and in case of Divorcee women candidate, she will have to furnish proof of Divorce. F 7 to 9. …… 10.AGE: - A candidate must have attained the age of 21 years on 01st January 2022 however must not have attained the age of 40 G years. Provided that – (i) the upper age limit mentioned above shall be relaxed by 5 years in case of candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes/More H SAKSHI ARHA v. THE RAJASTHAN HIGH COURT AND 617 OTHERS [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] Backward Classes/ Economically Weaker Sections and A Women Candidates. 11 to 16. …… 17.Time Limit to Apply:- B 18.Important Instructions to Apply:- C 1. Any applicant under which category he is eligible to apply should apply in the same category. The category filled in the application will not be changed under any circumstances on the request of the applicant. 2. Before applying online application, the applicant must ensure D that he/ she meets all the eligibility conditions as per the conditions mentioned in the advertisement and all the information required in the online application form is filled in correctly and fully in the relevant column.