Prepare a framework, in the form of a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) to ensure proper implementation of Rule 12 of the POCSO Rules, 2020, for reporting by the respective CWCs on the specifi c heads of information collected by them, on monthly basis. This shall include the number of cases, where support persons have been engaged in trials and inquiries throughout the state. The information should also reflect whether they were from the DCPU directory, or with external help from an NGO. Such list shall be reviewed on monthly basis by the SCPCR; BACHPAN BACHAO ANDOLAN v. 673 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] viii. The SOP prepared, and guidelines framed, are to be communicated to all JJBs and CWCs within a week of its preparation; ix. Lastly, it is important to acknowledge that support persons who are independent trained professionals, would need to take up tasks which require intensive interactions in often, hostile environments, and consequently deserve to be paid adequate remuneration. Therefore, though the Rules8 state that such personnel should be paid equivalent to a skilled worker as per the Minimum Wages Act, 1948, this court is of the opinion that the remuneration paid for the duration of the work, should be commensurate to the qualifi cations and experience of these independent professionals, having regard to the salaries paid to those with comparable qualifications employed by the government, in PSUs, or other institutions run by the government (e.g. hospitals), and this too may be considered in the meeting to be convened by the Principal Secretary. The Model Guidelines (supra) issued by the Ministry of Women and Child Development, Government of India, albeit prepared prior to the amended POCSO Rules, 2020, may off er some assistance in the framing of guidelines as directed above. 12. In crimes against children, it is not only the initiating horror or trauma that is deeply scarring; that is aggravated by the lack of support and hand holding in the days that follow. In such crimes, true justice is achieved not merely by nabbing the culprit and bringing him to justice, or the severity of punishment meted out, but the support, care, and security to the victim (or vulnerable witness), as provided by the state and all its authorities in assuring a painless, as less an ordeal an experience as is possible, during the entire process of investigation, and trial. The support and care provided through state institutions and offi ces is vital during this period. Furthermore, justice can be said to have been approximated only when the victims are brought back to society, made to feel secure, their worth and dignity, 8 As per the Rules, the support persons listed in the District Child Protection Unit directory are to be remunerated emoluments equivalent to a skilled worker as per the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 from the funds maintained under Section 105 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 or from other funds placed at the disposal of the DCPU [ref: Rule 5(7) and (8) of POCSO Rules, 2020].