A of the case at hand that the Plaintiff (Respondent No. 1 herein) was ever ready and willing to pay the balance sale consideration. In the sale agreement, it was clearly mentioned that within three months the deceased G. Venugopala Rao will get the suit schedule property measured and demarcated and the Plaintiff (Respondent No. 1 herein) shall pay the balance sale consideration. It appears that, at first, the deceased G. B Venugopala Rao while agreeing to sell 90 cents of land, concealed that he is the owner of only 50 cents of the land. Subsequently, he failed to measure and demarcate the land. On the other hand, the Plaintiff (Respondent No. 1 herein), from the outset, has been clear and blemishless in his conduct. She had paid the advance sale consideration C of Rs. 4,00,000/-. When the deceased G. Venugopala Rao failed to measure and demarcate the land, the question of the Plaintiff (Respondent No. 1 herein) paying the balance sale consideration does not arise. However, even then the averments of the Plaintiff, her conduct and the testimony of her husband show that the Plaintiff, since the signing of the sale agreement, was ever ready and willing to pay the balance D consideration. 31. The Appellants have contended that Respondent No. 1 (Plaintiff) was not having sufficient funds to pay the balance sale consideration. On the other hand, as noted above, Respondent No. 1 has been ever ready and willing to pay the balance sale consideration. In E Gomathinayagam Pillai & Ors. vs Palaniswami Nadar10, this Court referred to the of Their Lordships of the Privy Council in Bank of India Limited vs Jamsetji A.H. Chinoy and Chinoy and Company11. The relevant portion of the said is reproduced as under: “18. …….In Bank of India Limited v. Jamsetji A.H. Chinoy F and Chinoy and Company [(1949) LR 77 IA 76] the Privy Council decreed specific performance of the contract to sell shares. On the question of readiness and willingness of the buyer to perform the contract, Lord MacDermott observed at p. 91 of the Report: G “It is true that the first plaintiff stated that he was buying for himself, that he had not sufficient ready money to meet the price and that no definite arrangements had been made for finding it at the time of repudiation. But to prove himself ready 10 (1967) 1 SCR 227 H 11 (1949) LR 77 IA 76 GADDIPATI DIVIJA & ANR. v. PATHURI SAMRAJYAM & 817 ORS. [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] and willing a purchaser has not necessarily to produce the A money or to vouch a concluded scheme for financing the transaction.”” Therefore, even if the aforementioned contention of the Appellants herein was to be considered, the same does not have any substance, as the Plaintiff has successfully established her readiness and willingness B to perform her part of the contract by paying the balance sale consideration. 32. Before parting with the , we would like to clarify another aspect, i.e., with regard to whether time is of the essence in the sale agreement in the present case or not.