G 11. The question that has to be answered in this case, is in respect of the alleged infidelity of the Appellant-wife. The Respondent- husband has made clear and categorical assertions in the petition filed by him Under Section 13 of the Hindu Marriage Act, alleging infidelity. He has gone to the extent of naming the person, who was the father of the male child born to the Appellant-wife. It is in H the process of substantiating his allegation of infidelity, that the APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 709 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Respondent-husband had made an application before the Family A Court for conducting a DNA test, which would establish whether or not, he had fathered the male child born to the Appellant-wife. The Respondent feels that it is only possible for him to substantiate the allegations levelled by him (of the Appellant-wife’s infidelity) through a DNA test. We agree with him. In our view, but for the B DNA test, it would be impossible for the Respondent-husband to establish and confirm the assertions made in the pleadings. We are therefore satisfied, that the direction issued by the High Court, as has been extracted hereinabove, was fully justified. DNA testing is the most legitimate and scientifically perfect means, which the husband could use, to establish his assertion of infidelity. This should C simultaneously be taken as the most authentic, rightful and correct means also with the wife, for her to rebut the assertions made by the Respondent-husband, and to establish that she had not been unfaithful, adulterous or disloyal. If the Appellant-wife is right, she shall be proved to be so. D 12. We would, however, while upholding the passed by the High Court, consider it just and appropriate to record a caveat, giving the Appellant-wife liberty to comply with or disregard the passed by the High Court, requiring the holding of the DNA test. In case, she accepts the direction issued by the High Court, E the DNA test will determine conclusively the veracity of accusation levelled by the Respondent-husband, against her. In case, she declines to comply with the direction issued by the High Court, the allegation would be determined by the concerned Court, by drawing a presumption of the nature contemplated in Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act, especially, in terms of illustration F (h) thereof. Section 114 as also illustration (h), referred to above, are being extracted hereunder: “114. Court may presume existence of certain facts - The Court may presume the existence of any fact which it thinks likely to have happened, regard being had to the common course of G natural events, human conduct and public and private business, in their relation to the facts of the particular case. Illustration (h) - That if a man refuses to answer a question which he is not compelled to answer by law, the answer, if given, would be unfavourable to him.” H 710 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A This course has been adopted to preserve the right of individual privacy to the extent possible.