Meanwhile, for one reason or another, the proceedings before the executing court were delayed and then the respondents/ debtors moved an application before the “executing court” on 19.01.2017 challenging the dated 12.02.2013 by which the court had allowed the execution of the decree. This as we can see was done nearly four years after the dated 12.02.2013. The maintainability of this application was challenged by the appellant/ landlord. The executing court vide its dated 28.09.2017 allowed the objections of the appellant and held that under the garb of the provisions of Section 47 CPC, the respondents/ debtors were actually challenging the of the court dated 12.02.2013, which had allowed the execution of the decree; and which had attained fi nality. The dated 28.09.2017 was challenged by the respondents in revision, where it was set aside by an dated 22.12.2017. The landlord’s writ petition before the Bombay High Court against the above was dismissed vide the impugned dated 08.01.2021, and this is how the decree holder is now before us. The appellate court and the High Court (in exercise of its powers under Article 227 of the Constitution of India), have held that under Section 47 of the CPC, the executing court can decide the matter as to whether the decree can be executed or not. 4. Section 47 of the CPC reads as under: Section 47. Questions to be determined by the Court executing decree. (1) All questions arising between the parties to the suit in which the decree was passed, or their representatives, and relating to the PRADEEP MEHRA v. HARIJIVAN J. JETHWA (SINCE 127 DECEASED THR. LRS.) [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] execution, discharge or satisfaction of the decree, shall be determined by the Court executing the decree and not by a separate suit. * * * * * (3) Where a question arises as to whether any person is or is not the representative of a party, such question shall, for the purposes of this section, be determined by the Court. Explanation 1.-- For the purposes of this section, a plaintiff whose suit has been dismissed and a defendant against whom a suit has been dismissed are parties to the suit. Explanation II.-- (a) For the purposes of this section, a purchaser of property at a sale in execution of a decree shall be deemed to be a party to the suit in which the decree is passed; and (b) all questions relating to the delivery of possession of such property to such purchaser or his representative shall be deemed to be questions relating to the execution, discharge or satisfaction of the decree within the meaning of this section. 5. A bare perusal of the aforesaid provision shows that all questions between the parties can be decided by the executing court. But the important aspect to remember is that these questions are limited to the “execution of the decree”. The executing court can never go behind the decree. Under Section 47, CPC the executing court cannot examine the validity of the of the court which had allowed the execution of the decree in 2013, unless the court’s is itself without jurisdiction.