The purpose of this constitutional scheme is to ensure that the judicial system is uniform, effective and efficient in its functioning. C Efficient functioning necessarily requires judges of caliber and capacity to be provided with the right incentives and promotion opportunities to maintain the high level of functioning of the judiciary. 23. This Court in All India Judges Association (II)8 has noted the position of law and observed that uniform designations and hierarchy, with uniform service conditions are unavoidable necessary D consequences. It was held: “14. … Secondly, the judiciary in this country is a unified institution judicially though not administratively.Hence uniform designations and hierarchy, with uniform service conditions are unavoidable necessary consequences. The E further directions given, therefore, should not be looked upon as an encroachment on the powers of the executive and the legislature to determine the service conditions of the judiciary. They are directions to perform the long overdue obligatory duties.” F II. Separation of Powers and Comparison with Political Executive 24. Separation of powers demands that the officers of the Judiciary be treated separately and distinct from the staff of the legislative and executive wings. It must be remembered the judges are not employees G of the State but are holders of public office who wield sovereign judicial power. In that sense, they are only comparable to members of the legislature and ministers in the executive. Parity, thus, cannot be claimed between staff of the legislative wing and executive wing with officers 8All India Judges Association (II) v. Union of India (1993) 4 SCC 288 at para 14. H ALL INDIA JUDGES ASSOCIATION v. UNION OF INDIA 49 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] of the judicial wing. This Court in All India Judges’ Assn. (II) v. Union A of India,9 explained the distinction and held that those who exercise the State power are the Ministers, the Legislators and the Judges, and not the members of their staff who implement or assist in implementing their decisions. Thus, there cannot be any objection that judicial officers receive pay which is not at par with executive staff. In B this context, it may also be remembered that Article 50 of the Constitution directs the State to take steps to separate the judiciary from the Executive. 25. This distinction is also important because judicial independence from the executive and the legislature requires the judiciary to have a C say in matters of their finances. This Court has previously noted that theoretically, allowing the Executive to decide the pay of the judiciary may lead to unintended consequences.10 Therefore, to secure true independence of the judiciary, this Court has recognized that the pay of judicial officers is separate and distinct from the pay of staff of other wings of the State. This, it may be noted, is nothing but an articulation of D the doctrine of inherent powers. This doctrine mandates that the judiciary must possess the inherent power to “compel payment of those sums of money which are reasonable and necessary to carry out its mandated responsibilities, and its powers and duties to administer justice.”11 This doctrine is only the logical conclusion of separation of E powers and ensures that the independence of the judiciary is secured.