H PRADEEP KUMAR v. STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 689 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] 12. Since both the Courts below have placed paramount significance A and reliance to the extra judicial confession made by the Appellant, it is important to take note of the principles enunciated by this Court in the case of Sahadevan v. State of T.N., (2012) 6 SCC 403 as under: “ 16. ….. B (i) The extra-judicial confession is a weak evidence by itself. It has to be examined by the court with greater care and caution. (ii) It should be made voluntarily and should be truthful. (iii) It should inspire confidence. C (iv) An extra-judicial confession attains greater credibility and evidentiary value if it is supported by a chain of cogent circumstances and is further corroborated by other prosecution evidence. (v) For an extra-judicial confession to be the basis of conviction, D it should not suffer from any material discrepancies and inherent improbabilities. (vi) Such statement essentially has to be proved like any other fact and in accordance with law.” E 13. Before we deal with each of the aforesaid circumstances, we must place on record certain undisputed facts. Those being (a) the homicidal death of deceased Umesh Chowdhary S/o Gajadhar Chowdhary, (b) the identity of the deceased, (c) the recovery of the dead body of the deceased from the Dodki Nala of village Chitarpur,(d) the post-mortem of the dead body conducted by PW-14 affirming the F deceased to have died as a result of asphyxia due to throttling and (e) the cause of the death being homicidal in nature. The ante-mortem analysis reflects multiple abrasions present on the front portion of the neck of the deceased caused by a hard and blunt object. There was a fracture ofthe hyoid bone, congestion in both the lungs and the trachea rings. G 14. Proceeding further, examining the testimonies of the prosecution witnesses we find that it is the case of Manorama Devi (PW-11), w/o the deceased to have deposed that on 1.10.2003 finding her husband not to have returned home at night, asked her elder son Vinay Kumar (PW- 12) to visit the shop and makes enquiries. Soon, he returned informing H 690 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A that his father’s dead body was lying besides the road at Dodki Nala with marks of injuries. On the basis of suspicion, Gajadhar Chowdhary (PW-10) father of the deceased lodged a complaint with the police bearing FIR No.126/03 (Ex.P-6) dated 2.10.2003. 15. Significantly, at this point in time, neither PW-11 nor PW-12 B had suspected any person to have committed the crime. 16. Gajadhar Chowdhary (PW-10) states that it was he who made inquiries about the death of the deceased and as disclosed to him by Sirodh (PW-6), owner of the shop, deceased was lastly seen by him closing the shop around 8:00 PM. We note that there is a significant time C gap between when the deceased was lastly seen by him and the time of the crime.