While doing so, the Division Bench applied the principle of ejusdem generis to include even Entry Tax in Clause 5.1.2. The Division Bench of the High Court reversed the conclusion of the Arbitral Tribunal and the Single Judge of the High Court on the ground that they had simply assumed that the tax liability of items forming part of the Bill of Quantities was ‘inbuilt’ in the quoted costs and that no evidence was supplied to substantiate the same. The Division Bench also noted that reimbursement on account of increase 222 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. in ‘toll taxes’ was specifi cally provided for in Clause 5.1.2 of the contract, and hence, claim for the same could not be rejected. In view of its conclusion, the Division Bench did not fi nd it necessary to refer to Clauses 7.1.1 and 7.1.2 relating to price variation clauses, as the claims were justifi ed under Clause 5.1.2 itself. Finally, relying on Radha Sundar Dutta v. Mohd Jahadur Rahim & Ors,2 the High Court came to the conclusion that it is a “well-settled principle that if there are two constructions possible of a contract, then the one that gives eff ect and voice to all clauses will be preferred over the other that renders one of them otiose or nugatory”. Adopting this approach, the Division Bench of the High Court proceeded to hold that the Arbitral Tribunal failed to interpret the contractual clauses harmoniously and holistically. It fi nally concluded that the approach adopted by the Arbitral Tribunal would amount to perversity, and therefore, found it necessary to set aside the Award, and allow claims covered under Disputes III and IV. 11. This of the Division Bench of the Hight Court led to the present civil appeal before us. 12. Submissions on behalf of the Appellant: Mr Shyam Divan, Senior Advocate, along with Mr Amlaan Kumar, Mr Musharaf Shaikh, Ms Rukhmini Bobde, Ms Soumya Priyadarshinee, Mr Ankit Ambasta, Mr Amit Kumar Shrivastava, Advocates, and Mr Vishal Prasad, AOR appeared on behalf of the Appellants. They submitted that the Division Bench of the High Court exceeded its limited jurisdiction under Section 37 of the Act by reinterpreting the contract and substituting its view for the Arbitral Tribunal’s, assuming the role of a court of appeal. They relied on UHL Power Company Limited v. State of Himachal Pradesh3 and South East Asia Marine Engineering and Constructions Limited v. Oil India Limited4 for this purpose. 12.1 Next, they submitted that the parties agreed to a lump-sum contract price payable to the Respondent-Contractor. The Contractor split the agreed prices into several components and indicated the division in the ‘Schedule of Items and Rates - Bill of Quantities’, which inhered the cost and eff ort involved in execution of the items mentioned therein. There is no indication that the amount incurred in the execution of the entries therein would be separately reimbursed. They added that Clause 11.7 of the contract expressly indicates 2 AIR 1959 SC 24.