alternative refund with or without compensation is claimed for all A of them. Different reliefs for one or more of the consumers on whose behalf or for whose benefit the complaint is filed cannot be claimed in such a complaint.” (emphasis supplied) B 22. The following is the ultimate conclusion arrived at, “34. It may be mentioned here that the passed by the Three-Member Bench of this Commission in the case of Ambrish Kumar Shukla (supra), has been affirmed by a Five- Member Bench of this Commission vide dated 26.10.2021 C passed in “ CC No. 1703 of 2018, Renu Singh v. Experion Developers Private Limited” and other connected matters” wherein it has been held that the Full Bench of this Commission in Ambrish Kumar Shukla & 21 Ors. v. Ferrous Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. I 2017 CPJ 1 (NC), lays down the law correctly on D the issue relating to pecuniary jurisdiction. 35. Though, under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, the value of goods or services and compensation claimed was to be taken for determining the pecuniary jurisdiction of the Consumer Fora but the Principle laid down by the E Larger Bench in the case of Ambrish Kumar Shukla (supra), would also be applicable for determining the value of goods and services paid as consideration in the Complaint where the Complaint has been filed as a Joint-Complaint by more than one person. F 36. Admittedly, in the present cases, the value of the consideration paid by all the persons who have joined as Complainants in the Joint Complaint, exceeds 2 Crores, therefore, this Commission has pecuniary jurisdiction under Section 58(1)(a)(i) of the Act to entertain all the present Joint Complaints. Accordingly, it is held that all the present Joint Complaints are G maintainable before this Commission.” (emphasis supplied) 23. In light of the aforesaid exposition of law, which the National Commission itself took note of in its subsequent decision, the present H 878 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A appeals deserve to be allowed. Complaints have already been registered, and in any case, the issue pertaining to registration and the byelaws has got no relevancy, particularly in light of the submission made by the learned counsel for the appellant that affidavits have been filed by individual allottees. A pedantic and hyper-technical approach would cause damage to the very concept of consumerism. We further note that even B after five years the appellant is unable to proceed, and the cases have not progressed. 24. In such view of the matter, the impugned s are set aside, and the appeals are allowed. Pending applications, if any, are disposed of. The National Commission shall proceed to hear the matters on merits, C expeditiously. No as to costs. Nidhi Jain Appeals allowed. (Assisted by : Arjun Narang and Tamana, LCRAs) D E F G H