It was held that after the amalgamation of two companies, the transferor company ceases to have any entity, and the amalgamated company acquires a new status, and it is not possible to treat the two companies as partners or jointly liable in respect of their liabilities and assets. 27. In the context of income tax liability, this court, in Saraswati Industrial Syndicate Ltd. vs. CIT, Haryana, H.P. & Delhi30, observed that: “The true eff ect and character of the amalgamation largely depends on the terms and scheme of merger but there cannot be any doubt that when two companies amalgamate and merge into one the transferor company loses its entity as it ceases to have its business. However, their respective rights or liabilities are determined under the scheme of amalgamation but the corporate entity of the transferor company ceases to exist with eff ect from the date the amalgamation is made eff ective.” 28. McLeod Russel India Limited v. Regional Provident Fund Commissioner, Jalpaiguri & Ors31. was a case involving default in paying provident fund dues under the Employees Provident Fund Act, 1952 (“the EPF Act”). In this case, one Mathura Tea Estate owned Saroda Tea Company Ltd., which was covered by the EPF Act. During the pendency of recovery and penalty proceedings, the entire management of Mathura Tea Estate (including ownership of Saroda Tea Co. Ltd and the estate) was taken over by Eveready Industries (India) Ltd., 29 1986 (2) SCR 607. 30 1990 Supp (1) SCR 332. 31 2014 (9) SCR 162. 214 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. which discharged the principal EPF liability but sought to disclaim penalty (for non-compliance in the requirement to remit or deposit EPF contributions). This court negatived its position by noticing that the takeover document clearly noted the liability and how it was to be treated as McLeod Russel’s liability: “13. There is no gainsaying that criminal liability remains steadfastly fastened to the actual perpetrator and cannot be transferred by any compact between persons or even by statute. But this incontrovertible legal principle does not support or validate the contention of Mr. Jayant Bhushan, Learned Senior Advocate for the Appellants, that damages levied in terms of Section 14B of the EPF Act cannot be foisted onto his clients. Sections 14, 14A, 14AA, 14AB and 14AC of the EPF Act are the provisions postulating prosecution; in contradistinction Section 14B contemplates the power to “recover from the employer by way of penalty such damages, not exceeding the amount of arrears, as may be specifi ed in the Scheme”. It is true that it is not a river but a mere rivulet that segregates and distinguishes the legal concepts of damages or compensatory damages or exemplary damages or deterrent damages or punitive damages or retributory damages. We shall abjure from writing a dissertation on this compelling legal nodus; save to clarify that modern jurisprudence recognizes that the imposition of punitive damages, quintessentially quasi-criminal in character, can be resorted to even in civil proceedings to deter wilful wrongdoing by making an admonished example of the wrongdoer.