PC sometime in the second week of May, 2023, his disqualifi cation had taken eff ect pursuant to the Notifi cation of the Lok Sabha Secretariat being published in the Gazette of India dated 1st May, 2023. In view of the observation of the Constitution Bench in K. Prabhakaran (supra), the High Court having been approached could have, exercising jurisdiction under section 389(1), only suspended execution of the conviction or the appealed against. Even if the High Court exercised the jurisdiction under section 389(1) or AFJAL ANSARI v. STATE OF UP 1019 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] its inherent jurisdiction under section 482, Cr. PC to stay the conviction, the disqualifi cation that had taken eff ect and notifi ed vide the Gazette Notifi cation would continue to remain unaff ected unless the conviction itself was stayed. Realising that the appellant did not specifi cally pray for stay of conviction before the High Court and that a stay of the notifi cation is essential, wise counsel must have dawned on the appellant, for, it is found that a challenge to such a notifi cation has been laid for the fi rst time in this appeal. It is understandable that despite such notifi cation having seen the light of the day when the appellant had approached the High Court, the same could not have been challenged and a stay thereof obtained in an application under section 389, Cr. PC. In the absence of any prayer for stay of conviction before the High Court to off set the said notifi cation from remaining operative, no could have been passed by the High Court staying the conviction. Incidentally, it was also not the prayer of the appellant before the High Court that the conviction be stayed exercising power under section 482, Cr. PC. If the appellant is to be allowed to continue as a member of the Lok Sabha without there being a stay on his conviction, which is also not the prayer here, it would tantamount to usurpation of an offi ce through membership by the appellant without having any right thereto. 64. Still further, considering the principles of law laid down in the precedents noticed above and the factual scenario, one cannot be unmindful of the fact that the appellant did not demonstrate any exceptional circumstance before the High Court to warrant a stay of the conviction, assuming that he did pray so. Despite being obliged, in terms of the dicta in Rama Narang (supra), Ravikant S. Patil (supra) and Lok Prahari (supra), the appellant has cared less to be diligent. The present case manifests the tardy and lethargic attitude of the appellant of having clearly failed to plead any specifi c consequences to show that his case falls under an exceptional category and thereby warrants a stay of the conviction. The four-page application which the appellant fi led before the High Court seeking a stay of conviction under section 389(1) of the Cr. PC, was accompanied by an affi davit spread over twelve pages and containing thirty-fi ve paragraphs.