A the replacement free of charge to the owners of the vehicle. The value of such spare parts replaced by the petitioner therein during the warranty period was reimbursed by the manufacturer by issuing credit notes. The spare parts were purchased in bulk and replacement was made from out of such stock held by the petitioner. After replacement, the B petitioner therein would make a claim to the manufacturer who would issue the credit notes. The manufacturer would issue credit notes for the value together with excise duty and sales tax, thereby, cancelling the original sale made to the petitioner in respect of the item replaced. Therefore, it C was contended that there was only a sale cancellation between the manufacturer and the petitioner and that the petitioner therein had already suffered tax at the point of a sale and therefore, every component part of the car would have to be taken to have suffered tax at the point of a sale and when replacement was made it is in respect of an item D which has suffered a tax at the point of a sale. According to the revenue, the replacement of the spare parts was by purchase made from outside the State by issue of C-forms. E (ii) The Division Bench of the Kerala High Court held that the transaction in question cannot be said to be a sale. That the purchase of spare parts may have been by giving C-forms but it was used purely for replacement and not for sale. That credit notes are issued by the manufacturer by reducing the sale value. In this regard, reliance was placed on Prem F Nath Motors. Hence, a direction was issued to exempt the turnover of the spare parts which were used for replacement. Mohd. Ekram Khan: 9. The aforesaid two cases, namely, Prem Motors and Geo Motors G were overruled in Mohd. Ekram Khan. Further, the question considered therein was, whether, the amount received by the assessee therein for supply of parts to the customers as a part of the warranty agreement was liable to tax. The assessee therein was an agent of M/s Mahindra and Mahindra (manufacturer). The manufacturer had a warranty H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1297 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] agreement with the purchasers of vehicles (the customers) to replace A defective parts during the warranty period. The manufacturer would make payment of a certain price on account of parts supplied by the assessee to the customer by way of replacement of the defective part obviously without charging the customer for the same. Credit notes were issued by the manufacturer to the assessee as the price of the parts B supplied to the customers. The assessing officer was of the view that the payment received through credit notes amounted to a sale in terms of Section 2 (h) of the Uttar Pradesh Trade Tax Act, 1948. The Trade Tax Tribunal, Varanasi held in favour of the assessee by stating that there was no sale.