OF DELHI 733 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] xii. deposit of the sealed parcels of the exhibits with the A in-charge malkhana of PS Tilak Nagar and sending of the parcels to FSL; xiii. reports of the FSL and their use in establishing the case.” B Findings of the Trial Court 5.The Trial Court found— (i) The testimonies of PW3 Ramesh Chand (owner of the building) and PW4 Raj Kumar (tenant of first floor of the building) proved that Santosh @ Bhure was tenant and C resident of the apartment where the dead body of Hari Shankar, blood, etc. were found. (ii) The testimony of PW4 proved that Hari Om, who had been residing with accused Santosh @ Bhure in that apartment, had left the premises about a week before the incident. D (iii) The testimony of PW4 proved that when he visited the apartment of Santosh @ Bhure on 11.09.2000, between noon and 1.00 p.m., to pay him money, Hari Shankar (the deceased) was noticed there alive and in an inebriated state. (iv) The dead body was duly identified as that of Hari Shankar. E (v) The autopsy report prepared by Dr. M.M. Narnaware, which was proved by Dr. Lalit Kumar (PW27), established that death was homicidal. (vi) The testimonies of police witnesses, documents prepared F in respect of lifting/ seizure of blood, articles, etc. from the spot and the material exhibits proved that the murder was committed in that very apartment. (vii) The testimonies of SI Rajesh Kumar (PW15) and Inspector J.L. Meena (PW28) and the documents exhibited proved G that a suicide letter was found in a pocket of the trouser which the deceased was wearing at the time of his death. (viii) The testimonies of police witnesses also proved that on 20.09.2000 the native place of accused (Santosh) in district Etawah (State of U.P.) was visited to effect his arrest but H 734 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A he could not be found. Thereafter, the two accused surrendered in court on 23.09.2000 and were remanded to police custody. (ix) The testimonies of police witnesses PW28 and PW15 and the exhibited documents proved that the two accused had B made two confessional disclosures. One, on 23.09.2000, which resulted in no discovery, and other, on 25.09.2000, which, at the pointing out of Santosh, resulted in discovery of blood-stained clothes and, at the pointing out of Neeraj, a knife/dagger. C (x) The testimonies of PW15 and PW28 proved that specimen handwriting and signature of Neeraj was obtained and a memorandum to that effect was prepared and that the suicide letter, specimen handwriting and signature of accused Neeraj were sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) for comparison/opinion. D (xi) The Senior Scientific Officer (Documents), FSL-cum-Ex- Officio Chemical Examiner to Government of NCT of Delhi, whose report is admissible under section 293 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short “the Code”), confirmed, vide report dated 29.12.2000, that the suicide E letter and specimens were in the handwriting of one and the same person.