D Explanation III.—For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that an investment company shall be deemed, for the purposes of this Act, to be an undertaking;” The MRTP Act also provided for definition of the words, E monopolistic trade practice as also, restrictive trade practices. 29. Section 3 of the MRTP Act, read as follows: “3. Act not to apply in certain cases.—Unless the Central Government, by notification, otherwise directs, this Act shall not apply to— F (a) any undertaking owned or controlled by a Government company, (b) any undertaking owned or controlled by a Government, (c) any undertaking owned or controlled by a corporation (not G being a company) established by or under any Central, Provincial or State Act, (d) any trade union or other association of workmen or employees formed for their own reasonable protection as such workmen or employees, H 848 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A (e) any undertaking engaged in an industry, the management of which has been taken over by any person or body of persons in pursuance of any authorisation made by the Central Government under any law for the time being in force, (f) any undertaking owned by a co-operative society formed and B registered under any Central, Provincial or State Act relating to co-operative societies, (g) any financial institution. Explanation.—In determining, for the purpose of clause (c), whether or not any undertaking is owned or controlled by a C corporation, the shares held by financial institutions shall not be taken into account.” 30. In other words, inter alia, the provisions of the said Act did not apply to an undertaking owned or controlled by a government company or any undertaking owned or controlled by a corporation (not being a D company established by or under a central, provisional or State Act) unless it was expressly made applicable by a notification. It also did not apply to any undertaking, the management of which was taken over by any person or body of persons in pursuance of any authorization made by the Central Government under any law enforced for the time being in force [Clause (e)]. Conspicuous by its absence, is any such provision in E the Act. 31. The CollieryControl came to be passed in the year 1945 under the Rules. It is the said ,which came to be continued under the Essential Commodities Act. The Coal Controller controlled the quality and quantity as noticed in Ashoka Smokeless Coal India F (P) Ltd. and Others22.Considering its vital importance, it became the only mineral which was nationalized in terms of the CokingCoal Mines Nationalization Act, 1972 and the Coal Mines Nationalisation Act 1973. The Colliery Control 1945 was repealed and replaced by the Colliery Collar Control 2000 w.e.f. 01.01.2000. G 32. The Preamble to the Nationalisation Act reads as follows: “An Act to provide for the acquisition and transfer of the right, title and interest of the owners in respect of the coal mines specified 22Ashoka Smokeless Coal India (P) Ltd. and Others v. Union of India and Others H (2007) 2 SCC 640 COAL INDIA LIMITED v. COMPETITION COMMISSION 849 OF INDIA [K. M. JOSEPH, J.]