(4) The fatal blow should be clearly traced to the influence of passion arising from that 13 1962 SCR Supl. (1) 567 H 260 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A provocation and not after the passion had cooled down by lapse of time, or otherwise giving room and scope for premeditation and calculation” 24. If one were to apply the above tests to the present case, what is evident is that while there were pre-existing disputes of some vintage, between the appellants and the deceased, there is nothing to show that B they had been aggravated. It is also, likewise, not clear whether the deceased said anything to the appellants which triggered their ire, leading to loss of self-control as to result in “grave and sudden provocation”. In any case, if there were something, the appellants ought to have brought the relevant material or evidence on record, as what facts did exist, was within their peculiar knowledge. C 25. During the hearing, the appellants counsel had urged that Vrindawan died 20 days after the attack, and the lapse of such a time shows that the injuries were not sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature. On this aspect, there are several s, which emphasize that such a lapse of time, would not per se constitute a determinative factor as to diminish the offender’s liability from the offence D of murder to that of culpable homicide, not amounting to murder. In Om Parkash v. State of Punjab,14 the death occurred 13 days after the attack; the accused was convicted of murder. Similarly, in Patel Hiralal Joitaram v. State of Gujarat,15 the death occurred a fortnight after the attack, and in Sudershan Kumar (supra), the death occurred 12 days after the attack. E 26. There can be no stereotypical assumption or formula that where death occurs after a lapse of some time, the injuries (which might have caused the death), the offence is one of culpable homicide. Every case has its unique fact situation. However, what is important is the nature of injury, and whether it is sufficient in the ordinary course to lead to death. The adequacy or otherwise of medical attention is not a relevant F factor in this case, because the doctor who conducted the post-mortem clearly deposed that death was caused due to cardio respiratory failures, as a result of the injuries inflicted upon the deceased. Thus, the injuries and the death were closely and directly linked. 27. In view of the above discussion, this court is of the opinion that there is no infirmity in the impugned . The conviction and G sentence imposed on the appellants do not therefore, call for interference. The appeal is consequently dismissed, without on costs. Bibhuti Bhushan Bose Appeal dismissed. (Assisted by : Kritika, LCRA) 14 1992 (3) SCR 921 H 15 2002 (1) SCC 22