VII). Negligence cannot be attributed to a doctor so long as he performs his duties with reasonable skill and competence. Merely because the doctor chooses one course of action in preference to the other one available, he would not be liable if the course of action chosen by him was acceptable to the medical profession. IX.) It is our bounden duty and obligation of the civil society to ensure that the medical professionals are not unnecessarily harassed or humiliated so that they can perform their professional duties without fear and apprehension. ….” 36. As can be culled out from above, the three essential ingredients in determining an act of medical negligence are: (1.) a duty of care extended to the complainant, (2.) breach of that duty of care, and (3.) resulting damage, injury or harm caused to the complainant attributable to the said breach of duty. However, a medical practitioner will be held liable for negligence only in circumstances when their conduct falls below the standards of a reasonably competent practitioner. 37. Due to the unique circumstances and complications that arise in diff erent individual cases, coupled with the constant advancement in the medical fi eld and its practices, it is natural that there shall always be diff erent opinions, including contesting views regarding the chosen line of treatment, or the course of action to be undertaken. In such circumstances, just because a doctor opts for a particular line of treatment but does not achieve the desired result, they cannot be held liable for negligence, provided that the said course of action undertaken was recognized as sound and relevant medical practice. This may include a procedure entailing a higher risk element as well, which was opted for after due consideration and deliberation by the doctor. Therefore, a line of treatment undertaken should not be of a discarded or obsolete category in any circumstance. 38. To hold a medical practitioner liable for negligence, a higher threshold limit must be met. This is to ensure that these doctors are focused on deciding the best course of treatment as per their assessment rather than M.A BIVIJI v. SUNITA & ORS. 133 [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] being concerned about possible persecution or harassment that they may be subjected to in high-risk medical situations. Therefore, to safeguard these medical practitioners and to ensure that they are able to freely discharge their medical duty, a higher proof of burden must be fulfi lled by the complainant. The complainant should be able to prove a breach of duty and the subsequent injury being attributable to the aforesaid breach as well, in to hold a doctor liable for medical negligence. On the other hand, doctors need to establish that they had followed reasonable standards of medical practice. 39. While determining whether the ‘NI’ procedure performed on Mrs. Sunita at Suretech Hospital on 13.05.2004,replacing the existing ‘TT’ after the bronchoscopy report did not reveal any abnormalities, amounts to negligence or not, the following aspects are worthy of consideration: a.) Whether there was a breach of duty of care, with respect to the ‘NI’ procedure performed on 13.05.2004.