[2023] 14 S.C.R. 477 : 2023 INSC 915 CASE DETAILS KISHAN CHAND JAIN v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS (Writ Petition (Civil) No. 360 of 2021) OCTOBER 09, 2023 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI, J. B. PARDIWALA AND MANOJ MISRA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: The petitioner urges that the State Information Commissions should allow the option of virtual hearings along with physical hearings. Constitution of India – Art. 21 – Access to justice: Held: Access to justice is a right of constitutional purport which signifies that individuals have effective means to approach legal institutions to seek appropriate legal remedies – The ability to access legal institutions empowers individuals to understand and exercise their legal and constitutional rights – Access to justice enhances the quality of human life and, therefore, is an important facet of right to life u/Art. 21. [Para 19] Constitution of India – Arts. 14, 21, 39A – Constitutional duty of the organs of the State to provide with means for access to justice: Held: Art. 39A of the Constitution recognizes the rights of citizens to equal justice and free legal aid – Reading Arts. 14, 21, and 39A harmoniously, it is evident that is the constitutional duty of the organs of the state to provide individuals with the means of access to justice in an eff ective and effi cient manner – Particularly, it is duty of the Government to raise the standards of infrastructure by adopting technology to make institutional processes accessible and inclusive. [Para 20] Information Technology – Technological advancements – Virtual Courts – Video-conferencing – Expansion of courtroom area beyond the walls of the courtroom: 477 478 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. Held: The recent technological advancements in terms of video- conferencing must be used to promote inclusion of people living in remote areas within the fold of the justice delivery mechanism – Physical courts require the litigants and parties living in remote areas to travel long distances to appear before the court – With increasing costs of travel and other related expenses, video-conferencing solutions provide a cost-eff ective and effi cient alternative to the physical courts – Technology allows to create and use a “virtual courtroom” which is as real as any physical courtroom – In more than one-way, virtual courts democratize legal processes by expanding the courtroom area beyond the walls of the courtroom. [Para 21] Constitution of India – Constitutional duty of every adjudicatory institution to adopt technological solutions: Held: It is a constitutional duty of every adjudicatory institution, may it be courts, tribunals, or commissions, to adopt technological solutions such as video-conferencing and make them available to litigants and the members of the Bar on a regular and consistent basis – The use of technology is no longer an option – Properly deployed for the purpose of conducting hybrid or virtual hearings, technology has the potential to ensure access to justice by obviating the need for citizens to travel long distances to secure the right of being heard.