Upon coming to know of the said Summoning , the petitioner has come up with the above writ petition. It is claimed by the petitioner in paragraph 5(v) of the writ G petition that “No summons have yet been received…” by her and that she had annexed a screenshot of the e-court website reflecting the case details. However, a print out of the copy of the Summoning is filed along with the writ petition. H 898 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 11. At the outset, it is made clear by Ms. Vrinda Grover, learned Counsel for the petitioner that the challenge to the impugned Summoning is limited to the question of territorial jurisdiction alone and that the impugned Summoning is not being challenged on any ground other than the lack of territorial jurisdiction. 12. In brief, the contention of the learned Counsel for the petitioner B is that under Section 44(1) of the PMLA, an offence punishable under the Act, shall be triable only by the Special Court constituted for the area in which the offence has been committed. This is notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 19733. Apart from the non-obstante clause with which Section 44(1) begins, Section 71 of the C Act also gives overriding effect to PMLA. Therefore, it is contended by the learned Counsel for the petitioner that the Special Court in Maharashtra alone could have taken cognizance of the complaint. 13. Heavy reliance is placed by the learned Counsel for the petitioner on the opinion of this Court in paragraphs 353 to 358 of the D decision in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary & Ors. vs. Union of India & Ors.4. It was held in the said decision that the trial of the offence of money-laundering should proceed before the Special Court constituted for the area in which the offence of money-laundering has been committed and that in case the scheduled offence is triable by the Special Court under a special enactment elsewhere, both the trials need to proceed E independently, but in the area where the offence of money- laundering has been committed. Paragraphs 356 and 357 of the decision in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra) read as follows: “356. The amendment of 2013 in fact clarifies the dispensation to be followed in regard to trials concerning offence of money- F laundering under this Act and the trial in relation to scheduled offence including before the Special Court trying such (scheduled) offence. By virtue of this clause, the trials regarding the offence of money-laundering need to proceed before the Special Court constituted for the area in which the offence of money-laundering has been committed. In case the scheduled offence is triable by G Special Court under the special enactment elsewhere, the provision, as amended, makes it amply clear that both the trials after coming into effect of this Act need to proceed independently, but in the area where the offence of money-laundering has been committed. 3For short, “Cr.P.C” H 42022 SCC OnLine SC 929 RANA AYYUB v. DIRECTORATE OF ENFORCEMENT 899 THROUGH ITS ASSISTANT DIRECTOR [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.]