G 22. In absence of any other and further material on record to support the grievances of the said petitioners, we are not inclined to entertain the said SLPs filed by the petitioners Eparchy of Bathery and Catholic Diocese of Thamarassery, in exercise of our limited jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India, more particularly when H CARDINAL MAR GEORGE ALENCHERRY v. STATE OF 1033 KERALA & ANR. [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] the said petitioners have failed to make out any case of grave injustice A being suffered to them. As stated earlier, the said observations have been made by the High Court in response to the submissions made by the counsels for the parties in the light of the various decisions of this Court, and the said observations being prima facie in nature, no finality could be attached to them. B 23. Having said that, we are constrained to say something on the subsequent s passed by the High Court after passing of the impugned dismissing the petitions filed under Section 482 Cr.PC by the appellant. The High Court after recording its findings in the impugned about the Criminal Conspiracy allegedly hatched by the appellant C and the other accused for fraudulently selling the properties belonging to Archdiocese, further enlarged the scope of the petitions by raising doubts as regards the settlement deed executed by the appellant and others in respect of the properties as to whether the said settlement deed was with respect to any government land or poramboke land. The High Court while dismissing the petitions filed by the appellant- Archbishop under D Section 482 of Cr.PC, further directed the State Government as under:- “Hence, it is ed that the government shall conduct the investigation into the matter through its investigating agencies so as to satisfy itself whether the settlement deed of the year 2007 was executed with respect to any government land or Poramboke E Land, and whether it was a government land or a Poramboke land at any point of time and also the non-action/in action on part of the concerned officials who are bound by the provisions of law including Land Conservancy Act, for which, a team of officers possessing adequate knowledge in the civil and criminal laws has F to be selected.” 24. The High Court did not stop at giving the aforesaid directions but kept on passing the subsequent s even after the roster was changed. From the application being I.A. No.106695/2022 filed in the present appeals on behalf of the appellant, it appears that the concerned G Judge in the High Court retained the case with him for reporting the compliance of the directions given by him in the impugned , and thereafter vide the dated 08.02.2022 directed the registry to implead the Union of India as an additional party to the main case-Crl.M.C. No.8936/2019 by observing as under:- H 1034 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A “6. Since there is no comprehensive law addressing the legal status of unincorporated organization acting under the guise of either religion or charity, it is necessary to hear the Central Government on that issue.