None can take advantage of his own wrong. The proposition that period of limitation would remain suspended till stamp paper is furnished and decree engrossed thereupon and only thereafter the period of B twelve years will begin to run would lead to absurdity. In Yeswant Deorao Deshmukh v. Walchand Ramchand Kothari [1950 SCC 766 : 1950 SCR 852 : AIR 1951 SC 16] it was said that the payment of court fee on the amount found due was entirely in the power of the decree-holder and there was nothing to prevent him from paying it then and there; it was a decree capable of execution C from the very date it was passed. 26. Rules of limitation are meant to see that parties do not resort to dilatory tactics, but seek their remedy promptly. As abovenoted, there is no statutory provision prescribing a time-limit for furnishing of the stamp paper for engrossing the decree or time-limit for D engrossment of the decree on stamp paper and there is no statutory obligation on the court passing the decree to direct the parties to furnish the stamp paper for engrossing the decree. In the present case the Court has not passed an directing the parties to furnish the stamp papers for the purpose of engrossing the decree. E Merely because there is no direction by the Court to furnish the stamp papers for engrossing of the decree or there is no time- limit fixed by law, does not mean that the party can furnish stamp papers at its sweet will and claim that the period of limitation provided under Article 136 of the Act would start only thereafter as and when the decree is engrossed thereupon. The starting of F period of limitation for execution of a partition decree cannot be made contingent upon the engrossment of the decree on the stamp paper. …” (Emphasis supplied) 67. However, the said view must be understood in the context of G the Law of Limitation standing in the peril of being wholly defeated by ‘enforceability’ of a Decree or within the meaning of Article 136, being made dependant on an act of volition of a party to pay the requisite stamp duty. Here, in the case before us, we are concerned with the duty of a Court, inter alia, under Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act and its impact on an unstamped or insufficiently stamped agreement containing H 350 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A an Arbitration Clause. This is apart from the meaning to be attributed to the words ‘existence of an Arbitration Agreement’ in Section 11(6A) of the Act. We have explained the concept of ‘enforceability’ in the context of the Contract Act. What is closer to the facts is the concept of enforceability or rather the lack of enforceability resulting in the voidness of the contract in the sense explained by us. B K. THE STAMP ACT – WHETHER A PROCEDURAL LAW? 68. In this context, it will be profitable to notice the following discussion from the work Salmond on Jurisprudence, Twelfth Edition.