Sub-section (2) of Section 11 is significant as it states that any University or medical institution in India which grants a medical qualification not included in the First Schedule, may apply to the Central Government to have such qualification recognised, and the Central G Government, after consulting the Council, may, by notification in the Official Gazette, amend the First Schedule so as to include such qualification therein, and any such notification may also direct that an entry shall be made in the last column of the First Schedule against such medical qualification declaring that it shall be a recognised medical H 976 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A qualification only when granted after a specified date. On the other hand, Section 13(1) states that the medical qualifications granted by Medical Institutions in India which are not included in the First Schedule and which are included in Part I of the Third Schedule shall also be recognised medical qualifications for the purposes of the said Act. These are medical qualifications such as LMP (Licenced Medical Practitioners) in various B States of India and erstwhile provinces of India. The Third Schedule is in respect of courses in medicine which were recognised prior to the enforcement of the IMC Act, 1956, while the courses conducted by the institutions mentioned in the First Schedule have recognition under the said Act. C 17.5. Sections 11 and 13 have a bearing on Section 15 of the Act. Section 15 states that, subject to the other provisions contained in the Act, the medical qualifications included in the Schedules shall be sufficient qualification for enrolment on any State Medical Register. Further, except as provided in Section 25, no person other than a medical practitioner D enrolled on a State Medical Register shall, inter alia, practice medicine in any State or shall be entitled to sign or authenticate a medical or fitness certificate or any other certificate required by any law to be signed or authenticated by a duly qualified medical practitioner. The expression “State Medical Register” as per Section 2(k) means a register maintained under any law for the time being in force in any State, E regulating the registration of practitioners of medicine. The word ‘medicine’ is defined in Section 2(f) of the said Act to mean modern scientific medicine in all its branches and includes surgery and obstetrics, but does not include veterinary medicine and surgery.Therefore, unless a person has sufficient qualification recognised under the Schedules to F the Act, he or she cannot be enrolled on any State Medical Register. In the absence of any such enrolment, such a person is barred from practicing medicine in any State. 17.6. Further, all persons who are enrolled in any State Medical Register and who possess any of the recognised medical qualifications G are enabled to be enrolled after registration as medical practitioners under the Indian Medical Register. As per sub-Section (2) of Section 21, it is the duty of the Registrar of the Indian Medical Council, to keep the Indian Medical Register in accordance with the provisions of the IMC Act, 1956, and to from time to time revise the register and publish it in the Gazette of India and in such other manner as may be prescribed.