4. The petitioner again filed a writ petition being No. 17475/2018 D assailing the said dated 14.05.2018. The Single Bench again set aside the said and allowed the writ petition directing the respondents to reinstate the petitioner in service with all consequential benefits vide the dated 17.02.2021. The respondents filed the Special Writ Appeal before the Division Bench, against the passed by the Sigle Bench, E which appeal came to be allowed by the Division Bench vide the impugned . 5. Ms. Asifa Rashid Mir, learned counsel appearing for the petitioner vehemently submitted that the petitioner was involved in a criminal case when he was hardly aged about 19 years and the said case had resulted into a compromise between the parties. According to F her, on the basis of the said compromise, the Trial Court had closed the case on 21.11.2007, and the petitioner was appointed as constable in CISF on 03.11.2007. Relying upon the various decisions of this Court and other High Courts, she further submitted that considering the nature of offence in which the petitioner was allegedly involved, the removal G from service on the ground of non-disclosure of pendency of the said case could not be said to be a grave misconduct attracting the harsh punishment of removal from service. The Division Bench of the High Court, runs the submissions of the counsel for the petitioner, should not 1 (2016) 8 SCC 471 H 802 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A have interfered with the well-reasoned passed by the Single Bench which had found the involvement of the petitioner in a case of trivial nature. According to her, even if a deliberate suppression by the petitioner as alleged by the respondents was found to have taken place at the time of filing the character certificate, a lenient view should have been taken by the respondents considering his age and considering the fact that the B petitioner had accepted his mistake. 6. The Senior Advocate Mr. R. Bala Subramanian, appearing for the respondents however, taking the Court to the CISF Rules 2001, the circulars applicable to all Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) including the CISF regarding the policy guidelines to be followed in respect of the C candidates against whom criminal cases are pending vide OM dated 01.02.2012, dealing with suppression of information or submitting false information in the verification form, submitted that the CISF being very disciplined police force and the post of constable being very sensitive post, the petitioner who was found to be guilty of gross misconduct of suppressing the material fact of his involvement in the criminal case at D the time of seeking appointment, could not have been continued in service, and that the Division Bench has rightly considered the facts of the case and upheld the decision of the respondent authority, which may not be interfered with. 7. In the instant case, both the learned counsels for the parties E have relied upon decision of this Court in Avtar Singh (supra) in which a three-judge Bench emphasizing the need of verification of character and antecedents of the person to be appointed in the government service and after considering the various previous s of this Court, had summarized the principles in para 38 which reads as under: “38.