5. In fact, in Transmission Corporation of A.P. versus Ch. Prabhakar and others [(2004) 5 SCC 551], the precise question that has arisen before us had been referred to a Constitution Bench. Paragraphs 15 and 21 dealing with the said question read as follows: “15. Whether constitutional guarantee enshrined in clause (1) of Article 20 is confi ned only to prohibition against conviction for any off ence except for violation of law in force at the time of commission of the act charged as an off ence and subjection to a CBI v. R.R. KISHORE 11 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] penalty greater than that which might have been infl icted under the law in force at the time of commission of off ence or it also prohibits legislation which aggravates the degree of crime or makes it possible for him to receive the same punishment under the new law as could have been imposed under the prior law or deprives the accused of any substantial right or immunity possessed at the time of the commission of the off ence charged is a moot point to be debated. (underlining is ours) *** 21. However, as the interpretation of Article 20 as to its scope and ambit is involved in these proceedings, we refer the question formulated in para 15 of this to a larger Bench for consideration.” However, the Constitution Bench in Transmission Corporation of A.P. versus Ch. Prabhakar and others [(2010) 15 SCC 200] declined to answer the question as in the meantime there were certain amendments to the statute in question and, therefore, the issues referred were understood to have become academic. The very same issues have been cropped up before us in the present proceedings. 6. We have considered it necessary to make the present reference for the reason that in the case of Transmission Corporation of A.P. versus Ch. Prabhakar and others [(2004) 5 SCC 551] one of the questions referred is whether the scope and ambit of Article 20 of the Constitution of India is to be understood to be protecting the substantial rights or the immunity enjoyed by an accused at the time of commission of the off ence for which he has been charged. 7. The provisions of Section 6A(1), extracted above, do indicate that for offi cers of the level of Joint Secretary and above a kind of immunity has been provided for. Whether there can be a deprivation of such immunity by a retrospective operation of a of the Court, in the context of Article 20 of the Constitution of India, is the moot question that arises for determination in the present case. 12 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 8. For the aforesaid reasons and having regard to the provisions of Article 145(3) of the Constitution of India, we refer the aforesaid question to a larger bench for which purpose the papers may now be laid before the Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India on the administrative side.” 7. In the above backdrop, the matter has been placed before this Bench and has been heard at length on the question referred.