Then the law has C given the person so aggrieved to serve a notice described as the ‘acquisition notice’ calling upon the government to acquire his interest in the land or building. The same would be the position if permission is granted but subject to the conditions which render the land incapable of beneficial use. Section 53 deals with refusal of permission or grant of permission subject to conditions in certain other cases. Infact, the proviso D in Section 53 declares that no compensation can be claimed under the main provision if the refusal or grant of permission subject to conditions is based on any provision of any development plan. Section 54 deals with cases of permission which is granted for any development under the Act being revoked or modified.Section 54(2) contemplates E compensation for the expenditure which is incurred for carrying out the development based on the grant of permission which was rendered abortive by the revocation.Section 55 declares that nothing in the Act confers any right to obtain compensation in respect of development made by a person after a notice in the Gazette is published under Section 26, inter alia, without obtaining the permission as required under Section 49. F Sub-section 2 of Section 55 reads as follows: - “(2). Whether any property is alleged to be injuriously affected by reason of any of the provisions contained in any development plan, no compensation shall be paid in respect thereof, if or in so far as the provisions are such as would have been enforceable G without any compensation under any law, rule or regulation or bye-law at the time in force.” 70. We are unable to find merit in the contention that Rule 19 of the DCR or the regulation which is impugned is in anyway ultravires of the provision of the Act and the arguments suggestive of the same are H repelled. ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1091 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] 71. Even though the appellant’s (M/s. Keyaram Hotels Pvt.Ltd.) A attempt to invite us to pronounce on the validity of the impugned rule on the score that it contravened the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Apartment Ownership Act, 1994 which got presidential assent on 06.04.1995 and came to be notified on 24.04.1995, we do not think that the appellant should be permitted to test the validity of the impugned rule on a ground B which was not raised before the High Court.It is true that the gift deed was executed on 22.05.1996. But this was not a ground which was urged before the court and we do not intend to explore the contention in this proceeding. 72. We have found that the impugned rule/ regulation cannot be said to be ultra vires the parent act. This is after finding that the rule has C statutory force. THE RIGHTS REGIME 73. It is necessary to deal with a right, a person has, as an owner of a property. In Salmond on Jurisprudence 12th Edition, we note the D following: “Secondly, the owner normally has a right to use and enjoy the thing owned: right to manage it, i.e., the right to decide how it shall be used; and the right to the income from it.