227. In the unique nature of the provision, we are concerned with D and the devastating effect of continuing to leave appointments in sole hands of the Executive on fundamental values, as also the Fundamental Rights, we are of the considered view that the time is ripe for the Court to lay down norms. In other words, the vacuum exists on the basis that unlike other appointments, it was intended all throughout that appointment exclusively by the Executive was to be a mere transient or stop gap E arrangement and it was to be replaced by a law made by the Parliament taking away the exclusive power of the Executive. This conclusion is clear and inevitable and the absence of law even after seven decades points to the vacuum. 228. Article 148 of the Constitution, dealing with appointment of F the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, provides that it is to be made by the President. This is to be contrasted with the appointment of the Members of the Election Commission in Article 324(2). On a comparison of both the Articles, the difference is stark and would justify the petitioners contention that in regard to the appointment of the Members G of the Election Commission, having regard to the overwhelming importance and the nearly infinite plenary powers, they have in regard to the most important aspect of democracy itself, viz., the holding of free and fair elections, the Founding Fathers have provided for the unique method of appointment suited to the requirements of the posts in question. The refusal of Parliament, despite what was contemplated by the Founding H 176 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Fathers, and what is more, the availability of a large number of Reports, all speaking in one voice, reassures us that even acting within the bounds of the authority available to the Judicial Branch, we must lay down norms, which, undoubtedly, must bear life only till Parliament steps in. We have found, how appointments are being made in our discussion earlier. Our minds stand fortified that there is an imperative need for the Court to B step in. 229. As regards the exact norm, which should be put in place, we bear in mind the following considerations: We have before us the various Reports, which we have referred C to. We would think that, while what must be laid down, must be fair and reasonable, but it must be what Parliament would or could lay down, if it were to make a law. Under the Rules of Business made under Article 77, it is acknowledged that the appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioners do not engage the Cabinet.We take note of the fact that for the appointment to the Director D of the Central Bureau of Investigation [which is not a constitutional post], Section 4A of Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946, contemplates that appointment shall be made by the Central Government on the basis of recommendation of a committee consisting of the Prime Minister as the Chairperson, the Leader of the Opposition recognised in the House E of People, as such, or where there is no such Leader of the Opposition, then, the Leader of the Single Largest Opposition Party in the House and the Chief Justice of India or a Judge of the Supreme Court nominated by him.