The limit on the lower rate of tax or the scope more restricted contained in the Convention/DTAA executed between India and the third State can only apply when the third State fulfi ls the attribute of being a member of the OECD. 17.3. We must point out that a lot of emphases is laid on behalf of the revenue on the word “is” mentioned in the following part of Clause IV (2) in the context of the aforementioned third States with which India has entered into Conventions/DTAAs after the execution of the subject DTAA “... which is a member of the OECD...”. 17.4. In our view, the word “is” describes a state of aff airs that should exist not necessarily at the time when the subject DTAA was executed but when a request is made by the taxpayer or deductee for issuance of a lower rate withholding tax certifi cate under Section 197 of the Act. The word ‘is’- is both autological and heterological. An autological word is one that expresses the property that it possesses. Opposite of that is a heterological2 word, i.e., it does not describe itself. The examples of autological words are expressions such as “English”, “Noun”, or “Word”. Heterological words as indicated above are those which do not describe themselves or have the potential of developing into several forms or supporting multiple interpretations. An example of a heterological word is the word “long”. The word long does not describe itself because it is not a long word. 17.5. Therefore, bearing the aforesaid in mind, the best interpretative tool that can be employed to glean the intent of the Contracting States in framing Clause IV (2) of the protocol would be as to how the other contracting State [i.e., the Netherlands] has interpreted the provision.” The then considered the executive decree issued by Netherlands, pursuant to the Protocol, as a method of interpretation of how 115 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. the event, i.e. entry of another country into OECD, which had a previous DTAA with India (or where a country which was in OECD and subsequently entered into DTAA with India) had to be dealt with. 6. The in Concentrix was followed subsequently, in the case of Nestle SA v. Assessing Offi cer Circle (International Taxation)6 which is also under challenge. In the revenue’s appeals7 in Nestle what was considered by the Delhi High Court, were provisions of the India-Switzerland DTAA and its three protocols. The other s impugned before this court have similar facts, and the decisions by the High Court have followed the position laid out in Steria and Concentrix. II. Arguments of parties A. Revenue’s contentions 7. The revenue argues, through the Additional Solicitor General, Shri N. Venkatraman (hereafter “ASG”) that the impugned s are unsustainable. The revenue points out that under the Indian Constitution, especially by operation of Articles 253 (read with Entries 13, 14 and 15 of List I of the Seventh Schedule) of the Constitution of India, Parliament has exclusive power to legislate in respect of any treaty or convention, entered into by India, with any other nation; such treaty can only be entered into in exercise of executive power of the Union.