(3) If such person is thereafter arrested without warrant by an offi cer in charge of a police station on such accusation, and is prepared either at the time of arrest or at any time while in the custody of such offi cer to give bail, he shall be released on bail; and if a Magistrate taking cognizance of such off ence decides that a warrant should issue in the fi rst instance against that person, he shall issue a bailable warrant in conformity with the direction of the Court under sub- section (1). (4) Nothing in this section shall apply to any case involving the arrest of any person STATE OF HARYANA v. DHARAMRAJ 709 [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] 5. Per contra, the learned counsel for the respondent, supporting the Impugned , submitted that the Investigating Agency has tried to unnecessarily harass and implicate the respondent which would be clear from various manipulations done in the record in the course of investigation. Further, it is submitted that the State is trying to show the respondent as the culprit only on the ground that he shares common name with one accused. 6. Learned counsel for the State disputes that fact and submits that the respondent is the person who has been duly identifi ed and against him the allegations levelled are found true, per the Investigation Agency. 7. A foray, albeit brief, into relevant precedents is warranted. This Court considered the factors to guide grant of bail in Ram Govind Upadhyay v Sudarshan Singh, (2002) 3 SCC 598 and Kalyan Chandra Sarkar v Rajesh Ranjan, (2004) 7 SCC 528. In Prasanta Kumar Sarkar v Ashis Chatterjee, (2010) 14 SCC 496, the relevant principles were restated thus: ‘9. ... It is trite that this Court does not, normally, interfere with an passed by the High Court granting or rejecting bail to the accused. However, it is equally incumbent upon the High Court to exercise its discretion judiciously, cautiously and strictly in compliance with the basic principles laid down in a plethora of decisions of this Court on the point. It is well settled that, among other circumstances, the factors to be borne in mind while considering an application for bail are: (i) whether there is any prima facie or reasonable ground to believe that the accused had committed the off ence; (ii) nature and gravity of the accusation; (iii) severity of the punishment in the event of conviction; (iv) danger of the accused absconding or fl eeing, if released on bail; (v) character, behaviour, means, position and standing of the accused; on accusation of having committed an off ence under sub-section (3) of Section 376 or Section 376-AB or Section 376-DA or Section 376-DB of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860). 710 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. (vi) likelihood of the off ence being repeated; (vii) reasonable apprehension of the witnesses being infl uenced; and (viii) danger, of course, of justice being thwarted by grant of bail.’ 8. In Mahipal v Rajesh Kumar alias Polia, (2020) 2 SCC 118, this Court opined as under: ‘16.