Union of India. Rather, they are citizens only of one sovereign unit, that is, the Union of India.168 155. Part IV of the Jammu and Kashmir Constitution provides for the Directive Principles of State Policy; Part V for the Executive consisting of the Governor and the Council of Ministers headed by the Chief Minister; Part VI for the State Legislature comprising of the Legislative Assembly and the Legislative Council. Part VI provides for the High Court and the “subordinate courts”. Part VIII provides for Finance, Property and Contracts; Part IX for the Public Services; Part X for Elections and Part XI for Miscellaneous Provisions; Part XII for Amendment of the Constitution. None of these provisions indicate that the State is sovereign. 156. Section 147 which provides for the amendment of the State Constitution is in the following terms: “147. Amendment of the Constitution An amendment of this constitution may be initiated only by the introduction of a Bill for the purpose in the Legislative Assembly and when the Bill is passed in each House by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the total membership of at the House, it shall be presented to the Sadar-i-Riyasat for his assent and, upon such assent being given to the Bill, the Constitution shall stand amended in accordance with the terms of the Bill: Provided that a Bill providing for the abolition of the Legislative Council may be introduced in the Legislative Assembly and passed by it majority of the total membership of the Assembly and by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members of the Assembly present and voting: Provided further that no Bill or amendment seeking to make any change in: (a) this section; (b) the provisions of the sections 3 and 5; or 168 SBI v. Santosh Gupta, (2017) 2 SCC 538 IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 95 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (c) the provisions of the Constitution of India as applicable in relation to the State; shall be introduced or moved in either house of the Legislature.” 157. The power of the Legislative Assembly to amend the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir was subject to the constraints provided in the second proviso in terms of which the Legislative Assembly could not amend: a. Section 147 itself; b. The provisions of Sections 3 and 5; and c. The provisions of the Constitution of India as applicable in relation to the State. 158. These provisions are signifi cant. The power of amending the State Constitution which was entrusted to the Legislative Assembly (subject to the assent of the Governor) had thus three major qualifi cations: fi rstly, the position that the State of Jammu and Kashmir is and shall be an integral part of the Union of India was unamendable; secondly, the executive and legislative domain of the State which depended upon the domain entrusted to Parliament under the provisions of the Constitution of India over which it would make laws for the State of Jammu and Kashmir was unamendable by the State Legislative Assembly; and thirdly, the provisions of the Constitution of India as applicable in relation to the State of Jammu and Kashmir were unamendable by the State Legislative Assembly.