That the key is to determine the likely effect of C the expression on its audience, keeping in mind the legislative objectives to reduce or eliminate discrimination. Placing reliance on the observations of the Canadian Supreme Court, this Court in Pravasi Bhalai Sangathan observed that the offence of hate speech is not limited to causing individual distress but would target persons who are members of D certain groups or sections of society which breeds discrimination and consequently, hostility. 16.3. In India, human dignity is not only a value but a right that is enforceable. In a human-dignity-based democracy, freedom of speech and expression must be exercised in a manner E that would protect and promote the rights of fellow-citizens. But hate speech, whatever its content may be, denies human beings the right to dignity. In this regard, it may be apposite to refer to a recent decision of this Court in Amish Devgan vs. Union of India, (2021) 1 SCC 1(“Amish Devgan”) F wherein this Court speaking through Sanjeev Khanna, J. undertook an analysis of ‘hate speech’ as being antithetical to, and incompatible with the foundations of human dignity. Protection of ‘Dignity’ as a justification for criminalization of ‘hate speech’ was discussed as follows: G “46. […] Dignity, in the context of criminalisation of speech with which we are concerned, refers to a person’s basic entitlement as a member of a society in good standing, his status as a social equal and as bearer of human rights and constitutional entitlements. It gives assurance of participatory equality in inter-personal H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 747 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] relationships between the citizens, and between the State A and the citizens, and thereby fosters self-worth. Dignity in this sense does not refer to any particular level of honour or esteem as an individual, as in the case of defamation which is individualistic. 47. Preamble to the Constitution consciously puts B together fraternity assuring dignity of the individual and the unity and integrity of the nation. Dignity of individual and unity and integrity of the nation are linked, one in the form of rights of individuals and other in the form of individual’s obligation to others to ensure unity and C integrity of the nation. The unity and integrity of the nation cannot be overlooked and slighted, as the acts that ‘promote’ or are ‘likely’ to ‘promote’ divisiveness, alienation and schematism do directly and indirectly impinge on the diversity and pluralism, and when they are with the objective and intent to cause public dis D or to demean dignity of the targeted groups, they have to be dealt with as per law. The purpose is not to curtail right to expression and speech, albeit not gloss over specific egregious threats to public dis and in particular the unity and integrity of the nation. Such E threats not only insidiously weaken virtue and superiority of diversity, but cut-back and lead to demands depending on the context and occasion, for suppression of freedom to express and speak on the ground of reasonableness.