E 3. The Family Court allowed the application filed by the respondent- husband and the High Court also affirmed the same, forcing the wife to come up with the above appeal, contending that under Section 112 of the Indian Evidence Act, 18721, birth during marriage is conclusive proof of legitimacy and that no evidence to disprove the same can be allowed by the Court. This is especially so when the parties to the marriage admittedly F had access to each other during the time when the child could have been begotten. 4. The main contention of Shri Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel for the respondent-husband is that the respondent is not even questioning the legitimacy of the child, but alleging adultery against the appellant- G wife and that therefore, on the refusal of the wife to subject the child to DNA test, a presumption under Section 114(h) of the Evidence Act can be drawn against the appellant-wife. In other words, his contention is that what is applicable in the case on hand, is not Section 112 but Section H 1 For short, “Evidence Act” or the “Act”, as the case may be APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 727 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] 114(h) and that the Court need not subject the child to DNA test, if the A appellant is not willing. 5. In the light of the aforesaid contention, two aspects, in my opinion, require deeper analysis. They are (i) the interplay between Sections 112 and 114(h) of the Evidence Act; and (ii) whose rights, are to tilt the balance in the scales of justice? B Interplay between Sections 112 and 114(h) of the Evidence Act 6. Section 4 of the Evidence Act defines the expressions “may presume”, “shall presume” and “conclusive proof”. Section 4 indicates C the course of action to be followed by a Court, wherever the Act makes it (i) optional to presume a fact; (ii) mandatory to presume a fact; and (iii) obligatory for the Court to take one fact to be conclusive proof of another. To put it in simple terms, wherever the Act uses the expression “may presume”, it is optional for the Court either to presume or not to presume. If a Court refuses to presume the fact in question as proved, D that is the end of the matter. But when the Court agrees to presume such fact, it is up to the other party to lead evidence to rebut the presumption. Wherever the Act uses the expression “shall presume”, the Court has no option but to presume the fact, till such time it is rebutted. But wherever the Act uses the expression “conclusive proof”, the Court E cannot even allow evidence to be given for the purpose of disproving it. 7. The expression “shall presume” is used in the Evidence Act- • In Section 79 in relation to genuineness of certified copies of documents. • In Section 80 in relation to documents produced as record F of evidence. • In Section 81 in relation to genuineness of Gazettes, newspapers, Acts of Parliament, etc.