7. To appreciate the arguments raised by the learned counsel for G the parties, reference to provisions of Sections 14 and 19 of the Act would be relevant. The same reads as under:- “14. Manufacturers, distributors and dealers to give warranty.—No manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in, H 1 AIR 1966 Supreme Court 128 M/s SRI MAHAVIR AGENCY & ANR. v. THE STATE OF WEST 129 BENGAL & ANR. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] any article of food shall sell such article to any vendor unless A he also gives a warranty in writing in the prescribed form about the nature and quality of such article to the vendor: Provided that a bill, cash memorandum or invoice in respect of the sale of any article of food given by a manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in, such article to the vendor thereof B shall be deemed to be a warranty given by such manufacturer, distributor or dealer under this section. Explanation.—In this section, in sub-section (2) of Section 19 and in Section 20-A, the expression “distributor” shall include a commission agent.” C “ 19. Defences which may or may not be allowed in prosecutions under this Act.—(1) It shall be no defence in a prosecution for an offence pertaining to the sale of any adulterated or misbranded article of food to allege merely that the vendor was ignorant of the nature, substance or quality D of the food sold by him or that the purchaser having purchased any article for analysis was not prejudiced by the sale. (2) A vendor shall not be deemed to have committed an offence pertaining to the sale of any adulterated or misbranded article of food if he proves— E (a) that he purchased the article of food— (i) in a case where a licence is prescribed for the sale thereof, from a duly licensed manufacturer, distributor, or dealer. F (ii) in any other case, from any manufacturer, distributor, or dealer, with a written warranty in the prescribed form; and (b) that the article of food while in his possession was properly stored and that he sold it in the same state as he G purchased it. (3) Any person by whom a warranty as is referred to in Section 14 is alleged to have been given shall be entitled to appear at the hearing and give evidence.” H 130 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 8. A perusal of Section 14 of the Act shows that there is a bar on the manufacturer or distributor or dealer to sell any article to any vendor unless he has given a warranty in writing about the nature and quality of such article to the vendor. Rule 12A of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Rules, 1955 (for short, “the Rules”) prescribes the procedure to give warranty. B It reads as under:- “12A. Warranty.- Every manufacturer, distributor, or dealer selling an article of food to a vendor shall give either separately or in the bill, cash memo or a label a warranty in C Form VIA.” 9.