The victim’s right to participate in criminal trial and his/her right to know the status of investigation, and take necessary steps, or to be heard at every crucial stage of the criminal proceedings, including at the time of grant or cancellation G of bail, were also duly recognised by the Committee. Repeated judicial intervention, coupled with the recommendations made from time to time as briefly noticed above, prompted Parliament to bring into force the Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment) Act, 38 IA No. 17150 of 2002 H 39 (2022) 9 SCC 321 MS. X v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA AND ANOTHER 1133 [HIMA KOHLI, J.] 2008, which not only inserted the definition of a “victim” under A Section 2(wa) but also statutorily recognised various rights of such victims at different stages of trial. 20. It is pertinent to mention that the legislature has thoughtfully given a wide and expansive meaning to the expression “victim” which “means a person who has suffered any loss or injury B caused by reason of the act or omission for which the accused person has been charged and the expression “victim” includes his or her guardian or legal heir”. 25. It must be remembered that in the present case, the machinery of criminal justice has been set into motion by none other than the C appellant/prosecutrix herself. She was the one who had dialled ‘100’ number from the reception area of the Hotel where the crime had allegedly taken place. She was the one who had approached senior officers in the police hierarchy complaining of the apathy and inertia adopted by the investigating officers in her case. Notably, she had moved an intervention D application in the anticipatory bail application moved by the respondent No.2/accused before the learned Additional Sessions Judge and as is reflected from the passed, her counsel was granted a hearing whereafter the said application was rejected. However, when a similar application for intervention40 was moved by the appellant/prosecutrix before the High Court in the anticipatory bail application moved by the E respondent No.2/accused, it appears that heed was not paid to the pleas taken by her though her counsel’s presence does find mention in the sheet. We are constrained to note that such an approach tantamounts to failure to recognize the right of the prosecutrix to participate in the criminal proceedings that would include a right to oppose F the application for anticipatory bail moved by the accused. The appellant/ prosecutrix having been denied a meaningful hearing when the first impugned of anticipatory bail granted in favour of the respondent No. 2/accused was confirmed by the second impugned , is an additional factor that has prevailed with this Court to interfere in the impugned s. G CONCLUSION: 26. For the aforesaid reasons, the two impugned s dated 21st September, 2022 and 07th October, 2022, granting anticipatory bail 40 Intervention Application No. 17150 of 2022 H 1134 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A to the respondent No. 2/accused, cannot be sustained and are quashed and set aside.