Anticipatory bail was to be granted only in exceptional H 418 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A circumstances, as a person under pre-arrest bail may not disclose all the relevant facts under questioning, due to the safeguard provided under Section 438 of the Cr.P.C. Custodial interrogation of Respondent No. 2 was necessary for a thorough investigation, given all the outstanding points of inquiry that remained pending. B 10. Aggrieved, Respondent No. 2 filed an application for Anticipatory Bail before the High Court. The High Court, vide impugned dated 31.05.2022, allowed the application and granted him Anticipatory Bail. The High Court, inter alia, observed that: C i. The dispute involves the validity of the 1996 GPA and the misappropriation of the purported sale consideration. Civil suits have been filed regarding the ownership and possession of the property already and a handwriting expert’s report was crucial in determining the authenticity of the signatures; ii. The High Court acknowledged the pendency of ongoing D civil suits and suggested that the validity of the 1996 GPA’s execution could be determined by the civil court, and did not need to be a determinative factor in the proceedings for anticpatory bail; iii. Prima facie, it seemed that the involvement of the criminal E justice system, initiated by the Appellants, might be an attempt to settle certain transactions and resolve ongoing disputes between them. In this background, to ensure that justice was done for both the Appellants and Respondent No. 2, directions were issued for them to provide their F specimen signatures. The handwriting expert was tasked with comparing the writings and signatures to assess their similarity.” 11. The High Court ed that no arrest of Respondent No. 2 would be carried out as long as he provided personal and surety bonds G of Rs. 2 lakhs each to the satisfaction of the investigating officer. While extending these protections, Respondent No. 2 was also instructed to cooperate with the investigation whenever required and to give an undertaking to avoid tampering with prosecution evidence, or influence any of the witnesses. Furthermore, a deposit of of Rs. 1.50 Crores was H PRATIBHA MANCHANDA & ANR. v. STATE OF HARYANA & 419 ANR. [SURYA KANT, J.] to be subimtted before the concerned Magistrate which would serve as A victim compensation and be disbursed based on the outcome of the trial. 12. The Appellants being aggrieved at the grant of anticipatory bail, are before us. B. CONTENTIONS B 13. Shri Saket Sikri, learned counsel for the Appellants, vehemently contended that the High Court acted on the erroneous assumption that the alleged 1996 GPA in favor of Respondent No. 2 is genuine. The original copy of 1996 GPA has not been recovered by the police till date, and hence, custodial interrogation is required. Furthermore, the High C Court failed to consider that despite the 1996 GPA being executed in favour of Respondent No. 2, he applied for its certified copy only in February 2022, i.e., 26 years later, whereas he should have possessed the original already if his claim is to be bona fide.