On the other hand, Rule 3(1)(b) exclusively deals with a SPV, and it only provides that the conditions mentioned in Rule 3(1)(a)(i) and (ii) are applicable to a SPV, with the second proviso not mandated to be applied to it. Thus, we fi nd force in the argument of the Appellant that second Proviso to Rule 3(1)(a) is a stand-alone provision. 258. The above argument of the Appellant is further strengthened on the principles enunciated by the Hon’ble Supreme Court with regard to interpretation of statutes by Courts. The Hon’ble Supreme Court has time and again held that Courts cannot rewrite or recast legislation, they should not act as law makers where there is no ambiguity in the language in a piece of legislation then such legislation ought to be literally interpreted without any deviation. The Hon’ble Supreme Court has also held that provisos are exceptions to the general rule. In this regard, we refer to the following s: ×× ×× ×× 259. From the principles drawn from the above s, we observe that TNERC vide the impugned particularly in para 6.4.4 has endeavoured to add an intention to Rule 3(1)(b) which was otherwise absent from its construction. By holding that the second proviso to Rule 3(1)(a) is applicable to Rule 3(1)(b) thereby equating a SPV with an AOP, the impugned has committed an error in interpreting the said Rule in the manner in which it has been enacted by the Parliament. We also concur with the principles laid down in the cases of Kailash Nath (supra) and Sanjay Kumar (Supra) that a proviso is an exception and it cannot travel beyond the provision to which it is a M/S. DAKSHIN GUJARAT VIJ COMPANY LTD. v. M/S. GAYATRI 381 SHAKTI PAPER AND BOARD LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] proviso. We therefore, fi nd that the same are applicable in the facts of the present Appeal. It is settled law that the function of a proviso is to except something out of the enactment or to qualify something enacted therein which but for the proviso would be within the purview of the enactment. Applying this clear jurisprudence, TNERC could not have applied the second proviso to Rule 3(1)(a) to Rule 3(1)(b). Hence, the requirement of consuming minimum of 51% electricity generated on an annual basis and the requirement of the captive users holding 26% of the ownership of the plant in aggregate, and such consumption being in proportion to the shares of ownership of the power plant can only be applicable to power plants set- up by an AOP but cannot be applied to power plants set-up by SPV. 50. Kadodara Power50 takes the opposite view, and the APTEL has reasoned: “Is a company formed as a special purpose vehicle an association of person? 15. The question has arisen because the word ‘association of persons’ is not defi ned anywhere in the Act or in the Rules. The proviso to Rule 3 (l)(a)(ii) makes two special conditions for cooperative societies and association of persons.