Points for Consideration: F Having heard learned Senior Counsel for the respective parties, and upon perusal of the record, the following points would arise for our consideration: i. Whether, the Family Court, Pune and the High Court of Judicature at Bombay, have rightly appreciated Section 112 G of the Evidence Act in directing that a DNA test of Master “X” be conducted? ii. Whether, on non-compliance on the part of the appellant of the direction to subject Master “X” to DNA test, allegations of adultery as against her could be determined by drawing H APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 703 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] an adverse inference as contemplated under Illustration (h) A of Section 114? iii. What ? Legal Scheme: 8. For an easy and immediate reference, the relevant provisions B of the Evidence Act are extracted hereinunder: “4.‘Conclusive proof’.—When one fact is declared by this Act to be conclusive proof of another, the Court shall, on proof of the one fact, regard the other as proved, and shall not allow evidence to be given for the purpose of disproving it. C x x x 112. Birth during marriage, conclusive proof of legitimacy. –– The fact that any person was born during the continuance of a valid marriage between his mother and any man, or within two hundred and eighty days after its dissolution, the mother remaining D unmarried, shall be conclusive proof that he is the legitimate son of that man, unless it can be shown that the parties to the marriage had no access to each other at any time when he could have been begotten. x x x E 114. Court may presume existence of certain facts. –– The Court may presume the existence of any fact which it thinks likely to have happened, regard being had to the common course of natural events, human conduct and public and private business, in their relation to the facts of the particular case. F The Court may presume –– xxx (h) that if a man refuses to answer a question which he is not compelled to answer by law, the answer, if given, would be unfavourable to him; ….…” G 8.1. According to Sarkar on Law of Evidence, 20th Edition, in the interest of health, and peace in society, certain axiomatic presumptions have to be drawn. One such presumption is the conclusive presumption of paternity under Section 112 of the Evidence Act. Section 112 embodies the rule of law that the birth of a child during the continuance H 704 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A of a valid marriage or within 280 days (i.e., within the period of gestation) after its dissolution shall be “conclusive proof” that the child is legitimate unless it is established by evidence that the husband and wife did not or could not have any access to each other at any time when the child could have been conceived. The object of this provision is to attach unimpeachable legitimacy to children born out of a valid marriage.