In stark contrast to the first part of Section 26 is the second E part, where the Amendment Act is made applicable “in relation to” arbitral proceedings which commenced on or after the date of commencement of the Amendment Act. What is conspicuous by its absence in the second part is any reference to Section 21 of the 1996 Act. Whereas the first part refers F only to arbitral proceedings before an Arbitral Tribunal, the second part refers to court proceedings “in relation to” arbitral proceedings, and it is the commencement of these court proceedings that is referred to in the second part of Section 26, as the words “in relation to the arbitral proceedings” in the second part are not controlled by the application of Section 21 G of the 1996 Act. 39. Section 26, therefore, bifurcates proceedings, as has been stated above, with a great degree of clarity, into two sets of proceedings — arbitral proceedings themselves, and court proceedings in relation thereto. The reason why the first part H 346 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A of Section 26 is couched in negative form is only to state that the Amendment Act will apply even to arbitral proceedings commenced before the amendment if parties otherwise agree. If the first part of Section 26 were couched in positive language (like the second part), it would have been necessary to add a proviso stating that the Amendment Act would apply even to B arbitral proceedings commenced before the amendment if the parties agree. In either case, the intention of the legislature remains the same, the negative form conveying exactly what could have been stated positively, with the necessary proviso. Obviously, “arbitral proceedings” having been subsumed in the C first part cannot re-appear in the second part, and the expression “in relation to arbitral proceedings” would, therefore, apply only to court proceedings which relate to the arbitral proceedings. The scheme of Section 26 is thus clear: that the Amendment Act is prospective in nature, and will apply to those arbitral proceedings that are commenced, as understood by D Section 21 of the principal Act, on or after the Amendment Act, and to court proceedings which have commenced on or after the Amendment Act came into force.” Thus, in the case of BCCI (supra), it is observed and held that the Amendment Act, 2015 is prospective in nature. However, it is E required to be noted that in the case of BCCI (supra), this Court was considering the proceedings under sections 34 and 36 of the Amendment Act, 2015 and to that while interpreting section 26, it is observed that the Amendment Act is prospective in nature, and will apply even to those arbitral proceedings that are commenced, F as understood by section 21 of the principal Act, prior to the Amendment Act, and to Court proceedings which have commenced on or after the Amendment Act came into force. iii) In the case of Parmar Construction Company (supra), in relation to application under section 11(6) of the Act, in a case G where notice for arbitration is received/invoked prior to the Amendment Act, 2015, but the application under section 11(6) of the Act is filed post Amendment Act, 2015, it is observed in paragraphs 25 to 28 as under: “25.