Illustratively, if for any reason there is a proceeding/charge pending against the person(s) concerned and/or there are circumstances for which the person cannot be relieved from his post till conclusion of such proceedings or otherwise, such date indicated in the certifi cate cannot be taken as the date of being fi nally and actually relieved from service. However, in the instant situation, such date is also prospective and much later to the date on which the applications were invited and even till the last date of submission of the application forms. Thus, on this count alone, the appellants’ claim of a right to consideration under the Ex-Servicemen category fails. 16. In Rakesh Kumar Sharma (supra), this Court, after noticing, inter alia, Dr M V Nair v Union of India, (1993) 2 SCC 429; Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission v Alpana, (1994) 2 SCC 723; Bhupinderpal Singh v State of Punjab, (2000) 5 SCC 262, and; State of Gujarat v Arvindkumar T Tiwari, (2012) 9 SCC 545 reiterated that basic qualifi cation is to be adjudged as on the last date of submission of application forms, subject to any extension of such date by the concerned authority. In Rekha Chaturvedi (Smt.) v University of Rajasthan, 1993 Supp (3) SCC 1683, the proposition was enunciated as under: ‘10. The contention that the required qualifi cations of the candidates should be examined with reference to the date of selection and not with reference to the last date for making applications has only to be stated to be rejected. The date of selection is invariably 3 The Court though, opted not to disturb the appointments therein, on the ground that over 8 years of service had been put in by the concerned appointees. 142 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. uncertain. In the absence of knowledge of such date the candidates who apply for the posts would be unable to state whether they are qualifi ed for the posts in question or not, if they are yet to acquire the qualifi cations. Unless the advertisement mentions a fi xed date with reference to which the qualifi cations are to be judged, whether the said date is of selection or otherwise, it would not be possible for the candidates who do not possess the requisite qualifi cations in praesenti even to make applications for the posts. The uncertainty of the date may also lead to a contrary consequence, viz., even those candidates who do not have the qualifi cations in praesenti and are likely to acquire them at an uncertain future date, may apply for the posts thus swelling the number of applications. But a still worse consequence may follow, in that it may leave open a scope for malpractices. The date of selection may be so fi xed or manipulated as to entertain some applicants and reject others, arbitrarily. Hence, in the absence of a fi xed date indicated in the advertisement/notifi cation inviting applications with reference to which the requisite qualifi cations should be judged, the only certain date for the scrutiny of the qualifi cations will be the last date for making the applications.