Rudramma; b) alternatively, declaring that the plaintiff is entitled to redeem the Mortgage of the schedule property under the above-mentioned sale deed coupled with the agreement of Reconveyance on payment of Rs.5,000/- to the defendants; on receipt of this sum, the defendants shall execute the deed of redemption and return all the documents of title of the schedule property in their custody. PRAKASH (DEAD) BY LR. v. G. ARADHYA AND ORS. 1041 [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] c) a decree for permanent injunction restraining the defendants, or any other person or persons claiming through them from interfering in any manner with the peaceful possession and enjoyment of the schedule property by the plaintiff ; and d) a decree for costs of this suit and grant other relief/relief’s as this Hon’ble Court deems fi t to grant in the circumstances of the case, in the interests of justice and equity.” 17. A perusal of the prayers made in the suit shows that the same was fi led by the appellant against the legal heirs of late Rudramma (vendee) and N. Shashidar in whose favour legal heirs of Rudramma executed the Sale Deed in-question on 26.03.1987. The fi rst prayer was for declaring the document dated 24.12.1973, styled as a Sale Deed executed by late Gangaramaiah in favour of late Rudramma being null and void and not binding on the appellant. In the alternative, prayer was made for declaring that the appellant is entitled to redeem the mortgage of the scheduled property in terms of the Sale Deed and the agreement of reconveyance on payment of ₹ 5,000/-. Further prayer was made for protecting the possession of the appellant-plaintiff . The trial Court initially framed the following issues: “1. Does Plaintiff prove his title to the suit property? 2. Does plaintiff further prove that his father Sri Gangaramaiah was not competent to execute the Sale Deed dt.24.12.73 in favour of Smt. Rudramma? 3. Does plaintiff further prove that there was no legal necessity for Gangaramaiah to sell the suit property in favour of Smt. Rudramma? 4. Does plaintiff prove that the transaction as per the Sale Deed dt.24.12.73 was in the nature of mortgage? 5. Does plaintiff prove his lawful possession of the suit property? 6. Is plaintiff entitled for declaration of declaring of Sale Deed dt. 24.12.73 executed by Gangaramaiah in favour of Smt. Rudramma as null and void and not binding on the plaintiff ? 7. Is plaintiff entitled to redeem the mortgage of the suit property? 1042 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 8. Is plaintiff entitled for permanent injunction sought for? 9. What or decree?” 17.1. Following additional issue was framed by the trial Court on 27.11.1993: “Whether the suit is barred by limitation?” 17.2. Thereafter, following additional issues were framed by the trial Court on 16.08.1994 : “1. Do the defendants prove that the defence in regard to the benami nature of the transaction between late Gangaramaiah and late Smt. Rudramma is not hit by Section 4 of the Benami Transaction (Prohibition) Act, 1988?