However, the National Environment Tribunal, which had a very limited mandate, was not established. F The National Environment Appellate Authority Act, 1997 was enacted to establish the National Environment Appellate Authority to hear appeals with respect to restriction of areas in which any industries, operations or processes or class of industries, operations or processes shall not be carried out or shall be carried out subject G to certain safeguards under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. The National Environment Appellate Authority has a limited workload because of the narrow scope of its jurisdiction. 5. Taking into account the large number of environmental cases pending in higher courts and the involvement of multidisciplinary H M/S INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED v. V. B. R. MENON 229 & OTHERS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] issues in such cases, the Supreme Court requested the Law A Commission of India to consider the need for constitution of specialised environmental courts. Pursuant to the same, the Law Commission has recommended the setting up of environmental courts having both original and appellate jurisdiction relating to environmental laws. B 6. In view of the foregoing paragraphs, a need has been felt to establish a specialised tribunal to handle the multidisciplinary issues involved in environmental cases. Accordingly, it has been decided to enact a law to provide for the establishment of the National Green Tribunal for effective and expeditious disposal of civil cases C relating to environmental protection and conservation of forests and other natural resources including enforcement of any legal right relating to environment.” 32. From the 186th Report of the Law Commission and the salient features of the Act, the following could be deduced: D (1) The creation of the National Green Tribunal, was in pursuance of the repeated directions issued by this Court in at least four cases namely, M.C. Mehta v. Union of India [(1986) 2 SCC 176], Indian Council for Enviro Legal Action v. Union of India [(1996) 3 SCC 212], A.P. Pollution Control Board v. M. V.Nayudu [(1999) 2 SCC E 718], A.P. Pollution Control Board v. M.V. Nayudu [(2001) 2 SCC 62]. (2) The object of creation of the National Green Tribunal was to provide, what could be called a one-stop-shop solution, for all types of issues such as Environmental clearances, settlement of disputes relating to environment, relief and compensation for victims of F pollution and environmental damage, restitution of property, restitution of environment etc. (3) The Tribunal was to have both original and Appellate jurisdiction, with enormous powers not only to execute its s as decrees of civil courts, but also to punish those who fail to comply with its G s. (4) The Tribunal was to collect a court fee and entertain claims preferred within a period of limitation. H 230 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 33. Under the NGT Act, the Act 1986 was also amended. By Section 36 of the NGT Act, Section 5A was inserted in the Act 1986. Under this Section, any direction issued by the Central Government under Section 5, either for the closure, prohibition or regulation of any industry, operation or process or the stoppage or regulation of the supply of electricity or water or any other service, was made appealable to the B National Green Tribunal.