The Commission was formed to: “…investigate the conditions of the problem, the historical background, the existing situation and the bearing of all important and relevant factors thereon. They will be free to consider any proposal relating to such reorganisation. The Government expect that the Commission would, in the first instance, not go into the details, but make recommendations in regard to the broad principles which should govern the solution of this problem and, if they, so choose, the broad lines on which particular States should be reorganised, and submit interim reports for the consideration of Government.”315 477. The Commission submitted its report after undertaking extensive consultations with members of the public from all States. It found that the 313 See the speech of KT Shah, Constituent Assembly Debates, Volume 7, 17 November 1948 – “… We are all aware that the existing Units which make up this Federation are not equal inter se are not logical, are not happily constructed so as to minister to the development of the country or even of the areas themselves. It is necessary, and it will soon perhaps have to be implemented in some form or another, that these areas be reconstructed. That would mean that their boundaries, perhaps even their name, and their territories, may be altered, upwards or downwards …” 314 “Commission” 315 Ministry of Home Aff airs, Resolution dated 29 December 1953 IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 273 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] demarcation of the States at the time was based almost entirely on colonial interests: “To the extent, therefore, there was a conscious or deliberate design behind the demarcation of the territories of administrative units, it was grounded in imperial interests or the exigencies of a foreign government and not in the actual needs, wishes or affi nities of the people.”316 478. Based on its analysis of the demarcation of States, the Commission found that the distinction between the States which existed at that time could not be maintained. The Commission recommended that: a. A balanced approach which accounted for all relevant factors (and not solely language or culture) be adopted to reorganise the States; b. Part A States and Part B States be of an equal status; c. Part C States be merged with the adjoining States or retained as independent units with temporary control by the Union Government; and d. Overall, the constituent units of the country ought to consist of ‘States’ and ‘Territories’ with the latter being centrally administered.317 479. The Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act 1956 amended the First Schedule and modifi ed the categorisation of the constituent units in the country, largely in accordance with the recommendations made by the Commission. It removed the distinction between the States. Currently, the administrative or federal units consist solely of States and Union Territories. The States Reorganisation Act 1956 was enacted in pursuance of this amendment to the Constitution. It provided for the territorial changes and the formation of new States as well as for other matters connected with or incidental to these changes.