This was also done in accordance with the decision of the Abdullah Kunhi case (supra), since the Government, being a separate authority, is bound to wait for the decision of the Advisory Board. G 38. In light of the abovementioned discussions, it can be seen that both, the detaining authority, and the Government, have worked precisely within the procedure established by law, and hence the impugned detention is not liable to be struck down on this ground. We therefore hold Issue II in favour of the respondent. H 816 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A ISSUE III- Whether the illegible documents written in Chinese submitted to the appellant herein are grounds enough for quashing the impugned detention ? 39. In cases where illegible documents have been supplied to the detenue, a grave prejudice is caused to the detenue in availing his right B to send a representation to the relevant authorities, because the detenue, while submitting his representation, does not have clarity on the grounds of his or her detention. In such a circumstance, the relief under Article 22(5) of the Constitution of India and the relevant statutory provisions allowing for submitting a representation are vitiated, since no man can defend himself against an unknown threat. C 40. In the case of Harikisan v. The State Of Maharashtra & Ors.7, this Court held that in cases of preventive detention, as per the principles enshrined under Article 22(5) of the Constitution Of India, the detaining authority must explain the grounds of detention to the detenue, and must provide the material in support of the same and in the language D understood by the detenue. The relevant Paragraph of the said is being reproduced herein: “…The grounds in support of the served on the appellant ran into fourteen typed pages and referred to his activities over a period of thirteen years, beside referring to E a large number of Court proceedings concerning him and other persons who were alleged to be his associates. Mere oral explanation of a complicated of the nature made against the appellant without supplying him the translation in script and language which he understood would, in our , amount to denial of the right of being communicated F the grounds and of being afforded the opportunity of making a representation against the …” 41. It has been brought to our notice that a co-detenue, one Mr. Neeraj Varshney has already been granted relief, and his detention has been quashed by the High Court on grounds of illegible Chinese G documents supplied to him as his grounds for detention. It is important to note that the circumstances of the appellant herein, as far as the present detention is concerned, is identical to the case of the co-detenue who’s detention was quashed. H 7 (1962) Supp. 2 SCR 918 PRAMOD SINGLA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 817 [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] 42. At the sake of repetition, we find it important to state that in A cases of preventive detention, every procedural irregularity, keeping in mind the principles of Article 21 and Article 22(5) of the Constitution of India, must be accrued in favour of the detenue.