Many petty or insignifi cant matters — plucking of a fruit, straying of cattle, quarrel of children, utterance of a rude word or even an objectionable glance, may lead to altercations and group clashes culminating in deaths. Usual motives like revenge, greed, jealousy or suspicion may be totally absent in such cases. There may be no intention. There may N. RAMKUMAR v. THE STATE REP. BY INSPECTOR 853 OF POLICE [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] be no premeditation. In fact, there may not even be criminality. At the other end of the spectrum, there may be cases of murder where the accused attempts to avoid the penalty for murder by attempting to put forth a case that there was no intention to cause death. It is for the courts to ensure that the cases of murder punishable under Section 302, are not converted into off ences punishable under Section 304 Part I/II, or cases of culpable homicide not amounting to murder, are treated as murder punishable under Section 302. The intention to cause death can be gathered generally from a combination of a few or several of the following, among other, circumstances: (i) nature of the weapon used; (ii) whether the weapon was carried by the accused or was picked up from the spot; (iii) whether the blow is aimed at a vital part of the body; (iv) the amount of force employed in causing injury; (v) whether the act was in the course of sudden quarrel or sudden fi ght or free for all fi ght; (vi) whether the incident occurs by chance or whether there was any premeditation; (vii) whether there was any prior enmity or whether the deceased was a stranger; (viii) whether there was any grave and sudden provocation, and if so, the cause for such provocation; (ix) whether it was in the heat of passion; (x) whether the person infl icting the injury has taken undue advantage or has acted in a cruel and unusual manner; (xi) whether the accused dealt a single blow or several blows. The above list of circumstances is, of course, not exhaustive and there may be several other special circumstances with reference to individual cases which may throw light on the question of intention. Be that as it may. 17. This Court in the case of Pratap Singh @ Pikki v. State of Uttarakhand (2019) 7 SCC 424 had noticed that the deceased-victim had suff ered total 11 injuries and had been convicted for off ences under Section 304 Part-II/Section 34 IPC apart from other off ences. It was noticed that some altercation took place and the groups entered into scuffl e without any premeditation and convicted accused for the off ence punishable under Section 304 Part-II/Section 34 IPC. Taking into consideration that the appellants therein were young boys and had served sentence of more than three years and fi ve months and there was no previous enmity, persuaded this Court that the quantum of sentence is excessive and accordingly sentenced them to the period already undergone for the off ence under Section 304 Part-II/ Section 34 IPC by observing thus: 854 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R.