(2) ————— (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), — (a) no fi nding, sentence or passed by a special Judge shall be reversed or altered by a Court in appeal, confi rmation or revision on the ground of the absence of, or any error, omission or irregularity in, the sanction required under sub-section (1), unless in the opinion of that court, a failure of justice has in fact been occasioned thereby; (b) no court shall stay the proceedings under this Act on the ground of any error, omission or irregularity in the sanction STATE OF KARNATAKA LOKAYUKTA POLICE v. 27 S. SUBBEGOWDA [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] granted by the authority, unless it is satisfi ed that such error, omission or irregularity has resulted in a failure of justice; (c) no court shall stay the proceedings under this Act on any other ground and no court shall exercise the powers of revision in relation to any interlocutory passed in any inquiry, trial, appeal or other proceedings. (4) In determining under sub-section (3) whether the absence of, or any error, omission or irregularity in, such sanction has occasioned or resulted in a failure of justice the court shall have regard to the fact whether the objection could and should have been raised at any earlier stage in the proceedings. Explanation.— For the purposes of this section,— (a) error includes competency of the authority to grant sanction; (b) a sanction required for prosecution includes reference to any requirement that the prosecution shall be at the instance of a specifi ed authority or with the sanction of a specifi ed person or any requirement of a similar nature.” 9. Similar provision is contained in Section 465 of CrPC on whether fi nding or sentence is reversible by reason of error, omission or irregularity. It reads as under: - “465. Finding or sentence when reversible by reason of error, omission or irregularity. - 1. Subject to the provisions hereinbefore contained, no fi nding sentence or passed by a Court of competent jurisdiction shall be reversed or altered by a Court of appeal, confi rmation of revision on account of any error, omission or irregularity in the complaint, summons, warrant, proclamation, , or other proceedings before or during trial or in any inquiry or other proceedings under this Code, or any error, or irregularity in any sanction for the prosecution unless in the opinion of that Court, a failure of justice has in fact been occasioned thereby. 2. In determining whether any error, omission or irregularity in any proceeding under this Code, or any error, or irregularity in any 28 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. sanction for the prosecution has occasioned a failure of justice, the Court shall have regard to the fact whether the objection could and should have been raised at an earlier stage in the proceedings.” 10. Having regard to the afore-stated provisions contained in Section 19 of the said Act, there remains no shadow of doubt that the statute forbids taking of cognizance by the Court against a public servant except with the previous sanction of the Government/authority competent to grant such sanction in terms of clauses (a), (b) and (c) to Section 19(1).