Cancellation of bail has to be dealt with on a completely E different footing in comparison to refusal of bail and ‘cogent and overwhelming’ reasons are necessary to cancel bail once granted. Reliance has been placed in this regard on Dolat Ram v. State of Haryana6 wherein a two-judge Bench of this Court held that: “4. Rejection of bail in a non-bailable case at the initial F stage and the cancellation of bail so granted, have to be considered and dealt with on different basis. Very cogent and overwhelming circumstances are necessary for an directing the cancellation of the bail, already granted. Generally speaking, the grounds for cancellation G of bail, broadly (illustrative and not exhaustive) are: interference or attempt to interfere with the due course of administration of justice or evasion or attempt to evade the due course of justice or abuse of the concession 6 (1995) 1 SCC 349. H 492 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A granted to the accused in any manner. The satisfaction of the court, on the basis of material placed on the record of the possibility of the accused absconding is yet another reason justifying the cancellation of bail. However, bail once granted should not be cancelled in a mechanical manner without considering whether any supervening B circumstances have rendered it no longer conducive to a fair trial to allow the accused to retain his freedom by enjoying the concession of bail during the trial.” xiii. No supervening circumstances for cancellation of bail have been pointed out by the CBI or the complainant. C ANALYSIS 22. The law on grant of anticipatory bail has been summed-up by this Court in Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre v. State of Maharashtra7, after due deliberation on the parameters evolved by the Constitution Bench in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia v. State of Punjab8. This Court held thus: D “112. The following factors and parameters can be taken into consideration while dealing with anticipatory bail: (i) The nature and gravity of the accusation and the exact role of the accused must be properly comprehended before arrest is made; E (ii) The antecedents of the applicant including the fact as to whether the accused has previously undergone imprisonment on conviction by a court in respect of any cognizable offence; (iii) The possibility of the applicant to flee from justice; F (iv) The possibility of the accused’s likelihood to repeat similar or other offences; (v) Where the accusations have been made only with the object of injuring or humiliating the applicant by arresting him or her; (vi) Impact of grant of anticipatory bail particularly in cases of G large magnitude affecting a very large number of people; (vii) The courts must evaluate the entire available material against the accused very carefully. The court must also clearly comprehend 7 (2011) 1 SCC 694. H 8 (1980) 2 SCC 565. CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. SANTOSH 493 KARNANI & ANR. [SURYA KANT, J.] the exact role of the accused in the case. The cases in which the A accused is implicated with the help of Sections 34 and 149 of the Penal Code, 1860 the court should consider with even greater care and caution because over-implication in the cases is a matter of common knowledge and concern; (viii) While considering the prayer for grant of anticipatory bail, a B balance has to be struck between two factors, namely, no prejudice should be caused to the free, fair and full investigation and there should be prevention of harassment, humiliation and unjustified detention of the accused; (ix) The court to consider reasonable apprehension of tampering C of the witness or apprehension of threat to the complainant; (x) Frivolity in prosecution should always be considered and it is only the element of genuineness that shall have to be considered in the matter of grant of bail and in the event of there being some doubt as to the genuineness of the prosecution, in the normal course D of events, the accused is entitled to an of bail.” 23.