61 subject to a 4% tax. e) Aggrieved by the decision, the appellant preferred a review application. Observing that no case for interference had been set up by the appellant, the High Court dismissed the review application vide its dated 10th February, 2009. D SUBMISSIONS OF THE PARTIES 4. Appearing on behalf of the appellant, Mr. K.K. Mani, learned counsel, advanced the following submissions: a) The High Court failed to consider the correct entry pertaining to the assessment year 1998-99. Exemption Entry No. 8 E clearly outlined an exemption in favour of products of millet, including maize, because maize starch is in the form of flour, though the flour is not obtained by mere grinding of the grains, but rather through the treatment of maize by soaking it in water, subjecting it to various processes, and ultimately F obtaining starch, which is sold as flour, and this process would certainly result in the sole product of millet retaining the flour form. This is distinct from Taxation Entry No. 61, which pertains to ‘sago and starch of any kind’ and sago being derived from tapioca, a combined interpretation of the phrase ‘sago and starch of any kind’ would exclude G maize starch and encompass only tapioca starch. b) The decision in Reliance Trading Company, Kerala vs. State of Kerala12 was referred to in support of the H 12 (2011) 15 SCC 762 SANTHOSH MAIZE & INDUSTRIES LIMITED v. THE STATE 109 OF TAMIL NADU & ANR. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] contention that an exemption will only arise when there is a A liability to pay tax. Section 3(2) read with Schedule I creates a tax liability on ‘sago and starch of any kind’. However, Section 8 read with Schedule III creates an exemption in favour of maize starch, Exemption Entry No. 8 will, therefore, over ride Taxation Entry No. 61. B c) The decisions of the High Court in State of Tamil Nadu vs. Lakshmi Starch13and State of Tamil Nadu vs. TVL. Indras Agencies (P) Ltd.14 were also placed to support the contention that Exemption Entry No. 8 derives its origin from the Exemption Notification, the validity of which was C upheld in the aforesaid former and maize starch was accordingly exempted from tax. Exemption Entry No. 8, therefore, is nothing but a re-enactment of the language of the Exemption Notification in the form of a statutory provision and reflects the intention of the Legislature to exempt maize starch from tax. D d) As regards the omission of the word ‘like’, it was contended that the amendment having retained the language of the Exemption Notification, the omission of the word ‘like’ would, therefore, not make any difference to the scope of the entry in the light of the consistent practice to exempt E maize starch from taxation under Exemption Entry No. 8. e) It was also contended that the High Court made an erroneous assessment in both the writ petition and the review application by considering Entry No. 44 of Part B of Schedule III for the assessment year 1998-1999 which, as F per the Court, excludes maize.