This contention was not accepted, for it overlooked the essence of the hire-purchase agreement, which was that the hire includes not only what would be payable really as hire but also that a part of it was towards the price. These observations are relevant in the context of the present case as they refer to and explain the true nature of hire in hire- E purchase agreements, albeit in the context of the sales tax enactment. However, this court also observed that even in the absence of legislative guidance, the sales tax authorities may split the hire into two parts. This decision was followed in the case of Sundaram Finance Limited (supra) with the majority authored by J.C. Shah, J. observing that the F decision of the Constitution Bench in K.L. Johar and Co. (supra) dealt with the agreements where the financier has paid the balance amount to the erstwhile owner of the goods and thereupon obtained the hire- purchase agreement from the customer, under which the customer becomes the owner of the goods on payment of all the instalments of the stipulated hire and exercising his option to purchase the goods on payment G of a nominal price. In another form of hire-purchase transactions, goods are purchased by the customer who, in consideration of executing a hire-purchase agreement and allied documents, remains in possession of the goods, subject to the liability to pay the amount paid by the financier H 15AIR 1965 SC 1082. M/S. MUTHOOT LEASING AND FINANCE LIMITED v. 331 COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] on behalf of the customer to the owner or the dealer. The financier A obtains the hire-purchase agreement which gives him a license to seize the goods in the event of failure by the customer to abide by the conditions of the hire-purchase agreement. The true effect of a transaction may be determined from the terms of the agreement considered in light of the surrounding circumstances. In some cases, the real bargain would be a B loan on the security of the goods. If there is a bona fide and completed sale of goods, evidenced by documents, anterior to and independent of a subsequent and distinct hiring to the vendor, the transaction may not be regarded as a loan transaction, even though the reason why it was entered into was to raise money. Recording the aforesaid, the appeal of the C assessee in Sundaram Finance Limited (supra) was allowed by the majority observing that they were carrying on business of financiers and not dealing with motor vehicles. The motor vehicle purchased by the customer was registered in his name and remained, at all material times, so registered in his name. The sale letter was a formal document which was not made effective by registering the vehicle in the name of the D assessee and even the insurance of the motor vehicle had to be effected as if the customer was the owner. 16. Before we examine the reasoning and context in which the elucidation was made, we would like to refer to two circulars issued by the CBDT.