Secondly, he argued that even the policies which are stated to have prohibited alienation are not applicable independently. With reference to the Circular dated 08.11.1954 [Hereinafter 1954 Circular], it was submitted that the same was not retrospectively applicable and in any event, it referred to Section 58-A only in respect of lands which were granted for ‘Eksala’ (one year) cultivation or to lands which have been 9 S. Santhanam v State of A.P. 2006 SCC OnLine AP 145. 624 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. set apart as provided in Paragraph 8 of the 1954 Circular. It would thus be appropriate to reproduce the relevant contents of the 1954 Circular which are to the following eff ect:– “…..The following Circulars regarding the assignment and grant of Patta of unoccupied Government Lands to the Harijans, Backward Classes and Landless poor persons have been issued from time to time. x-x-x-x As the s issued through various circulars were creating confusion in their proper implementation, the following consolidated s are hereby issued after reconsidering the various s issued through the aforesaid circulars. x-x-x-x A. Lands under Cultivation on the Basis of Permission for Eksala Cultivation 1. In case of occupation by the Harijans, Scheduled Castes, Backward Classes, of poor landless persons, patta shall, subject to the provisions contained in Section 58-A of the A.P. (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, be granted free of cost to the extent of one family holding inclusive of the land already owned by occupants and where the land is in excess thereof, they shall be evicted from the excess area x-x-x-x 8. Village-wise statements of all Porampoke, Gut, Kharjkata, Gairan lands excluding ten percent, fi t for grazing and lands excised from forest, shall be prepared and all such lands shall fi rst be set apart as are required for public or Government purposes or on which, there arc Sendhi, Toddy or Gulmohwa trees or which are required to be to be set apart for such purposes or on which there is a Kancha, the grass of which is auctioned every year. The remaining lands including those from which occupants have been evicted under para 3 shall under special Laoni be assigned on patta to the Scheduled Castes, Harijans, Backward Classes and poor YADAIAH AND ANR. v. STATE OF TELANGANA AND 625 OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] landless persons who are bonafi de agriculturists at the rate of one family holding per family, subject to the provisions contained in Section 58-A of the A.P. (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act. As far as possible each family shall be entitled to patta shall primarily be assigned lands which were being cultivated by them…..” In the same breadth, Mr. Ahmadi contended that all remaining policies regarding assignments, namely, G.O. dated 25.07.1958 [Hereinafter, ‘1958 Circular’] which was subsequently clarifi ed by G.O. dated 26.08.1958 [Hereinafter, ‘1958 Clarification’] would not be attracted, for the assignment being of 1953 itself, these policies would have no retrospective eff ect and/or these circulars themselves excluded the Subject Land.