However, in the present factual scenario the Zilla Parishad played only a supervisory role; G (c) The appellant had no ‘interest’ in his son’s financial affairs as the latter had an independent business and the two of them did not even reside together; (d) The of disqualification violated the principles of natural justice as the appellant was not given an opportunity of being H heard by the Divisional Commissioner. 796 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 7. The aforesaid pleas were however rejected by the High Court as per the impugned dated 17.11.2021. The conclusion was based on the following findings: A. Section (16)(1)(i) of the said Act was broadly worded. It not only mandated that the councillor should not have any B interest in any work of the Zilla Parishad, but such councillor should also not have an interest in the work done by the of the Zilla Parishad. In the present factual scenario, the work was ‘ed’ by the Zilla Parishad, which would be sufficient to attract the provision. The Zilla Parishad had directed the Gram Panchayat to undertake the road C repair work vide dated 09.06.2020 under the supervision of the Deputy Engineer, Zilla Parishad. The Executing Engineer, Zilla Parishad’s communication dated 28.10.2021 also stated that the road was being developed pursuant to the of the Zilla Parishad, which was also D the agency that had disbursed the funds. B. The Divisional Commissioner had reached a plausible conclusion as to whether the appellant and his son resided together. The appellant’s only evidence was a ration card which showed that his son lived with his grandmother. This E however was not conclusive proof about the son’s financial independence. In any case, it was opined that these facts could not be really within the purview of the court’s writ jurisdiction. C. An opportunity of hearing was not required to be given to the appellant as all the relevant facts were before the F Divisional Commissioner already. This legal conclusion was reached on the basis of the of this Court in Dharampal Satyapal Ltd. v. Deputy Commissioner of Central Excise, Gauhati & Ors.1, where it was opined that a hearing was not required where the same would be a G mere formality and not have any bearing on the final conclusion of the authority. More than that, the Divisional Commissioner had adjourned the matter on multiple occasions at the request of the appellant. On 08.10.2021, when the appellant again requested for further time on H 1 (2015) 8 SCC 519. VIRENDRASING v. THE ADDITIONAL COMMISSIONER AND 797 ORS. [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] account of advocate’s illness, although the appellant himself A was physically present, the Divisional Commissioner had fairly come to the conclusion that the appellant had been granted multiple opportunities and thus his written statement should be treated as his submissions. The Divisional Commissioner had also rejected the appellant’s separate B application for an oral hearing vide detailed dated 01.11.2021, and this had not been challenged by the appellant.