(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), no such approval shall be necessary for cases involving arrest of a person on the spot on the charge of accepting or attempting to accept any gratifi cation other than legal remuneration referred to in clause (c) of the Explanation to section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (49 of 1988). ]” 17. This Section remained on the statute book for a period of more than ten years till the in the case of Subramanian Swamy (supra) was delivered on 06.05.2014, which held it to be unconstitutional as being violative of Article 14 of Part-III of the Constitution. 49 In short, “Act No. 45 of 2003” CBI v. R.R. KISHORE 29 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] 18. The Parliament again inserted Section 17A in the PC Act, 1988 w.e.f. 26.07.2018. This provision has continued to remain in the statute book. It also provided for sanction before prosecution but without any classifi cation of Government servants. All Government servants of whatever category, class, or level, are provided protection under Section 17A of the PC Act, 1988. The said provision is reproduced hereunder: 17A. Enquiry or Inquiry or investigation of offences relatable to recommendations made or decision taken by public servant in discharge of offi cial functions or duties.-- No police offi cer shall conduct any enquiry or inquiry or investigation into any off ence alleged to have been committed by a public servant under this Act, where the alleged off ence is relatable to any recommendation made or decision taken by such public servant in discharge of his offi cial functions or duties, without the previous approval-- (a) in the case of a person who is or was employed, at the time when the off ence was alleged to have been committed, in connection with the aff airs of the Union, of that Government; (b) in the case of a person who is or was employed, at the time when the off ence was alleged to have been committed, in connection with the aff airs of a State, of that Government; (c) in the case of any other person, of the authority competent to remove him from his offi ce, at the time when the off ence was alleged to have been committed: Provided that no such approval shall be necessary for cases involving arrest of a person on the spot on the charge of accepting or attempting to accept any undue advantage for himself or for any other person: Provided further that the concerned authority shall convey its decision under this section within a period of three months, which may, for reasons to be recorded in writing by such authority, be extended by a further period of one month. 19. From the above, we notice that there are small windows of couple of years on two occasions when there was no such protection available, otherwise, right from 1969 the protection regarding sanction before prosecution has remained in force and continues as such even now.