B. PARDIWALA, J.] remedies. This is precisely the kind of situation in which the unconscionability doctrine is meant to apply. 90. This development of the law of unconscionability in connection with standard form contracts is not radical. On the contrary, it is a modern application of the doctrine to situations where “the normative rationale for contract enforcement … [is] stretched beyond the breaking point” (Radin, at p. 179). The link between standard form contracts and unconscionability has been suggested in judicial decisions, textbooks, and academic articles for years (see, e.g., Douez, at para. 114; Davidson v. Three Spruces Realty Ltd., (1977) 79 DLR 481 (3d) (B.C.S.C. ); Hunter, at p. 513; Swan, Adamski and Na, at pp. 992-93; McCamus, at p. 444; Jean Braucher, “Unconscionability in the Age of Sophisticated Mass-Market Framing Strategies and the Modern Administrative State” (2007) 45 Can. Bus. L.J. 382, at p. 396). It has also been present in the American jurisprudence for more than half a century (see Williams v. Walker-Thomas Furniture Company, 350 F.2d 445 (1965), at pp. 449-50). 91. Applying the unconscionability doctrine to standard form contracts also encourages those drafting such contracts to make them more accessible to the other party or to ensure that they are not so lop- sided as to be improvident, or both. The virtues of fair dealing were explained by Jean Braucher as follows: Businesses are driven to behave competitively in their framing of market situations or otherwise they lose to those who do. Only if there are meaningful checks on what might be considered immoral behavior will persons in business have the freedom to act on their moral impulses. An implication of this point is that, absent regulation, business culture will become ever more ruthless, so that the distinctions between “reputable businesses” and fringe marketers gradually wither away…. [p. 390] 92. This brings us to the appeal before us and whether Mr. Heller›s arbitration clause with Uber is unconscionable. 93. There was clearly inequality of bargaining power between Uber and Mr. Heller. The arbitration agreement was part of a standard 101 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. form contract. Mr. Heller was powerless to negotiate any of its terms. His only contractual option was to accept or reject it. There was a signifi cant gulf in sophistication between Mr. Heller, a food deliveryman in Toronto, and Uber, a large multinational corporation. The arbitration agreement, moreover, contains no information about the costs of mediation and arbitration in the Netherlands. A person in Mr. Heller›s position could not be expected to appreciate the fi nancial and legal implications of agreeing to arbitrate under ICC Rules or under Dutch law. Even assuming that Mr. Heller was the rare fellow who would have read through the contract in its entirety before signing it, he would have had no reason to suspect that behind an innocuous reference to mandatory mediation “under the International Chamber of Commerce Mediation Rules” that could be followed by “arbitration under the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce”, there lay a US$14,500 hurdle to relief.