[2023] 10 S.C.R. 411 : 2023 INSC 612 411 PRATIBHA MANCHANDA & ANR. A v. STATE OF HARYANA & ANR. (Criminal Appeal No 1793 of 2023) JULY 07, 2023 B [SURYA KANT AND C.T. RAVIKUMAR, JJ.] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s. 438 – Anticipatory bail – Rejection of – Appellants’ case that they had possession over the subject land and they never sold the subject land to anyone nor C have they ever executed any power of attorney (GPA) in favor of any third party – However, appellants learnt that the accused persons had approached the halqa patwari to sanction mutation of the aforesaid land – It was alleged that the application for mutation was based on a forged and fabricated sale deed dated 24.02.2022 – Appellant also learnt that the said sale deed was based on yet D another, purportedly, forged and fabricated GPA dated 18.09.1996 – FIR registered against respondent no.2 and other accused persons u/ss.406, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of IPC – Respondent no.2 fearing arrest filed an application for anticipatory bail before the Sessions Judge but the same was dismissed – However, the High E Court granted anticipatory bail to the accused – On appeal, held: According to respondent no.2, what transpired in 1996 was sale of the subject land through GPA – However, regardless of obtaining all the rights over the subject land, respondent no.2 never informed the Revenue/local authorities that he had purportedly ‘purchased’ the subject land through a GPA – The ownership of the land always F remained in the name of the appellants in the revenue record – A portion of subject land was acquired by the government after execution of the 1996 GPA and compensation was paid to the appellants – Respondent no.2 neither objected to the payment of such compensation nor asserted his title over the land, which he G normally would have done had he possessed any rights over it – Respondent no.2 failed to show payment of consideration to the appellants – Sale deed was executed without mentioning PAN number or deducting TDS – It is also unclear that when subject land was situated in Gurugram district, why the GPA was registered in Kalkaji H 411 412 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A – There are overwhelming prima facie evidences to indicate that the version of events provided by respondent no.2 , the buyers of property and Sub-registrar should be viewed with scepticism – A thorough investigation is required by the investigating authorities – Therefore, custodial interrogation of respondent no.2 and other accused required – of the High Court granting bail set aside. B Bail – Anticipatory Bail – Purpose – The relief of Anticipatory Bail is aimed at safeguarding individual rights – While it serves as a crucial tool to prevent the misuse of the power of arrest and protects innocent individuals from harassment, it also presents challenges in maintaining a delicate balance between individual rights and C the interests of justice and striking a balance between safeguarding individual rights and protecting public interest – While the right to liberty and presumption of innocence are vital, the court must also consider the gravity of the offence, the impact on society, and the need for a fair and free investigation.