It has been pointed out that FICN infusion is concentrated in the two E highest denominations of Indian banknotes of Rs.500/- and Rs.1000/-. It has also been pointed out that the impact on the economy in the high denomination notes is very adverse. The said communication mentions the White Paper on Black Money by the Department of Revenue in the year 2012, wherein it is mentioned that cash has always been a facilitator F of black money since transactions made in cash do not leave any audit trail. The White Paper also refers to the growth in the size of the shadow economy of the country, and that a parallel shadow economy corrodes and eats into the vitals of the country’s economy. 230. The said communication thereafter refers to the constitution of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) headed by two former Judges of G this Court, which has made strong observations against the cash economy. It further refers to the steps taken by the Government to reduce black money in the economy. After pointing out the aforesaid factors, the communication advises the Central Board to take note of the above and consider making necessary recommendations. It also requests the RBI H 116 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A to prepare a draft scheme to implement the above in a non-disruptive manner with as little inconvenience to the public and business entities as possible. 231. We have also perused the Minutes of the Five Hundred and Sixty First (561st) Meeting of the Central Board of Directors of the RBI B held on 8th November 2016. The said Minutes would show that the communication dated 7th November 2016 was placed before the Central Board by the Deputy Governor. There was an elaborate discussion on the said proposal. The Central Board has considered the pros and cons of the measure. The Central Board has also considered that the proposed step presents a big opportunity to take the process of financial inclusion C further by incentivizing the use of electronic modes of payment, so that people see the benefits of bank accounts and electronic means of payment over use of cash. The Central Board has taken into consideration that the matter had been under discussion between the Central Government and the RBI for the last six months during which most of the issues D raised in the meeting were considered. 232. After detailed deliberations, the Central Board resolved to recommend withdrawal of legal tender of bank notes in the denomination of Rs.500/- and Rs.1000/- of existing and any older series in circulation. Thereafter, the Deputy Governor, vide communication dated 8th E November 2016, informed the Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Government of India about the above recommendations of the Central Board. Not only that, but a draft scheme for implementation of the same was also enclosed along with the said recommendations. 233. We have also perused the Note for the Cabinet for F consideration of the Cabinet Meeting dated 8th November 2016.