A of government, ranging from social security benefits, jobs, occupational licenses, contracts and use of public resources – as government largesse results in doctrinal misconceptions. The reason is that this conflates the State’s power with duty. The Constitution recognises the pursuit of the well-being of citizens as a desirable goal. In doing this the Constitution entrusts the State with a duty to ensure the well-being of citizens. B Government actions aimed at ensuring the well-being of citizens cannot be perceived through the lens of a ‘largess’. The use of such terminology be littles the sanctity of the social contract that the ‘people of India’ entered into with the State to protect and safeguard their interests. 3.2 Judicial review of government contracts: extent and C ambit 12. Paragraph 4(vi)(b) prescribes entities from which Ayurvedic medicines may be procured. The paragraph does not prescribe the method through which they may be procured. The appellant contends that the since the method of procurement is not prescribed, it has the discretion D to purchase drugs through ‘nomination’. On the other hand, the respondent contends that merely because the Operational Guidelines do not prescribe the method of procurement, unbridled discretion cannot be given to the executive to procuredrugs through ‘nomination’. 13. In the early 1950s’, judicial review of the process of concluding E contracts by government was limited. The courts allowed the State due deference on the ground of governmental policy. In C.K Achuthan v. State of Kerala5, a Constitution Bench of this Court held that it is open to the Government ‘to choose a person to their liking, to fulfil contracts which they wish to be performed.’ The Court observed that when one party is chosen over another, the aggrieved party cannot claim the F protection of Article 14 since the government has the discretion to choose with whom it will contract. 14. Over the years, this Court has applied the non-arbitrariness standard under Article 14 to test the validity of government action. In Ramana Dayaram Shetty v. International Airport Authority of G India6, a three-Judge Bench of this Court observed that the government does not have unlimited discretion in granting State largesse and it must 5 AIR 1959 SC 490 61979( 3 )SCC 489; Also see Sterling Computers Ltd. v M/s M& Publications Limited, (1993) 1 SCC 445; Jesper I. Slong v. State of Meghalaya, (2004) 11 SCC 485; Also see H Association of Registration Plates v. Union of India, (2005) 1 SCC 679 M/S IMPCL v. KERALA AYURVEDIC CO OPERATIVE SOCIETY LTD. 487 & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] act in fairness.In New Horizons Limited v. Union of India7, the A Department of Telecommunications, invited sealed tenders for printing, binding, and supply of telephone directories. While determining the validity of the eligibility criteria prescribed for tenderers, the Court observed that the State when entering into a contract does not stand on the same footing as a private person. The Court held that the government cannot B act arbitrarily while dealing with the public, whether it is while giving jobs or entering into contracts.