v. THE STATE OF 249 CHHATTISGARH [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] support the appellants’ contention that the offence of culpable homicide A under Section 304 Part II is made out. It was submitted that the pre- existing dispute, in this case, could not be said to constitute a “grave and sudden” provocation. Further, the circumstance that the victim survived for some length of time, ipso facto is an irrelevant factor since the prosecution established that the cause of the death was directly linked to B the injuries sustained, which in turn were inflicted by the appellants. 13. Learned counsel submitted that Exception 4 to Section 300 IPC is clearly not attracted in the facts of this case because the appellants had, in fact, behaved in an unusual and cruel manner and also took undue advantage of the situation because they were fully armed, and inflicted C serious injuries upon the deceased, who was neither armed nor provoked them. Analysis and conclusions 14. In this case, the nature of the attack by the appellants and the D quality of eyewitness testimony of prosecution witnesses, especially PW1 to PW5, cannot be doubted. This court is of the opinion that the circumstance that most of the witnesses were related to the deceased does not per se exclude their testimony. The test of credibility or reliability when applied, is fully satisfied in respect of the strength of their E testimonies. Although PW1 is the deceased’s daughter, that is insufficient to doubt the veracity of what she recounted during the trial, which is that she saw the appellants attack her father with axes. She tried to intervene and save the deceased, upon which she was also given axe blows on her leg. There is no explanation on the part of the appellants as to why the witness should depose falsely; nor is there any explanation as to how F she could have received her injuries. Most importantly, her testimony is corroborated by PW2, PW3 and PW4. Therefore, this court is of the opinion that all the material aspects of the factual accusations against the appellants and how they attacked the deceased in an unprovoked manner, cannot be doubted. G 15. The question, then, is whether the appellants are guilty of the offence of murder, punishable under Section 302, or whether they are criminally liable under the less severe Section 304, IPC. As noted in several s, this question has engaged the courts for over a century. H 250 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A The distinction between these two is discernible in the manner they are defined, under Section 2996 IPC and Section 3007 IPC. In a decision, 6Section 299 Whoever causes death by doing an act with the intention of causing death, or with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, or with the knowledge that he is likely by such act to cause death, commits the offence of culpable homicide. B Illustrations (a) A lays slicks and turf over a pit, with the intention of thereby causing death, or with the knowledge that death is likely to be thereby caused.