We, therefore, see no reason to invalidate the FIR for alleged breach of the CBI Circular. 65. We, thus, answer the first question by holding that the High Court was not justified in its interference with the investigative process H and committed an error of law in quashing the FIR on the grounds it did. 160 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 66. To answer the second question, the challenge to the FIR on the ground that it is vitiated by mala fides is taken up for consideration. 67. Allegations of ulterior motives at the behest of the political dispensation in power in the State and direction given by the Chief Minister to the Economic Offences Wing to conduct an inquiry, which is per se B violative of the law, are found in WPCR 88 of 2020 under the heading ‘subject matter in brief’. Mirror images of such allegations are also found under the heading ‘Facts of the Case’. While amending the writ petition and challenging the FIR and seeking an for its quashing, AS alleged in the application for amendment as follows: C “That the action taken by the Chief Minister on the complaint addressed to him is patently contrary to law and in view of the said CM’s declared public hostility towards the petitioner as set out elsewhere in the petition, discloses malice” (paragraph 9.29). “The lodging of the FIR during pendency of the hearing of the present writ petition is further evidence of mala fides on part of D Respondent State” (paragraph 9.32). “That the FIR is an abuse of police and state power. It is the outcome of personal animosity of the CM of the state against the petitioner” (paragraph 9.33). E 68. Mr. Jethmalani, experienced as he is, must have sensed that the under challenge rests on weak foundation; hence, he advanced arguments more touching upon the mala fides that worked in registration of the FIR against AS and YS. As has been noted above, reacting to Mr. Hegde’s submission that there are no pleadings of mala fides, he submitted that the writ petitions are replete with such pleadings. F 69. As if the submissions of Mr. Jethmalani were not strong enough, we had AS and YS filing the application for directions late in the day seeking to bring on record certain reports/messages/chats to provide proof that mala fide motive is indeed the genesis of the FIR. We have also perused the application for directions, and more particularly the G contents of paragraph 13 thereof. 70. For reasons more than one, we are inclined to the view that the writ petitions before the High Court would not have succeeded even if the plea of mala fide were advanced and accepted as a ground of assail to the FIR, based on what has been laid down in Bhajan Lal H (supra). THE STATE OF CHATTISGARH & ANR. v. AMAN KUMAR 161 SINGH & ORS. ETC. ETC [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 71. We have perused the writ petitions filed by AS and YS and A have no hesitation to agree with Mr. Hegde that the pleadings are insufficient to return a finding that the FIR is an outcome of mala fide.