7. He would further contend that the prosecution failed to prove that the members of the unlawful assembly had assembled to accomplish the common object of killing Ajay, as attributed to them. There was no evidence suggesting a sharing of common object between the accused. The CCTV footage, which was relied upon by the prosecution, does not inspire confi dence to accept the story of the prosecution, since, faces appearing in the video was not clear and this itself would be a good ground to allow appeals and set aside the conviction of the appellants. 778 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. He would also contend that appellants were not residents of the village where the incident took place and there is no whisper in the statement of PW-9 recorded under Section 161 of Cr.P.C. on this aspect. Hence, he prays for appeal preferred by A-5, and A-6 be allowed by setting aside the impugned . ANALYSIS AND CONCLUSION: 8. Having heard the learned counsels appearing for the parties and on perusal of the s of the courts below, it would emerge therefrom, that conviction of all the accused is based on the testimony of PW-9 and recovery of the motor-cycles and the motive for the crime attributed by PW-9 in his statement recorded on the date of incident. In this background, we have perused the s of the courts below by bestowing our anxious consideration to the rival contentions raised at the Bar. 9. At the outset, it requires to be noticed that motive that has been attributed against the accused persons for the killing of Ajay was, he (Ajay) and Suraj had a fi ght with Ravi on the day of Dulhandi, where Ravi had threatened to kill them and in furtherance of said threat, he is said to have come along with other co-accused, and a person sitting on the bullet motor- cycle had fi red at Ajay from the pistol, while Ravi was driving the Bullet motorcycle. PW-9 had also deposed that Ajay was in the company of Suraj, who ran alongside the deceased and hid himself in Dharmender’s house. However, the police did not record the statement of Suraj, and he was not even cited as a witness on behalf of the prosecution. This would be the fi rst gap in the prosecution story or a defective investigation. 9.1 The prosecution relied on Statement of Mohit @ Kala (PW- 9) and courts below accepted him as a star witness to convict the accused. PW-9’s testimony was shrouded with inconsistencies and he had not named the appellants in the FIR and had failed to identify Naresh @ Nehru as the driver of the Splendor motorcycle. He had identifi ed Irshad and Sonu Kumar in court but had not named them in his statement Ex.PM made before police. In his cross-examination, PW-9 admitted of not informing the police about the Pulsar motorcycle and two other Splendor motorcycles. He stated in his statement Ex.PM that victim Ajay and his friend Suraj were being chased by three motorcycles, namely Bullet, Splendor and Pulsar motorcycles respectively.