Guided by the above ratio, the situation in the present case is found to be similar. The surveyor’s report cannot be considered a sacred NEW INDIA ASSURANCE CO. LTD. & ORS. v. M/S. MUDIT 1045 ROADWAYS [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] document and contrary evidence, including an investigation report, is subject to rebuttal. The key question is whether the investigation report is indispensable, or if the survey report alone is suffi cient, to determine the cause of the fi re. 46. The analysis of the forensic examiner is reproduced below for ready reference: - “19.01. Insured has claimed for loss due to fi re. Cause of fi re as claimed-fi re due to short circuit. 19.02. Cause of fi re was investigated by M/s Screenfacts Services Pvt Ltd. 19.03. M/s Screenfacts Services Pvt. Ltd. have concluded cause of fi re as under:- 19.04. Taking into consideration the construction of roofi ng in the gap between E & F segments of the warehouse on that day. which involved considerable welding working it is opined that during welding at the roofl evel sparks could have fallen on the adjoining fl ammable chemicals stored between A & D indicating the fi re. 19.05. The root cause of the fi re incident was due to the negligence on the part of the management in not taking adequate precautions when the construction work was going on, that too in a secured customs bonded warehouse where many hazardous chemicals were stared.” 47. The surveyor’s abovementioned report, although comprehensive otherwise, is inconclusive on the aspect identifying the actual cause of fi re. Given that the surveyor’s report only relies on the Forensic Examiner, i.e., M/s Screen Facts Services Pvt. Ltd.’s fi ndings, it would be unsafe in this Court’s opinion to rely on the said report. EXTENT OF LIABILITY WHEN CAUSE OF FIRE INDETERMINABLE 48. Multiple survey reports suggesting diff erent causes of fi re present a perplexing conundrum on the insurance claim. The reports provided by the insurer, though submitted with intent, were found to be inconclusive and also contradictory. The reports furnished by the claimant, which include assessments by government departments and two independent surveyors, 104 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. have however consistently identifi ed the cause of the fi re as a short-circuit. While it is diffi cult to go by the reports relied upon by the insurance company, the reports furnished by the claimants being consistent and logical are more acceptable in ascertaining the true cause of the fi re. 49. On the above aspect, the NCDRC has rightly placed reliance on Canara Bank v. United India Insurance Co. Ltd.8, wherein the Court decided to not place reliance on the surveyor’s report conducted by M/s Truth Labs, for lack of suffi cient analysis & held that: “In any event, neither in the report of M/s Truth Labs nor in the other reports by the Insurance Company is there anything to show that the insured had set the cold store on fi re.