[Para 18][532-G- E H; 533-A-B] 1.3. On a conjoint reading of Articles 3,4 and 239A, it is found that:- (a) Parliament by making a law can convert an existing State into one or more Union territories; (b) Parliament is empowered by law to create a body of legislature for the Union F territories of Puducherry and J&K. Accordingly, sub-Section (2) of Section 14 of the J & K Reorganisation Act provides that there shall be a Legislative Assembly for the Union Territory of J & K.; and (c) Even if the law made by Parliament creating a body of legislature for Union territories of Puducherry and J&K has the effect of amending certain parts of the Constitution, it shall not G be deemed to be an amendment of the Constitution for the purposes of Article 368. [Para 19][533-B-E] 1.4. As far as the Legislative Assembly of the Union territory of J & K is concerned, Article 170 will have no H 508 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A application as it forms a part of Chapter III of Part VI which deals with only the State Legislature. It has no application to the Legislatures of Union Territories. The reason is that the Legislative Assemblies of the concerned Union Territories will be governed by the law made by the Parliament in accordance with Article 239A and not by the provisions of Chapter III of Part B VI. As Article 170 is not applicable to the Legislature of the Union Territory of J & K, the main thrust of the argument that certain provisions of the J&K Reorganisation Act and actions taken thereunder are in conflict with Article 170 and in particular Clause (3) thereof is clearly misconceived and deserves to be rejected. C [Para 23][534-D-F] Issue of delimitation of constituencies of the Legislative Assembly of the Union territory of J and K. 2.1. There were two earlier enactments dealing with the establishment of the Delimitation Commission. The first one was D the Delimitation Commission Act, 1962 and the second one was the Delimitation Act, 1972. Both the Acts were not applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir as the definition of the State incorporated in both Acts specifically excluded the State of Jammu and Kashmir. The same is the case with the Delimitation Act, E 2002. Section 3 of the J&K RP Act laid down the requirement of the establishment of the Delimitation Commission which provided that the Delimitation Commission shall distribute the seats in the Legislative Assembly to single member territorial constituencies and delimit them having regard to various factors mentioned in sub-section (2) of Section 3. Section 4-B of the J&K F RP Act provided for the Delimitation Commission to pass an regarding the delimitation of constituencies and publish the same. In fact, the Delimitation of Assembly Constituencies , 1995 was issued which was applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. [Para 24][534-G-H; 535-A-B] G 2.2. By virtue of sub-section (5) of Section 14 of the J&K Reorganisation Act, the said Delimitation of 1995 was amended as provided in the Third Schedule thereof.