It is submitted that the High Court has not properly G appreciated the fact that the question was not whether the policies of the previous Government ought to be continued. It is submitted that the question was whether alleged acts of corruption/misfeasance alleged against the previous Government ought to be investigated. It is submitted that the High Court has not properly appreciated the fact that there were wide spread allegations of corruption and, thus, allegations were H THE STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH & ANR. v. VARLA 1121 RAMAIAH ETC. [M. R. SHAH, J.] required to be investigated and, therefore, a Committee was accordingly A constituted to inquire into the acts of corruption/misfeasance and there was no other mala fide intention. 3.2 It is submitted that the High Court has not properly appreciated that the respective G.Os were issued by the State Government in exercise of its executive powers and as such were not to review the earlier B decisions taken by the previous Government. It is submitted that the act of conducting investigation cannot be termed as a ‘review’ in the sense in which the High Court has understood. 3.3 It is submitted that the High Court has not properly appreciated the fact that as such the constitution of the SIT pursuant to the G.Os can C only be said to be fact finding itself to inquire into the misdeeds/acts of corruption/misfeasance alleged against the previous Government. 3.4 Number of other submissions have been made by learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the appellant – State on merits of the respective G.Os and the scope and ambit of the Sub- Committee/ D SIT. 3.5 It is further submitted that as such the State did not act with a mala fide intention as projected before the High Court. It is submitted that in fact the State proposed to have the allegations inquired by the Central Agency for which the letter dated 23.03.2020 was addressed by E the State Government to the Central Government to refer the matter to the CBI. It is submitted that, therefore, there was no inherent bias. 4. Present appeals are vehemently opposed by the learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the original writ petitioners. Number of submissions have been made on merits by Shri Siddharth Dave, learned F Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the respondents – original writ petitioners. 4.1 It is submitted by Shri Siddharth Dave learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the original writ petitioners that as such the present appeals are against the interim /stay granted by the High Court and G the main writ petitions are yet to be considered, decided and disposed of by the High Court. 4.2 It is submitted that the stay granted by the High Court has been continued since more than 2 years and, therefore, this Court may not examine the merits of the matter and leave the merits of the matter to be decided by the High Court in the pending writ petitions.