There was vociferous opposition to the Hindu Code Bill, which was later enacted into four distinct legislations - the Hindu Marriage Act 1955,45 the Hindu Succession Act, 1956, the Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act 1956, and the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act 1956. Inter-caste marriages, sagotra marriages, the prescription of monogamy, and the introduction of divorce were met with great opposition. Despite vehement opposition, these reforms have stood the test of time and society has prospered overall as a result. Today, the objections raised on behalf of the Union of India opposing the recognition of same- sex marriage are akin to the opposition to the Hindu Code Bill. 28. Mr. Saurabh Kirpal, learned senior counsel, submitted that: a. Depriving LGBTQ+ individuals of the right to marry violates Articles 14, 15, 19(1)(a) and 21 of the Constitution; b. The right to marry a person of one’s choice is itself a Fundamental Right under the Constitution; c. The SMA is unconstitutional if it is interpreted to exclude access to LGBTQ individuals from its ambit; d. The intent of Parliament when it enacted the SMA is not relevant. The doctrine of reading in does not aim to discover the intention of Parliament. The jurisprudential basis of the doctrine is that courts read something in to save a statute from the vice of unconstitutionality; 45 “HMA” 126 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. e. Having found a right to marry, this Court cannot hold that there is no remedy or a real possibility for the exercise of that right; and f. By virtue of Article 13, the Constitution trumps a statute which violates the Constitution. Analysis under Article 13 does not extend to whether or not a statute or a system of law is workable after it is read up or after certain words or phrases are read in to save it from being unconstitutional. It cannot be that a complex statute can defeat a fundamental right by virtue of its complexity. 29. Ms. Vrinda Grover, learned senior counsel, made the following submissions: a. Interference, opposition and violence from natal families, irrespective of marital status, violates the fundamental right to life and personal Liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution; b. Non-recognition of ‘atypical families’ or ‘chosen families’ beyond constraints of marriage, blood or adoption violates Articles 14, 15, 19 and 21; c. Non-recognition of marriage between two consenting adults on the basis of gender identity or sexual orientation under the SMA violates Articles 14, 15, 19 and 21; d. Constitutional courts sometimes accord undue deference to the natal family. This ignores the coercion and violence that queer and transgender persons face within their homes. Reference was made to Devu G v. State of Kerala, SLP (Criminal) No. 5027/2023, dated 6 February 2023; e. This Court ought to issue directions to all state governments to instruct police offi cers to compulsorily follow the mandate of Sections 41 and 41-A of the Code of Criminal Procedure 197346 when responding to complaints involving queer and transgender adults who voluntarily leave natal homes; 46 “CrPC” SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR.