I am not persuaded to accept the contention of the learned senior counsel for the respondent that it is only in the event of a challenge to clause 5.15 of the RFP on the ground that it is violative of the fundamental rights of the petitioner under Article 14 of the Constitution of India, that this Court can hold the said clause, in the RFP, as illegal. After the amendment of the 1996 Act in 2015, the law must be taken to be that any clause in an agreement, that requires one of the contracting parties to make a deposit of amount as a precondition for invoking the arbitration, has to be seen as rendering the entire clause arbitrary, being not only excessive or disproportionate but leading to a wholly unjust situation in arbitration proceedings, that are ordinarily to be encouraged on account of the high pendency of cases in courts and the ever-increasing cost of litigation. I am therefore of the opinion that even if the clause in the RFP is to be treated as supplementing Article 22 of the Concessionaire Agreement, the off ending conditions in the RFP would have to be ignored in view of the declaration of law by the Supreme Court in the cases referred above.” (Emphasis supplied) 45. In the aforesaid decision of the Kerala High Court, the learned Single Judge after due consideration of the decisions of this Court in Perkins Eastman (supra) and ICOMM Tele Limited (supra), held that any clause in the agreement that requires one of the contracting parties to make a deposit of an amount as a pre-condition for invoking the arbitration should be seen as one rendering the entire clause arbitrary being not only excessive or disproportionate but something that may lead to a wholly unjust situation. Ultimately Article 22 of the concessionaire agreement therein was ignored while appointing an arbitrator in an application fi led under Section 11(6) of the Act 1996. 970 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 46. The Assan Co-Op. L & C Society v. Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Ltd., ARB-127-2019 (Section 11 Petition) and CWP-13539-2021 (Civil Writ Petition) Date of : 03.112021 Forum: High Court of Punjab and Haryana (Single-Judge) Nature of the Clause: “Clause 25A of the Contract (Annexure P-1) reads as under:- “If any question, dispute, diff erence of opinions whatsoever arises in any way connected with or arising out of instrument for meaning or operation of any part thereof or the rights, duties or liabilities of either party, including the termination of the contract by either party and correctness thereof at any stage whatsoever it shall be referred to arbitration of MD/Chief Engineer of HVPNL or his nominee not below the rank of Superintending Engineer subject to the following conditions:- xxx xxx xxx 7. In case the party invoking the arbitration is the contractor, the reference for arbitration shall be maintainable only after the contractor furnishes to the satisfaction of Engineering-In Charge a case security fee deposited @ 3% of the total amount claimed by him.