Besides this A even employer and employee relationship was not proved to claim compensation. The High Court upheld the findings of the Commissioner on the delay in filing of claim petition. However, nothing was discussed on the issue of employer and employee relationship. 9. Two issues arise in the present appeal. Firstly, whether there B was sufficient cause for condonation of approximately 9 years and five months delay in filing the Application before the Commissioner under the 1923 Act. Secondly, in the event the aforesaid hurdle is crossed, whether the relationship of employer and employee has been proved. 10. In our opinion, the issue regarding relationship of employer C and employee between the deceased and the respondent no.1-Jayram Ganpati Jagtap needs to be considered first. 11. As far as the relationship is concerned, the Commissioner had framed the following issue: “Do the Applicants prove that, the accident of deceased was arose D during the course of and out of his employment with Opponent NO.1?” 12. In the evidence led by the appellant no.1, she admitted in her cross-examination that the owner of the vehicle was brother of her husband. It was further admitted that they were having common ration E card. They were members of the same Joint Hindu family. Salary certificate of the deceased was produced on record, however the same was not proved. There is nothing to suggest that the so-called employer had admitted the relationship of master and servant. Even before this Court, the learned counsel for the appellants has not been able to refer F the evidence produced on record to show that there existed the master and servant relationship between the deceased and the respondent no.1, namely, the owner of the vehicle who has not chosen to put in appearance despite service. 13. The conduct of the parties it is evident from the award of the G Tribunal where with a view to receive compensation from the offending vehicle, the owner of the vehicle had appeared in the witness box and stated that he was paying salary of 2,000/- to the deceased and a daily allowance of 25/-. In case that was so, nothing prevented the owner of the vehicle, who is said to be the employer, to have appeared before the Commissioner and admitted the relationship of employer and employee. H 100 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A In fact, the conduct of the parties now shows that they intended to claim compensation from the offending vehicle. In a calculated move, no claim was made against the owner of the vehicle or the Insurance Company of the vehicle, being driven by the deceased, before the Tribunal. 14. The relationship of employer and employee has not been proved B before the Commissioner. In our opinion, the same being the basic requirement to be fulfilled for claiming compensation under the 1923 Act, the appellants may not be entitled to receive any compensation. 15. Even on the ground of delay in filing the application before the Commissioner i.e.