v. UNION 1363 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] emanates from these rights. These rights demand that each individual be free to determine the course of their life, as long as their actions are not barred by law. Choosing a life partner is an integral part of determining the course of one’s life. Most people consider this decision to be one of the most important decisions of their lives – one which defi nes their very identity. Life partners live together, spend a signifi cant amount of time with one other, merge their respective families, create a family of their own, care for each other in times of sickness, support one another and much more. Hence, the ability to choose one’s partner and to build a life together goes to the root of the right to life and liberty under Article 21. Undoubtedly, many persons choose not to have a life partner – but this is by choice and not by a deprivation of their agency. The law constrains the right to choose a partner in certain situations such as when they are within prohibited degrees of relationships or are in a consanguineous relationship. 234. Principle 24 of the Yogyakarta Principles (on the application of international human rights law in relation to sexual orientation and gender identity)206 states that all people have the right to found a family: “Everyone has the right to found a family, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity. Families exist in diverse forms. No family may be subjected to discrimination on the basis of the sexual orientation or gender identity of any of its members.” While India is not a signatory to the Yogyakarta Principles, this Court has recognized their relevance to the adjudication of cases concerning sexual minorities.207 Depriving someone of the freedom to choose their life partner robs them of their autonomy, which in turn is an aff ront to their dignity. Preventing members of the LGBTQ community from entering into a union also has the result of denying (in eff ect) the validity of their sexuality because their sexuality is the reason for such denial. This, too, would violate the right to autonomy which extends to choosing a gender identity and sexual orientation. The act of entering into an intimate relationship and the choices made in such relationships are also protected by the right to privacy. As held by this Court in Navtej (supra) and Justice KS Puttaswamy (9J) (supra), 206 “Yogyakarta Principles” 207 NALSA (supra); Navtej Singh Johar (supra) 136 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. the right to privacy is not merely the right to be left alone but extends to decisional privacy or privacy of choice. III. The right to health 235. The right to health is also a crucial component of the right to life and liberty.208 The health of a person includes both, their physical and their mental wellbeing. Parliament enacted the Mental Healthcare Act 2017209 to regulate the provision of mental healthcare services. An assessment of the mental health of a person cannot be limited to considering whether they have a mental illness or disease but must also include an assessment of whether their mental health is thriving.