If an offence takes place inside the privacy of a house and F in such circumstances where the assailants have all the opportunity to plan and commit the offence at the time and in circumstances of their choice, it will be extremely difficult for the prosecution to lead evidence to establish the guilt of the accused if the strict principle of circumstantial evidence, as noticed above, G is insisted upon by the courts. A judge does not preside over a criminal trial merely to see that no innocent man is punished. A judge also presides to see that a guilty man does not escape. Both are public duties. (See Stirland v. Director of Public Prosecutions8 — quoted with approval by Arijit Pasayat, J. 8 1944 AC 315: (1944) 2 All ER 13 (HL). H 846 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A in State of Punjab v. Karnail Singh9.) The law does not enjoin a duty on the prosecution to lead evidence of such character which is almost impossible to be led or at any rate extremely difficult to be led. The duty on the prosecution is to lead such evidence which it is capable of leading, having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case. Here it is necessary to keep in mind B Section 106 of the Evidence Act which says that when any fact is especially within the knowledge of any person, the burden of proving that fact is upon him……. 15. Where an offence like murder is committed in secrecy inside a house, the initial burden to establish the case would undoubtedly C be upon the prosecution, but the nature and amount of evidence to be led by it to establish the charge cannot be of the same degree as is required in other cases of circumstantial evidence. The burden would be of a comparatively lighter character. In view of Section 106 of the Evidence Act there will be a corresponding D burden on the inmates of the house to give a cogent explanation as to how the crime was committed. The inmates of the house cannot get away by simply keeping quiet and offering no explanation on the supposed premise that the burden to establish its case lies entirely upon the prosecution and there is no duty at all on an accused to offer any explanation. E *** *** *** 21.In a case based on circumstantial evidence where no eyewitness account is available, there is another principle of law which must be kept in mind. The principle is that when an incriminating circumstance is put to the accused and the said F accused either offers no explanation or offers an explanation which is found to be untrue, then the same becomes an additional link in the chain of circumstances to make it complete. This view has been taken in a catena of decisions of this Court.” 14.3. The case of Sudru v. State of Chhattisgarh: (2019) 8 G SCC 333 had been the one where the appellant was charged of the murder of his son in his house; and the principal prosecution witnesses, including wife of the appellant, turned hostile to the prosecution but, the facts did come out of their testimony that the deceased was left alone in 9 (2003) 11 SCC 271: 2004 SCC (Cri) 135.