[2023] 7 S.C.R. 85 85 THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX JAIPUR A v. PRAKASH CHAND LUNIA (D) THR. LRS. & ANR. (Civil Appeal Nos. 7689-90 of 2022) APRIL 24, 2023 B [M. R. SHAH AND M. M. SUNDRESH, JJ.] Income Tax Act, 1961 – Explanation to s.37(1) – ‘any expenditure’ in s.37 – Expenditure/loss incurred for any purpose which is an offence or prohibited by law, not deductible in terms of C Explanation 1 to s.37 – High Court relying upon the decision of Supreme Court in Piara Singh case allowed the loss of confiscation of silver bars as a business loss – Sustainability of – Held: Not sustainable – Explanation to s.37(1) provides that any expenditure incurred by the assessee for any purpose which is an offence or prohibited by law is not an allowable business expense – In the D present case, the main business of the assessee was dealing in silver – His business cannot be said to be smuggling of the silver bars as was the case in Piara Singh – Assessee was carrying on an otherwise legitimate silver business and in attempt to make larger profits, he indulged into smuggling of silver, which was an infraction of law – E High Court erred in relying upon the Piara Singh case – Impugned set aside – of the assessing officer, CIT(A) and ITAT rejecting theclaim of the respondent-assessee to treat the silver bars confiscated by the customs authorities as business loss restored – Per M.M. Sundresh. J (Supplementing)‘any expenditure’ mentioned in s.37 takes in its sweep loss occasioned in the course of business, F being incidental to it – Thus, any loss incurred by way of an expenditure by an assessee for any purpose which is an offence or which is prohibited by law is not deductible in terms of Explanation 1 to s.37 – A penalty or a confiscation is a proceeding in rem, and therefore, a loss in pursuance to the same is not available for G deduction regardless of the nature of business, as a penalty or confiscation cannot be said to be incidental to any business – Decisions in Piara Singh and Dr. T.A. Quereshi do not lay down correct law in light of the decision in Haji Aziz and the insertion of Explanation 1 to s.37 – Impugned set aside – Finance (No.2) Act 1998 – Income Tax Act, 1922 – ss.10(1), (2). H 85 86 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 The provisions of Section 37(1) under the Act has been amended by Finance (No.2) Act, 1998 by introducing Explanation 1 thereto w.e.f. 01.04.1962 wherein any expenditure incurred by the assessee for any purpose which is an offence or B prohibited by law is not an allowable business expense. It is true that in the present case the respondent - assessee did not claim value of silver bars confiscation as business expenses thus claimed as business loss. However, the amendment to Section 37 might have some bearing on the issue involved.