The SICs consists of the State Chief Information Commissioner and such number of State Information Commissioners, not exceeding ten, as may be deemed necessary. The general superintendence, direction, and management of the aff airs of the SICs is vested in the State Chief Information Commissioner. 9. Section 18 specifi es the powers and functions of Information Commissions in the following terms: “18. Powers and functions of Information Commissions – (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, it shall be the duty of the Central Information Commission or State Information Commission, as the case may be, to receive and inquire into a complaint from any person, – (a) who has been unable to submit a request to a Central Public Information Offi cer or State Public Information Offi cer, as the case may be, either by reason that no such offi cer has been appointed under this Act, or because the Central Assistant Public Information Offi cer or State Assistant Public Information Offi cer, as the case may be, has refused to accept his or her application for information or appeal under this Act for forwarding the same to the Central Public Information 4 “CPIO” 5 “SPIO” 484 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. Offi cer or State Public Information Offi cer or senior offi cer specifi ed in sub-section (1) of section 19 or the Central Information Commission or the State Information Commission, as the case may be; (b) who has been refused access to any information requested under this Act; (c) who has not been given a response to a request for information or access to information within the time limits specifi ed under this Act; (d) who has been required to pay an amount of fee which he or she considers unreasonable; (e) who believes that he or she has been given incomplete, misleading, or false information under this Act; and (f) in respect of any other matter relating to requesting or obtaining access to records under this Act. (2) Where the Central Information Commission or State Information Commission, as the case may be, is satisfi ed that there are reasonable grounds to inquire into the matter, it may initiate an inquiry in respect thereof. (3) The Central Information Commission or State Information Commission, as the case may be, shall, while inquiring into any matter under this section, have the same powers as are vested in a civil suit while trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), in respect of the following matters, namely:- (a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of persons and compel them to give oral or written evidence on oath and to produce the documents or things; (b) requiring the discovery and inspection of documents; (c) receiving evidence on affi davit; (d) requisitioning any public record or copies thereof from any court or offi ce; (e) issuing summons for examination of witnesses or documents; and (f) any other matter which may be prescribed. KISHAN CHAND JAIN v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS 485 (4) Notwithstanding anything inconsistent contained in any other Act of Parliament or the State Legislature, as the case may be, the Central Information Commission or the State Information Commission, as the case may be, may during the inquiry of any complaint under this Act, examine any record to which this Act applies which is under the control of the public authority, and no such record may be withheld from it on any grounds.” 10.