No argument referring to the audit report was raised before the High Court. 5. The learned counsel for the respondent further submitted that, once the notice was issued to the establishment regarding application and coverage under the provisions of the EPF Act by clubbing the two Institutes being run by the Society, the onus was on the establishment to controvert the same, by placing relevant material on record. In fact, even before the Commissioner, the appellant failed to produce any record and appear regularly. The Tribunal also adjudicated the appellant’s appeal in its absence. The Single Judge of the High Court had also noted that the appellant had failed to produce any material to support the claim that there is no common supervisory or fi nancial management and that the two Institutes were distinct with separate management and not interconnected. The fact remained that both are being run by the same Society. The respondent further submitted that copy of the statement of bank account,placed on record by the appellant before this Court, shows that the account was opened on 07.07.2004. Thus, the same will not establish that both the Institutes are not being run by the same Society and are independent. The respondent also submitted that just because the two Institutes are off ering diff erent courses,having permission from diff erent authorities, will not exclude the coverage under the EPF Act. Even the fact that one of the Institutes is getting 100% grant-in-aid whereas the other is getting 70%, is also not relevant. The respondent submitted that there is no M/s MATHOSRI MANIKBAI KOTHARI COLLEGE OF VISUAL ARTS v. THE 543 ASSISTANT PROVIDENT FUND COMMISSIONER [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] merit in the present appeal and the same deserves to be dismissed. Reliance was placed by the respondent upon s of this Court in Noor Niwas Nursery Public School v. Regional Provident Fund Commissioner and others, (2001) 1 SCC 1and Shree Vishal Printers Limited, Jaipur v. Regional Provident Fund Commissioner, Jaipur and another (2019) 9 SCC 508. 6. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the relevant referred record. 7. The undisputed facts on record are that the Society had initially set up ‘Ideal Institute’ in the year 1965 and later it set up ‘Arts College’ in the year 1985-86. Both the Institutes are being managed by the Society. It is also an admitted fact that the Ideal Institute employed 8 persons, whereas the Arts College employed 18 persons. Under the provisions of the EPF Act, if any establishment employs 20 or more persons, the same shall be covered under the provisions of the EPF Act for grant of various benefi ts thereunder to the employees working there, the EPF Act being a welfare legislation. 8. The issue which requires consideration in the present appeal is regarding the clubbing of two Institutions being run by the same Society i.e., Ideal Fine Arts Society. In case the two Institutions are interconnected, these can be clubbed for the purpose of coverage under the EPF Act.