According to the said provision, the Supreme Court would G have power to review any or made by it subject to the provisions of any law made by the Parliament or any Rules made under Article 145. The Supreme Court Rules 2013 have been framed under Article 145 by this Court and duly approved by the President. It may be stated that no law has been made by H 734 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A the Parliament in that respect and, as such, the power of review vested in this Court would be governed by the Rules. 8.3. XLVII of Part-IV of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013 provides for the powers of review and the procedure for hearing such review. The said provision is reproduced hereunder: B “PART-IV XLVII REVIEW 1. The Court may review its or , but no C application for review will be entertained in a civil proceeding except on the ground mentioned in XLVII, rule I of the Code, and in a criminal proceeding except on the ground of an error apparent on the face of the record. The application for review shall be accompanied by a D certificate of the Advocate on Record certifying that it is the first application for review and is based on the grounds admissible under the Rules. 2. An application for review shall be by a petition, and shall be filed within thirty days from the date of the or E sought to be reviewed. It shall set out clearly the grounds for review. 3. Unless otherwise ed by the Court an application for review shall be disposed of by circulation without any oral arguments, but the petitioner may supplement his petition by F additional written arguments. The Court may either dismiss the petition or direct notice to the opposite party. An application for review shall as far as practicable be circulated to the same Judge or Bench of Judges that delivered the or sought to be reviewed. G 4. Where on an application for review the Court reverses or modifies its former decision in the case on the ground of mistake of law or fact, the Court, may, if it thinks fit in the interests of justice to do so, direct the refund to the petitioner of the court-fee paid on the application in whole or in part, as it may think fit. H ARUN DEV UPADHYAYA v. INTEGRATED SALES SERVICE 735 LTD. & ANR. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] 5. Where an application for review of any and A has been made and disposed of, no further application for review shall be entertained in the same matter.” A perusal of the above provision makes it amply clear that in a civil proceeding review could not be entertained except on the grounds mentioned in XLVII Rule 1 of C.P.C. B 8.4. Section 114 of CPC vests power of review in Courts and XLVII Rule 1 CPC provides for the scope and procedure for filing a review petition. The same is reproduced hereunder: “ XLVII Rule 1 CPC: C “1.