Accordingly, the appellant entered into a consortium agreement with a Chinese company by the name of Fujian Longking Company Limited, the fourth respondent. Annexure 1 of the agreement specifi ed the rights and responsibilities of the appellant on the one hand and the Chinese company on the other in the following terms: “1. The fi rst party (M/s BTL EPC Ltd. Kolkata) shall undertake complete works as detailed in NIT which includes detailed design & engineering, manufacturing, supply, erection, testing, commissioning, trial run, demonstration of PG test and handing over for complete ash handling plant. 2. The second party (M/s Fujian Longking, China) shall undertake basic design, vetting of detail engineering, Support in BTL EPC LTD. v. MACAWBER BEEKAY PVT LTD AND 159 OTHERS [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] manufacturing, Support/Supervision of erecting, commissioning & PG test for complete AHP (excluding HCSD system).” 9. On 23 July 2020, the Public Procurement Division in the Department of Expenditure of the Union Ministry of Finance issued an imposing certain restrictions under Rule 144(xi) of the General Financial Rules 2017, whereby a prospective bidder from a country that shares a land b with India, would be eligible to bid, only if such bidder is registered with the Competent Authority. The , which is described as “Public Procurement No 1” specifi ed a requirement of registration in the following terms: “Requirement of registration 1. Any bidder from a country which shares a land b with India will be eligible to bid in any procurement whether of goods, services (including consultancy services and non- consultancy services) or works (including turnkey projects) only if the bidder is registered with the Competent Authority, specifi ed in Annex I. 2. This shall not apply to (i) cases where s have been placed or contract has been concluded or letter/notice of award/acceptance (LoA) has been issued on or before the date of this ; and (ii) cases falling under Annex II.” 10. Clause (6) of the defi ned a “bidder” as follows: “Bidder” for the purpose of this (including the term ‘tenderer’, ‘consultant’, ‘vendor’ or ‘service provider’ in certain contexts) means any person or fi rm or company, including any member of a consortium or joint venture (that is an association of several persons, or fi rms or companies), every artifi cial juridical person not falling in any of the descriptions of bidders stated hereinbefore, including any agency, branch or offi ce controlled by such person, participating in a procurement process.” 11. Similarly, clause (8) contains a defi nition of the expression “bidder from a country which shares a land b with India” in the following terms: “Bidder from a country which shares a land b with India” for the purpose of this means 160 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. a) An entity incorporated, established or registered in such a country; or b) A subsidiary of an entity incorporated, established or registered in such a country; or c) An entity substantially controlled through entities incorporated, established or registered in such a country; or d) An entity whose benefi cial owner is situated in such a country; or e) An Indian (or other) agent of such an entity; or f) A natural person who is a citizen of such a country; or g) A consortium or joint venture where any member of the consortium or joint venture falls under any of the above.” 12.