6. The proceedings initiated by the appellant under section 9 of 1996 Act are not disputed nor the s passed therein on 01.07.2013 and 11.11.2013. The dated 11.11.2013 had been passed after considering the objections fi led by respondent No.1 and also the submissions advanced by the counsel for the parties. It is a reasoned to which apparently there is no challenge. Pankaj Rastogi very well knew about the dated 01.07.2013 as also the dated 11.11.2013. 7. It is true that Ambuj Rastogi and Sushma Rastogi, the promoters and Directors of M/s Sushma Constructions Pvt. Ltd. were not parties to the proceedings under section 9 of the 1996 Act and rightly so for the reason that they were not partners with respect to the business being run in the shop in question. 8. It is diffi cult to presume that Ambuj Rastogi and Sushma Rastogi were not aware of the s passed in the section 9 proceedings under the 1996 Act but even if it is assumed that they were not aware of the said s the fact remains that respondent No.1 had due knowledge and was well aware of the s passed by the District Judge in the aforesaid proceedings. The purchase of the shop in question by M/s Sushma Constructions Pvt. Ltd. of which Ambuj Rastogi and Sushma Rastogi were the promoters/Directors from the erstwhile owner Smt. Urmila Gupta could have been part of the RUCHIR RASTOGI v. PANKAJ RASTOGI AND OTHERS 923 ETC. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] larger conspiracy planned in collusion with respondent No.1 but we refrain ourselves from recording any fi nding to that eff ect at this stage. 9. The fi ling of the Small Causes Suit for eviction by M/s Sushma Constructions Pvt. Ltd. impleading only respondent No.1 as the defendant speaks volumes about their collusion. What made Ambuj Rastogi believe that it was respondent No.1, who was alone the owner and in possession of the business being run from the shop in question, is nowhere refl ected. In any case, once the notices for eviction were served upon respondent No.1, he ought to have disclosed this fact in the said suit that fi rstly, the business in the shop in question was being jointly run by him and the appellant and more importantly, that there was an injunction operating passed by a competent Court of District Judge in proceedings under section 9 of the 1996 Act. Respondent No.1 almost admitted the claim for eviction which ultimately was the basis for the High Court to decree the suit. It was a collusive suit no doubt and, in any case, respondent No.1 had been dishonest and deliberately concealed the material fact from the Court. Further, respondent No.1 being under an injunction of preserving the assets and belongings of the shop separately in violation thereof proceeded to surrender the possession in compliance to the decree of eviction on 11.10.2018. Respondent No.1,along with other co-accused, including not only the Directors/promoters of M/s Sushma Constructions Pvt. Ltd. but also others, removed the assets and belongings inside the shop in question by breaking open the locks in violation of the injunction s. 10.