F Andhra Pradesh Amending Act (8 of 1988) – Proviso added to s.27, Stamp Act, 1899; s.47A – Held: Proviso to s.27 does empower the Officer to inspect the property, make local inquiries in the facts, call for connected records, examine them and satisfy that the provisions of s.27 are complied with – s.27 provides that the G consideration, if any, and the other facts and circumstances, affecting the chargeability of any instrument or the amount of duty, must be fully and correctly set forth – Equally, s.47A, empowers the Registering Officer to deal with undervalued instruments. H 1100 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Transfer of Property Act, 1882 – s.8 – Held: s.8 declares that in the absence of an express or implied indication, a transfer of property passes to the transferee all the interests, which the transferor was capable of passing in the property and in the legal incidents thereof – Such incidents includes, inter alia, where the property is land, all things attached to the earth – When the property is B machinery attached to the earth, the movable parts thereof also are comprehended in the transfer. Disposing of the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 The second respondent was, undoubtedly, the C auction purchaser. The auction sale related to the assets of the company, which included the land, the building, the plant and machinery and other assets. The vendee, who under the sale deed is the first respondent, being the nominee of the second respondent. It has 49 been recited in Clause (H) that the vendee has paid the full consideration. More significantly, it is stated D therein also that as per the terms of the sale properties have been sold by the vendor to the vendee on ‘as is where is whatever there is basis’. The total sale consideration, it is clear again from the sale deed itself, is Rs.8.35 crores, for the land, building, civil works, plant and machinery and current assets, etc. However, E what had been done is an amount of Rs.10105000/- has been taken as the value of the land, building and civil works based on the offer received by the Liquidator, when the assets were put up for sale individually. It is further stated that the purchaser has agreed to pay the stamp duty/registration fees/transfer fees as per the value derived by the Sub-Registrar. This last statement is F traceable to dated 15.06.2004 passed in civil Appeal 1202 of 2004 which we have referred to in paragraph 6. A copy of the said is enclosed with the sale deed. It is further stated that the 46 acres and a few cents was ‘now’ registered in favour of the vendee. In the Recital Clause, thereafter, what has been G purported to be done is that it is shown that the vendors have sold, transferred, conveyed, alienated, assigned to the vendee all the scheduled property. The matter does not end there. The aforesaid recital is followed up with the words ‘along with all the rights, easements, interests, etc., the rights which ordinarily H passed on through such sale on and over the said land in favour THE SUB REGISTRAR, AMUDALAVALASA & ANR.