[2023] 12 S.C.R. 117 : 2023 INSC 802 CASE DETAILS UNION OF INDIA & OTHERS v. JOGESHWAR SWAIN (Civil Appeal Nos. 8629-8630 of 2014) SEPTEMBER 05, 2023 [J. B. PARDIWALA AND MANOJ MISRA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether the High Court was justifi ed in setting aside the dismissal of the constable found guilty of misconduct, since it was vitiated by infraction of the prescribed procedure as also was based on no evidence. Service Law – B Security Force Act, 1968 – B Security Force Rules, 1969 – rr. 49(3), 142(2) – Dismissal from service – Plea of guilty – Procedural safeguards u/r. 142(2) – Non-compliance of – Allegations against B Security Force constable of clicking the photographs of lady doctor while she was taking bath – Proceedings initiated by the Summary Security Force Court wherein constable pleaded guilty – of dismissal from service against the constable – Set aside by the High Court on the ground of non-compliance of the prescribed procedure as also no evidence – Correctness: Held: High Court was justifi ed in fi nding the dismissal of the constable on the basis of the plea of guilty unwarranted and liable to be set aside in exercise of powers u/Art. 226 – Abstract of evidence recorded was not provided to the constable and twenty-four hours’ time was not given to him for refl ection thus, a clear infraction of the proviso to sub rule (3) of r. 49 – Confession, if any, made during the course of preparation of the record of evidence, liable to be ignored – Minutes of the proceedings of the SSFC was nothing but a verbataim reproduction of the statutory rule, thus, non-compliance of r. 142(2) – Minutes of the proceedings recording the plea of guilty did not bear the signature of the constable – In absence of signature of the constable, pleading guilty appears to be an unnatural conduct 117 118 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. and further dents the credibility of the SSFC proceeding – Furthermore, there was no eye-witness of the incident; the camera was recovered from some other person’s house; the witness to the keeping of the camera by the constable, in her previous statement made no such disclosure; there was no cogent evidence with regard to ownership of that camera; and, even the reel was not developed to confi rm the allegations – In these circumstances, heavy burden lay on the department to satisfy the conscience of the Court that the plea of guilty was recorded after due compliance of the procedure prescribed and the confession was made voluntarily – More so, when the record of evidence contained no worthwhile evidence regarding the guilt of the constable, the SSFC ought to have advised the petitioner to withdraw the plea of guilt – In view thereof, not a fi t case for interference in exercise of the jurisdiction u/Art. 136 – Constitution of India. [Paras 27, 28 and 35-39] B Security Force Act, 1968 – s. 87 – General rules as to evidence – Proceedings before the Security Force Court – Applicability of the Evidence Act: Held: By virtue of s. 87 of the BSF Act, the general rules of evidence as laid in the Evidence Act, subject to the provisions of the BSF Act, are applicable to all proceedings before Security Force Court – Thus, by virtue of s. 145 of the Evidence Act, witness may be cross examined as to previous statements made by him – Evidence Act, 1872 – s. 145.