1 and 2 before the Deputy Labour G Commissioner-cum-Commissioner for Workmen Compensation. 7. The records on hand would disclose that there was no further contest of the claim petition by them. On the other hand, the employer had clearly admitted the averments made in the claim petition filed by the claimants. In other words, there was no contest. The insurer of the H 1136 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A offending vehicle having filed the written statement seems to have not cross examined the claimants and their witnesses. Thus, the claim lodged by the claimants seeking for compensation would not partake the character of a “contested claim” as stipulated under the notification issued by the appropriate Government under Section 20 (1) and (2) of the W.C. Act. On this count itself, it has to be held that High Court fell in B error in arriving at a conclusion that claim petition was not maintainable before the Deputy Labour Commissioner-cum-Commissioner for Workmen Compensation and claimants had to pursue their grievance before the jurisdictional Labour Court. 8. In the normal course, we would have remitted the matter back C to the High Court for adjudicating the appeal on merits. However, we desist from doing so for the simple reason that the first claimant being a widow, the second claimant being the son and the third and the fourth claimants being the parents of the deceased are still awaiting for a reasonable compensation to be awarded. D 9. Hence, we have heard the learned Advocates appearing for the parties on the issue of quantum of just compensation which requires to be awarded to the claimants. 10. At this juncture itself, it would be apt and appropriate to note E that the insurer viz., the first respondent herein pursuant to the Award passed by the Deputy Labour Commissioner-cum-Commissioner for Workmen Compensation has deposited the award amount as submitted before this Court by the learned counsel. The insurer also did not assail the Award passed by the Deputy Labour Commissioner-cum- Commissioner for Workmen Compensation dated 10.10.2014. In other F words, it accepted its liability and is stated to have satisfied the Award passed. When this being the factual position, we would have to necessarily examine as to whether compensation awarded in favour of claimants is in terms of the statutory mandate. G 11. Having regard to the object of the Act which envisages dispensation of social justice, we are of the considered view that the Deputy Labour Commissioner-cum-Commissioner for Workmen Compensation fell in error in arriving at a conclusion that claimants’ income is to be construed at Rs.3,900/- p.m. or the minimum wage to be computed should be at Rs.150/- per day in the absence of any proof of H MAMTA DEVI & ORS. v. THE RELIANCE GENERAL INSURANCE 1137 COMPANY LIMITED & ANR. [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] income. The written statement filed by the employer would be a complete A answer to this, inasmuch as it is categorically admitted by the employer that deceased was drawing Rs.6,000/- per month as wages.