These constitutional values were enumerated as democracy, federalism, and constitutional morality. ii. The unilateral concurrence granted by the Governor to the actions of the President under Article 370 of the Constitution was assailed as the Jammu & Kashmir Constitution mandated that the Governor could have acted only with the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. The exception to this could only be actions present in Sections 36, 38 and 92 of the Jammu & Kashmir Constitution. iii. It was the bounden duty under the oath of the Governor which required him to uphold and preserve the Jammu & Kashmir Constitution, and the impugned action amounted to a breach of said oath taken by the Governor. iv. The constitutional power was not an instrument to eff ace any other constitutionally vested power. The impugned action practically amounted to eff acing the power vested with the Constituent Assembly of Jammu & Kashmir under Article 370(3). The principle of Miller v. Queen87 was referred to regarding this submission. v. The impugned action amounted to an amendment of Article 370 of the Constitution by addition of clause (4) to Article 367 of the Constitution. This exercise of power was stated to be mala fi de as it confi rmed that the objective of the amendment was to confer a 86 supra 87 (2019) UKSC 41 332 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. specialized authority on the Legislative Assembly which could not have ordinarily assumed that authority. vi. The Governor of the State acts on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. With the conditions not having been satisfi ed, the provision was unworkable. vii. Article 367 of the Constitution must be applied on its own terms and was meant as an aid in interpretation. The said Article could not be used to eff ectuate an amendment in another provision of the Constitution like, Article 370. viii. Article 370(3) of the Constitution begins with a non obstante clause and, thus, Article 367 of the Constitution was not available through that process as urged by Mr. Gopal Shankarnarayan. ix. There was stated to be an implied relation in any delegated power to create ‘exceptions and modifi cations’. This would include the corresponding power of the President under Article 370(1)(d) and such limitations were urged to be well recognized in the statutory provisions. There were stated to be more than one recognizing this limitation [Delhi Laws Act, In Re.88 and Kesavananda Bharati89 case para 1423]. This would amount to eff acing fundamentals of the provisions and, thus, no exception ought to be made. x. The observations in Puranlal Lakhanpal v. President of India90 were required to be construed strictly as a mere obiter of the Court. In the judicial adjudication already completed, the Court had already determined that the modifi cation in the facts of that case did not constitute a ‘radical alteration’. The inherent limitation of such power was recognized in the Kesavananda Bharati91 case and, thus, observations which set to dilute that principle in Puranlal Lakhanpal92 case have to be treated as per incuriam.