of Police may also, if satisfi ed as provided in sub-section (1), exercise the powers conferred by the said sub-section: Provided that the period specifi ed in the made by the State Government under this sub-section shall not, in the fi rst instance, exceed three months, but the State Government may, if satisfi ed as aforesaid that it is necessary so to do, amend such to extend such period from time to time by any period not exceeding three months at any one time. (3) When any is made under this section by an offi cer mentioned in sub-section (2), he shall forthwith report the fact to the State Government, together with the grounds on which the has been made and such other particulars as, in his opinion, have a bearing on the matter, and no such shall remain in force for more than twelve days after the making thereof, unless, in the meantime, it has been approved by the State Government.” 33. A plain reading of the section shows that the State Government under Section 3(1), if satisfi ed, with respect to any person that with a view to preventing him from acting in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of “public ”, it is necessary so to do, make an of detention against the person concerned. Sub-section (2) of Section 3 deals with the delegation of powers by the State Government and provides that if the State Government is satisfi ed, having regard to the circumstances prevailing in any area within the local limits of the jurisdiction of a District Magistrate or a Commissioner of Police, it is necessary to empower District Magistrate or the Commissioner of Police, as the case may be to exercise the powers of the State Government to detention of a person as provided by sub-section (1), then the State Government may, by an in writing direct that during such period as may be specifi ed in the , the District Magistrate or the Commissioner of Police may also if satisfi ed as provided in sub-section (1), exercise the powers of the State Government as conferred by sub-section (1). The proviso to sub-section (2), only lays down that the period of delegation of powers, specifi ed in the to be made by the State Government PESALA NOOKARAJU v. THE GOVERNMENT OF 561 ANDHRA PRADESH & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] under sub-section (2), delegating to the District Magistrate or the Commissioner of Police the powers under sub-section (1) shall not in the fi rst instance exceed three months. The proviso, therefore, has nothing to do with the period of detention of a detenu. The maximum period of detention is prescribed under Section 13 of the Act which lays down that a person may be detained in pursuance of any detention made under the Act, which has been confi rmed under Section 12 of the Act. It is, therefore, futile to contend that the of detention in the instant case was vitiated because it was for a period of more than three months.