v. Sahai, (1982) 1 SCC 352). D 14. In State of M.P. v. Paltan Mallah, (2005) 3 SCC 169 reiterating the same view it was observed: “8…….. This being an appeal against acquittal, this Court would be slow in interfering with the findings of the High Court, unless there is perverse appreciation of the evidence which resulted in E serious miscarriage of justice and if the High Court has taken a plausible view this Court would not be justified in interfering with the acquittal passed in favour of the accused and if two views are possible and the High Court had chosen one view which is just and reasonable, then also this Court would be reluctant to interfere F with the of the High Court.” 15. In a recent decision rendered by this Court in Basheera Begam v. Mohd. Ibrahim, (2020) 11 SCC 174, it was observed: “190. ………..Reversal of a and of conviction and acquittal of the accused should not ordinarily be interfered G with unless such reversal/acquittal is vitiated by perversity. In other words, the court might reverse an of acquittal if the court finds that no person properly instructed in law could have upon analysis of the evidence on record found the accused to be “not guilty”.” H STATE OF PUNJAB v. KEWAL KRISHAN 7 16. In light of the law noticed above, we would have to examine, A firstly, whether the High Court ignored or misread any material piece of evidence which has resulted in miscarriage of justice; secondly, whether there is any perversity in the appreciation of evidence; and, thirdly, whether the view taken by the High Court is a plausible view. 17. This is a case based on circumstantial evidence. It is trite law B that to convict an accused on the basis of circumstantial evidence, the prosecution must prove beyond reasonable doubt each of the incriminating circumstances on which it proposes to rely; the circumstance(s) relied upon must be of a definite tendency unerringly pointing towards accused’s guilt and must form a chain so far complete that there is no escape from C the conclusion that within all human probability it is the accused and no one else who had committed the crime and they (it) must exclude all other hypothesis inconsistent with his guilt and consistent with his innocence. 18. In the instant case, we notice from the record that the dead D body of the deceased, lying in a naked condition in his house, was first discovered by PW-6, nephew of the deceased, on 12.12.1998 at around 1.00 pm. Upon discovery of the dead body, on the information provided by PW-6, FIR was registered against unknown accused and inquest etc. was carried out. What is important is that the name of the accused did not surface on the record till 25.12.1998, that is when he was allegedly E handed over to the police by PW-3 upon a confession made by him before PW-3. PW-2, the sole witness of the last seen circumstance, in his deposition in court, stated that he had expressed his suspicion in respect of accused’s involvement to the police on 13.12.1998.