100. The constitutional scheme permits the Constitution to adapt itself to a unitary structure in exceptional situations, with the powers of the Union Parliament taking precedence over the State Legislature. Article 355 casts an additional burden on the Union to protect the State from any form of external 124 (supra) 364 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. aggression and internal disturbance whilst mandating the Union to oversee that every State is functioning in consonance with the Constitution. During Constituent Assembly debates, Dr. B.R.Ambedkar aptly distinguished the nature of the Constitution of India from the federalism in the United States and succinctly defi ned how the Constitution of India is equipped to adapt itself to a federal or unitary structure of governance based on the situation at hand. The relevant portion is extracted below: “All federal systems including the American are placed in a tight mould of federalism. No matter what the circumstances, it cannot change its form and shape. It can never be unitary. On the other hand the Draft Constitution can be both unitary as well as federal according to the requirements of time and circumstances. In normal times, it is framed to work as a federal system. But in times of war it is so designed as to make it work as though it was a unitary system.”125 101. Sub-clause (a) of Article 356(1) permits the President to assume “all or any” of the functions of the State Government, powers exercisable by the Governor or any other authority in the State. However, the sub-clause excludes the President from assuming powers of the State Legislature. In the present case scenario, the State Legislature was already dissolved before the imposition of emergency under Article 356. 102. Sub-clause (b) of Article 356(1) allows the Union Parliament to exercise the powers of the State Legislature under a proclamation made by the President. Evidently, sub-clause (b) is of a wider amplitude since the term “powers of the Legislature of the State” includes all powers exercisable by the State Legislature, and the same would encompass legislative and non-legislative functions. When the provision explicitly allows the Union Parliament to exercise all powers of the State Legislature without carving out an exception, it would be incorrect to read the provision implying any restrictions. Though Article 357 is in continuance of Article 356, the former does not stipulate any bar or restriction on the Union Parliament or President to exercise non-legislative powers of the State Legislature. 125 Constituent Assembly Debates, Vol. VII, Pg 34 IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 365 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] 103. Article 357 of the Constitution is another unitary feature of our Constitution since the prime and focal power of the State Legislature, i.e., the power to make laws, is transferred to the Union Parliament during an emergency and in the absence of a State Legislature. The Union Parliament further derives competency from Clause (1) of Article 357 to confer on the President the power of the State Legislature to make laws.