The defection of MLAs would alter the composition of the House, and in most cases would lead to the toppling of the Government. Moral and democratic principles are compromised when a legislator shifts allegiance after the B electorate votes for that legislator on the belief that they represent the ideology of a certain political party. The Tenth Schedule was introduced, as the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Constitution (Fifty Second Amendment) Bill 1985 states, to combat the evil of political defections which was “likely to undermine the very foundations of our democracy and the principles which sustain it.”36 In Kihoto Hollohan C (supra), SR Bommai, and Kuldip Nayar v. Union of India37 this Court recognized that political parties are central to the Indian democratic set- up, and that the Tenth Schedule seeks to curb defections from political parties. When the anti-defection law seeks to curb defections from a political party, it is only a logical corollary to recognize that the power to D appoint a Whip vests with the political party. 113. To hold that it is the legislature party which appoints the Whip would be to sever the figurative umbilical cord which connects a member of the House to the political party. It would mean that legislators could rely on the political party for the purpose of setting them up for E election, that their campaign would be based on the strengths (and weaknesses) of the political party and its promises and policies, that they could appeal to the voters on the basis of their affiliation with the party, but that they can later disconnect themselves entirely from that very party and be able to function as a group of MLAs which no longer owes even a hint of allegiance to the political party. This is not the system F of governance that is envisaged by the Constitution. In fact, the Tenth Schedule guards against precisely this outcome. 114. That a Whip be appointed by the political party is crucial for the sustenance of the Tenth Schedule. The entire structure of the Tenth Schedule which is built on political parties would crumble if this G requirement is not complied with. It would render the provisions of the 36 Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Fifty-second Amendment) Bill, 1985 (Bill No. 22 of 1985) which was enacted as the Constitution (Fifty-second Amendment) Act, 1985 37 (2006) 7 SCC 1 H 934 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Tenth Schedule otiose and have wider ramifications for the democratic fabric of this country. Thus, the Courts cannot be excluded by Article 212 from inquiring into the validity of the action of the Speaker recognizing the Whip. 115. On 25 November 2019, a meeting with the newly elected B MLAs belonging to the Shiv Sena was chaired by Mr. Uddhav Thackeray, in his capacity as the Shiv Sena Party President (‘Paksh Pramukh’). The resolution notes that the MLAs unanimously resolved that all decisions in the meeting would be taken by Mr. Thackeray.