Information shared by the Income Tax Department and analysis of documents and digital devices seized during the searches conducted u/s 17 of PMLA, 2002 revealed that Smt. Saumya Chaurasia, Deputy Secretary working in the Chief Minister’s Offi ce, is one of the key persons in creation of the syndicate headed by Shri Suryakant Tiwari. An extortion racket of this magnitude & nature was possible only when multiple State agencies fell in place and everyone supported the illegal acts of Suryakant Tiwari. This was made possible by Saumya Chaurasia so that pliant offi cers were posted in the coal mining districts who would listen to Suryakant Tiwari. Also, it was an unwritten rule that instructions of Suryakant Tiwari meant the voice of Saumya Chaurasia and the powers to be. The fact that Suryakant Tiwari had personal & close offi cial dealings with her and was carrying her instructions to the Offi cers, made it possible for Suryakant Tiwari to also command senior District level offi cers. This illegal authority was essential for him to run his empire of illegal extortion from Coal & Iron Pellet transportation. Without his concurrence, no NOG was issued by the district machinery. All this was made possible by the fact that he was in the good books of Mrs. Saumya Chaurasia. Therefore, she has directly indulged in the off ence of Money Laundering as defi ned under section 3 of the PMLA, 2002 being actually involved in the process of Money Laundering by way of possession, concealment, use, acquisition and projecting the Proceeds of Crime as untainted property. As per the fi ndings of the investigation, it can be inferred that Saumya Chaurasia has directly acquired proceeds of crime as defi ned under section 2(l)(u) of the PMLA, 2002 to an extent of more than Rs. 30 862 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. crores. ED’s investigation makes it evident that although all the money of extortion on Coal & Iron Pellet transportation was collected by the syndicate of Suryakant Tiwari, he was not the fi nal benefi ciary of this scam. He did utilize large amounts of money for purchasing benami assets, but big chunks of the money was transferred to Saumya Chaurasia, spent on political funding and transferred as per the instructions of higher powers. Mr. Manish Upadhyay, a relative of Mr. Suryakant Tiwari, is a close associate of both Mrs. Saumya Chaurasia & Mr. Suryakant Tiwari. ED investigation has established that Mr. Manish Upadhyay was inserted in as an extra layer of protection for cash dealings between Mr. Suryakant Tiwari and Mrs. Saumya Chaurasia. He used to transport cash from Mr. Suryakant Tiwari to Mrs. Saumya Chaurasia. ED investigation has established that Mrs. Saumya Chaurasia and her family went on a spree of acquiring immovable assets during the period which coincided with the Coal levy scam. These assets of which she is the real benefi cial owner were identifi ed and attached by issuance of Provisional Attachment s(s) as detailed in succeeding paras.” 21.