The ECI allots a symbol to every candidate who contests elections, in accordance with the Symbols .45 Some symbols are B called “reserved symbols” because they are reserved for a recognised political party and are exclusively allotted to candidates set up by that party and the remaining symbols are called “free symbols.”46 The political party is granted recognition under the Symbols based on the total number of candidates returned to the Legislative Assembly or the total C percentage of votes secured by the political party. Candidates set up by recognised political parties must contest elections by using the symbol that is reserved for their party, and no other symbol.47 In contrast, candidates other than those who are set up by national or state political parties and who do not fall under certain special categories,48 may choose and will be allotted a free symbol.49 Reserved symbols are not allotted D to candidates who are not set up by the political party for which that symbol has been reserved.50 133. From this, it is evident that the purpose of the Symbols is: E a. To provide a uniform procedure for the recognition of political parties; and b. To provide a uniform and just system for the allotment of symbols for candidates to contest in elections. 134. The raison d’être for the Symbols is the fact that F political parties (and ‘independent’ candidates) rely on the symbol allotted to them while campaigning to the electorate. To a significant extent, the electorate too, associates the symbol allotted to a party with the party itself and with the candidates set up for election by that party. The 43 Paragraph 6(2), Symbols G 44 Paragraphs 6A, 6B, 6C, Symbols 45 Paragraph 4, Symbols 46 Paragraph 5, Symbols 47 Paragraph 8, Symbols 48 Paragraphs 10, 10A, 10B, Symbols 49 Paragraph 12, Symbols 50 Paragraph 8(3), Symbols H 940 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A association between the party, the candidates set up for election by that party, and the symbol is strengthened with the passage of time. This association becomes significant in the polling booth when voters press the button on the Electronic Voting Machine to register their vote for a particular candidate because the symbol is depicted on or next to the button. The association is doubly significant for voters who have not had B the opportunity to attain literacy and who rely solely on symbols to cast their vote. In this way, symbols are crucial to the contest of elections. It is therefore not surprising that when rival factions of a political party emerge, both or all such factions vie for the symbol allotted to that party. 135. The ECI is empowered to adjudicate disputes between rival C sections or groups of a recognised political party, each of whom claims to be that party, under Paragraph 15 of the Symbols . When such a dispute arises, the ECI will decide if one of the rival sections or groups is that recognised political party. In the alternative, it may decide that none of the rival groups is that recognised political party.