G The prosecution witness Nirma @ Gudiya, in her police statement, has identified the petitioner and other co-accused persons in the CCTV footage, but in her court statement, she has not supported the prosecution story and turned hostile. So far as witness Rohit is concerned, I have gone through his police H 512 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A statement and in those statement, he has simply stated that he was informed that the incident is carried out by the petitioner and other co-accused persons. Having regard to the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case, without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, I deem it just and proper to grant bail to the petitioner(s) under Section 439 Cr.P.C. Accordingly, this/these B second bail application(s) filed under Section 439 Cr.P.C. is/are allowed and it is directed that petitioner(s) – Vikash Vishnoi S/o Hanuman Ram shall be released on bail in connection with FIR No.134/2020 of Police Station Mandore, District Jodhpur provided he/she/they execute(s) a personal bond in the sum of Rs.50,000/ C - with two sound and solvent sureties of Rs.25,000/- each to the satisfaction of learned trial court for his/her/their appearance before that court on each and every date of hearing and whenever called upon to do so till the completion of the trial.” Impugned dated 02 February, 2023 D “Having regard to the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case, without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, I deem it just and proper to grant bill to the accused petitioners under Section 439 Cr.P.C. Accordingly, the bail applications filed under Section 439 E Cr.P.C. are allowed and it is directed that petitioners Raju @ Rajendra Bishnoi S/o of Pukhraj @ Papparam and Budharam S/o Kojaram shall be released on bail in connection with F.I.R. No.134/2020, registered at Police Station Mandore, District Jodhpur provided each of them executes a personal bond in a sum of Rs.50,000/- with two sound and solvent sureties of F Rs.25,000/- each to the satisfaction of learned trial court for their appearance before that court on each and every date of hearing and whenever called upon to do so till the completion of the trial.” 18. This Court has, on several occasions discussed the factors to be considered by a Court while deciding a bail application. The primary G considerations which must be placed at balance while deciding the grant of bail are: (i) The seriousness of the offence; (ii) The likelihood of the accused fleeing from justice; (iii) The impact of release of the accused on the prosecution witnesses; (iv) Likelihood of the accused tampering with evidence. While such a list is not exhaustive, it may be stated that if H ROHIT BISHNOI v. THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ANR. 513 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] a Court takes into account such factors in deciding a bail application, it A could be concluded that the decision has resulted from a judicious exercise of its discretion, vide Gudikanti Narasimhulu vs. Public Prosecutor, High Court of Andhra Pradesh- [(1978) 1 SCC 240] ; Prahlad Singh Bhati vs. NCT, Delhi– [(2001) 4 SCC 280] ; Anil Kumar Yadav vs. State (NCT of Delhi) - [(2018) 12 SCC 129].