However, the said Regulations are silent on the contingency as to what would happen if an offi cer is met with a penalty of compulsory retirement. 16. Further if we look at Section 4 of the Gratuity Act, it elucidates the conditions of payment of gratuity to an employee on termination of his services. In particular, sub-section (6) of Section 4 highlights the conditions when gratuity can be withheld to an employee on his termination. The relevant portion has been reproduced as under: (6) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1)- (a) the gratuity of an employee, whose services have been terminated for any act, wilful omission or negligence causing any damage or loss to, or destruction of, property belonging to the employer shall be forfeited to the extent of the damage or loss so caused; (b) the gratuity payable to an employee shall be wholly forfeited- (i) if the services of such employee have been terminated for his riotous or disly conduct or any other act of violence on his part, or (ii) if the services of such employee have been terminated for any act which constitutes an off ence involving moral turpitude, provided that such off ence is committed by him in the course of his employment. 17. The provisions of Gratuity Act make it clear that forfeiture of gratuity may be directed to the extent of damage or loss so caused or destruction of property belonging to employer. In twin situations where the termination is due to riotous or disly conduct or involvement of the employee in a criminal case involving moral turpitude, the gratuity shall be wholly forfeited. 18. This Court in the case of Y.K. Singla vs. Punjab National Bank and others (2013) 3 SCC 472, while considering the issue of interest on 208 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. the late payment of gratuity to a retired employee of Punjab National Bank held that the payment of Gratuity Act will override the Punjab National Bank (Employees’) Pension Regulations, 1995 (for short “1995 Pension Regulations”). While dealing with the issue of recovery from gratuity under Regulation 46 or withholding of pension under Regulation 46(2) of the said Regulations, this Court in paragraph 22, after referring to Section 14 of the Gratuity Act, has held as under: “22. In to determine which of the two provisions (the Gratuity Act, or the 1995 Regulations) would be applicable for determining the claim of the appellant, it is also essential to refer to Section 14 of the Gratuity Act, which is being extracted hereunder:- “14. Act to override other enactments, etc. – The provisions of this Act or any rule made thereunder shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any enactment other than this Act or in any instrument or contract having eff ect by virtue of any enactment other than this Act.” (emphasis supplied) A perusal of Section 14 leaves no room for any doubt that a superior status has been vested in the provisions of the Gratuity Act vis-à-vis any other enactment (including any other instrument or contract) inconsistent therewith.