Competition Act, 2002: ss. 2(r), 2(s), 2(t), 3, 4, 19 – Anti Competitive Agreements – Abuse of Dominant Position – Historical Background of the Act – Scheme and Provisions of the Act – Discussed. G Competition Act, 2002: ss. 18, 26, 27, 33, 36 and 41 – Competition Commission of India – Director General – Power and Duties – Discussed. The Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1973 – ss. 3, 4, 5 and 11 –Preamble and Object – Discussed. H COAL INDIA LIMITED v. COMPETITION COMMISSION 829 OF INDIA Word and Phrases: Constitution of India – Art.39 (b) – A “Common Good” – The expression ‘common good’ in Art.39(b) in a Benthamite sense involves achieving the highest good of the maximum number of people – The meaning of the words ‘common good’ may depend upon the times, the felt necessities, the direction that the Nation wishes to take in the future, the socio-economic B condition of the different classes, the legal and Fundamental Rights and also the Directive Principles themselves. Report/Recommendation – Competition policy – Raghavan Committee Report – Discussed. Posting the appeal for being dealt on merits, the Court C HELD:1. The Law-Giver has taken care to expressly include even Departments of the Government separately within the ambit of the word ‘enterprise’. Things could not be more clear. The only activity of the Government, which has been excluded from the scope of Section 2(h) of the Competition Act D and therefore, the definition of the word ‘enterprise’ is any activity relatable to the sovereign functions of the Government. Sovereign functions would include, undoubtedly, all activities carried on by the Departments of the Central Government, dealing with atomic energy, currency, defense and space. The first appellant is not a E Department of the Government. It is a Government Company. In fact, what is excluded from the definition of the expression ‘enterprise’, is a Government Department carrying on Government functions. Carrying on business in mining, cannot, by any stretch of imagination, be described as a sovereign function. There is nothing in the definition which excludes a State monopoly F which is even set up to achieve the goals in Article 39(b) of the Constitution. [Paras 80 and 81][868-G-H; 869-A-D] 2. The CCI is bound to take into consideration the factors which have been indicated. Section 19(4) in fact, empowers the CCI to have regard to “all” or “any” of the factors to arrive at G the finding that an enterprise enjoys a dominant position or not. Does not this mean that even a single factor being “any” factor may form the foundation to find whether an enterprise enjoys dominance? In a given case the answer would be in the affirmative. Closer home in the facts, this Court finds that Section 19(4)(g) H 830 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A declares that “monopoly” or “dominant position”, whether acquired as a result of the Statute or by virtue of being a Government Company or a Public Sector Undertaking or otherwise, is to be a relevant factor.