Therefore, in the absence of any evidence as to the F circumstances under which she turned hostile, we cannot rule out the possibility of the respondents-accused influencing other witnesses, tampering with the evidence, if they continue to remain on bail. f) The present case is not one where the accused have been G detained in custody for an inordinate amount of time as under-trials. g) The High Court of Rajasthan, in the impugned s dated 09September, 2019 and 17 October, 2019 has not considered the aforestated aspects of the case in the context of the H 516 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A grant of bail. The High Court has been swayed by the fact that one of the prosecution witnesses, namely, Nirma has turned hostile which is not an aspect that must be taken into account while considering an application for bail. 25. While we are conscious of the fact that a Court considering B the grant of bail must not engage in an elaborate discussion on the merits of the case, we are of the view that the High Court while passing the impugned s has not taken into account even a single material aspect of the case. Instead, the High Court referred only to the testimony of one hostile witness in the trial and on the basis thereof, exercised its discretion to grant bail in an erroneous manner. The High Court has lost C sight of the aforesaid vital aspects of the case and granted bail to the respondents-accused by passing very cryptic and casual s, de hors cogent reasoning. 26. Having considered the aforesaid facts of the present case in light of the law cited above, we do not think that this case is a fit case for D the grant of bail to the respondents-accused, given the seriousness of the allegations against them. We find that the High Court was not right in allowing the applications for bail filed by the respondents--accused. Hence, the impugned s dated 14 February, 2022 and 02 February, 2023 passed by the High Court of Rajasthan at Jodhpur are set aside. E The appeals are allowed. 27. The respondents-accused are on bail. Their bail bonds stand cancelled and they are directed to surrender before the concerned jail authorities within a period of two weeks from today. F Nidhi Jain Appeals allowed. (Assisted by : Tamana, LCRA) G H