It was therefore a transaction entered into with open eyes by the defendant and there was no question of granting any concession.” 33. In the instant case, as noticed hereinbefore, the transfer is complete and not partial, no stipulation has been made that the appellant cannot transfer the property. Not only that, the appellant was put in possession of the land, his name was also mutated.” 25.3. A perusal of the aforesaid paras of the shows that the proviso was added in Section 58(c) of the Act4 vide Act No.20 of 1929, so as to put at rest the confl icting decisions on the issue. A deeming fi ction was added in the negative that a transaction shall not be deemed to be a mortgage unless the condition for reconveyance is contained in the document which purports to eff ect the sale. 25.4. The of this Court in Umabai v. Nilkanth Dhondiba Chavan, (2005) 6 SCC 243, has also been referred to, which defi nes the distinction between mortgage by conditional sale and a sale with a condition of repurchase. In a mortgage, the debt subsists and a right to redeem remains with the debtor; but a sale with condition of repurchase is not a lending and borrowing arrangement. Proviso to Section 58(c) of the 1882 Act4 was referred to in the aforesaid to hold that if the condition for re- transfer is not embodied in the document which eff ects or purports to eff ect a sale, the transaction will not be regarded as a mortgage. The of this Court in Ramlal’s case (supra), relied upon by learned Senior counsel for the appellant, was specifi cally dealt with and distinguished in paras 34 and 35 thereof in Bishwanath Prasad Case (supra) and the same are extracted below: “34. In Ramlal v. Phagua this Court having regard to the peculiar fact situation obtaining therein opined: (SCC p. 173, para 18) “18. In our opinion, agreement to reconvey the property will not ipso facto lead to the conclusion that the sale is nominal and in view of the stand of Defendant 8, as also of the fact that the property worth Rs 700 has been purportedly sold for Rs 400, we are of the considered opinion that the sale deed dated 1-12-1965 did not convey any title to Defendant 8. It is well settled by a PRAKASH (DEAD) BY LR. v. G. ARADHYA AND ORS. 1049 [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] catena of decisions that the vendor cannot convey to the vendee better title than she herself has.” 35. As of fact, it was held therein that the sale deed in question was not a real sale deed but was by way of a surety. In that case, furthermore, the defendant categorically admitted that the plaintiff had taken loan. It is in that situation, the transaction was held to be a mortgage. Apart from it, there were other circumstances which led the court to arrive at the said conclusion. The said decision, therefore, cannot have any application in the instant case.” 26.