has the right to cross-examine the prosecution witnesses and examine A the defence witnesses and advance his arguments. It was further observed that the power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. can be exercised even after completion of examination-in-chief and the court does not have to wait till the said evidence is tested on cross-examination, for it is the satisfaction of the court which can be gathered from the reasons recorded by the B court, in respect of complicity of some other persons, not facing the trial in the offence. (viii) The test that has to be applied is one which is more than prima facie case as exercised at the time of framing of charge, but short of satisfaction to an extent that the evidence, if goes unrebutted, C would lead to conviction. Therefore, such satisfaction is sina qua non for exercise of power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. Ultimately, the exercise of power is for the trial of such persons summoned together with the accused already on trial and not for conviction with the accused. Therefore, at that stage, the court need not form any definite opinion as to the guilt of the accused. D (ix) This Court further observed that the difference in the degree of satisfaction for summoning the original accused and a subsequent accused is on account of the fact that the trial may have already commenced against the original accused and it is in the course of such trial that materials are disclosed against the newly summoned accused. E Hence, the degree of satisfaction for summoning the original accused and the accused summoned subsequently during the course of trial is different. (x) It was further observed by this Court that a person, whose name does not appear even in the FIR or in the charge-sheet or whose F name appears in the FIR and not in the main part of the charge-sheet but in Column 2 and has not been summoned as an accused in exercise of the powers under Section 193 Cr.P.C. can still be summoned by the court, provided the court is satisfied that the conditions provided in the said statutory provisions stand fulfilled. However, a person who has already been discharged stands on a different footing than a person who G was never subjected to investigation or if subjected to, but not charge- sheeted. Such a person has stood the stage of inquiry before the court and upon judicial examination of the material collected during investigation, the court had come to the conclusion that there is not even a prima facie case to proceed against such person. Therefore, the court must H 1212 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A keep in mind that the witness when giving evidence against the person so discharged, is not doing so merely to seek revenge or is naming him at the behest of someone or for such other extraneous considerations. (xi) This Court further observed that it has to be circumspect in treating such evidence and try to separate the chaff from the grain.