Till the trial was stayed by this Court, the Trial Court had examined 11 witnesses. Most witnesses E are stated to be Bengali speaking. In light of these circumstances, it is stated that the transfer of the case to a court outside the State of West Bengal will cause extreme inconvenience to the Prosecution & most witnesses. The in Abdul Nazar Madani v. State of Tamil Nadu3 F wherein this Court considered the convenience of the Prosecution, other accused persons, the witnesses and the larger interest of society while deciding a transfer petition, has been pressed into aid. Other cases have also similarly been cited4; G (viii) Reliance has been placed on Nahar Singh Yadav v. Union of India5 wherein this Court noted that the power under 3 Abdul Nazar Madani v. State of Tamil Nadu (2000) 6 SCC 204. 4 Sri Jayendra Saraswathy Swamigal (II) v. State of T.N. (2005) 8 SCC 771; Harita Sunil Parab v. State (NCT of Delhi) (2018) 6 SCC 358; Swaati Nirkhi v. State (NCT of Delhi) 2021 SCC Online SC 202. H 5 Nahar Singh Yadav v. Union of India (2011) 1 SCC 307. AFJAL ALI SHA @ ABJAL SHAUKAT SHA v. STATE OF WEST 1105 BENGAL & ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] Section 406, CrPC is to be exercised sparingly and that A transfer should be allowed only when there is a well- substantiated apprehension that justice will not be dispensed impartially. Other similar decisions have also been brought to our notice6; (ix) Ashish Chandra v. Asha Kumari7 has been cited to refer B the observations of this Court that transfer of cases have a demoralizing effect on trial courts. (x) The Deceased was and the Petitioner is a politically influential person and transfer of the proceedings is sought to a jurisdiction where he will be able to exert his political C influence. The Deceased himself is stated to have had multiple criminal cases pending against him; (xi) There is nothing on record to show that witnesses have been threatened. Respondent no. 2, being in custody, cannot exert any threat or pressure on the witnesses; D (xii) The Petitioner has delayed the trial through these proceedings and the accused persons have been in custody for over three years. As such, it is contended that prejudice has been caused to the accused persons and they shall incur heavy expenses to defend themselves if the case were to E be transferred outside the State of West Bengal; (xiii) To ensure a fair trial, this Court may transfer the case anywhere in the state and appoint a Public Prosecutor while protecting the accused persons and the complainant. 20. All other Respondents have supported this stance and made F similar averments. C. ANALYSIS 21. We have carefully considered the submissions made by the parties and perused the record. Before adverting to the contentious issue, G we deem it appropriate to discuss the settled principles in relation to the exercise of power to transfer cases under Section 406, CrPC as well as 6 Gurcharan Dass Chadha v. State of Rajasthan (1966) 2 SCR 678; Amarinder Singh v. Parkash Singh Badal (2009) 6 SCC 260.