A share of the alienor, defendant No.10, if that can be done without injustice to the other sharers. The remuneration of the Commissioner is tentatively fixed at Rs.600/- per month. The plaintiffs will be entitled to the costs from out of the assets. B Court fee shall be collected as and when the properties are valued and partition is being effected. So far as the parties to the compromise are concerned, a decree shall follow in terms of the compromise, excluding such terms as relate to appointment of and directions to Receiver and C Commissioner and also terms regarding the properties which have been held to be the properties of defendants 2 and 39, viz., item No.26 and house Nos. 28 and 29 in item No.22 in Schedule IV; and so far as item No.34 of Schedule IV is concerned, that property as also the sale proceeds connected thereto shall be available for D partition amongst the parties to the compromise, only after setting apart the due shares of defendants 2 to 4, 10, 47, 94 and 98 as the heirs of Zafar Jung, which work out at double the shares entered in Annexure III. While allotting the shares to the parties to the compromise, E equities of alienees, defendants 119, 120 and 121 as also of defendant No.77 may be worked out as far as possible by setting apart the alienated properties to the share of the respective alienors as directed in the under issues 41 and 49. The Commissioner appointed under para(5) of this shall F partition the property and carry out the terms of the compromise subject to the directions contained in the and such other directions as may be given from time to time. The expenses incurred in the execution of commission shall be met out of the assets.” G 45. There were five annexures to the . Annexure-I contained the list of heirs in the line of succession of Khurshid Jah and the shares to which they were entitled. Annexure-II contained the list of surviving legal heirs in the line of succession of Khurshid Jah and their respective heirs. Annexure-III indicated the amount of each share of H the respective sharers. Annexure-IV contained the list of immovable M/s TRINITY INFRAVENTURES LTD. & ORS. ETC. v. M. S. 307 MURTHY & ORS. ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] properties which were held to be Mathruka of late Khurshid Jah. In A fact, Annexure IV to the was actually the reproduction of Plaint Schedule IV except those not decreed. Annexure-V contained the list of properties damaged and the extent of damage caused by the respective parties. 46. It must be mentioned here that the suit CSNo.14 of 1958 on B the file of the present High Court for the State of Telangana is not merely a strange and curious case but is one which continues to baffle both the legal and the jural fraternities, for more reasons than one, both right and wrong. One of the curious aspects of this case was the description of the immovable properties listed in Plaint Schedule IV.