That thereafter, by the impugned common and the High G Court has declared Rule 3(2)(b), Rule 4(2)(c) and Rule 6(9) of the Rules, 2020 as ultra-virus and unconstitutional, unreasonable, arbitrary and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India and contrary to the observations and directions issued by this Court in the case of UPCPBA (supra). The High Court has specifically observed that granting complete discretion under the Rules 2020 to the Selection Committee to determine H THE SECRETARY MINISTRY OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS v. DR. 301 MAHINDRA BHASKAR LIMAYE [M. R. SHAH, J.] its own procedure would result in creating a situation which has been A narrated in the case of UPCPBA (supra) and will again lead to wide variations in standards as well as a great deal of subjective, bureaucratic and political interference, and finally it will result in denial of justice which will be in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. That while holding the aforesaid provisions unconstitutional, unreasonable and B arbitrary, the High Court has considered the historical background of tribunalisation and the fact that the tribunals are endowed with the judicial functions with a duty to decide the matters in judicious manner. Therefore, the High Court has opined and observed that the standards expected from the judicial members of the tribunals and standards applied for appointing such members, should be as nearly as possible as applicable C to the appointment of judges exercising such powers. That thereafter, following the decisions of this Court in the case of Madras Bar Association (supra) and UPCPBA (supra), the High Court has concluded and passed the final as under: - i. “The Public Interest Litigation No. 11 of 2021 is allowed; D ii. The Writ Petition No. 1096/2021 is partly allowed; iii. It is held and declared that Rule 3(2)(b), Rule 4(2) (c) and Rule 6(9) of the Rules of 2020, are arbitrary, unreasonable and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India for the E reasons recorded herein above and hence are quashed and set aside; iv. The Union of India is directed to provide for appropriately made Rules as substitutes for Rule 3 (2)(b), Rule 4(2)(c) and Rule 6(9) of the Rules, 2020, declared unconstitutional, keeping in view the observations made in the , within four F weeks from the date of the and ; v. The vacancy notice dated 2nd February, 2021 issued by the respondent no. 2 for inviting applications for the post of Members of the State Commission and President and Members of the District Commission, is hereby quashed and G set aside; vi. The process of selection of Members of the State Commission and President and the Members of the District Commission, initiated in pursuance to the vacancy notice dated 2nd February, 2021, stands cancelled; H 302 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A vii. Fresh process of selection of members of the State Commission, President and the members of the District Commission be initiated in accordance with the amended Rules and completed at the earliest as directed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India; B viii.