However, Clause (5) of Article 324 does not C provide similar protection to the Election Commissioners and it only says that they cannot be removed from office except on the recommendation of the Chief Election Commissioner. The provision, in the opinion of the Election Commission, is inadequate and requires an amendment to provide the very same protection and safeguard in the matter of removability of Election D Commissioners from office as is provided to the Chief Election Commissioner. The Election Commission recommends that constitutional protection be extended to all members of the Election Commission. The Election Commission also recommends that the Secretariat of the Election Commission, consisting of officers and staff at E various levels is also insulated from the interference of the Executive in the matter of their appointments, promotions, etc., and all such functions are exclusively vested in the Election Commission on the lines of the Secretariats of the Lok Sabha, and Rajya Sabha, Registries of the Supreme Court and High Courts etc. F The third recommendation of the Election Commission is that its budget be treated as “Charged” on the Consolidated Fund of India.” (emphasis added) G 123. The office of the Election Commission is an independent constitutional body which has been vested with the powers of superintendence, direction and control of the preparation of electoral rolls and the conduct of all parliamentary and State Legislatures’ elections and that of the office of President and Vice-President in terms of Article 324(1) of the Constitution. In terms of Article 324(2), the office of Election H 244 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Commission comprises of Chief Election Commissioner and “such number of other Election Commissioners, if any, as the President may from time to time fix”and by an dated 01 October, 1993, the President has fixed the number of Election Commissioners to two until further s. Since 1993, it is a multi-member Commission with equal participation in transacting the business of the Election Commission as B provided under Chapter III of the Act, 1991 to ensure the smooth and effective functioning of the Election Commission. 124. Article 324(5) of the Constitution is intended to ensure the independence of the Election Commission free from all external political interference and, thus, expressly provides that the removal of the Chief Election Commission from office shall be in like manner as on the grounds C as of a Judge of the Supreme Court. Nevertheless, a similar procedure has not been provided for other Election Commissioners under second proviso to Article 324(5) of the Constitution. The other conditions of the service of Chief Election Commissioner/other Election Commissioners have been protected by the Legislature by the Act 1991. D 125. In the facts and circumstances, keeping in view the importance of maintaining the neutrality and independence of the office of the Election Commission to hold free and fair election which is a sine qua non for upholding the democracy as enshrined in our Constitution,it becomes imperative to shield the appointment of Election Commissioners and to be insulated from the executive interference.