While its language is of relevance to the content of its words, the text of the Constitution needs to be understood in the context of the history of the movement for political freedom. Constitutional history embodies events which predate the adoption of the Constitution. Constitutional history also incorporates our experiences in the unfolding of the Constitution over the past sixty-eight years while confronting complex social and political problems. Words in a constitutional text have linkages with the provisions in which they appear. It is well to remember that each provision is linked to other segments of the document. It is only when 342 Constitution (Twelfth Amendment) Act 1962 343 Constitution (Fourteenth Amendment) Act 1962 344 Punjab Reorganisation Act 1966 345 Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu (Merger of Union Territories) Act 2019 346 (2018) 8 SCC 501 282 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. they are placed in the wide canvas of constitutional values that a true understanding of the text can emerge … ” IV. The scope of Article 3 497. Article 2 of the Constitution provides that Parliament may admit new States into the Union or establish new States: “2. Admission or establishment of new States. – Parliament may by law admit into the Union, or establish, new States on such terms and conditions as it thinks fi t.” Article 3, as it now stands,347 is extracted below: “3. Formation of new States and alteration of areas, boundaries or names of existing States.— Parliament may by law— (a) form a new State by separation of territory from any State or by uniting two or more States or parts of States or by uniting any territory to a part of any State; (b) increase the area of any State; I diminish the area of any State; (d) alter the boundaries of any State; (e) alter the name of any State: Provided that no Bill for the purpose shall be introduced in either House of Parliament except on the recommendation of the President and unless, where the proposal contained in the Bill aff ects the area, boundaries or name of any of the States, the Bill has been referred by the President to the Legislature of that State for expressing its views thereon within such period as may be specifi ed in the reference or within such further period as the President may allow and the period so specifi ed or allowed has expired. Explanation I.—In this article, in clauses (a) to (e), “State” includes a Union territory, but in the proviso, “State” does not include a Union territory. 347 Article 3 was amended multiple times. The proviso was substituted in 1955. Explanations I and II were added in 1966. IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 283 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Explanation II.—The power conferred on Parliament by clause (a) includes the power to form a new State or Union territory by uniting a part of any State or Union territory to any other State or Union territory.”348 (emphasis supplied) 498.