Ambedkar as “the very soul of the Constitution — the very heart of it — the most important Article”. Article 32 enjoys special status and, therefore, it is incumbent upon this Court, in matters under Article 32, to adopt a progressive attitude. This would be in consonance with the duty of this Court under the Constitution, that is, to secure the inalienable fundamental rights of individuals.” (emphasis supplied) 19. The observations afore-referred are in perfect sync with what is expected of Constitutional Courts. They are not restricted only to Articles 32 or 226 of the Constitution but lay down a talisman of sorts. 20. The learned ASG also submitted that the Appellants were entitled to take an independent decision. This goes against their stand before the learned Division Bench. If we were to agree with this, the obvious import, then, would be that the Appellants were required to take a decision independently. As noted in Paragraphs 5 and 11 of the Impugned , the Appellants contended that the ECI was the competent authority to allot symbols and not the Election Authority. What then was the reason for the Appellants to shift stands? When read in conjunction with the fi nding at Paragraph 13 of the Impugned the Appellants’ acts leave no shred of doubt in our minds, that circumstances forcing this Court to intercede have arisen. Let us for a moment, however, consider that the Appellants, as now sought to be projected, were entitled to arrive at an independent decision. Yet, such decision could not be whimsical, arbitrary or capricious. It would necessarily have to be: (a) in accordance with lawful discretion; (b) reasonable, and; (c) equitable and just. The Court would indicate that a genuine request, in the attendant facts, could not have been turned down only on the ground that there was no provision for the same, when such request could be acceded to (i) without any violation of law, and; (ii) is within the jurisdictional domain and capacity of the authority concerned, and; (iii) does not prejudice any other stakeholder, and; (iv) does not militate against public interest. 21. The High Court, being a Constitutional Court, is not, by any stretch of imagination, precluded from issuing a direction of the nature issued by it in the instant case, under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, more so 90 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. when such direction does not violate any statutory provision. In High Court of Tripura v Tirtha Sarathi Mukherjee, (2019) 16 SCC 663, this Court had answered, in the affi rmative, as to the power of the High Courts under Article 226 to direct for actions, in a rare and exceptional situation, which do not fi nd mention in the provisions concerned. Noticing and relying upon High Court of Tripura (supra), in Aish Mohammad v State of Haryana, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 736, we held: “24. Moreover, the learned Civil Judge (Junior Division) found no ground to interfere with the adverse remarks yet granted liberty to the appellant to move for expunction thereof.