Viewed in the B light of core dispute presented to the Arbitral Tribunal by the parties, the submissions of the learned Attorney General, that the Arbitral Tribunal has not examined the question as to whether the correspondence in question resulted in change of fundamentals of contract, do not make out a case for interference because novation of the terms of contract as regards fuel had not been a matter of dispute at all. The core question C was as to how the new terms were to operate. The Arbitral Tribunal has precisely dealt with the same in accordance with law. 22. What has been observed hereinabove and held in disapproval of interference by the High Court in the item of award pertaining to variable charges more or less apply to the other items too, where the D High Court has interfered and has upturned the award. In view of the detailed discussion foregoing, we need not elaborate on all other items. Suffice it would be to deal briefly with the same as we find that on every such score, the High Court has rather entered into merits of the matter as if dealing with a regular appeal. It has been a clear case of the High E Court travelling beyond the periphery of Section 34 as also Section 37 of the Act of 1996. The award relating to downrating of the plant 23. As regards downrating, the issue before the Arbitral Tribunal was as to whether the plant was required to be downrated till the expiry F of PPA as contended by Government of Goa relying on a draft notification issued by Ministry of Power, Government of India. 23.1. The Arbitral Tribunal considered the contractual terms of the parties and came to a specific finding on interpretation of such terms and conditions that various Supplementary PPAs executed between the G parties show that the Rated Capacity of the plant was reduced to 19.8 MW and the obligation of the claimant was restricted to assuring supply upto 19.8 MW without any reference to degradation of such capacity. On considering the material on record, the Arbitral Tribunal held that Government of Goa was not justified in contending that there was any H 438 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A downrating annually of Rated Capacity. In regard to this issue, it is more than apparent that the Arbitral Tribunal had considered the provisions of the contract and had taken a particular view thereupon. The Tribunal said, inter alia, as under:- “48. An issue was raised at the stage of arguments relating to the B down rating the generating capacity of the plant annually commencing from the first year after Commercial Operation of the plant. Such a plea does not appear to have been raised in the Statement of Defence by the Respondent even though it is contended that down rating a small fraction of generating capacity will have a huge impact on the monthly invoices. Learned counsel C for the Claimant brought to the notice of the Tribunal that it was in paragraph 12 of the sur rejoinder that the Respondent sought documents relating to Original Equipment Manufacturer’s (OEM) recommendations towards down rating of generating capacity as envisaged in the definition of “Contracted Capacity” which was D required to ascertain the implementation of the down rating of the generating capacity in accordance with the recommendations of the Original Equipment Manufacturer.