The interpretation placed by the Telangana and the Gujarat high Courts that the expression amend only conferred a constricted power which is to bring the existing enactments in line with the amendments of the Constitution, was erroneous. In fact, it amounted to unduly restricting – without any warning – the purport and amplitude of the saving and Presidential power expressed through Section 19. 26. Learned counsel submitted that if one takes into account the fact that the eff ect of an ordinance and the eff ect of law are identical which is that they bind the space or subject matter to the extent they provide for it, the diff erence lies only in the manner of their creation. Learned counsel emphasized that the distinction lies in the procedure adopted rather than the content or the eff ect of the law. Whereas the origin of an ordinance is through a diff erent entity which is the executive (clothed with limited legislative power), the Act, on the other hand, is an expression of a State legislative or Parliament. This distinction cannot obliterate the eff ect of the law which is the same and would continue to bind the parties for which express provision is made. 8 (1982) 2 SCR 272 9 (2017) 5 SCR160 10 1962 Suppl. (3) SCR 70 THE STATE OF TELANGANA & ORS. v. M/S TIRUMALA 163 CONSTRUCTIONS [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 27. In support of the proposition that there is no diff erence between the legislative power of the State and that of the executive, learned counsel relied upon the decision of the Constitution Bench of this Court in R.K. Garg v. Union of India11. It was argued further that the provision requiring placing or tabling the ordinance before the house, either the State legislature or the Parliament was entirely diff erent from the exercise of tabling an enacted legislation. The former amounted to a part of the legislative activity itself. In the event the legislature, i.e. the State legislature or the Parliament approves the ordinance in its own terms, it becomes a parliamentary or State enactment. Learned counsel stressed upon the issue or point that a separate embodiment of the terms of the ordinance is not essentially a requirement under the Constitution. A mere approval of the ordinance results in its enactment and acceptance by the State legislature which in turn assimilates the terms of the ordinance through the body of law enacted by it. In other words, if the State legislature or the Parliament disapproves the ordinance or does not approve any part of the ordinance and embodies the ordinance in the form of an enactment, that enactment would then be decisive from the date the ordinance itself was brought into force. However, in the case of disapproval, in terms of the disapproval, the limited life of the ordinance would cease. It was thus argued that upon the State legislature approving the terms of the ordinance in Telangana and embodying it in terms of the second amendment which was brought into force on 02.12.2017, its terms related back.