If loss of turnover resulting from delay is not established, it is merely a delay in receipt of money, and as such, the builder/ contractor is only entitled to interest on the capital employed and not the profi t, which should be paid. The High Court of Justice Queen’s Bench Division in the case of Property and Land Contractors Ltd v. Alfred McAlpine Homes North Ltd.19 succinctly points the in-exactitude of Hudson’s formulae, by observing: “Furthermore the Emden formula, in common with the Hudson formula (see Hudson on Building Contracts, (11th edn, 1995) paras 8–182 et seq) and with its American counterpart the Eichleay formula, is dependent on various assumptions which are not always present and which, if not present, will not justify the use of a formula. For example the Hudson formula makes it clear that an element of constraint is required (see Hudson para 8.185) ie in relation to profi t, that there was profi t capable of being earned elsewhere and there was no change in the market thereafter aff ecting profi tability of the work. It must also be established that the contractor was unable to deploy resources elsewhere and had no possibility of recovering cost of the overheads from other sources, eg from an increased volume of the work. Thus 19 (1995) 76 BLR 59. 464 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. such formulae are likely only to be of value if the event causing delay is (or has the characteristics of) a breach of contract.” 24. As mentioned in McDermott International Inc., Hudson’s 11th Edition has referred to Eichleay formula, which gives the resultant fi gures with greater precision and accuracy. This formula, which emerged in 1960s20, is far more nuanced and rigorous, as it requires the builder/contractor to itemise and quantify the total fi xed overheads during the contract period. It takes into consideration all the contracts of the contractor/builder during the contract period with those of the individually delayed contract to determine the proportionate faction of the total fi xed overheads. However, in both Hudson’s and Eichleay’s formulae, the amount to be recovered is determined weekly or monthly, which the delay in the contract completion is expected to earn. 25. Hudson’s formula might result in double recovery as the profi t being added to the profi t is already subsumed within the ‘contract sum’. To avert this double-recovery, it has been suggested that the formula should be modifi ed to ‘contract sum less overhead and profi t’21. Any increase in the value of the fi nal account for extra works such as variations contain their own element of overheads and profi ts. Therefore, Hudson’s formula like other formulae, which are only rough approximations of the cost impact of unabsorbed overhead, should be applied with great care and caution to ensure fair and just computation.22 26. Hudson in his 14th Edition refers to claim for management or overheads during the period of delay. The author has referred to Hudson’s formula as well as Eichleay’s formula, and observes that recently limitations of Hudson’s approach have received greater emphasis as the English courts have become more generous in their approach and assessment of claims for time management.