In Rangku Dutta v. State of Assam,15 this Court interpreted the purport of Section 20-A(2) of the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987,16 which was similar to Section 23 of the MCOCA. Section 20-A of the TADA is extracted below: “20-A.Cognizance of offence.—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code, no information about the commission of an 15 (2011) 6 SCC 358 16 “TADA” DHANRAJ N ASAWANI v. AMARJEETSINGH MOHINDERSINGH 309 BASI AND OTHERS [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] off ence under this Act shall be recorded by the police without the prior approval of the District Superintendent of Police. (2) No court shall take cognizance of any off ence under this Act without the previous sanction of the Inspector General of Police, or as the case may be, the Commissioner of Police.” This Court held that the above provision was mandatory for two reasons: fi rst, it commenced with an overriding clause; and second, it used the expression “No” to emphasize its mandatory nature. The Court observed that the use of the negative word “No” was intended to ensure that the provision is construed as mandatory. 24. Section 81(5B) of the Act casts a positive obligation on the auditor or the Registrar to fi le an FIR. It does not use any negative expression to prohibit persons other than the auditor or the Registrar from registering an FIR. Therefore, it would be contrary to basic principles of statutory construction to conclude that Section 81(5B) debars persons other than the auditor or the Registrar from fi ling an FIR. The ratio of the decision of this Court in Jamiruddin Ansari (supra) is predicated on a provision of law distinct from the statutory provision applicable to the present case. 25. Further reliance has been placed by the respondent on the decision of this Court in Jeewan Kumar Raut (supra) to contend that Section 81(5B) debars by necessary implication any person other than the auditor or the Registrar from fi ling an FIR. In that case, the issue before this Court was whether the provisions of the Transplantation of the Human Organs Act, 199417 barred the applicability of Section 167(2) of the CrPC pertaining to the grant of default bail. Section 22 of the TOHO Act prohibits taking of cognizance by courts except on a complaint made by an appropriate authority. This Court held that the TOHO Act is a special statute and will override the provisions of the CrPC so far as there is any confl ict between the provisions of the two enactments. The Court further held that the police report fi led by the CBI can only be considered as a complaint petition made by an appropriate authority under Section 22 of the TOHO Act. Therefore, the fi ling of a police report in terms of Section 173(2) of the CrPC was held 17 “TOHO Act” 310 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. to be forbidden by necessary implication. Since CBI could not fi le a police report under Section 173(2), Section 167(2) of the CrPC was also held to be not applicable.