B has not been complied with, is concerned, it is submitted that on the basis of the material / evidence collected during the course of inquiry, if the Magistrate finds that a person not named in the complaint has also committed the offence, the Magistrate is always justified in summoning that person as an accused. It is submitted that even otherwise on non-compliance of the requirement under C Section 202 Cr.P.C. of holding the inquiry, the summoning on merits cannot be said to have been vitiated. Shri Bhushan, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the original complainant made elaborate submissions on what can be said to be secularism and/or whether the appellants believed in secularism or not and/or D the Party believes in secularism or not. However, for the reasons hereinabove, we do not propose to go into such larger question and therefore, we are not dealing with the same elaborately. 4.9 Making above submissions, it is prayed to dismiss the present appeals. E 5. Heard the learned counsel for the respective parties at length. We have also perused and considered the averments and allegations in the complaint dated 20.02.2009 as well as the application and the Memorandum annexed with the application filed for registration of the Party, while submitting the application under Section 29-A of the Act, F 1951. We have also gone through the summoning passed by the learned Trial Court. 5.1 At the outset, it is required to be noted that the appellants herein are summoned by the learned Trial Court to face the trial for the offences under Sections 420, 465, 466, 467, 468, 471 read G with Section 120B IPC. 5.2 The main allegation in the complaint was that in the year 1989 and as per the Constitution prevailing at the relevant time, i.e., in the year 1989, Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal) was engaged in non- secularism but they contested and got seats in the elections to the H 930 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A SGPC, therefore, the Memorandum annexed with the application for registration under Section 29-A of the Act, 1951 was false. 5.3 From the material on record, more particularly, the application for registration of the Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal) under Section 29-A of the Act, 1951, it appears that as per the requirement under B Section 29-A, that a political party should deal in secularism and socialism, a Memorandum to that effect was produced. Neither the “Constitution” of the Party nor any other “Rules or Regulations” were produced. It was stated in the application that the Party had adopted a Memorandum to the effect that “Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal) shall bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of C India as by law established and to the principles of socialism, secularism and democracy and would uphold the sovereignty, unity and integrity of lndia”. What was produced was the copy of the Memorandum. In light of the above, the offence for which the accused are summoned to face the trial are required to be D considered.