Clause (d) of Sub- Section (3) of Section 24 of the said Act refers to the entitlement to be enrolled as an Advocate under any Rule E made by the Bar Council of India in this behalf.It is under Clause (d) of Sub-Section (3) of Section 24 of the said Act that the Bar Council of India sought to introduce the All India Bar Examination, which would be uniformly applicable irrespective of the recognised educational institutions from which a person would complete law before he was enrolled at the Bar. It is this endeavour of the Bar F Council of India, which came to be assailed in the of this Court in V. Sudeer and that challenge succeeded. in V. Sudeer have to be looked carefully as in the reference to the Constitution Bench, the first two questions referred to this Court really emanate from this i.e. the authority of G the Bar Council of India to provide for pre-enrolment training in terms of the 1995 Rules and whether pre-enrolment examination can be prescribed by the Bar Council of India under the said Act. In terms of the 1995 Rules, trainee advocates are entitled to appear in court for seeking adjournments and to make mentioning on instruction of their guides, after their provisional enrolment. H BAR COUNCIL OF INDIA v. BONNIE FOI LAW COLLEGE 345 The third question framed for reference refers to Section 49(1)(ah) A of the said Act for providing a post-enrolment examination if the answers to the first two questions are in negative. [Paras 20-22, 26][360-D-H; 361-A-B; 362-B-C] 1.2 The powers of the State Bar Councils and the Bar Council of India have to be read in the context of their respective B statutory provisions. The powers are not pari materia. Bar Council of India has much larger powers and authority. This Court is unable to agree with the reasoning in V. Sudeer that because the State Bar Councils’ power for providing training or for holding examination was taken away by the 1973 Amendment, it ipso facto C amounts to taking away such powers if they so vested with the Bar Council of India. The legislative object was clear i.e. not to confer such powers on the State Bar Councils. However, that could not affect the position of the power of the Bar Council of India, and naturally such a power existed. If the Bar Council of India never had such a power, then the same could not be read D by implication. But, if the Bar Council of India had sufficient powers, then the 1973 Amendment would not take away those powers of the Bar Council of India as the said amendment did not deal with the aspect of the powers of the Bar Council of India. The functions of the Bar Council of India, as specified under E Section 7, inter alia prescribe an exercise of general supervision and control over the State Bar Councils under Clause (g) of Sub- Section (1) of Section 7.