 Indo Spirit, the fi rm in which the liquor group had interest, was granted whole distributor licence, in spite of complaints of cartelisation etc. which were overlooked. The complainant was forced to take back his complaint.  The excess amount of 7% commission/fee earned by the wholesale distributors of Rs.338,00,00,000/- (rupees three hundred thirty eight crores only) constitute an off ence as defi ned under Section 7 of the PoC Act, relating to a public servant being bribed. (As per the DoE, these are proceeds of crime). This amount was earned by the wholesale distributors in a span of ten months. This fi gure cannot be disputed or challenged. Thus, the new excise policy was meant to give windfall gains to select few wholesale distributors, who in turn had agreed to give kickbacks and bribes.  No doubt, VAT and excise duty was payable separately. However, under the new policy the VAT was reduced to mere 1%.  Vijay Nair had assured the liquor group that they would be made distributor of Pernod Ricard, one of the biggest players in the market. This did happen. MANISH SISODIA v. CENTRAL BUREAU OF 509 INVESTIGATION [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] 25. In view of the aforesaid discussion and for the reasons stated, we are not inclined to accept the prayer for grant of bail at this stage. 26. However, we are also concerned about the prolonged period of incarceration suff ered by the appellant – Manish Sisodia. In P. Chidambaram v. Directorate of Enforcement48, the appellant therein was granted bail after being kept in custody for around 49 days49, relying on the Constitution Bench in Shri Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia and Others v. State of Punjab50, and Sanjay Chandra v. Central Bureau of Investigation51, that even if the allegation is one of grave economic off ence, it is not a rule that bail should be denied in every case. Ultimately, the consideration has to be made on a case to case basis, on the facts. The primary object is to secure the presence of the accused to stand trial. The argument that the appellant therein was a fl ight risk or that there was a possibility of tampering with the evidence or infl uencing the witnesses, was rejected by the Court. Again, in Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Another52, this Court referred to Surinder Singh Alias Shingara Singh v. State of Punjab53 and Kashmira Singh v. State of Punjab54, to emphasise that the right to speedy trial is a fundamental right within the broad scope of Article 21 of the Constitution. In Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra), this Court while highlighting the evil of economic off ences like money laundering, and its adverse impact on the society and citizens, observed that arrest infringes the fundamental right to life. This Court referred to Section 19 of the PML Act, for the in-built safeguards to be adhered to by the authorised offi cers to ensure fairness, objectivity and accountability.55 Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra), also held that Section 436A of the Code56 can apply to off ences 48 (2020) 13 SCC 791.