Those offences which come within Chapters IV and VI of the 1967 Act, charged against the appellants, are Sections 16, 17, 18, 18B, 20, 38, 39 and 40. In none of the materials which have been referred to by the prosecution, the acts specified to in sub-clause (a) of Section B 15(1) of the 1967 Act can be attributed to the appellants. Nor there is any allegation against them which would attract subclause (c) of Section 15(1) of the said statute. As regards the acts specified in Section 15(1) (b) thereof, some of the literature alleged to have been recovered from the appellants, by themselves give hint of propagation of such activities. But there C is nothing against the appellants to prima facie establish that they had indulged in the activities which would constitute overawing any public functionary by means of criminal force or the show of criminal force or attempts by the appellants to do so. Neither there is allegation against them of causing death of any public D functionary or attempt to cause death of such functionary. Mere holding of certain literatures through which violent acts may be propagated would not ipso facto attract the provisions of Section 15(1)(b) of the said Act. Thus, prima facie, this Court cannot reasonably come to a finding that any case against the appellants under Section 15(1) (b) of 1967 Act can be held to be true. [Paras E 24 and 26][903-B-F; 904-B-E] 1.2 Section 17 of the 1967 Act deals with punishment for raising funds for terrorist acts. Here also the funds, dealing with which has been attributed to AF, cannot be connected to any terrorist act. In the case of Dr. Anand Teltumbde the same account F statement was referred to. There is also a request made to ‘S’ from an unnamed person to ask AF to manage the financial expenses of “these cases”. The name of another ‘A’, with the surname Bhelke has surfaced in Annexure “R-19” to the NIA’s counter-affidavit in AF’s case. This is a copy of a witness G statement. In absence of any form of corroboration at the prima facie stage it cannot be presumed that it was the same Arun (i.e., AF) who had received money from ‘D’. The prosecution has also not produced any material to show that actual money was transmitted. The communication dated 5th November 2017 (“R- 5”), purportedly addressed by ‘S’ to ‘P’ does not speak of any H 872 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A payment being made to AF. The rationale applied by the Bombay High Court in the abovequoted passage of the in the case of Dr. Anand Teltumbde, which has been sustained by this Court, ought to apply in the case of AF as well. [Paras 27 and 28][904-E-F; 905-D-F] B 1.3 It is not possible to form an opinion that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation against the appellant of committing or conspiring to commit terrorist act is prima facie true.