276 SUPREME CO[U2R02T3 ]R 2E PSO.CR.RT.S 276 [2023] 2 S.C.R. A NAND LAL AND OTHERS v. THE STATE OF CHHATTISGARH (Criminal Appeal No. 1421 of 2015) B MARCH 14, 2023 [B. R. GAVAI, VIKRAM NATH AND SANJAY KAROL, JJ.] Penal Code, 1860: s. 302 – Murder – Prosecution case that previous enmity between the accused persons and the complainant – Accused no. 11 assaulted the complainant and thereafter, the C complainant lodged an FIR – Said accused then alongwith the other accused armed with deadly weapons formed an unlawful assembly, and assualted the victim-complainant’s father along with the prosecution witnesses, resulting in the death of the victim – Conviction of the accused persons for the offences punishable u/s. D 302 along with the other offences and sentenced to life imprisonment by the courts below – Sustainability of – Held: Delay in lodging of the FIR by the injured person not explained at all – Prosecution attempted to supress the real genesis of the incident – There was non-explanation of the injuries sustained by the accused, which cannot be considered to be minor or superficial – Prosecution E supressed the information that accused informed the police that he was assaulted by the complainant, thus, the said accused entitled to the benefit of doubt – As regards the remaining accused persons, their names were not mentioned in the merg report which was lodged prior to the lodging of FIR, in the inquest panchnama and spot F panchnama – Taking into consideration the delay in lodging the FIR, with the circumstance of their names not being mentioned in the contemporaneous documents, the possibility of the said accused being falsely implicated cannot be ruled out – Their conviction was based only on the oral testimony of the interested witness without sufficient corroboration, thus, would not be sustainable – G and passed by the High Court set aside – Evidence. Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 Believing the contents of the FIR that the incident has taken place at around 08.30 PM and that the injured H persons had reached the Bazar at around 10-11 PM where they 276 NAND LAL AND OTHERS v. THE STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 277 were informed that they could not be treated unless a report was A lodged, a further delay of around four to five hours in lodging the FIR has not been explained. The distance between the Bazar and the Police Station is approximately 15 Kms. It has come on record that there is an all-weather road connecting the two places. As such, at the most, it would take around 30-40 minutes to reach B the Police Station from the Bazar. This delay of four hours in lodging the FIR is not at all explained. [Para 25][286-F-G] 1.2 Undisputedly, the injuries sustained by accused No. 11 cannot be considered to be minor or superficial. The witnesses are also interested witnesses, inasmuch as they are close relatives C of the deceased. That there was previous enmity between the two families, on account of election of Sarpanch, has come on record.