The pleadings in the complaint did not disclose that the Pay was filed in the Commission, to enable the developer to respond appropriately. In these circumstances, the developer’s argument that the rule embodied in XXI, Rule 4 CPC, is C applicable, is merited. The developer cannot be fastened with any legal liability to pay interest on the sum of Rs. 4,53,750/- after 30th April 2005. 33. This court is also of the opinion that the complainant’s argument that on account of the omission of the developer, she D was wronged, and was thus entitled to receive interest, cannot prevail. The records nowhere disclose any fault on the part of the developer; on the other hand, the complainant did not take steps to protect her interests. It has been held by this court, in Sailen Krishna Majumdar v. Malik Labhu Masih [Sailen Krishna Majumdar v. Malik Labhu Masih, (1989) 1 SCR 817] that in such E cases, even if equities are equal, the court should not intervene: “Equity is being claimed by both the parties. Under the circumstances we have no other alternative but to let the loss lie where it falls. As the maxim is, ‘in aequali jure melior est conditio possidentis’. Where the equities are F equal, the law should prevail. The respondent’s right to purchase must, therefore, prevail.” 34. In the present case too, the complainant cannot claim interest from the developer, who had returned the Pay . As discussed, at the time of filing of the complaint, she could have G chosen one among the various options to ensure that the amount presented to her was kept in an interest-bearing account, without prejudice to her rights to claim interest later. In these circumstances, no equities can be extended to her aid. H 1140 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 35. As regards the complainant’s appeal, the contention is that the impugned is in error, because the Tribunal ought to have directed that the developer ought to have been directed to pay interest on the sum of Rs. 4,53,750/- from 4th October 1993 till the date of its realization i.e., 7th May 2016. This plea is plainly untenable, because the interest payable for the past period was B concluded in the previous proceedings. The complainant did not point to any rule or binding legal principle which obliged the developer to pay such interest, or justify the direction in the impugned , by showing how such liability arose in the facts and circumstances of this case.” C 15.2. The said case of Dr. Manjeet Kaur Monga had been of claiming compensation under the provisions of MRTP Act whereas the present one is a case of claiming compensation under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986. Hence, a comparison of the provisions of Section 14(1)(d) of the Act of 1986 and Section 12-B(3) of MRTP Act, as regards D powers of respective fora, shall be apposite and could be made as under:- E F G 16. The question is as to whether the aforesaid decision in Dr. Manjeet Kaur Monga could be read as laying down a principle of universal applicability that in such matters of dealing in real estate, the 8 The proviso aforesaid was inserted by Act 62 of 2002 with effect from 15.03.2003 H M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR.