However, during the operation of the President’s Rule, which I have found to be valid, the functions of the State Legislature were being performed by the Parliament. Therefore, it was not possible to take the views of the State Legislature. We may refer to the in 368 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Manohar Lal130 case on the legal proposition laid down. If we turn to the observations of Justice H.R. Khanna (as he then was) of the Delhi High Court, it was opined that the exercise of power of the State Legislature under Article 3 by the Parliament, in view of Article 356 being imposed, was permissible for purposes of reorganizing the State of Punjab in 1956. The need to consult the views of the concerned State Legislature was dispensed with in absence of a duly constituted State Legislature. 111. In conclusion, Sections 3 and 4 of the Reorganization Act, which was the effect of the exercise of power under Article 3 of the Constitution of India, is valid. CONCLUSION: 112. On the basis of the analysis, I record the conclusions as follows: a. In light of this Court’s prior finding in Prem Nath Kaul, the State of Jammu and Kashmir retained an element of internal sovereignty despite Maharaja Hari Singh signing the IoA with the Dominion. Article 370 of the Constitution recognized this internal sovereignty by recognizing the Constituent Assembly of the State; b. A combination of factors, such as Article 370’s historical context, its text, and its subsequent practice, indicate that Article 370 was intended to be a temporary provision; c. Article 370(3) contained the mechanism to bring the temporary arrangement to an end, and in turn, to de-recognize the internal sovereignty of the State and apply the Constitution of India in toto; d. Since Article 370 is meant to be a temporary arrangement, it cannot be said that the mechanism under Article 370(3) came to an end after the State Constituent Assembly was dissolved; e. The power of the President under Article 370(3) was unaffected by the dissolution of the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir. 130 (supra) IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 369 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] The President could exercise their power anytime after the dissolution of the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir, in line with the aim of full integration of the State. Hence, C.O. 273, which declares that Article 370 shall cease to operate except as provided, and was issued under Article 370(3), is valid; f. The power to issue C.O. 272 without the concurrence of the Government of the State is valid, as the power of the President is not limited by the concurrence of the Government of the State in this case; g. The power under Article 370(1)(d) read with Article 367 cannot be used to do indirectly, what cannot be done directly. The power to make modifications under Article 370(1)(d) cannot be used to amend Article 370 and Article 367, which is an interpretation clause, cannot be used to alter the character of a provision.