It is submitted that this is also clear from the affidavit dated 16th November 2022 filed on behalf of the Union of India. E 92. Shri Divan further submitted that the 2017 Act can neither be construed to validate the impugned notification nor can it be held that it is a piece of incorporation by reference. It is submitted that the argument with regard to the impugned notification having merged in the 2017 Act is also without substance. The learned Senior Counsel submits that it is F simply a plenary parliamentary declaration. 93. Taking further his argument, Shri Divan submits that clause (i) of sub-section (1) of Section 4 of the 2017 gives a power to the Central Government which is coupled with a duty. It is submitted that genuine cases like that of the applicants/petitioners viz., Malvinder Singh and Sarla Shrivastav, who is the applicant/petitioner in I.A. No. 152009 G of 2022, should be given some window to exchange the SBNs. It is submitted that there is a large section of NRIs who, during the period between 8th November 2016 and 30th December 2016, were not in India. It is submitted that they could have also not travelled to India since 55 (1994) 3 SCC 1 H 62 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A either the tickets were not available or the rates were prohibitively expensive. 94. Shri Divan, in the alternative, submitted that the proviso to the Notification dated 30th December, 2016 has to be read in a manner that it is silent on NRIs who have kept their money in India. It is submitted B that exclusion of NRIs who have left their money in India would be manifestly arbitrary and in to save the proviso, it will have to be read in the manner making it inapplicable to such NRIs who had kept their money in India while residing abroad during that period. VII. REFRAMED QUESTIONS C 95. Though nine important questions have been framed by the Bench of learned three Judges vide dated 16th December 2016 in Writ Petition (Civil) No.906 of 2016, upon hearing the submissions advanced before us on behalf of the petitioners as well as the respondents, we find that only the following questions of law arise for consideration. As such, the questions are reframed as under: D (i) Whether the power available to the Central Government under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act can be restricted to mean that it can be exercised only for “one” or “some” series of bank notes and not “all” series in view of the word “any” appearing before the word “series” in E the said sub-section, specifically so, when on earlier two occasions, the demonetization exercise was done through the plenary legislations? (ii) In the event it is held that the power under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act is construed to mean that it F can be exercised in respect of “all” series of bank notes, whether the power vested with the Central Government under the said sub-section would amount to conferring excessive delegation and as such, liable to be struck down?