Yet another accused – Vivek seems to have criminal antecedents and the third accused is the Manager of the Hotel where the alleged incident of gang rape had occurred. On investigation, the charge-sheet came to be fi led against two accused only, namely, Vivek and Netram, though in the complaint a specifi c allegation of rape has been made against Deepak he was dropped. It is in this background, at the instance of the complainant, the jurisdictional court took cognizance of the off ence against Deepak vide dated 09.06.2022 and this was challenged before the High Court in Criminal Revision No.979 of 2022 which came to be dismissed vide dated 13.07.2022 and the special leave petition fi led challenging the same in Special Leave Petition (Criminal) No.9458 of 2022 came to be withdrawn on 03.02.2022. Thus, of taking cognizance by the jurisdictional Sessions Court against Deepak has attained fi nality. 21. In this background, the contention or plea of delay being fatal to the prosecution when examined, it would, prima facie, indicate that in the complaint/FIR which has been registered on 25.03.2022 relevant to the incident dated 24.02.2021 the reason has been assigned namely constant BHAGWAN SINGH v. DILIP KUMAR @ DEEPU @ DEPAK 481 AND ANOTHER [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] threat posed by the accused persons as stated in the complaint itself. It is in this background it will have to be seen as to whether in the societal circumstances the minor girl was placed, her tender age, then prevailing circumstances and the purported video depicting her nudity and the constant threat being posed to victim of video of rape which had been recorded being made viral in the event of prosecutrix informing anyone of the incident are factors which cannot be brushed aside which resulted in delay in fi ling the complaint. In other words, delay by itself would not be fatal for all times to come and the criminality attached to the incident would not evaporate into thin air or get extinguished by virtue of such delay. It all depends upon facts that may unfold in given circumstances and same would vary from case to case. On the other hand, if the prosecution attempts to improvise its case stage by stage and step by step during the interregnum period, in such circumstances accused would be justifi ed in contending that delay was fatal to stave off the proceedings initiated against such accused. Thus, it depends on facts that would unfold in a given case. In the aforesaid background the fact of delay in the instant case prima facie cannot be held against the prosecution or in other words on the ground of delay in lodging FIR the genuineness of the complaint cannot be viewed with coloured glasses nor it can be held that by itself would be suffi cient ground to enlarge the accused on bail. 22. The accused in the instant case, namely, Deepak was apprehended by the jurisdictional Sessions Court by executing the arrest warrant on 09.01.2023.