E (ii) Hair oils, hair creams, hair dyes, hair darkeners, hair tonics, brilliantines, pomades and vaselines and all hair applicants other than shampoos mentioned in item 4 of the Sixth Schedule. (iii) Lipsticks, lip-salve, nail polishes, nail varnishes, nail F brushes, beauty boxes, face powders, toilet powders, baby powders, talcum powders, powder compacts, powder pads and puffs, toilet sets made of all materials (with or without contents) toilet sponges, scent spray, depilatories, blemish removers, eye liners all sorts, eye shadow, eyebrow pencils, G eyelash brushes, eau de cologne, solid colognes, lavender water, snows, face creams, all purpose creams, cold creams, cleaning creams, make-up creams, beauty creams, beauty milk, cleaning milk, hair foods, skin tonics, complexion rouge, nail cutters, sanitary towels and napkins, astringent lotions, pre- shave and aftershave lotions and creams, moisturisers of all H sorts and personal (body) deodorant.” HEINZ INDIA LIMITED v. THE STATE OF KERALA 445 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] By amendment to the TNGST Act, in 1994, the following A explanation was added, below Item I (iii), Part F, of the First Schedule: “Explanation- Any of the items listed above even if medicated or as defined in section 3 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 (Central Act XXIII of 1940) or manufactured on the licence issued under the said Act will fall under this item.” B VI 34. The assessees contends that the product is sold under the trade name Nycil powder.They market the substance known as ‘Chlorphenesin’. Nycil powder contains zinc oxide and boric acid. They C constitute 32% of the total contents of Nycil.The rest is starch and talc. Nycilpowder, it is said, is designed to keep the skin clean and offer protection against prickly heat and infection besides giving comfort and freshness. Therefore, it would fall under Entry 79 of the First Schedule to the KGST Act. The nature, composition and property of Nycilpowder, was set out by the Gujarat High Court in the case of Shah & Co(supra): D “Nycil Powder has the following features and attributes: (1) Chlorphenesin, being a medical substance was introduced as a result of original work in the British Drug House Research Laboratories. “Nycil” is the trade name under which the British Drug House product of chlorphenesin is manufactured and E marketed. (2) Chlorphenesin is a potent antifungal, antibacterial and trichomonicidal substance of low toxicity. Organisms against which it is effective include the common dermatophytes causing tinea pedis (Athelct’s foot) and other dematomycoses, F epidermophyton, floccosum and the various trichophyton species such bacteria as streptococci, staphyloccocci, coliform organisms and clostridii. Nycil is effective in eliminating pruritus ani and pruritus vulvae. Pruritus ani and pruritus vulvae are frequently of bacterial or fungal origins, or the G lesions may become infected with bacterial or fungi, and Nycil is effective in eliminating such organisms. (3) Nycil in the form of powder or ointment is recommended for the treatment of prickly heat and dhobie itch and active skin protection during ringworms and other fungicidal H 446 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R.