(90) We are not dealing with a case where the exercise of power of the Commission under Section 63 is under review. In a case where, however, the rates are approved under Section 63 and PPA is entered into, the question would undoubtedly arise as to whether there is a power E which can be described in a manner of speaking to be plenary power with the Commission under Section 79? Can there be a power which can be christened as omnibus? Can the Tribunal, in other words, disregard the express words of the contract? Can it discover a new change in law which the parties have not contemplated as change in law? In short, can the Tribunal rewrite the contract and create a new bargain? F (91) We are of the view that the Tribunal cannot indeed make a new bargain for the parties. The Tribunal cannot rewrite a contract solemnly entered into. It cannot ink a new agreement. Such residuary powers to act which varies the written contract cannot be located in the power to regulate. The power cannot, at any rate, be exercised in the G teeth of express provisions of the contract. (92) We notice this for the reason that the first respondent has a case that what is provided in Article 13.2(a) (since we are dealing with 3 Energy Watchdog v. Central Electricity Regulatory Commission and Others (2017) 14 SCC 80 H 62 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A the case of alleged change in law during the construction period) does not do justice to the parties or that it is incapable of producing a fair result and therefore, the Tribunal would necessarily be clothed with power bearing in mind its regulatory nature. In a matter where the parties have entered into a contract with express provisions, we are unable to agree with the first respondent that the Tribunal would have power to disregard B the express provisions of the contract on the score that as it turns out that with passage of time and even change in circumstances, it is found that the contract cannot be worked except at a loss for the contractor. (93) We may, at this juncture, also notice an argument which has been raised by Shri Amit Kapur, learned counsel for the first respondent, C when queried as to what would be the position if a claim of the nature were canvassed in a civil suit. The answer came that Section 18 and 19 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 (hereinafter referred to as ‘Contract Act’ for brevity), provided the gateway. Section 18 of the Contract Act deals with the effect of representation or rather misrepresentation by a D party made to another party to the contract. It, undoubtedly, includes a representation, however, innocent it may be. In other words, an innocent representation made to one party by another party which forms the basis for consent of the person can lead to the contract becoming voidable under Section 19.