117. This Court in the case of Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam G Limited (UNHVNL) and another v. Adani Power Limited and others7,after considering the provisions of Article 11, which deals with ‘Billing’ and Article 13, which deals with ‘Change in Law’, has observed thus: 7 (2019) 5 SCC 325 H 224 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A “9. It will be seen that Article 13.4.1 makes it clear that adjustment in monthly tariff payment on account of change in law shall be effected from the date of the change in law [see sub-clause (i) of clause 4.1], in case the change in law happens to be by way of adoption, promulgation, amendment, re-enactment or repeal of the law or change in law. As opposed to this, if the change in law is on B account of a change in interpretation of law by a of a Court or Tribunal or governmental instrumentality, the case would fall under sub-clause (ii) of clause 4.1, in which case, the monthly tariff payment shall be effected from the date of the said / of the competent authority/Tribunal or the governmental C instrumentality. What is important to notice is that Article 13.4.1 is subject to Article 13.2 of the PPAs. 10. Article 13.2 is an in-built restitutionary principle which compensates the party affected by such change in law and which must restore, through monthly tariff payments, the affected party D to the same economic position as if such change in law has not occurred. This would mean that by this clause a fiction is created, and the party has to be put in the same economic position as if such change in law has not occurred i.e. the party must be given the benefit of restitution as understood in civil law. Article 13.2, however, goes on to divide such restitution into two separate E periods. The first period is the “construction period” in which increase/decrease of capital cost of the project in the tariff is to be governed by a certain formula. However, the seller has to provide to the procurer documentary proof of such increase/ decrease in capital cost for establishing the impact of such change F in law and in the case of dispute as to the same, a dispute resolution mechanism as per Article 17 of the PPA is to be resorted to. It is also made clear that compensation is only payable to either party only with effect from the date on which the total increase/decrease exceeds the amount stated therein. G 11. So far as the “operation period” is concerned, compensation for any increase/decrease in revenues or costs to the seller is to be determined and effected from such date as is decided by the appropriate Commission. Here again, this compensation is only payable for increase/decrease in revenue or cost to the seller if it is in excess of an amount equivalent to 1% of the Letter of Credit H GMR WARORA ENERGY LTD. v. CENTRAL ELECTRICITY 225 REGULATORY COMMISSION (CERC) [B. R. GAVAI, J.]