Therefore, it is clear that the of Dr. Manjeet Kaur Monga’s case (supra) was pronounced after the repeal of the MRTP Act and not during the existence of the MRTP Act. 33. There is no dispute that the facts of the Monga’s case (supra) G and the present case are identical as the flats were booked in the same project of the Petitioner, although by different allottees and that in both the cases, despite payment of the money, the allotted flats were not given to its allottees within the stipulated period or even thereafter. In the present case, the flats had been sold during the pendency of the Complaint. The Opposite Party, therefore, is H 1114 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A not in a position to hand over the possession of the said flats to the Complainant and the Commission is fully empowered to grant any other relief which is just and proper in such circumstances. It is also settled proposition of law that the Commissions are bound to follow the dictum of the superior Foras on the identical facts. In the present case, on the identical facts there is a of B Hon’ble Supreme Court, although the remedy had been sought in that case under a different provision of the Act, however, the findings are on the identical facts of the case and so the is binding on the Foras below….” 7.1. After reproducing certain passages from the decision of this C Court in Dr. Manjeet Kaur Monga (supra), the National Commission concluded on the matter by dismissing the revision petitions in the following terms: - “34. It is also apparent that the Complainant has specifically argued before the State Commission and also mentioned this fact in her D written submissions that they should be awarded the same relief as had been granted in Dr. Monga’s case (supra) and that this contention was not opposed by the Opposite Party before the State Commission. 35. This Commission has a limited revisional jurisdiction. It can E set aside the impugned in exercise of its revisional jurisdiction only when the findings are perverse or without jurisdiction. 36. From above discussion it is clear that in this case, the State Commission had duly followed the dictum of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Dr. Manjeet Kaur Monga’s case (supra) and therefore, F it cannot be said that the findings of the State Commission are perverse or without jurisdiction. We found no illegality or infirmity in the impugned . The present Revision Petitions have no merit and the same are dismissed.” Rival Contentions G 8. While assailing the s aforesaid, awarding compound interest to the respondent, learned senior counsel Mr. Ranjit Kumar appearing on behalf of the appellants has put forward six-fold submissions which could be summarised as follows: H M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR. v. ANITA 1115 MERCHANT [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 8.1. Learned senior counsel has contended in the first place that A the Act of 1986 does not confer any power on the Consumer Fora established thereunder to award compound interest on the compensation amount; and for being not envisaged under or by the scheme of the Act of 1986 and being not provided in the contract either, such awarding of compound interest cannot be countenanced.