After referring to G the of the Supreme Court in Mohd. Ekram Khan in paragraph 20, the major points of distinction between the facts in Mohd. Ekram Khan case and in the said case were considered in paragraph 21 and it was observed as under: “21. …. Since title of property in goods namely spare parts passes from the hands of respondent assessee to the customer H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1339 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] free of cost and such title of property in spare parts does not A pass from assessee dealer to the manufacturer, no taxable sale can be said to have taken place in the hands of respondent assessee at all.” 56. Thereafter, the learned Single Judge of the Rajasthan High Court has observed that: B “22. In other words, where there is supply of spare parts to the customer by the dealer there is no consideration passing as it is free of cost and where such consideration or payment is being received by the dealer from the manufacturer in the form of credit notes in discharge of manufacturer’s warranty C obligations, there is no transfer of property in goods viz. spare parts from dealer to the manufacturer. These two transactions viz. one between customer and dealer, and another between dealer and manufacturer are independent and are not linked to each other. First is sans consideration against goods and second D one is sans transfer of property in goods. The credit notes given by manufacturer to dealer in discharge of its warranty obligations to customers cannot be taxed under sales tax laws in the hands of the dealer.” 57. While considering the gamut of transactions in the context of E a warranty, bifurcation of the same, namely, one between customer and dealer, and another between dealer and manufacturer and the observation that the same being “independent and are not linked to each other” is not correct. This is because in to ascertain whether the issuance of the credit note by the manufacturer to the dealer is one pursuant to a sale of spare part and therefore liable to sales tax law, as noticed above, F it has to be viewed in the larger perspective of carrying out an obligation under a warranty at the time of sale of the vehicle and not independently as has been stated above. We also find that the learned single judge incorrectly distinguished the facts of the case with Mohd. Ekram Khan by reasoning that the dealership agreement contemplated a principal-principal relationship between the manufacturer and the dealer. G On the other hand, we agree with the decision of the Division Bench of Bombay High Court in M/s Navnit Motors Pvt Ltd. vs. State of Maharashtra, where it compared the assessee’s dealership agreement with Maruti Udyog Ltd. with the dealership agreement of the dealer in Mohd. Ekram Khan with Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. The Bombay H 1340 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R.