24. Paragraph 3 (ii) deals with a prohibited category which reads as follows: “(ii) manufacture or handling oil storage or disposal of hazardous C substance as specified in thenotification of Ministry of Environment and Forests, No. S.0.594 (E), dated the 28th July, 1989, S.0. No. 966(E), elated the 27th November, 1989 and GSR 1037 (E), dated the 5th December, 1989 except,-” 25. However, by way of exception to the prohibition 3 (ii) (a) D permits transfer of hazardous substances from ships to ports terminals and refineries and vice versa. Clause 3 (ii) (a) reads as follows: “(a) transfer of hazardous substances from ships to ports, terminals and refineries and viceversa;” E 26. Paragraph-3 (viii), enacts the following prohibitions: “(viii) Port and harbour projects in high eroding stretches of the coast, except those projects classified as strategic and defence related in terms of EIA notification, 2006 identified by MoEF based on scientific studies and in consultation with the State Government F or the Union territory Administration.” (Emphasis supplied) 27. Paragraph-3 (xi) provides for prohibition of construction activity in CRZ1 except those specified in para 8 of the notification. We need G not be detained with various others clauses. Regulation 4 deals with permissible activities in CRZ area. It is declared that activities which are enumerated under paragraph-4 shall be regulated except those prohibited in paragraph-3. This means what is prohibited in paragraph-3 cannot either be permitted or regulated within the meaning of paragraph- 4. Paragraph-4 reads as follows: H K.T.V. HEALTH FOOD PVT. LTD. v. UNION OF INDIA AND 265 ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] “4. Regulation of permissible activities in CRZ area.- The following A activities shall beregulated except those prohibited in para 3 above,- (i) (a) clearance shall be given for any activity within the CRZ only if it requires waterfront and foreshore facilities; B (b) for those projects which are listed under this notification and also attract EIA notification,2006 (S.O.1533 (E), dated the 14th September, 2006), for such projects clearance under EIA notification only shall be required subject to being recommended by the concerned State or Union territory Coastal Zone C Management Authority (hereinafter referred to as the CZMA). (c) Housing schemes in CRZ as specified in paragraph 8 of this notification; (d) Construction involving more than 20,000sq mts built-up area in CRZ-! 1 shall be considered inaccordance with EIA notification, D 2006 and in case of projects less than 20,000sq mts built-uparea shall be approved by the concerned State or Union territory Planning authorities inaccordance with this notification after obtaining recommendations from the concerned CZMA and prior recommendations of the concern CZMA shall be essential for E considering the grant of environmental clearance under EIA notification, 2006 or grant of approval by the relevant planning authority. (e) MoEF may under a specific or general specify projects which require prior public hearing of project affected people. F (f) construction and operation for ports and harbours, jetties, wharves, quays, slipways, shipconstruction yards, breakwaters, groynes, erosion control measures; (ii) the following activities shall require clearance from MoEF, G namely:- (a) those activities not listed in the EIA notification, 2006.