In Transmission Corporation of Andhra Pradesh Ltd (Supra), the state commission had, by an dated 20.06.2001 directed generators of non-conventional energy to supply power exclusively to the A.P. Transmission Corporation. Energy developers were not permitted H to sell power to third parties. The Commission also approved the rate GUJARAT URJA VIKAS NIGAM LIMITED v. RENEW WIND 703 ENERGY (RAJKOT) PVT. LTD. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] prevailing earlier for supply @ 2.25/- per unit with a 5% escalation per A annum from 1994-1995 being the base year. The parties entered into PPA after the passing of the Regulatory Commission’s . The PPA embodied or reflected the tariff @ 2.25/- per unit with escalation @ 5% per annum having 1994 as the base year to be revised annually upto 2003-04. After that, the purchase price was to be decided by the state B commission. The stipulation also provided that further review of the purchase price on the completion of 10 years from the commissioning of the project would be made. 51. The A.P. Transmission Corporation’s functions devolved upon discoms by operation of law. In this background, the state commission C exercised suo motu powers to revise non-conventional energy purchase tariffs. The APTEL rejected the appeal of the A.P. Transmission Corporation. This court held that once agreements were signed and were enforceable in law, such enforceable obligations could not be frustrated. The court also negatived the arguments on behalf of the power generator that they had been subjected to coercion or duress. The observations of D this court in this regard are pertinent in this regard and are extracted below: “39. [..] In the present case the dated 20-6-2001 was fully accepted by the parties without any reservation. After the lapse of more than reasonable time of their own accord E they voluntarily signed the PPA which contained a specific stipulation prohibiting sale of generated power by them to third parties. The agreement also had a renewal clause empowering TRANSCO/ APTRANSCO/Board to revise the tariff. Thus, the documents executed by these parties and their F conduct of acting upon such agreements over a long period, in our view, bind them to the rights and obligations stated in the contract. The parties can hardly deny the facts as they existed at the relevant time, just because it may not be convenient now to adhere to those terms. Conditions of a contract cannot be altered/avoided on presumptions or G assumptions or the parties having a second thought that a term of contract may not be beneficial to them at a subsequent stage. They would have to abide by the existing facts, correctness of which, they can hardly deny. Such conduct, would be hit by allegans contraria non est audiendus.” H 704 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A ---------------------------- 42. Now, we will proceed to examine the merits or otherwise of the findings recorded by the Tribunal that the PPAs executed by the parties were result of some duress and thus, it will not vest the authorities with the power to review the tariff and other granted incentives.