It is submitted that the exemption notification issued under Section 4-A also uses the terminology and resultantly the test for diversification is the “production of a goods which is different in nature than that was produced earlier”. D 5.4 It is submitted that clause (5) of Section 4-A also makes the legal position clear. It is submitted that the opening sentence of clause (5) seeks to refer “expansion, diversification and modernization” and then clarifying in one separate sub-clause the exercise of “expansion or modernization” means the “increase in production” and thereafter in another separate sub-clause clarifies “diversification” to mean that the E production of goods of a different kind, distinct and different in nature, a new article as understood in commercial circle. 5.5 It is submitted that the test is how a good is understood in the commercial parlance or commercial circle. It is submitted that the goods manufactured by the appellant prior to the investment exercise was F subject to levy under the class of goods namely “Corks”. After the investment exercise, the manufacturing of the “Double Lip Dry Blend Crowns” is merely the enhanced quality and quantity of goods namely “Corks” earlier produced before the investment exercise. It is submitted that therefore, the investment was an exercise of “modernization and expansion” only and the different goods were not manufactured, not G entitled to the exemption under Section 4-A(5) of the Act and the notification issued under Section 4-A. In support of his above submissions, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents has placed reliance upon the decision of this Court in the case of Commissioner of Sales Tax, Orissa and Anr. Vs. Jagannath Cotton Company and Anr., H (1995) 5 SCC 527 (para 5). 1042 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 5.6 It is further submitted that mere change in technology now the goods being manufactured by the unit of the appellant cannot be considered “different in nature” than the goods being manufactured earlier by the unit because of the fact that the goods are being utilized for packing the bottles. It is submitted that as per the settled position of law, the exemption notifications are to be strictly construed. B 5.7 Making above submissions and relying upon the findings recorded by the High Court that the goods manufactured now by the appellant cannot be said to be different than that of the goods manufactured earlier and the goods manufactured earlier and the new are used as “Corks”, it is prayed to dismiss the present appeal. C 6. Heard the learned counsel for the respective parties at length. 7. The short question which is posed for consideration of this court is:- “Whether for the goods, manufactured by use of modern technologies can be said to be “diversification”, and manufacturing D of the goods of a nature different from the goods manufactured earlier entitle the appellant to claim the exemption from trade tax as provided under Section 4-A (5) of the U.P. Trade Tax Act? 8. While considering the aforesaid issue, relevant provisions of Section 4-A are required to be referred to, more particularly, Section 4- A(2)(c), Section 4-A(5)(b)(i) & (ii) and Section 4-A(5)(c), which reads E as under:- “Section 4-A - Exemption from trade tax in certain cases (1) ………….. (2) It shall be lawful for the State Government to specify in the notification under sub-section (1) that the exemption from, or F reduction in the rate of tax, shall be admissible— (a) …….