(See Rambhau Namdeo Gajre v. Narayan Bapuji Dhotra [(2004) 8 SCC 614].) Therefore, it is clear that under the general law, that is, under the Transfer of Property Act, an “agreement for sale” is not the same as “sale” and in the case of an agreement for sale, the title of the property agreed to be sold still remains with the vendor but in the case of “sale”, title of the property is vested with the vendee. Therefore, an agreement for sale is an executory contract whereas sale is an executed contract. x-x-x-x 22. As noted hereinearlier, it is true that in this case, admittedly, the parties had entered into an agreement for sale in respect of the granted land before the commencement of the Act. It is also an admitted position that the respondents belong/ belonged to the Scheduled Caste community. As already noted hereinearlier, for the purposes of this Act, “transfer” has been defi ned to include an “agreement for sale” although under the general law, an “agreement for sale” will not by itself transfer the granted land automatically to the appellant purchaser. From an overall consideration of the objects and reasons for which this Act was introduced viz. to protect the right and interest of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in respect of the granted lands and the relevant provisions of the Act, it is pellucid that the defi nition of “transfer” under Section 3(1)(e) of the Act includes an agreement for sale also and “transfer” has been so defi ned to protect the right, title and interest of the YADAIAH AND ANR. v. STATE OF TELANGANA AND 649 OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes so that possession of the lands could be restored to them even if they had entered into an agreement for sale.” (Emphasis Applied) We, therefore, hold that the GPA executed in favour of M.A. Baksh in the instant case constitutes a ‘transfer’ under the 1977 Act and consequently would also result in violation of Section 3 of the 1977 Act. 66. This leads us to further consider the penal consequences in case of the violation of Section 3 of the 1977 Act, as is provided in Section 4 of the 1977 Act. The relevant part of the said provision, as amended from time to time, reads as follows:– “Section 4 – Consequence of breach of Section 3 – (1) If in any case, the District Collector or any other offi cer not below the rank of a Mandal Revenue Offi cer, authorised by him in this behalf; is satisfi ed that the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 3, have been contravened in respect of any assigned land, he may, by - (a) take possession of the assigned land after evicting the person in possession after such written notice as the Collector or Mandal Revenue Offi cer may deem reasonable and any crop or other produce raised on such land shall be liable to forfeiture and any building or other construction erected or anything deposited, thereon shall also be forfeited, if not removed by him, after such notice, as the Collector or the Mandal Revenue Offi cer may direct Forfeitures under this section shall be adjudged by the Collector or Mandal Revenue Offi cer and any property forfeited shall be disposed of as the Collector or Mandal Revenue Offi cer may direct; and; (b)(i) reassign the said resumed land, other than those lands/ areas as may be notifi ed by the Government from time to time in public interest and for public purpose, to the transferee who purchased the land in good faith and for valuable consideration on or before 29th January, 2007, subject to the condition that he/ 650 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R.