After discussing the relevant material on record, the conclusion is stated in paragraph 17 of the report. The view was that where an F error which has to be established by a long-drawn process of reasoning on points where there may conceivably be two opinions, can hardly be said to be an error apparent on the face of the record. The view that long-drawn process of arguments to canvass a point attacking the in a review jurisdiction, cannot be said to be an error apparent on the G face of record. Relevant extract from paragraph 17 of the report is reproduced hereunder: “17....................Is the conclusion wrong and if so, is such error apparent on the face of the record ? If it is clear that H 4AIR 1960 SC 137 ARUN DEV UPADHYAYA v. INTEGRATED SALES SERVICE 737 LTD. & ANR. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] the error if any is not apparent on the face of the record, it is A not necessary for us to decide whether the conclusion of the Bombay High Court on the question of notice is correct or not. An error which has to be established by a long drawn process of reasoning on points where there may conceivably be two opinions can hardly be said to be an error apparent B on the face of the record. As the above discussion of the rival contentions show the alleged error in the present case is far from self evident and if it can be established, it has to be established by lengthy and complicated arguments. We do not think such an error can be cured by a writ of certiorari according to the rule governing the powers of the superior C court to issue such a writ. In our opinion the High Court was wrong in thinking that the alleged error in the of the Bombay Revenue Tribunal, viz., that an for possession should not be made unless a previous notice had been given was an error apparent on the face of the record D so as to be capable of being corrected by a writ of certiorari.” 11. Another case which may be briefly dealt with is the case of Parison Devi Vs. Sumitri Devi5, where, this Court ruled that under XLVII Rule 1 CPC, a may be open to review inter alia if there is a mistake or an error apparent on the face of the record. An E error which is not self-evident and has to be detected by a process of reasoning, can hardly be said to be an error apparent on the face of the record justifying the Court to exercise its power of review. It also observed that a review petition cannot be allowed to be treated as an appeal in disguise. F 12. A series of decisions may also be referred to wherein, it has been held that power to review may not be exercised on the ground that decision was erroneous on merits as the same would be the domain of the Court of appeal.