12. Further argument was that the private respondents knew that with the change in the date of their promotion, the appellant was likely to be aff ected, hence, they had impleaded him as a respondent in the writ petition6 fi led initially. However, the High Court did not grant any opportunity to the 150 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. appellant to put forth his stand. A direction was issued by the High Court for considering the representation of the private respondents. Even the Chief Engineer to whom the direction was given, was not the competent authority for dealing with any such representation. Learned counsel referred to Rule 27-B of the Kerala State and Subordinate Services Rules, 1958 to submit that such a representation could only be made to the Government and not to the Chief Engineer. Further, the Chief Engineer had also not granted any opportunity of hearing to the appellant before passing the dated 14.03.2005. Change in the date of the promotion of the private respondents from Overseer Grade-I to Assistant Engineer, had adversely aff ected the promotional prospects of the appellant. He further argued that the direction of the High Court was merely for consideration of the representation of the private respondents and not to grant any relief to them. In case the claim was belated, the same could have been rejected. At present only C. Satheesan – Respondent no.3 is in service. All others have retired, including the appellant. Reliance was placed upon the judgement of this Court in Vinod Prasad Raturi & Ors. vs. Union of India & Ors., 2021 INSC 157. 13. On the other hand, learned counsel for the State submitted that the passed by the Division Bench of the High Court which has been impugned by the appellant does not call for any interference by this Court. He further submitted that the State had merely complied with the direction issued by the High Court in the writ petition6 fi led by the private respondents. As there was an error in the calculation of quota for grant of promotion to the private respondents from the post of Overseer Grade-I to Assistant Engineer, the said error was corrected. The appellant was not going to suff er in any manner for the reason that for subsequent promotion to the post of Assistant Executive Engineer, there were separate quotas meant for the Engineering Graduates and Diploma Holders. 14.With reference to the argument of the appellant that the private respondents had not raised any objection regarding their placement in the seniority list, it was submitted that they had made numerous representations requesting for re-assignment of their date of promotion as Assistant Engineer. As their claim was found to be meritorious, Chief Engineer had only corrected the error. He relied upon the of this Court in R.M. Ramual vs. State of Himachal Pradesh & Ors. (1989) 1 SCC 285. C. ANIL CHANDRAN v. M.K. RAGHAVAN AND OTHERS 151 [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] 15. Learned counsel for the respondent no.3 submitted that wrong benefi t was granted to the appellant after he was appointed on compassionate basis in 1989.