Sanjay Agarwal and M/s La Richesse, accompanied by Nitish Bangera took the lead role coordinating the offering. Sanjay Agarwal decided on all the participants, including the Lead Arranger (Prospect Capital) and the company’s legal advisor (“Fox D Mandal”). Although, Fox Mandal acted as counsel to Farmax, the email communications indicate that its role was limited to preparing a due diligence report and the Listing Prospectus (“Prospectus”) to be filed with the Luxembourg Exchange. E b) Sanjay Agarwal acted as an intermediary for almost all communications with the various participants, and gave instructions to M/s Farmax India Limited before and after the offering. Notwithstanding that Agarwal was the central figure who gave F instructions to Farmax which was duly followed by Morthala Srinivasa Reddy. (A-1) being a qualified Chartered Accountant, had experience of working with stock exchange filings related to GDRs, and was introduced by Arun Panchariya to MD of Farmax Ltd, Shri M. Sreenivasa Reddy. (A-1) by G representing Arun Panchariya’s firm Prospect Capital before the depositary, the Bank of New York and being well aware of the relation Arun Panchariya had with EURAM Bank insisted all companies going through GDR to open a bank H 466 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A account in that particular bank, (A-1) being well aware of the arrangement between Arun Panchariya and the Company promoters to share the proceeds of GDR, took the lead role of coordinating the offering, by purposely hiding the subscriber list from submitting to Ahmedabad Stock B Exchange and hence was directly involved in the process and activity connected with the proceeds of crime including its acquisition and hence has committed the offence of money-laundering as defined under section 3 of PMLA, 2002 and is liable C for punishment under Section 4 of PMLA, 2002.” 14.Keeping in mind the specific role attributed to the appellant, let us now revert back to the facts pleaded and arguments advanced. At the outset, there is no controversy about the following facts: (i) that the registration of the ECIR and the lodging of the D prosecution complaint in the year 2022 were a sequel to the registration of the FIR for the predicate offence, way back in the year 2013, at the instance of one M. Srinivas Reddy, Managing Director, Farmax and also a sequel to the passed by SEBI in the year 2020; E (ii) that no final report has been filed in the FIR for the predicate offence, for the past nine years; (iii) that even M. Srinivas Reddy, the de-facto complainant in the FIR for the predicate offence, was sought to be arrested as an accused in connection with the ECIR, but the F application of the Enforcement Directorate for remand was rejected; (iv) that the appellant is a Chartered Accountant by profession and has been in jail from 26.09.2022; and G (v) that the relevant portion of paragraph 8 of the prosecution complaint filed by the Enforcement Directorate, which we have extracted in the preceding paragraph, gives room for a valid argument that the second condition found in Clause (ii) of sub-section (1) of Section 45 of PMLA is satisfied qua the appellant.