If a married man has a right, a married woman, other ASSOCIATION OF OLD SETTLERS OF SIKKIM AND ORS. v. 345 UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] things being equal, stands on no worse footing. This A misogynous posture is a hangover of the masculine culture of manacling the weaker sex forgetting how our struggle for national freedom was also a battle against woman’s thraldom. Freedom is indivisible, so is Justice. That our founding faith enshrined in Articles 14 and 16 should have been tragically B ignored vis-a-vis half of India’s humanity viz. our women, is a sad reflection on the distance between Constitution in the book and law in action. And if the executive as the surrogate of Parliament, makes rules in the teeth of Part III especially when high political office, even diplomatic assignment has been filled by women, the inference of diehard allergy to gender parity is inevitable. C 7. We do not mean to universalise or dogmatise that men and women are equal in all occupations and all situations and do not exclude the need to pragmatise where the requirements of particular employment, the sensitivities of sex or the peculiarities of societal sectors or the handicaps of either sex may compel D selectivity. But save where the differentiation is demonstrable, the rule of equality must govern. This creed of our Constitution has at last told on our governmental mentation, perhaps partly pressured by the pendency of this very writ petition. In the counter- affidavit, it is stated that Rule 18(4) (referred to earlier) has been E deleted on November 12, 1973. And, likewise, the Central Government’s affidavit avers that Rule 8(2) is on its way to oblivion since its deletion is being gazetted. Better late than never. At any rate, we are relieved of the need to scrutinise or strike down these rules.” F (Emphasis by me) This Court struck down the afore-mentioned provisions as unconstitutional and also impressed upon the Central Government, the need to overhaul all Service Rules and remove the stain of sex discrimination. G (ii) Mackinnon Mackenzie and Co. Ltd. vs. Audrey D’costa and Another, AIR 1987 SC 1281, is a of this Court upholding the decision of the Bombay High Court wherein it was ed that, all women stenographers were entitled to equal remuneration for work of the same or similar nature as a male stenographer. H 346 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A (iii) In Githa Hariharan vs. Reserve Bank of India, (1999) 2 SCC 228, this Court was faced with the interpretation of Section 6(a) of Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, 1956 and Section 19(b) of Guardian and Wards Act, 1890. The validity of the aforesaid Sections was assailed as being violative of the equality clause of the Constitution, inasmuch as under the said provisions the mother of a minor child is B relegated to an inferior position on the ground of sex alone since her right as a natural guardian of the minor, is made cognizable only ‘after’ the death of the father.