50. It is perhaps indubitable that the electorate invests not just their votes but also their expectations, trust and faith in the individuals they elect to represent them. Any compromise in the integrity of these representatives can be viewed as a betrayal of this trust. The electorate’s willingness to be represented by a parliamentarian who has been disqualifi ed by reason of a conviction on a criminal charge of moral turpitude cannot, therefore, be presumed. Rather, representation by such parliamentarian could breach the trust and confi dence that was reposed by those who voted him to power. The trust placed on elected representatives is conditional on their continued adherence to the principles and laws governing their role. Disqualifi cation mechanisms serve as a crucial safeguard to rectify any breach of such adherence. By promptly addressing instances such as the one under 101 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. consideration, the democratic system aims to maintain the credibility and legitimacy of the elected bodies. This process is fundamental to ensure that the will of the people, expressed through their votes, remains untainted and refl ects a genuine mandate. 51. If a member of the Lok Sabha is convicted and hence stands disqualifi ed from membership, it is bound to create a vacuum and the electorate he represents would stand unrepresented. This is not peculiar to any one member but common to all members suff ering conviction if at all. Creation of a vacuum is envisaged by the Constitution as well as the RoP Act, with a corresponding obligation to fi ll up the vacancy caused in the manner authorised by law. The remedy which was earlier provided to a disqualifi ed member [sub-section (4) of section 8, RoP Act] no longer survives. Extraordinary circumstances put forth by an elected member suff ering a disqualifi cation and urging consideration of his case for staying a conviction must necessarily involve a level of exceptionality which is beyond the routine. In any case, the lack of representation of the electorate stemming from the vacancy can always be addressed by organizing an immediate by-election. Hence, it seems to be debatable whether mere lack of representation of the electorate should at all be deemed to be an exceptional reason for stay of a conviction or suspension of execution of a conviction. 52. A summary of the above discussion is that allowing a convicted parliamentarian to attend parliamentary proceedings could not only be derogatory to the dignity of the Parliament but also derogatory to the good sense and wisdom of the people who elected such parliamentarian. The robust democratic foundation envisioned in the Constitution fi nds its purest manifestation in the RoP Act; the democratic spirit inherent in the Constitution, therefore, pervades through section 8 of the RoP Act, giving primacy to nothing but the rule of law. Against this backdrop, the standard applied to stay the conviction of a parliamentarian ought to attract a higher standard and the disability stemming from the conviction cannot be forestalled using the identical standard prescribed for suspending the execution of the sentence or appealed against.