By perusing the allegations made in the complaint petition, we are also satisfi ed that no case of defamation has been made out. In this view of the matter, requiring the accused persons to face trial or even to approach the Magistrate afresh for reconsideration of the question of issuance of process would not be in the interest of justice. On the other hand, in our considered opinion, this is a fi t case for quashing the of issuance of process and the proceedings itself. We, therefore, set aside the impugned of the High Court and confi rm the of the learned Sessions Judge and quash the criminal proceeding itself. This appeal is allowed.” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 24. The aforesaid determination makes it clear that on perusal of the allegations levelled in the petition of complaint, the Court was satisfi ed that no case of defamation had been made out therein and this precisely seems to be the reason why the Court felt that it would not be in the interest of justice to require the accused persons to face trial or even to approach the Magistrate afresh for reconsideration of the question of issuance of process. We do not read any law having been laid down by this Court in Rajendra Kumar Sitaram Pande (supra) that wherever a challenge to a summoning passed on a complaint for defamation is laid before the High Courts in a petition under section 482, Cr. PC or such challenge travels to this Court, 238 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. an endeavour must necessarily be made whether any of the exceptions is attracted so that the proceedings may be closed without subjecting the accused to long drawn proceedings. At best, we read the decision as one where, in the given facts and circumstances, the Court felt that requiring the appellants to undergo a trial would be a travesty of justice; hence, the decision must be held to be confi ned to the facts of the case. 25. Now, it is time to consider the other decision relied on by Ms. Viswanathan, i.e., Aroon Purie (supra). In such decision, the decision in Jawaharlal Darda v. Manoharrao Ganpatrao Kapsikar16 was considered. Before we look into Aroon Purie (supra), we propose to ascertain whether Jawaharlal Darda (supra) lays down a law having the force of a binding precedent. 26. The decision in Jawaharlal Darda (supra) reveals that the respondent 1 had fi led a complaint on 2nd February, 1987 in the court of the relevant Magistrate alleging that by publishing a news item in its newspaper ‘Daily Lokmat’, on 4th February, 1984, the appellant being the then Chief Editor of that daily and 4 (four) others associated with the newspaper in one capacity or the other, had committed off ences punishable under sections 499, 500, 501 and 502 read with section, 34 IPC. Process was issued against all the accused by the Magistrate. Upon a challenge being laid to such , the relevant Sessions Court quashed it being of the opinion that by publishing that news item, none of the accused had committed any off ence.