This was contrary to what was laid down in the advertisement as according to the advertisement, the candidates had to produce the original G qualification certificates at the time of the interview and any candidate who failed to produce the same was not to be allowed to appear in the written or oral test. 10.4. It was contended that the process was tainted by arbitrariness and casualness with which the Selection Committee had acted. That H TAJVIR SINGH SODHI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF JAMMU 747 AND KASHMIR & ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] this was evidenced by the fact that there were some candidates who A were not given marks for their M. Pharma Degree and they had to later approach the Board. That 11 selected candidates were given 20 out of 20 marks and three were given 19 out of 20. Thus, almost 20% of the selected candidates were given unusually higher marks in the viva-voce which facilitated their selection. B 10.5. It was submitted that there was no blanket estoppel to challenge the selection by the candidates who participated in the selection. In the instant case, the Petitioners before the High Court were not aware when they participated in the selection that the Selection Committee was faulty nor were they aware till the Select List was published that C several selected candidates had not produced their original certificates of qualification or birth certificates at the time of the interview. That even the Selection Board did not have the facility to verify the veracity of the certificates produced. 10.6. The learned counsel for the respondents placed reliance on D Secretary, State of Karnataka vs. Umadevi, (2006) 4 SCC 1 to contend that the petitioners cannot seek the protection of their appointment on the plea that they had been working for long years, if their initial selection was held to be illegal and faulty. 10.7. Learned counsel for the respondents concluded the E submissions by stating that the total sanctioned strength of drug inspectors is 84 and out of the total strength, 65 are currently working. In fact, out of the 65 inspectors, 4 had been promoted, thus, there are 25 vacancies as of now and only 17 candidates are contesting before this Court and all other petitioners before the High Court have not chosen to contest the matter even though notice was issued by this Court in ordinary mode F and also by way of publication in newspapers. Thus, all the petitioners can be adjusted and appointed in the vacant posts. With the aforesaid submissions, it was prayed that the impugned s of the High Court be affirmed and the present appeals be dismissed as being devoid of merit. G Points for Consideration: 11. Having regard to the submissions of the learned Senior Counsel and learned counsel for the respective parties, the following points would arise for our consideration: H 748 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A i) Whether the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir at Srinagar erred in quashing and setting aside the the selection process conducted on 8th September, 2009, for appointment of drug inspectors in the State of Jammu and Kashmir, and the appointments published on 12th November, 2009?