Constitution of India, 1950 – Art. 14, 19(1)(f), 19(5), 31 & 300A and Seventh Schedule, List III, Entry 42 – Doctrine of Eminent Domain – Right To Property – Acquisition and Requisitioning of H Property – Held: Stipulating the conditions that a person who seeks ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1021 V. GOPINATH & ORS. to develop his property in a sprawling and ever-growing urban A metropolis which is sought to be regulated by a law relating to a town planning cannot be viewed as acquisition of land within the meaning of Entry 42 in List III – A case of compulsory acquisition would be without there being any volition or consent of a person. Words and Phrase – word ‘communal’ – Meaning. B Disposing of the Appeals and Writ Petition, the Court HELD: 1. This Court must proceed on the basis that Regulation 29(6) holds good. This means that when the layout is above 10,000 square meters, reservation of 10 per cent for C recreational purposes has to be made. Regulation 29(6)(a) stipulates that the land for the communal and recreational purposes, is to be restricted to the ground level and in a shape and location to be specified by the Authority. It is also to be reserved free from any construction. Therefore, the reservation, which is mandated in terms of Regulation 29(6)(a), and which D cannot be a subject matter of a claim for compensation under Section 39 of the Act, is to become the subject matter of the gift deed. The execution of the gift deed, if it is understood as merely as an insurmountable obstacle for an unscrupulous developer to get around the laudable mandate to preserve the requisite area E as open space, cannot be rendered vulnerable. Even if, no gifts were to be executed, the property covered by the open space requirement, would be put beyond the domain and control of the developer. Future generations of successors-in-interest or anyone, who claims under him, will be effectively prevented from setting up any claim over the area. Viewed in this perspective F and understanding the gift as not conferring ownership of the area comprised in the open space, the impugned provisions would pass muster. It would prevent any kind of abuse. It is clear that the Regulation, properly understood, prescribe for the open space and merely provides for the facilitation and preservation of the open space. [Para 122][1129-F-H; 1130-A-C] G 2. Stipulating the conditions that a person who seeks to develop his property in a sprawling and ever-growing urban metropolis which is sought to be regulated by a law relating to a town planning cannot be viewed as acquisition of land within the H 1022 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A meaning of Entry 42 in List III. Acquisition of land involves, no doubt, compulsory divesting of the rights of a person in his property. The impugned provision does not represent a case of compulsory acquisition of land. A case of compulsory acquisition would be without there being any volition or consent of a person.