The learned Senior Counsel also relying on the recent of the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Anoop Baranwal v. Union of India20 submits that the institutions like the ED E and the CBI need to be kept insulated to protect the democracy. He, therefore, reiterates that the impugned Amendments so also the extensions granted to the respondent No.2 be set aside. 46. After hearing the learned counsel for the parties, we find that, following two questions arise for consideration: F (i) As to whether the amendment to Section 25 of the CVC Act by the Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Act, 2021 and to sub-section (1) of Section 4B of the DSPE Act by the Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Act, 2021 and the amendment in clause (d) of Rule 56 of the Fundamental Rules, 1922 by the Fundamental G (Amendment) Rules, 2021 are liable to be held ultra vires and set aside? 18 1993 Supp (4) SCC 461 19 (2003) 9 SCC 358 20 2023 SCC OnLine SC 216 H 550 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A (ii) As to whether the extensions granted to the tenure of the respondent No.2 as Director of Enforcement for a period of one year each vide s dated 17th November 2021 and 17th November 2022 are legal and valid, and if not, whether liable to be set aside? B 47. For answering the said questions, we will have to consider the legal history which gave rise to the provisions for appointment of the Central Vigilance Commissioner and the Director of CBI as well as the Director of Enforcement. 48. The case of Vineet Narain (supra) arose out of a complaint of inertia by the CBI in matters where the accusation made was against C high dignitaries. However, as the case progressed, the Court posed a question to itself, as to whether it was within the domain of judicial review and whether the Court could provide for an effective instrument for activating the investigative process which was under the control of the executive? This Court attempted to innovate the procedure within the D constitutional scheme of judicial review to permit intervention by the Court to find a solution to the problem. 49. This Court in the case of Vineet Narain (supra) found the necessity for the insulation of the investigating agencies like the CBI and the Revenue Department from any extraneous influence to enable E them to discharge their duties in the manner required for proper implementation of the rule of law. This Court observed thus: “48. In view of the common perception shared by everyone including the Government of India and the Independent Review Committee (IRC) of the need for insulation of the CBI from extraneous influence of any kind, it is imperative that some action F is urgently taken to prevent the continuance of this situation with a view to ensure proper implementation of the rule of law. This is the need of equality guaranteed in the Constitution.