However, the second proviso also permits fragmentation of any site if such fragmentation is permitted under any scheme notified by the Administration. VI. FINDINGS OF THE HIGH COURT: B 52. In the impugned , what has been held by the High Court is that, though in view of Rule 16 of the 2007 Rules, no floor-wise sale of property is permissible and though, it does not permit a residential house to be converted into apartments, and that though no sale of a defined portion or part of the building is permissible, however, mere C construction of three floors on a private plot and utilization of the same as independent units would not amount to fragmentation. The High Court has held that fragmentation will take place only if there is a division of the site or division of the building with an element of exclusive ownership, i.e., partition by metes and bounds, which is prohibited by Rule 16 of the D 2007 Rules. 53. The High Court has held that for holding that apartmentalization is being carried out, certain requisites have to be met. In view of the High Court, the following factors would be necessary for holding that it amounts to apartmentalization: E (i) “There has to be a sub-division of a building duly recognized by the Estate Officer along with proportionate share in common areas and common facilities; (ii) Each sub-division of a building to be a distinct, identifiable property to which the owner/lessee shall have title; F (iii) The recognition of each sub-division as an apartment by the Estate Officer would be accorded by way of a fresh letter of allotment or a fresh conveyance deed; and (iv) Pursuant to such recognition, such sub- division/apartment to be the sole and exclusive property of the declared owner/ G lessee.” 54. The High Court held that, in the present case, the pre-requisites noticed hereinabove were missing. The High Court held that, by virtue of sale of share(s) by a co-owner and thereafter, the purchaser/vendee occupying a specific portion of the building on the basis of an internal H 628 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A arrangement/understanding, sub-division of the building as provided under the 2001 Rules does not take place. It held that the specific portion under the occupation of a co-owner is not accorded any recognition by the Estate Officer in any manner. It also held that the co-owner also does not become the sole and exclusive owner of such specific portion under his occupation. B 55. As such, the High Court though holds that what was permissible under the 2001 Rules, became impermissible after its repeal and notification of the 2007 Rules, it held that construction of three different floors in a building or a site and occupation of the same by three different persons would not amount to apartmentalization inasmuch as the same C does not have recognition of the Estate Office. 56. The 2001 Rules, in effect, permitted the apartments to be constructed on a site and permitted sub-division of a building as a distinct, identifiable property to which the owner/lessee would have title along with proportionate share in the declared common areas and common D facilities.