This was B pressed into service by the appellants. 7. At the very outset we may say that we are of the considered view that the contention of the appellants founded on Section 51 of the TP Act is totally misplaced and misconceived. This position would be revealed if ground ‘b’ raised in these appeals is juxtaposed to ground C ‘d’. Noticeably, the appellants assail the reversal of the modification of the and decree passed by the First Appellate Court and attempting to sustain the modification based on contentions founded on the principle of estoppel and relying upon Section 51 of the TP Act. Conceptually, the underlying principles in Section 51, TP Act and the D principle of estoppel under Section 115 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 are converse and cannot co-exist. Section 51 of the TP Act reads thus:- “51. Improvements made by bona fide holdersunder defective titles.—When the transferee of immoveable property makes any improvement on the property, believing in good faith that E he is absolutely entitled thereto, and he is subsequently evicted there from by any person having a better title, the transferee has a right to require the person causing the eviction either to have the value of the improvement estimated and paid or secured to the transferee, or to sell his interest in the property to the transferee at the then market value thereof irrespective F of the value of such improvement. The amount to be paid or secured in respect of such improvement shall be the estimated value thereof at the time of the eviction. When, under the circumstances aforesaid, the transferee has planted or sown on the property crops which are growing when he is evicted G therefrom, he is entitled to such crops and to free ingress and egress to gather and carry them.” 8. A perusal of Section 51, TP Act would reveal that even after the pre-requisites for the enforceability of equity enacted in it are satisfied, the right to election for one of the two alternatives provided under that H BAINI PRASAD (D) THR. LRS. v. DURGA DEVI 291 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] Section would still rest with the person evicting. In other words, he may A elect either to pay the value of improvements made by the defendant who satisfies a description of “transferee” for the purpose of this Section and take the land or sell out his interests in the land to the transferee at the market value of the property, irrespective of the value of such improvements. B 9. Section 51, TP Act is a general provision dealing with improvements effected by a transferee to the transferred property in the manner specifically provided thereunder. Thus, a bare perusal of Section 51, TP Act would reveal that in to acquire the ‘right to require’ in the manner provided thereunder one should be a ‘transferee’ C within the meaning of the TP Act and for the purpose ofthe said section. In short, Section 51 applies in terms to a transferee who makes improvements in good faith on a property believing himself to be its absolute owner.