Unless all these elements are present, there can be no sale. Thus, if merely title to C the goods passes but not as a result of any contract between the parties, express or implied, there is no sale. So also, if the consideration for the transfer is not a money consideration but other valuable consideration, it may then be an exchange or barter but not a sale under the Act. Also if, under the contract of sale, title to the goods has not passed, then there is D an agreement to sell and not a completed sale. Moreover under the law there cannot be an agreement relating to one kind of property and a sale as regards another. There must be an agreement between the parties for the sale of the very goods in which eventually the property passes. It was further observed in the aforesaid case that both under the E common law and the statute law relating to sale of goods in England and in India, to constitute a transaction of sale, there should be an agreement, express or implied, relating to goods to be completed by passing of title in those goods. It is of the essence of this concept that both the agreement and the sale should relate to the same subject matter. Where the goods delivered under the contract are not the goods contracted for, the F purchaser has got a right to reject them, or to accept them and claim damages for breach of warranty. Under the law, therefore, there cannot be an agreement relating to one kind of property and a sale as regards another. Thus, the expression sale of goods must relate to an agreement between the parties for the sale of the very goods in which eventually G the property passes. 12.6. It was further observed that the interpretation to the expression sale of goods in Gannon Dunkerley and Co.-I was made on the basis of the common law definition contained in Blackstone, Benjamin on Sale, Halsbury’s Law of England, Chalmer’s Sale of Goods H 1312 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Act, Corpus Juris, Williston on Sales and the Concise Oxford Dictionary. It was necessary to interpret the language of the Constitution with reference to the Common law, and the Court must place itself in the position of the men who framed and adopted the Constitution and inquire what they must have understood to be the meaning and scope of the principle that when power is conferred to legislate on a particular topic, B to have regard to what is ordinarily treated as embraced within that topic in legislative practice and particularly in the legislative practice of the State which has conferred that power by the Constitution. Parliament must be presumed to have had Indian legislative practice in mind and unless the context otherwise clearly requires, not to have conferred a C legislative power intended to be interpreted in a sense not understood by those to whom the Act was to apply.