[SANJAY KAROL, J.] to indicate which out of the two is to be preferred. It is this, which A would ensure transparency.” (emphasis supplied) 32. A Bench of two learned Judges of this Court in Kumari Shrilekha Vidyarthi and Others v. State of U.P. and Others7 B observed that there exists “an obvious difference” between contracts concerning private parties to those which have State as a party. The primary difference being that the State while exercising its powers and discharging its functions “acts indubitably, as is expected of it, for public good and in public interest”. The said factor singularly is sufficient to bring into any transaction the minimal requirements of public law, to C which the State is a party. The fact that a dispute falls into the contractual realm does not relieve the State of its obligation to comply with the requirements of Article 14. 33. Further the Court had observed that: “24. The State cannot be attributed the split personality of Dr D Jekyll and Mr Hyde in the contractual field so as to impress on it all the characteristics of the State at the threshold while making a contract requiring it to fulfil the obligation of Article 14 of the Constitution and thereafter permitting it to cast off its garb of State to adorn the new robe of a private body during the E subsistence of the contract enabling it to act arbitrarily subject only to the contractual obligations and remedies flowing from it. It is really the nature of its personality as State which is significant and must characterize all its actions, in whatever field, and not the nature of function, contractual or otherwise, which is decisive of the nature of scrutiny permitted for examining the validity of its F act. The requirement of Article 14 being the duty to act fairly, justly and reasonably, there is nothing which militates against the concept of requiring the State always to so act, even in contractual matters. There is a basic difference between the acts of the State which must invariably be in pubic interest and those of a private G individual, engaged in similar activities, being primarily for personal gain, which may or may not promote public interest. Viewed in this manner, in which we find no conceptual difficulty or anachronism, we find no reason why the requirement of Article 7 (1991) 1 SCC 212 H 756 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 14 should not extend even in the sphere of contractual matters for regulating the conduct of the State activity.” (emphasis supplied) 34. This case hinges on what would be construed to be ‘reasonable time’ to consider any application for reduction in maximum demand, by B the authorities. A Three-Judge Bench of this Court in Adjudicating Officer, Securities and Exchange Board of India v. Bhavesh Pabari8 has observed that: “…There are s which hold that when the period of limitation is not prescribed, such power must be exercised within C a reasonable time.