We have already noticed the interplay of Section 62(1) and Section 62(2). Equally, we may notice that even if a person is included in the electoral roll, if he is in confinement in a prison, it would not entitle him or rather it would disentitle him to cast his vote. In other words, while ordinarily, the Right to Vote inevitably follows from the inclusion of a person in the electoral roll, the Right to Vote may be denied in terms of F the law as we have noticed. The mere inclusion of a person’s name more than once in an electoral roll in a constituency, it has been declared, also would not entitle him to vote more than once [See Section 62(4)]. Equally, inclusion of a person’s name in the electoral roll of more than one constituency, would not entitle a person to cast his vote, in terms of such inclusion in more than one constituency [See Section 62(3)]. No G doubt, we do notice that this Court has issued notice in a case, which involves a challenge to Section 62(5) of the 1951 Act. 126. Section 16(1)(b) of the 1950 Act, provides for disqualification for a person of unsound mind to be registered in an electoral roll. There H 40(2013) 7 SCC 507 ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 117 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] is a condition, which is that, he must be so declared by a competent A court. Unsoundness of mind is also to be found in Article 326 as a disqualification. Section 16(1)(c) of the 1950 Act, it is to be noticed, disqualifies a person for registration in an electoral roll, if he is for the time being disqualified from voting under any law relating to corrupt practices and other offences in connection with elections. If such a person B is included in such electoral roll, his name is to be struck off from the electoral roll [See Section 16(2)]. Section 11A of the 1951 Act provides for disqualifications from voting. We have already noticed its contents. 127. In Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) and another v. Election Commission of India41, dealing with the validity of C the Symbols 1968, providing for recognition and allotment based on the criteria mentioned therein, Justice Chelameswar authored a dissent. In the course of his dissent, the learned Judge, after adverting to Articles 81 and 170, which respectively provided for the composition of the Lok Sabha and the Legislative Assemblies, and, more particularly, that the Members of the said Legislative Bodies, would be chosen by direct D elections and after adverting to Articles 325 and 326, held as follows: “98. The cumulative effect of all the abovementioned provisions is that the Lok Sabha and the Legislative Assemblies are to consist of members, who are to be elected by all the citizens, who are of 18 years of age and are not otherwise disqualified, by a valid law, E to be voters. Thus, a constitutional right is created in all citizens, who are 18 years of age to choose (participate in the electoral process) the members of the Lok Sabha or the Legislative Assemblies.