In other words, although the objection is based on the insufficiency of the stamp affixed to the document, a party who has a right to B object to the reception of it must do so when the document is first tendered. Once the time for raising objection to the admission of the documentary evidence is passed, no objection based on the same ground can be raised at a later stage. But this in no way extends the applicability of Section 36 to secondary evidence adduced or sought to be adduced in proof of the contents of a C document which is unstamped or insufficiently stamped.” (Emphasis supplied) 95. In Jupudi Kesava Rao (supra), the appellant relied on oral evidence to prove the lease document which was insufficiently stamped. D The High Court held that oral evidence could not be acted upon to prove the lease agreement. The main question, which arose was, whether secondary evidence of a written agreement to grant a lease, was barred under Sections 35 and 36 of the Stamp Act. The Court went on to find, on a survey of the Evidence Act that it did not purport to deal with admissibility of documents in evidence, which were required to be stamped E under the Stamp Act. It is thereafter that the Court went on to hold what was done in paragraphs-13 and 14 of the . While dealing with Section 35 of the Act, the Court, inter alia, held that ‘the second limb of Section 35 of the Stamp Act, which related to acting upon the instrument, would obviously shut out any secondary evidence of such instrument, F for allowing such evidence to be let in, when the original, admittedly chargeable with duty, was not stamped or insufficiently stamped, would tantamount to the document being acted upon by the person having by law or Authority, to receive evidence.Proviso (a) is only applicable, it was found when the original instrument is actually before the Court of Law and the deficiency in stamp with penalty is paid by the party seeking G to rely upon the document. It is, thereafter, the Court observed that ‘there is no scope for inclusion of a copy of a document as an instrument for the purpose of the Stamp Act’. The Court also, in paragraph-14, found that Section 36 of the Stamp Act, which precludes a party, who did not object to the admission of an unstamped or insufficiently stamped H 364 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A document, in evidence, from raising the objection later, did not apply to secondary evidence. 96. In Hariom Agrawal (supra), a Bench of three learned Judges, was dealing with the impugned of the High Court, by which, it held that a photocopy of the original agreement, could neither be B impounded nor could it be accepted as secondary evidence. It was after following Jupudi Kesava Rao (supra), the Court held as follows: “10. It is clear from the decisions of this Court and a plain reading of Sections 33, 35 and 2(14) of the Act that an instrument which is not duly stamped can be impounded and when the required fee C and penalty has been paid for such instrument it can be taken in evidence under Section 35 of the Stamp Act.