A 6. Following the amendment of the provisions of the Act in 2019, the Union Government in the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways formulated the Motor Vehicle Aggregator Guidelines 2020. The Guidelines commence with a prefatory statement that they have been issued “as guiding framework for State Government for issuance of licenses to transport aggregators and for the purposes of regulating the business B conducted by such aggregators”. The guidelines have been issued in terms of the amended provisions of the statute, including Section 93, which stipulates that while issuing a licence to an aggregator, the State Government may follow such guidelines as may be issued by the Central Government. The Guidelines of 2020 contain diverse provisions; among C them: (i) Clause 4 which deals with the eligibility of an aggregator; (ii) Clause 5 which provides conditions for the grant of a licence to an aggregator; (iii) Clause 7 which lays down compliances with regard to D drivers; (iv) Clause 8 which enunciates compliances with regard to vehicles; (v) Clause 9 which refers to compliances with regard to E aggregators’ apps and websites; (vi) Clause 10 which stipulates compliances to ensure safety among other provisions; and (vii) Clause 13 which makes provisions for the regulation of fares. F 7. Clause 15 of the Model Guidelines is extracted below: “15. Aggregatlon of non-transport vehicles by Aggregators: (1) ln furtherance of the Central and State Government’s objective of reduction in traffic congestion and automobile G pollution, and effective asset utilizations, non-transport vehicle pooling may be provided by Aggregator unless prohibited by the State Government. Rationale for such prohibition shalI be specified in writing and accessible on the transport portal of the State Government. H ROPPEN TRANSPORTATION SERVICES PVT LTD v. UNION OF 575 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (2) ln addition to the compliances mentioned above in these A guidelines, as may be applicable, the following shall be complied with by the Aggregator seeking to aggregate non- transport vehicles: (a) A maximum of four ride-sharing intra-city trips on a calendar day and a maximum of 2 ride-sharing inter-city B trips per week shall be permitted for each vehicle with the driver, integrated with the Aggregator. (b) The vehicle integrated under this Clause 15 shall obtain an insurance of at least Rs. 5 lakhs for the ride-sharers in the vehicle, other than the owner or driver integrated with the C Aggregator.” 8. Clause 15(1) stipulates that the Central and the State Governments seek to pursue the objective of reducing traffic congestion and automobile pollution as well as effective asset utilization. However, clause 15 also stipulates that the pooling of non-transport vehicles may D be provided by the aggregator unless prohibited by the State Government. The rationale for such a prohibition has to be specified in writing by the State Government and has to be accessible on its transport portal. 9. Government of Maharashtra has not formulated any rules in relation to aggregators for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of E Chapter V, more particularly, Section 93(1).