The statute which governs the field is ‘The Uttar Pradesh Urban Buildings (Regulation of Letting, Rent and Eviction) Act, 1972 (hereinafter referred to as “the Act No. 13 of 1972”). F 6. Under Section 20 Sub-section (2) a suit for eviction of a tenant from a building can be instituted, inter alia, on the grounds given in sub- section 2 (a) of Section 20 reads as follows: “(2) A suit for the eviction of a tenant from a building after the determination of his tenancy may be instituted on one or G more of the following grounds, namely: (a) that the tenant is in arrears of rent for not less than four months, and has failed to pay the same to the landlord within one month from the date of service upon him of a notice of demand:” H 304 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A The ground of non-payment of rent by the tenant therefore has to be for not less than ‘four months’ and which has not been paid within one month of service of demand of the notice. Moreover, even when this rent is not paid and the landlord files his suit for eviction, the law provides yet another opportunity to the tenant to unburden this liability, which is by payments of the entire rent and arrears, before the first B hearing of the suit. This is in sub-section (4) of Section 20 which reads as under: “20(4). In any suit for eviction on the ground mentioned in clause (a) of sub-section (2), if at the first hearing of the suit the tenant unconditionally pays or [tenders to the landlord C or deposits in court] the entire amount of rent and damages for use and occupation of the building due from him (such damages for use and occupation being calculated at the same rate as rent) together with interest thereon at the rate of nine per cent per annum and the landlord’s cost of the suit in D respect thereof, after deducting therefrom any amount already deposited by the tenant under sub-section (1) of Section 30, the Court may, in lieu of passing a decree for eviction on the ground, pass an relieving the tenant against his liability for eviction on the ground: E Provided that nothing in this sub-section, shall apply in relation to a tenant or any member of the whose family has built or has otherwise acquired in a vacant state, or has got vacated after acquisition, any residential building in the same city, municipality, notified area or town area. [Explanation.- For the purposes of this sub-section- F (a) the expression “first hearing” means the first fate for any step or proceeding mentioned in the summons served on the defendant; (b) the expression “cost of the suit” includes one-half G of the amount of counsel’s fee taxable for a contested suit. ]” As we have already referred above the case of the appellant/ tenant has been that on refusal of the landlord to receive the rent, he was constrained to deposit the same in the “Court”.