notification, the [manufacture for sale or for distribution, sale, A stocking or exhibiting or offering for sale] or distribution of any drug or class of drugs not being of standard quality. The punishment for contravention of Section 18(c) is provided under Section 27(b)(ii) which reads as follows: B 27. Penalty for manufacture, sale, etc., of drugs in contravention of this Chapter— Whoever, himself or by any other person on his behalf, manufactures for sale or for distribution, or sells, or stocks or exhibits or offers for sale or distributes— (a) xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx C (b) any drug – (i) xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx (ii) without a valid licence as required under clause (c) of section 18, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall [not be less than three years but which may extend D to five years and with fine which shall not be less than one lakh rupees or three times the value of the drugs confiscated, whichever is more]: Provided that the Court may, for any adequate and special reasons to be recorded in the , impose a sentence of E imprisonment for a term of [less than three years and of fine of less than one lakh rupees]; 7. As we can see the prohibition under Section 18(c) is on the manufacturing, distribution, stocking or exhibition of medicines for the purposes of sale. The charge in the present case is that the Appellant F had “stocked” medicines for “sale”. The entire emphasis is on “sale” of these medicines. This is evident from the sanction being sought by the Drug Inspector from the office of the Director, Drugs Control, Tamil Nadu wherein as per the sanction letter dated 23.01.2018, he had said that the Appellant be prosecuted for the contravention of: G “Section 18(c) of Drugs and Cosmetics Act 1940 for having ·stocked drugs for sale and sold the drugs without having a valid drug license, which is punishable under section 27(b)(ii) of the said Act”. H 920 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Thus, as per the prosecution she had stocked the drugs and sold them. What the Director of Drugs Control and the High Court lost sight of is the fact that the Appellant is a registered medical practitioner, her area of specialization being dermatology. She has an M.D. (DVL) degree in this specialisation. It is not a case that she had opened a shop in her premises from where she was selling drugs and cosmetics across the B counter! It is possible that she was distributing these drugs to her patients for emergency uses and thus she is protected by the Act itself. Schedule (K) which is a part of the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945 provides an exemption which we shall examine hereafter. 8. Under Section 33 of the Act, the Central Government can make C rules which have to be laid before the Parliament for its ratification under Section 38 of the Act. These rules have been framed which is known as Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1940.