Even if Orissa Khadi and Village Industries Board has been established under an enactment of the State and for several relevant factors, it could D be considered to be an instrumentality of the State, its distinct characteristic of being a Board established with particular aim and objective cannot be ignored altogether. The Board being a body corporate, incorporated by its name, has been established to carry out the purposes of the Act of 1955 and not beyond. In view of its independent corporate E entity and existence, the provisions have been made in the Act of 1955 for making regulations by the Board consistent with the Act of 1955 and rules made thereunder with the previous sanction of the State Government, where the Regulations could provide, inter alia, for remuneration, allowances and other conditions of service of the staff of the Board (vide Section 36 of the Act). The Regulations of 1960 were framed F accordingly. Therein, even while otherwise applying a substantial part of the Rules in the Orissa Service Code mutatis mutandis to the employees of the Board, Regulation 40 itself starts with a clause of exception, making that provision subject to the other provisions of the Regulations. Then, in Regulation 52 it has specifically been provided that the employees of the G Board shall not be entitled to any pension except gratuity and CPF benefits; and further provisions have been made for the purpose of subscription/contribution to CPF. Thus, even when the State has established the Board to carry out its obligations in terms of Article 43 of the Constitution of India, it cannot follow as a corollary that the employees of this body corporate have to be treated as State Government employees H STATE OF ORISSA v. ORISSA KHADI AND VILLAGE INDUSTRIES 1077 BOARD KARAMCHARI SANGH [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] in all respects. Such a corollary proposition would practically amount to A merging of the Board with the State Government; rather making it as one of the Departments of the Government. This, in the face of existing statute, cannot be done. That being the position and when Regulations in question specifically make a distinct provision as regards retiral benefits, the same cannot be ignored by any stretch of arguments. B 16.1.1. Putting it differently, even if development of khadi and cottage industry is a Directive Principle of State Policy, it does not follow as a corollary that if the State establishes a Board or any organisation to carry out the obligations under such Directive Principles, it cannot make separate arrangements as regards the service conditions of the employees C of such a Board or organisation. Significantly, Regulation 40 of the Regulations of 1960 starts with an exception clause and while general conditions of service of the Board’s employees have been provided in terms of the service conditions of the employees of the State Government, the provision is subject to the other provisions of the Regulations. Hence, the other provision, that is the one contained in Regulation 52, cannot be D ignored.