For the said purpose, the averments made in the plaint in their entirety must be held to be correct. The test is as to whether if the averments made in the plaint are taken to be correct in their entirety, a decree would be passed.” 23.12. In Hardesh Ores (P) Ltd. v. Hede & Co. [Hardesh Ores (P) Ltd. v. Hede & Co., (2007) 5 SCC 614] the Court further held that it is not permissible to cull out a sentence or a passage, and to read it in isolation. It is the substance, and not merely the form, which has to be looked into. The plaint has to be construed as it stands, without addition or subtraction of words. If the allegations in the plaint prima facie show a cause of action, the court cannot embark upon an enquiry whether the allegations are true in fact. D. Ramachandran v. R.V. Janakiraman [D. Ramachandran v. R.V. Janakiraman, (1999) 3 SCC 267; See also Vijay Pratap Singh v. Dukh Haran Nath Singh, AIR 1962 SC 941] . KUM. GEETHA, D/O LATE KRISHNA v. NANJUNDASWAMY 159 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J. ] 23.13. If on a meaningful reading of the plaint, it is found that the suit is manifestly vexatious and without any merit, and does not disclose a right to sue, the court would be justifi ed in exercising the power under 7 Rule 11 CPC. 23.14. The power under 7 Rule 11 CPC may be exercised by the court at any stage of the suit, either before registering the plaint, or after issuing summons to the defendant, or before conclusion of the trial, as held by this Court in the of Saleem Bhai v. State of Maharashtra [Saleem Bhai v. State of Maharashtra, (2003) 1 SCC 557] . The plea that once issues are framed, the matter must necessarily go to trial was repelled by this Court in Azhar Hussain case [Azhar Hussain v. Rajiv Gandhi, 1986 Supp SCC 315. Followed in Manvendrasinhji Ranjitsinhji Jadeja v. Vijaykunverba, 1998 SCC OnLine Guj 281 : (1998) 2 GLH 823]. 23.15. The provision of 7 Rule 11 is mandatory in nature. It states that the plaint “shall” be rejected if any of the grounds specifi ed in clauses (a) to (e) are made out. If the court fi nds that the plaint does not disclose a cause of action, or that the suit is barred by any law, the court has no option, but to reject the plaint” 7. In simple terms, the true test is fi rst to read the plaint meaningfully and as a whole, taking it to be true. Upon such reading, if the plaint discloses a cause of action, then the application under VII Rule 11 of the CPC must fail. To put it negatively, where it does not disclose a cause of action, the plaint shall be rejected. 8. Following this clear principle, we will now consider the averments made in the plaint. The relevant portions of the plaint are as follows: “The plaintiff s submit that the said joint family of late Muniventkata Bhovi was in the habit of raising fi nance whenever it was needed on the strength of the said land in survey number 76/1 later renumbered as 76/2 by executing nominal sale deeds and used to clear the same and used to get necessary reconveying documents... the same habit continued even after the death of late Munivenkata Bhovi by his wives... the said landing survey number 76/2 always continued to be and is in possession of the joint family of the plaintiff s... 160 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R.