[AJAY RASTOGI, J.] (a) the original arbitration agreement or a duly certified copy A thereof; (b) the names and addresses of the parties to the arbitration agreement; (c) the names and addresses of the arbitrators, if any, already B appointed; (d) the name and address of the person or institution, if any, to whom or which any function has been entrusted by the parties to the arbitration agreement under the appointment procedure agreed upon by them; C (e) the qualifications required, if any, of the arbitrators by the agreement of the parties; (f) a brief written statement describing the general nature of the dispute and the points at issue; (g) the relief or remedy sought; and D (h) an affidavit, supported by the relevant document, to the effect that the condition to be satisfied under sub-section (4) or sub- section (5) or sub-section (6) of section 11, as the case may be, before making the request to the Chief Justice, has been satisfied. E 77. It is clear from the scheme of which a reference has been made that while the applicant approaches the Court for appointment of an Arbitrator, he is not supposed to file an original arbitration agreement and attested copy of the agreement can be annexed at the pre-referral stage which is indeed not an instrument as referred to under Section 2(14) of the Act, 1899. F 78. So far as the reference made of submitting a certified copy of the arbitration agreement is concerned, suffice it to say, that arbitration agreement executed between the parties relating to the business/ commercial transactions is not required to be compulsorily registered under the Act, 1908. The obligation to register the document is invoked G under provisions of the substantive law, namely, Transfer of Property Act, 1882, while Section 17 of the Act, 1908 mandates that the non- testamentary instrument that created any right, title or interest of the value of Rs.100/- or upwards in an immovable property must be compulsorily registered. If document is not registered, transfer is void, H 414 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A there is no valid transfer, and the property described in the instrument does not pass on, for example, mortgage does not become complete and enforceable until it is registered under the Act, 1908. 79. Indisputably, the arbitration agreement is not a public document to which compulsory registration as referred to under Section 17 of the B Act, 1908 is required and one can obtain a certified copy of the public document under Sections 74 or 75 of the Evidence Act, 1872. The Public Officer having the custody of a public document can make available its certified copy as referred to under Section 76 of the Evidence Act, 1872. In the absence of the arbitration agreement being required to be compulsorily registered, within the scope and ambit of Section 17 of the C Act, 1908, such arbitration agreement/document is not accessiblein public domain and is not a public document of which certified copy can be obtained, as referred to under Section 74 of the Evidence Act, 1872, failing which the question of presumption as to genuineness of document purporting to be a certified copy as referred to under Section 79 of the D Evidence Act, 1872 may not arise.