Further the allottee shall complete the construction and installation and machinery and commence production within a period of 2 years from the date of possession after constructing a minimum of 25% of the permissible covered area, failing which the plot shall be liable to be resumed by H 138 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A the Corporation. Provided that the scheme shall be deemed not to have been implemented unless the allottee starts commercial production after completing construction to the extent of at least 25% of the permissible covered area of the plot as per the approved B Zoning Plan of the concerned estate within the aforesaid period failing that event, the plot shall liable to be resumed by the Corporation. However, the Corporation shall have the right to call for periodical reports every 6 months from the allottee about the C progress /implementation of the project and if, after hearing the allottee the Corporation is of the opinion that the progress is unsatisfactory it may the plot to be resumed. In the event of reasons beyond the control of the allottee to set up the unit within the prescribed period/the Corporation may grant the suitable extension depending upon the merits D of the case. However, such extension shall be granted on payment of a fee in accordance with the rules/policy of the Corporation”. 17. Besides this, there were other mandatory stipulations such as that regular payment of maintenance charges, proportional conservation E charges, proportionate external development charges as could be determined by HSIDC and importantly the condition that the allottee could not change its constitution and if it did so, it should in any event, hold not less than 51 % shareholding in its concern. Similarly, any request of the allottee for transfer of plot, could be considered where the final F allotment letter had been issued and the project had been completed and approved by the HSIDC. The embargo on transfer was subject to the condition that the HSIDC had the final say or approval, in this regard. 18. The development of industrial areas, was part of the state’s overall project for promoting industries and growth of its economy, with G the objective of providing livelihood. The HSIDC therefore, correctly contends that the stipulation in the allotment letter, requiring allottees to construct their respective projects and start it, was essential. The appellant too had furnished a project report, proposing to set up an FM radio and audio component manufacturing unit. This project was appraised, he was interviewed and after satisfying itself about its feasibility, HSIDC H AMAN SEMI- CONDUCTORS (PVT.) LTD v. HARYANA STATE 139 INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORP. LTD. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] allotted the plot. There is no denial of the fact that the allottee did not A take any step towards setting up the unit he proposed. His pleading, before the District Consumer Forum, was that the infrastructural facilities, such as road and external development had not come up. He claims to have applied for electricity connection.