Thus there was absolutely no grounds here which would justify a superior court in issuing a writ of certiorari for removal of an or proceeding of an inferior tribunal vested with powers to exercise judicial or quasi-judicial functions. What the High Court has done really is to exercise the powers of an appellate court and correct what it considered to be an error in the decision of the Labour Commissioner. This obviously it cannot do. The position might have been diff erent if the Labour Commissioner had omitted to decide a matter which he was bound to decide and in such cases a mandamus might legitimately issue commanding the authority to determine questions which it left undecided [Board of Education v. Rice, 1911 AC 179 (HL)]; but no certiorari is available to quash a decision passed with jurisdiction by an inferior tribunal on the mere ground that such decision is erroneous. The of the High Court, therefore, in our opinion, is plainly unsustainable. (Emphasis supplied) 786 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 72. In another case, the same Court held: ““A certiorari cannot be granted to quash the decision of the appellate tribunal on these points on the ground that the decision is wrong” - ‘Ebrahim Aboobakar v. The Custodian General of Evacuee Property’, 1952 Mad W.N. 502 (SC).” 73. It is, therefore, clear that in all fi ndings on matters of fact and interpretation of law except in cases of defective jurisdiction, the decision of the tribunal must be deemed to be fi nal. 74. The position is authoritatively summed up in Halsbury’s Laws of England Vol.IX in para 1493 where it is laid down thus: “1493. Where the proceedings are regular upon their face and the magistrates had jurisdiction, the superior court will not grant the writ of certiorari on the ground that the Court below has misconceived a point of law. When the Court below has jurisdiction to decide a matter, it cannot be deemed to exceed or abuse its jurisdiction, merely because it incidentally misconstrues a statute, or admits illegal evidence, or rejects legal evidence, or misdirects itself as to the weight of the evidence, or convicts without evidence. Nor will certiorari be granted to quash the decision of an inferior court within its jurisdiction on the ground that the decision is wrong in matters of fact, and the Court will not hear evidence impeaching the decision on the facts. ….” 75. Similarly in the case reported in - ‘Colonial Bank of Australasia v. Willan’, (1874) LR 5 PC 417, it is observed by their Lordships thus: “The question is whether the inferior court has jurisdiction to enter upon the enquiry and not whether there has been miscarriage of the procedure in the course of enquiry.” At page 443 of the same case, the learned Judges observed - “An adjudication by a Judge having jurisdiction over the subject-matter is, if no defect appears on the face of it, to be taken as conclusive of facts stated therein.