It may be a positive act and even a volitional act, but only to a MUKESH SINGH v. THE STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 911 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] limited extent, when he walks to the place where the test identifi cation parade is to be held, as has been urged by Mr. Dutt, but certainly it is not his evidentiary act. The view that we take in the instant case is in full accord with the test of positive volitional evidentiary act laid down by the Supreme Court in the case of M.P. Sharma v. Satish Chandra, AIR 1954 SC 300.” [Emphasis supplied] SECTION 54A OF THE CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE, 1973 29. In the aforesaid context, we shall now look into Section 54A of the CrPC. Section 54A reads thus:- “Section 54A. Identifi cation of person arrested.- Where a person is arrested on a charge of committing an off ence and his identifi cation by any other person or persons is considered necessary for the purpose of investigation of such off ence, the Court, having jurisdiction may, on the request of the offi cer in charge of a police station, direct the person so arrested to subject himself to identifi cation by any person or persons in such manner as the Court may deem fi t. Provided that, if the person identifying the person arrested is mentally or physically disabled, such process of identifi cation shall take place under the supervision of a Judicial Magistrate who shall take appropriate steps to ensure that such person identifi es the person arrested using methods that person is comfortable with: Provided further that if the person identifying the person arrested is mentally or physically disabled, the identifi cation process shall be videographed.” 30. The newly inserted Section 54A provides for the identifi cation of the arrested person where it is considered necessary for the purpose of investigation by the offi cer-in-charge of a police station. The said Section empowers the court, on the request of the offi cer-in-charge of a police station, to direct for placing the accused at test identifi cation parade for identifi cation by any person or persons in such manner as the court may deem fi t. It is provided in the “objects and reasons”:- 912 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. “This clause seeks to insert a new section 54A to empower the Court to direct specifi cally the holding of the identifi cation of the arrested person at the request of the prosecution.” 31. First Proviso: Identifi er mentally or physically disabled.- When the person identifying the suspect is mentally or physically disabled, the process of identifi cation must be under the supervision of a Judicial Magistrate. This mandatory requirement of law has been incorporated in the statute by the amending Act 13 of 2013 w.e.f. 03.02.2013. It is the duty of the Magistrate supervising TIP to take appropriate steps to ensure that such identifi er identifi es the suspect using methods to which he was comfortable with.