64. While he may be a person who can be treated as “interested” A in a waqf within the meaning of Section 2(k) both by reason of the fact that he is a recipient of pecuniary or other benefit and also he may be a descendant of the wakif, it is a far cry from describing him as a Trustee. The beneficiary may have benefits coming his way in terms of the waqf deed. He may be clothed with rights in this regard. B 65. Can it be said that a beneficiary of a waqf is a fiduciary or that there is a fiduciary relationship and, therefore, he cannot acquire title to the property of the waqf by adverse possession? The term ‘fiduciary’, as such, has not been defined, so is the case with the ‘fiduciary relationship’. In fact, Section 88 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882, inter C alia, provides that a person standing in a fiduciary character and bound to protect the interest of another, cannot by using such character, obtain an advantage and resist making over the benefit to the person, whose interest he was bound to protect. In Central Board of Secondary Education and another v. Aditya Bandopadhyay and others25, though in the context of Right to Information Act, 2005, the question arose D whether an Examining Body holds the evaluated answer books in a fiduciary relationship within the meaning of Section 8(1)(e) of the Right to Information Act, 2005. In the course of the , this Court, inter alia, held as follows: “38. The terms “fiduciary” and “fiduciary relationship” refer E to different capacities and relationship, involving a common duty or obligation. 38.1.Black’s Law Dictionary (7th Edn., p. 640) defines “fiduciary relationship” thus: “Fiduciary relationship.—A relationship in which one F person is under a duty to act for the benefit of the other on matters within the scope of the relationship. Fiduciary relationships—such as trustee-beneficiary, guardian-ward, agent-principal, and attorney-client—require the highest duty of care. Fiduciary relationships usually arise in one of four situations: (1) when one G person places trust in the faithful integrity of another, who as a result gains superiority or influence over the first, (2) when one person assumes control and responsibility over another, (3) when one person has a duty to act for or give advice to another on 25 (2011) 8 SCC 497 H 988 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A matters falling within the scope of the relationship, or (4) when there is a specific relationship that has traditionally been recognised as involving fiduciary duties, as with a lawyer and a client or a stockbroker and a customer.” xxx xxx xxx B 39. The term “fiduciary” refers to a person having a duty to act for the benefit of another, showing good faith and candour, where such other person reposes trust and special confidence in the person owing or discharging the duty. The term “fiduciary relationship” is used to describe a situation or transaction where C one person (beneficiary) places complete confidence in another person (fiduciary) in regard to his affairs, business or transaction(s).