14. Section 23(2)3 of the Act of 1955 postulates that the court before granting any relief under the Act shall, in the fi rst instance, where it is possible in the nature and circumstances of the case, make every endeavour to bring about reconciliation between the parties. The proviso carves out certain exceptions with which we are not concerned. This aspect is also referred to in sub-section (3)4 of Section 23. The object and purpose of these provisions is to check any party taking advantage of social and economic inequalities between the sexes given the fact that on many occasions a divorce may solve one problem, but create another when the woman is separated both socially and economically. Keeping these aspects in mind, recently this Court in Sivasankaran v. Santhimeenal, 2021 (10) SCALE 477, while exercising the power under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, had highlighted various facets which have to be kept in mind while granting divorce: “6. The ground which is often taken to oppose such a decree of divorce, apart from the absence of legislative mandate, is that the very institution of marriage is distinctly understood in diff erent countries. Under the Hindu Law, it is sacramental in character and is supposed to be an eternal union of two people - society at large does not accept divorce, given the heightened importance of marriage as a social institution in India. Or at least, it is far more diffi cult for women to retain social acceptance after a decree of divorce. This, coupled with the law’s failure to guarantee economic 3 S.23(2) – Before proceeding to grant any relief under this Act, it shall be the duty of the court in the fi rst instance, in every case where it is possible so to do consistently with the nature and circumstances of the case, to make every endeavour to bring about a reconciliation between the parties: Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall apply to any proceeding wherein relief is sought on any of the grounds specifi ed in clause (ii), clause (iii), clause (iv), clause (v), clause (vi) or clause (vii) of sub-section (1) of section 13. 4 S.23(3) – For the purpose of aiding the court in bringing about such reconciliation, the court may, if the parties so desire or if the court thinks it just and proper so to do, adjourn the proceedings for a reasonable period not exceeding fi fteen days and refer the matter to any person named by the parties in this behalf or to any person nominated by the court if the parties fail to name any person, with directions to report to the court as to whether reconciliation can be and has been, eff ected and the court shall in disposing of the proceeding have due regard to the report. 884 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. and fi nancial security to women in the event of a breakdown of marriage; is stated to be the reason for the legislature’s reluctance to introduce irretrievable breakdown as a ground for divorce - even though there may have been a change in social norms over a period of time.