The effect of this argument is that the rights of sentient C animals can be recognised by law but such rights would be in a nature as determined by the appropriate law-making body and not by judicial interpretation. 23. On the point of recognizing rights of animals, the legislative approach appears to us to be two-fold. Of course, the animals cannot D demand their right in the same way human beings can assert for bringing a legislation, but as part of the social and cultural policy the law makers have recognised the rights of animals by essentially imposing restriction on human beings on the manner in which they deal with animals. By virtue of Article 48 of the Constitution of India which essentially operates E as a national guideline for law makers, a two-way path has been devised. The first is imposing duty on the State to organise agriculture and animal husbandry on modern and scientific lines. The second is emphasising the duty of the State to take steps for preserving and improving the breeds and prohibiting slaughter of cows and calves and other milch and draught cattle. Under the chapter on Fundamental Duties, a citizen is F required to protect and improve the natural environment including forests, lakes, rivers and wildlife ought to have compassion for living creatures. The petitioners want us to interpret the Amendment Acts in light of these two constitutional provisions and want us to scrutinise the three Statutes taking into cognizance pain and suffering that would be caused G to them, so that the bovine species are not compelled to participate in the aforesaid sports organised by human beings for the latter’sown pleasure. It is the petitioners’ stand that wherever the 1960 Act enjoins human beings from performing certain acts vis-à-vis animals, the obligations ought to be translated jurisprudentially into rights of the animals not to be subjected to such prohibited acts. The line of reasoning in this regard on H 464 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A behalf the petitioners is that the very manner in which these sports activities are undertaken directly offend the aforesaid two provisions of the 1960 Act. Merely by introducing these three Amendment Acts, the organisers of these events cannot be saved from the offences specified in the 1960 Act, which aspect has been dealt with in detail in the of this Court in the case of A. Nagaraja (supra). B 24. On the question of conferring fundamental right on animals we do not have any precedent. The Division Bench in the case of A. Nagaraja (supra) also does not lay down that animals have Fundamental Rights. The only tool available for testing this proposition is interpreting the three Amendment Acts on the anvil of reasonableness in Article 14 C of the Constitution of India. While the protection under Article 21 has been conferred on person as opposed to a citizen, which is the case in Article 19 of the Constitution, we do not think it will be prudent for us to venture into a judicial adventurism to bring bulls within the said protected mechanism.