Duties of resolution professional. – (1) It shall be the duty of the resolution professional to preserve and protect H 1036 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A the assets of the corporate debtor, including the continued business operations of the corporate debtor. (2) For the purposes of sub-section (1), the resolution professional shall undertake the following actions, namely:— (a) take immediate custody and control of all the assets of B the corporate debtor, including the business records of the corporate debtor; (b) represent and act on behalf of the corporate debtor with third parties, exercise rights for the benefit of the corporate debtor in judicial, quasi-judicial or C arbitration proceedings; (c) raise interim finances subject to the approval of the committee of creditors under section 28; d) appoint accountants, legal or other professionals in the manner as specified by Board; D (e) maintain an updated list of claims; (f) convene and attend all meetings of the committee of creditors; (g) prepare the information memorandum in accordance E with section 29; (h) invite prospective resolution applicants, who fulfils such criterion as may be laid down by him with the approval of the committee of creditors, having regard to the complexity and scale of operations of the business of F the corporate debtor and such other conditions as may be specified by the Board, to submit a resolution plan or plans. (i) present all resolution plans at the meetings of the committee of creditors; G (j) file application for avoidance of transactions in accordance with Chapter III, if any; and (k) such other actions as may be specified by the Board.” 22. It may be noticed from Sections 18 and 25 that the word H “asset” and not the word “property” is what is used in these provisions, VICTORY IRON WORKS LTD. v. JITENDRA LOHIA & ANR. 1037 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] though the word “property” is defined in Section 3(27). But the said A word “asset” used in Sections 18 and 25 is not defined in the IBC. We have seen from Section 3(37) that it makes a reference to seven different enactments, to which one can take recourse, for finding the definition of words and expressions used but not defined in the Code. Therefore, let us find out whether those seven enactments will be of any assistance to B find out the meaning of the word “asset” used, but not defined in IBC. 23. The Indian Contract Act, 1872 does not define either of the expressions “asset” or “property”. The Indian Partnership Act, 1932 also does not define either of these two expressions. The Recovery of Debts and Bankruptcy Act, 1993 does not define the word “asset” but C defines the word “property” in Section 2(jb) as follows: “2. Definitions.—In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,— xxx xxx xxx (jb) “property” means— D (a) immovable property; (b) movable property; (c) any debt or any right to receive payment of money, whether secured or unsecured; E (d) receivables, whether existing or future; (e) intangible assets, being know-how, patent, copyright, trade mark, licence, franchise or any other business or commercial right of similar F nature, as may be prescribed by the Central Government in consultation with Reserve Bank;” 24.