5. Learned counsel for the appellant further argued that the writ petition was disposed of by the Single Bench while holding that there is no scope for interference in the of Settlement Officer, and in case B the petitioner has any grievance, he may take appropriate steps against the final record of rights which was prepared way back in the year 1962. The Division Bench of the High Court had gone wrong in issuing a direction for allotment of an alternative plot in exchange of the alleged stitiban land belonging to the respondents when their right was yet to be C established. 6. The record of rights was prepared in the year 1962 and there was no challenge thereto. For the first time, the respondents filed an appeal in the year 1990 which was disposed of on 1.3.1990. Thereafter, the respondents kept quiet for a period of more than 13 years before they filed the suit. After the same was dismissed as withdrawn on D 28.7.2007 without any liberty to institute fresh suit, the writ petition was filed in June 2008 claiming the same reliefs. The Division Bench of the High Court while granting relief to the respondents has indirectly set aside the record of rights which was prepared way back in the year 1962 without there being any challenge to the same in the writ petition. E To that extent, the passed by the Division Bench is totally illegal. Unless record of rights is corrected, no right can accrue to the respondents. In fact, the respondents were fighting a luxury litigation. 7. It is the admitted case of the respondents themselves that they are in possession of the part of the plot number 1506, some part of F which was allotted to the Reserve Bank of India. Meaning thereby, that they were aware of the developments which were taking place ever since the record of rights was prepared. In any case, they cannot deny filing of Settlement Appeal and thereafter civil suit and the writ petition. In fact, it is a case of forum hunting. Without availing appropriate remedy against the finalisation of record of rights, in case the respondents were G having any grievance, they kept quiet for decades together, hence no relief would be admissible to them at this stage. 8. It was further submitted that even in the appeal filed against the passed by the learned Single Judge, there was no mention of the civil suit filed by the respondents and its withdrawal. It only transpired H 1058 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A at the time of hearing before the Court that there was a civil suit filed by the respondents. However, this fact was not given due weightage by the Division Bench and the same was just brushed aside. Otherwise, they could not file the civil suit or the writ petition claiming the same relief. Though it was sought to be claimed by the respondents that the matter is pending consideration with the Government and is likely to be B compromised as the reason for withdrawal of the suit.