The plaintiff s submit that many times even after clearing the debts due to the said fi nanciers, there was reconveyance deeds or release deeds in favour of the plaintiff s joint family in its favour since they had immense confi dence in Karibasappa’s family and there was no trouble regarding their joint possession of the said joint family properties... The plaintiff s submit that the attitude of defendants 1 to 3 towards plaintiff s’ welfare became disinterested and they started neglecting them ... some of the plaintiff s tried to make the defendants 1 to 3 to take some steps ... the said defendants 1 to 3 advised them and other plaintiff s to have patience as lot of documents and revenue entries have to be updated before dividing the suit schedule properties and give separate possession to each sharers including plaintiff s ... The plaintiff s submit that the said joint family has no debts and the suit schedule properties are available for partition ... Plaintiff s 1 to 6 submit that instead of partitioning the said suit schedule properties among the plaintiff s and the defendants 1 to 3, the said defendants have started making eff orts to alienate the same to others in the month of May 2005 ... they even made it clear that the heirs of Karibasappa and themselves will create all sorts of problems to the plaintiff s for daring to question them and they claimed that several documents have been created in respect of the suit schedule properties and revenue records and built up in the names of their own man and they will cause all sorts of obstructions to the plaintiff s in realising their shares and even create third party interests therein and induct others into the possession thereof...” It is apparent from the above that, the Plaintiff s specifi cally pleaded that various sales were executed through ‘nominal sale deeds’, but were not acted upon. The plaint of the joint family property specifi cally addressed the issue of the revenue records and averred that although the RTC records stood in the name of the fi nanciers, the joint family continued to be in undisrupted possession of the property. 9. If the statements in the plaint are taken to be true, the joint family properties may enure to the benefi t of its members and they may well be available for partition. This is a matter of trial, the result of which would KUM. GEETHA, D/O LATE KRISHNA v. NANJUNDASWAMY 161 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J. ] depend upon the evidence adduced by the Plaintiff . At this stage, we are not concerned with the correctness of the averments, except to state that the Plaintiff s have the carriage of the proceedings, and have to discharge the heavy burden of proving their case. In so far as the application under VII Rule 11 of CPC is concerned, this Court will proceed only that far, to examine whether the plaint discloses a cause of action, and no further.