It is submitted that the product “Mortein Mosquito Coil, mat and liquid vaporizer” would definitely come under Entry 66 “Mosquito Repellent”. 6.1 It is submitted that the appellant – assessee is relying Entry 44(5) in support of their case products Mortein range and Mortein Spray F shall fall as insecticides under Entry 44(5). It is submitted that Entry 44 related to products which are used in agricultural operations. It is submitted that all the products in that Entry are used in the agricultural field in relation to growing of agricultural products and controlling of pets, insecticides etc. which attacked the plants. G 6.2 It is submitted that the product such as Harpic Toilet Cleaner and Lizol Floor Cleaner are not used in relation to controlling pets and insecticides in the agricultural field. It is submitted that the name of these products contains the words “Toilet Cleaner and Floor Cleaner”. It is submitted that the use of “Harpic Toilet Cleaner” and “Lizol Floor H 74 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Cleaner” is exclusively for cleaning of toilet and floor respectively and therefore cannot be treated as insecticide. 6.3 It is submitted that so far as the reliance placed upon the decision of this Court in the case of Bombay Chemicals Pvt. Ltd. (supra) is absolutely misplaced and shall not be applicable in the facts B of the instant case. It is submitted that in the case of Bombay Chemical Pvt. Ltd. (supra) this Court was dealing with Entry “Insecticides, Pesticides, Weedicides and Fungicides etc.” under the Central Exercise Salt Act, 1944. It is submitted that the said Entry is different from Entry 44 of the KVAT Act which are products exclusively dealing with the products in agricultural operations. C 6.4 Now so far as the product Dettol antiseptic liquid is concerned, it is submitted that the same cannot be classified as an item used for Medicament for therapeutic or prophylactic uses. It is submitted that a medicament is an item used for therapeutic or prophylactic treatment for prevention and cure of diseases. It is submitted that the High Court D has specifically found that the appellant has no case that Dettol is able to prevent or cure any disease and therefore has rightly held the Dettol is not a medicament. It is submitted that therefore the Dettol would fall under residuary Entry. 7. Making above submissions it is prayed to dismiss the present E appeal. 8. We have heard the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective parties at length. 9. So far as the product Mosquito Mats, Coils and Vaporizers and Mortein Insect Killers are concerned, it is the case on behalf of the F appellant that the said products would fall in Entry 44(5) of III Schedule of KVAT Act and would fall under HSN Code 3808. Therefore, it is the case on behalf of the appellant that the aforesaid products shall be classifiable as insecticides under Entry 44(5) and therefore chargeable to tax at 4%.