Resultantly, Dr Madhusudan Shendre felt that a re-examination was necessitated. He stated that the re-examination revealed damage to the tracheal wall, necessitating Tracheoplasty in the future. The NCDRC rejected the doctor’s suggestion of proceeding with ‘NI’ as a temporary measure on account of a lack of clear timeline. It was held that there was absolutely no justifi cation for opting for ‘NI’, especially when the patient was recovering well. 20. The NCDRC however concluded that Mrs. Sunita’s claim with respect to negligence leading to Thrombocytopenia, was not proved. The complainant’s platelet count on 06.05.2004 was 1,73,000, well within the normal range. It signifi cantly dropped down to 26,000 on 20.05.2004. The NCDRC observed that usually decisive interference starts when the levels drop down to 20,000, however, in Mrs. Sunita’s case, intervention was done even when her platelet levels dropped down to 26,000. The NCDRC further observed that additionally, a bone-marrow examination was done. The intravenous immunoglobulin was planned in advanced for the next 5 days. Eventually, Mrs. Sunita’s platelet count was observed to have started increasing, rising to 73,000 on 27.05.2004. The same was said to have been corroborated with her discharge slip. The NCDRC relying on the expert committee report held that no negligence was proved in handling the Septicemia and thrombocytopenia. 21. The NCDRC also rejected the charges of negligence with respect to the ‘Barium Swallow Test’. The decision of conducting the ‘Barium Test’ was held to be a clinical one. As food was leaking from Mrs. Sunita’s trachea stoma wound, an investigation to understand the underlying cause was necessitated. It was held that Barium Sulphate is a non-toxic solution, posing no serious danger to the complainant. Mrs. Sunita failed to prove the charge regarding the test being conducted without a radiologist’s presence. 22. The NCDRC held that the negligence charge with respect to vision loss and the hospital ignoring Mrs. Sunita’s complaints about blurred vision, is not proved. When she was admitted to Suretech Hospital, she was in a critical condition, requiring ICU care and ventilator support. So, the NCDRC rejected the suggestion that she was in a position to complain about blurred vision. Further, tests conducted by two diff erent Ophthalmologists M.A BIVIJI v. SUNITA & ORS. 125 [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] at Suretech Hospital revealed normal retina. Vision became an issue only after two months, in July 2004, when Mrs. Sunita was diagnosed with left homonyms, quadrantanopia. The expert committee report held that such issues relating to vision-loss are commonly observed after serious road accidents. 23. The NCDRC concluded that just based on a single act of negligence, wherein, unjustifi ably, ‘NI’ was forcefully performed, replacing the existing ‘TT’, it is not possible to conclude that subsequent resultant medical complications, including permanent respiratory tract deformity and voice- loss suff ered by Mrs. Sunita were a consequence of that very single act of negligence. The NCDRC observed that the risk of complications could not have been pin-pointed. The subsequent medical complications could have occurred anywhere, as the complainant was treated at various hospitals by multiple doctors, and also lived in her own house from 04.06.2004 to 03.07.2004.