In paragraph 9, A this Court held thus: “9. … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … A reading of the aforesaid Rules shows that the role of the Vigilance Cell was restricted as compared to the role envisaged B under Madhuri Patil case [Madhuri Patil v. Commr., Tribal Development, (1994) 6 SCC 241 : 1994 SCC (L&S) 1349] , inasmuch as the assistance to be provided to the Scrutiny Committee was not in every case, but only if the Scrutiny Committee was not satisfied with the documentary evidence produced by the applicant.” C (emphasis added) 32. Therefore, as observed earlier, the decision in the case of Vijakumar3 cannot be read as a binding precedent laying down a legal principle that in every case of verification of caste claim, the Caste Scrutiny Committee is under a mandate to refer the case to the Vigilance D Cell. As under the scheme of ST Rules, affinity test is to be conducted by the Vigilance Cell, it follows that question of conducting of affinity test will arise only when a case is made out for referring the case to Vigilance Cell. If the Scrutiny Committee, after holding an enquiry is satisfied with the material produced on record, without referring the E case to the Vigilance Cell, the Caste Scrutiny Committee is under a mandate to grant validity to the caste certificate. As noted earlier, in a given case, the Scrutiny Committee can a limited inquiry by the Vigilance Cell. For example, if an applicant is relying upon a caste validity certificate granted to his blood relative and the Scrutiny Committee, after finding that the certificate is issued after due inquiry entertains a doubt F about the relationship pleaded, it can direct the Vigilance Cell to make inquiry only about the relationship. 33. Now we come to the impugned in Shilpa Vishnu Thakur’s case2. The questions framed for consideration by the Full Bench are in paragraph 4 which reads thus: G “(i) Should the paramount consideration in determining the caste claim of a person be documentary evidence or, as the Supreme Court held, “anthropological moorings and ethnological kinship”; and is the “crucial affinity test” relevant and germane for such a decision? H 1132 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A (ii)(a) In cases where the documents produced by a person claiming to be belonging to a particular caste satisfy the requirement, for example, in the case of “Thakur”, if all the documents produced/filed and relied upon by a candidate denote his caste as “Thakur” then, without validating the caste claim with reference to the “crucial affinity test”, should the caste claim B be validated or not? (b) In a case where a person is not in possession of any document to meet the requirements of a particular caste claim can the claim be scrutinized on the basis of the “crucial affinity test”, and a validity certificate be issued? C (c) Where a person who claims to belong to a particular caste has some documents in his favour and/or partially satisfies the crucial affinity test, can the claim be certified and is the candidate entitled to his caste certificate being validated?” * 34.