e) The Orissa High Court, vide the impugned , allowed the writ petition of SPCL by relying upon the and of the Patna High Court, as aforesaid. The Deputy Commissioner of Service Tax was directed to dispose of SPCL’s pending application for refund of service tax within two months. COMMISSIONER, CUSTOMS CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 431 PATNA v. M/S SHAPOORJI PALLONJI AND COMPANY PVT. LTD. & ORS. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] SUBMISSIONS 11. Ms. Bagchi, learned counsel representing the appellants in both the appeals, contended that IIT Patna and NIT Rourkela were not eligible for the benefi ts outlined in the Exemption Notifi cation due to its exclusion from the defi nition of “governmental authority”. In contesting the impugned and of the Patna High Court, she advanced the following submissions: a) The Amendment to the Exemption Notifi cation carried out vide the Clarifi cation Notifi cation aimed to broaden its applicability beyond statutory bodies, extending its benefi ts to government-established entities as well. The Clarifi cation Notifi cation further clarifi ed this expansion by encompassing government-established bodies within the defi nition of “governmental authorities”. However, it is important to note that the requirement of 90% or more government equity or control still applies to both types of governmental bodies, whether they are statutory or non-statutory. b) The High Court’s error lay in its interpretation of the sub-clauses as independent and disjunctive. The deliberate separation of the condition of “90% or more participation” from sub-clause (ii) serves the specifi c intent of making it applicable to both sub- clauses. c) It is fi rmly established that punctuation marks alone should not dictate the interpretation of a statute, especially when meaning of the statute is clear without them. The general principle is that punctuation marks carry less weight in the interpretation of statutes, especially when dealing with subordinate legislation. Furthermore, punctuation marks may convey diff erent impressions, and their interpretation should not be isolated but considered in conjunction with other clauses to discern legislative intent. To support this argument, reference was made to the decisions of this Court in Barun Kumar & Ors. vs. State of Jharkhand & Ors.4, Bihar State 4 (2022) SCC OnLine SC 1093 432 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Electricity Board vs. Pulak Enterprises & Ors.5, and ONGC Ltd vs. Afcons Gunanusa JV6. d) The terms ‘or’ and ‘and’ can be interchangeably interpreted to fulfi l the legislative intent. In this context, reference was made to the rulings of this Court in Jindal Stainless Ltd. v. State of Haryana7, Barun Kumar (supra) and Akshaibar Lal (Dr.) v. Vice-Chancellor, Banaras Hindu University8. e) The impugned of the Patna High Court carries the risk of unconditionally broadening the coverage and scope of the exemption to include various public bodies, such as Telecom Regulatory Authority of India, Airports Authority of India, and public sector banks. These entities could potentially claim exemptions under diff erent clauses of the Exemption Notifi cation, covering various services provided by a “governmental authority”. A lenient interpretation of the term “governmental authority” could unfairly burden the exchequer.