It also did not examine whether in the proven facts and circumstances of the case it would be safe to rely on the expert F report.It be noted that section 73 of the IEA, 1872 enables a Court to compare the words or figures written by a person present in Court with any words or figures alleged to have been written by such person. The Trial Court therefore could have undertaken such an exercise. But, in the instant case, there appears no such exercise undertaken by the Trial Court. What is important is that G in the instant case there is no witness statement identifying the handwriting of accused ‘N’ or disclosing that accused wrote the suicide letter in his presence. There is also no evidence to explain the relevance of the contents of the suicide letter. Interestingly, H 726 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A the suicide letter indicts one person ‘C’. As to why such indictment was made; whether it was with reference to some other event contemplated, the prosecution evidence is silent. Besides that, there is no evidence to show that the investigating officer queried person(s) conversant with the handwriting of the deceased to rule out possibility of the suicide letter being in the writing of the B deceased himself. Such an exercise was necessary to lend assurance to the prosecution story of the suicide letter being written by accused to mask the murder, because, firstly, the death on its face was not suicidal, and, secondly, it could have ruled out possibility of it being written in contemplation of some other event. Seen in that light, barring the expert report, there exists no C internal or external evidence to lend assurance to the prosecution story that the suicide letter was written by accused ‘N’. [Paras 65, 66][759-G-H; 760-A-G] 8. In addition to the above, it is difficult to accept as to why ‘N’ would leave a suicide letter written by him in a pocket of the D trouser worn by the deceased, particularly, when the injuries even to a layman were homicidal. Notably, there were eight ante- mortem injuries found on the body of the deceased. [Para 67][760- G-H] 9. Taking into account that ‘N’ has denied the incriminating E circumstance of writing the suicide letter and no internal or external evidence, save the expert report, supports the writing of suicide letter by ‘N’, this Court is of the considered view that though the expert evidence was admissible as an opinion on the writing in the suicide letter but, on overall assessment of the evidence led by the prosecution, solely on its basis, it would be F extremely unsafe to hold that the suicide letter retrieved from the trouser of the deceased was written by ‘N’. [Para 69][762-B- C] Circumstance — The two accused were not traceable from 12.09.2000 till 23.09.2000 G 7. This Court does not find a good reason to draw an adverse inference against the two accused on account of few days delay in their act of surrender.