927 [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] Provided further that no application shall be entertained by A the Settlement Commission under this sub-section in cases which are pending in the Appellate Tribunal or any court: Provided also that no application under this sub-section shall be made in relation to goods to which section 123 applies or to goods in relation to which any offence under the Narcotic B Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (61 of 1985) has been committed: Provided also that no application under this sub-section shall be made for the interpretation of the classification of the goods under the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51 of 1975). C (1A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an application was made under sub-section (1) before the 1st day of June, 2007 but an under sub section (1) of section 127C has not been made before the said date, the applicant shall within a period of thirty days from the 1st day D of June, 2007 pay the accepted duty liability failing which his application shall be liable to be rejected.” 28. Section 123 of the Customs Act 1962, states that if an accused is caught by the authorities in the act of smuggling goods, the burden of proof, which originally vests with the prosecution, is reversed, and the E same is transferred from the prosecution to the defense. In simpler terms, this would mean that in such cases, it is the accused who is tasked with proving his innocence, rather than the prosecution proving the accused person’s guilt. 29. This discharge of burden of proof, in our opinion, can only F happen in cases where there is a reasonable possibility of the accused being innocent. In the present case at hand, the petitioner herein was caught with the impugned goods within the customs area. In such a scenario, where the impugned goods are found on the person of the accused and within the customs area, any chance of the accused being G innocent becomes an impossibility, since the illegal act is caught in the heat of the crime. 30. Since the discharge of burden proof, rather, the question of burden of proof itself becomes redundant in cases of seizures within the customs area, by default, the provision that mandates such a task also H 928 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A becomes redundant. In light of the abovementioned discussion therefore, in cases of seizure within the customs area, Section 123 of the Customs Act cannot apply and hence, the decision in the Suresh Judgement (Supra) passed by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay states the correct position of law. It must also be noted that the abovementioned decision of the High Court of Bombay was impugned in appeal before B this Court, and vide dated 14.09.2011, this Court had concurred with the decision of the High Court and dismissed the appeal of the revenue. Since the facts and circumstances of the case herein are identical to the abovementioned case, we find no cogent reason to take a different view herein.