After considering the same, the Disciplinary Authority vide dated 7.8.2003 imposed major penalty of withholding five annual increments with cumulative effect, effective from 1.1.2004. To put the record straight, it is added that K.C. Patel was inflicted punishment F of reduction to a lower grade. The appeal preferred by the respondent no.1 against the of punishment was dismissed on 18.11.2003. Thereafter, the respondent no.1 filed a writ petition challenging the of Disciplinary Authority as well as the Appellate Authority, which was dismissed by the learned Single Judge. However, in the intra-court appeal, the of the Single Judge was reversed and the punishment imposed G on the respondent no.1 was set aside. It is the aforesaid which is impugned in the present appeal. 4. The argument raised by the learned counsel for the appellant was that in the matter of judicial review only scope for interference by the High Court in the disciplinary proceedings is to see as to whether the H 450 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A due process was followed during the course of inquiry and fair opportunity was given to the employee concerned. Threadbare evidence could not be examined, that too in an intra-court appeal, when the of punishment and the appellate were already upheld by the Single Bench of the High Court. It was a case in which tampering in the price bid was found to be fully established from the report of Central Forensic B Institute, Bureau of Police Research & Development, Kolkata. During the period tampering was done, the bid documents were lying in the joint custody of the respondent no.1 and K.C. Patel. Most important part was that on the changed form of quotation of M/s. Laxmi Singh, original signature of respondent no.1 was found. It was not possible unless he C was involved. The passed by the Division Bench was to be set aside. 5. On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondent no.1 submitted that the injustice done to the respondent no.1 was corrected by the Division Bench of the High Court. The appellants should not have D any grievance against that. Merely because the duplicate key of the drawer in which the bid documents were kept was with the respondent no.1, he cannot be made liable for any tampering or replacing of the bids. In fact, he has been made a scapegoat by the other employees. The respondent no.1 is already suffering in the process for last more than two decades. There is no error in the passed by the Division E Bench of the High Court. The appeal may be dismissed. 6. The facts of the case leading to the issuance of chargesheet, initiation of departmental inquiry, the report of the inquiry officer and the punishment inflicted upon respondent no.1 have already been narrated in the preceding paragraphs. It is not in dispute that during the course of F inquiry, fair opportunity of hearing was afforded to the respondent no.1 at every stage. This was even found by the learned Single Judge while dismissing the writ petition challenging the punishment inflicted upon him.