The case must be decided on the basis of the actual contentions raised and the relevant facts. He would exhort the Court that bearing in mind B the paramount need to allow the Act to succeed in its operation, the Court may not allow the appellants to wriggle out of the well thought out provisions of the Act which law will subserve the highest public interest. He would submit that if a defenseis set up that bonafide adherence to Presidential Directives is being made under the Act, it would be a matter C which may have to engage the CCI. ANALYSIS 26. As we have noticed the question, we are called upon to decide is whether the Act applies to the appellants or not. It is necessary that we tread carefully so that we skirt an incursion into the merits, which D can be undertaken only when theAppeal is heard on merits. 27. Before we pass on to the Act, it may be necessary to look at the law, which it repealed. The MRTP Act was enacted in the year 1969. It was intended to deal with monopolistic and restrictive trade practices as the very long title suggests. It held sway till the Act repealed E it in the year 2002. However, the Act itself was actually brought into force in the year 2009. What is relevant is to notice some of the provisions of the MRTP Act. 28. Section 2(d) of the Act, as substituted by Act 30 of 1982, provided for definition of the words ‘dominant undertaking’. The definition F itself appears to be fairly convoluted. The word ‘goods’ was, indeed, defined as goods as defined in the Sale of Goods Act, 1930, and pertinently, it included products mined in India, inter alia. The MRTP Act went on to deal with concepts like associated persons, interconnected undertakings and finally, the word ‘undertaking’.Sans the three explanations, the word ‘undertaking’ was contained in Section 2(v) and it read: G “2(v) “undertaking” means an enterprise which is, or has been, or is proposed to be, engaged in the production, storage, supply, distribution, acquisition or control of articles or goods, or the provisions of services, of any kind, either directly or through one or more of its units or divisions, whether such unit or division is H COAL INDIA LIMITED v. COMPETITION COMMISSION 847 OF INDIA [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] located at the same place where the undertaking is located or at a A different place or at different places. Explanation I.—In this clause,— (a) “article” includes a new article and ”service” includes a new service; B (b) “unit” or “division”, in relation to an undertaking includes,— (i) a plant or factory established for the production, storage, supply, distribution, acquisition or control of any article or goods; (ii) any branch or office established for the provision of any service. C Explanation II.—For the purpose of this clause, a body corporate, which is, or has been, engaged only in the business of acquiring, holding, underwriting or dealing with shares, debentures or other securities of any other body corporate shall be deemed to be an undertaking.