32. Any person may challenge the validity of an appointment of a public offi ce, whether any fundamental or other legal right of his has been infringed or not. But the court must be satisfi ed that the person so applying is bona fi de and there is a necessity in public interest to declare judicially that there is a usurpation of public offi ce. If the application is not bona fi de and the applicant is a mere pawn or a man of straw in the hands of others, he cannot claim the remedy. Though the applicant may not be an aspirant for the offi ce nor has any interest in appointment, he can apply as a private relator, or an ordinary citizen. 33. These rival submissions would need to be analyzed. However, before we enter into a substantive analysis of the submissions, it would be appropriate to deal with the procedural objection regarding the limits of the writ of quo warranto. 34. Through a line of cases, this Court has laid out the terms on which the writ of quo warranto may be exercised. In The University of Mysore and Anr. v. C.D. Govinda Rao and Anr., a Constitution Bench of this Court, speaking through Justice Gajendragadkar (as he then was), held that: (1964) 4 SCR 575 “Broadly stated, the quo warranto proceeding aff ords a judicial remedy by which any person, who holds an independent substantive public offi ce or franchise or liberty, is called upon to show by what right he holds the said offi ce, franchise or liberty, so that his title to it may be duly determined, and in case the fi nding is that the holder of the offi ce has no title, he would be ousted from that offi ce by judicial . In other words, the procedure of quo warranto gives the judiciary a weapon to control the Executive from making appointments to public offi ce against law and to protect a citizen from being deprived of public offi ce to which he has a right. These proceedings also tend to protect the public from usurpers of public offi ce, who might be allowed to continue either with the connivance of the Executive or by reason of DR. PREMACHANDRAN KEEZHOTH & ANR. v. THE 415 CHANCELLOR KANNUR UNIVERSITY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] its apathy. It will, thus, be seen that before a person can eff ectively claim a writ of quo warranto, he has to satisfy the Court that the offi ce in question is a public offi ce and is held by a usurper without legal authority, and that inevitably would lead to the enquiry as to whether the appointment of the alleged usurper has been made in accordance with law or not. (Emphasis supplied) 35. In High Court of Gujarat and Another v. Gujarat Kishan Mazdoor Panchayat and Ors. reported in (2003) 4 SCC 712, in his concurring opinion in a three-Judge Bench, Justice SB Sinha, held that: “22.