19. We must consider now, the contention of the respondent that by virtue of Section 22 (8) providing for an appeal to a court of Original Civil Jurisdiction thereby the appeal being brought under the code, implies that the Jogighopa Act itself shall be governed by the code. Section 22 (8) reads as under: – “8. A Claimant, who is dissatisfied with the decision of the Commissioner, may prefer an appeal against such decision to the principal civil court of original jurisdiction within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the undertaking of the Government Company is situated Provided that where a person who is a Judge of High Court is appointed to be the Commissioner such appeal shall lie to the High Court at 28 (2017) 16 SCC 137 836 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Guwahati, and such appeal shall be heard and disposed of by not less than two Judges of that High Court.” 20. The above noticed maxim of statutory interpretation would suggest otherwise. As discussed, the state legislature has been conscious to make only certain parts of the Jogighopa Act governable by the code. Here only we may note the proviso to Section 22 (8) which states that in case the Commissioner under the Jogighopa Act is a Judge of a High Court, then an appeal from an of such Commissioner shall lie before no less than two Judges of the High Court. 21. It is in this light that we fi nd Section 22 (8) of the Jogighopa Act cannot be said to be an appeal under the code governed by Article 116 of the Limitation Act. The conclusion which beckons then is that the period of limitation mentioned under such article of the Limitation Act shall not apply to Section 22 (8) of the Jogighopa Act. The Claimant - Appellants contention of the impugned judgement’s reliance on with Vidyacharan Shukla (supra) being misplaced, therefore, has to be accepted. 22. Having come to the conclusion as above, we are required to consider, whether the instant appeal, fi led against the of the Commissioner of Payments is maintainable or not? Prior to delving into such a question, we would also need to examine as to whether in the absence of an expressly prescribed limitation, can an appeal from an passed by the Commissioner of Payments, be entertained, irrespective of passage of time? 23. This dispute concerns the exercise of a statutory right. The issue of no express limitation being provided in regard to the exercise of a right to assail the has captured the attention of this Court, earlier, on certain occasions. We may refer to some decisions hereinbelow: – 23.1 In State of Punjab & Ors. v. Bhatinda District Cooperative Milk Producers Union29 this Court observed that - “18. It is trite that if no period of limitation has been prescribed, statutory authority must exercise its jurisdiction within a reasonable period. What, however, shall be the reasonable period would depend 29 (2007) 11 SCC 363 M/S NORTH EASTERN CHEMICALS INDUSTRIES (P) LTD. 837 v. M/S ASHOK PAPER MILL (ASSAM) LTD. [SANJAY KAROL, J.]