We propose to conduct this enquiry in three ways. First, by examining the historical background that led to the introduction of the provision in the Constitution. Second, by looking at the structure of the provision itself, and third, by refl ecting on how the provision has worked out in the context of State- Union relations. 53. Certain aspects of the history that we have enumerated in the preceding sections guide us in this endeavour. Jammu and Kashmir had not acceded to India when the latter attained independence. Whereas Maharaja Hari Singh had entered into a standstill agreement with Pakistan, India had not opted to do the same. It is in this context that the Maharaja addressed a letter to India, narrating the precarious situation of the State due to 348 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. infi ltration by armed men. The Maharaja sought assistance, which India made conditional upon him signing the IoA. 54. The Maharaja fi nally acceded through the IoA on 26.10.1947. On 05.03.1948, he proclaimed the establishment of a Constituent Assembly for devising a Constitution for the State. 55. On turning the pages of the Constituent Assembly Debates, which were read and re-read before the Court at length, Shri N. Gopalaswami Ayyangar’s statements allude to this historical context. When questioned by Maulana Hasrat Mohani about the reasons for special treatment of the State, Ayyangar replied that it was not yet ripe for the manner of integration which was provided in the Constitution for other States. This was on account of ‘special conditions of Kashmir’. Ayyangar went on to express his hope that ‘in due course even Jammu and Kashmir will become ripe for the same sort of integration’. Later, he detailed the ongoing confl ict and a part of the State being under control of rebels as reasons for this ‘special treatment’. 56. Spelling out the way forward, Ayyangar reflected that the Constitution of the State would decide on the future of relations with the Union. It is in this context that he stated: “Till a Constituent Assembly comes into being, only an interim arrangement is possible and not an arrangement which could at once be brought into line with the arrangement that exists in the case of other States.” 57. This sentiment was echoed by Shri Sheikh Abdullah in his address to the State Constituent Assembly. He recounted the grave peril that the State was in due to the invasion of armed tribesmen and the sacrifi ces made by Kashmiris to save their State from being overrun. He noted that these considerations led the Maharaja to take assistance from India by signing the IOA. He also gave other reasons in support of acceding to India, which merit reiteration: “The Hon’ble Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah:- … As a realist I am conscious that nothing is all black or all white, and there many facts to each of the proposition before us, I shall fi rst speak on the merits and demerits of the State’s accession to India.