The Constitution of the World Health Organization declares that: “Health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infi rmity.” Mental health is therefore a state of complete mental wellbeing and not merely the absence of mental illnesses. Parliament is also cognizant of this fact as evident from the overall scheme and provisions of the Mental Healthcare Act. Though this statute is primarily concerned with mental illnesses and access to healthcare, Chapter VI recognizes the value of complete mental wellbeing by providing for the promotion of and awareness about mental health. A person’s mental well-being can only be secured if they are allowed the freedom and liberty to make choices about their lives. If their choices are restrained, their overall mental well-being would undoubtedly be degraded. Choices may be restrained by expressly denying them their freedom or by failing to create conditions for the exercise of such freedom. 236. The right of queer persons to access mental healthcare is recognized by Section 18 which stipulates that persons have a right to access mental healthcare without being discriminated against on the basis of their sex, gender, or sexual orientation. This is undoubtedly a progressive step in line with constitutional ideals. The mental health of members of the LGBTQ community may suff er not only because of the discrimination they may face at the hands of their families or society in general but also 208 Common Cause v. Union of India, (2018) 5 SCC 1; Union of India v. Moolchand Kharaiti Ram Trust, (2018) 8 SCC 321 209 “Mental Healthcare Act” SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1365 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] because they are prevented from choosing their life partner and entering into a meaningful, long-lasting relationship with them. The eff ect of the right to life under Article 21 read with Section 18 of the Mental Healthcare Act is that queer people have the right to complete mental health, without being discriminated against because of their sex, gender, or sexual orientation. A natural consequence of this is that they have the right to enter into a lasting relationship with their partner. They also have a right not to be subjected to inhumane and cruel practices or procedures. 237. The right to freedom of conscience under Article 25 Article 25(1) of the Constitution is as follows: “25. Freedom of conscience and free profession, practice and propagation of religion (1) Subject to public , morality and health and to the other provisions of this Part, all persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience and the right freely to profess, practise and propagate religion.” Article 25(1) has four components – the fi rst component makes the right available to all persons. The second component indicates that all persons are equally entitled to the rights it codifi es. The third component deals with two distinct concepts: the right to freedom of conscience and the right freely to profess, practice and propagate religion.