A infections. Nycil powder is particularly suitable for the initial treatment of acute mycotic infection as it absorbs in addition to exercising its fungicidal action. (4) The ingredients of Nycial powder are as under: (i) Chlorphenesin B.P. 1% B (ii) Zinc Oxide I.P 16% (iii) Boric Acid 16% (iv) Starch I.P. 51% (v) Talc 100% C The above composition of Nycil powder shows that it contains medicinal articles to the extent of 33 per cent. (5) On the sample bottle of Nycil powder, produced before the lower au thorities, on its one side the following was found printed: “nycil for Prickly Head and Active Skin Protection”. D On the other side, the following was found to have been printed: “Nycil contains chlorphenesin the antibacterial and antifungal agent. It actively prevents prickly heat and protects the skin from sores, dhobie itch, and athlete’s foot.” The formula of Nycil powder is also printed on the container. The E Tribunal has made the following pertinent observations as regards the container of the Nycil powder: “It will be noticed that the article is not called medicated or talcum powder or powder. No name is given except ‘Nycil’ which as stated above is only a trade name of the F different products manufactured by British Drug House. The article manufactured is packed in a long and round container of plastic. It has a separate cover of plastic. The contents are also covered by a small plastic cover which contains spaces for making holes. The powder is white in colour and perfumed and in general appearance is not G different from the white talcum or such other powders.” (6) The medical substances used as ingredients in the manufacture of Nycil powder are Indian Pharmaceutical or British Pharmaceutical articles for the use of which licence is necessary. Licence is also necessary under the Indian Drugs H HEINZ INDIA LIMITED v. THE STATE OF KERALA 447 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] Control Act for manufacturing, stocking or selling Nycil A powder and the licence has accordingly been issued. The Government of India, Ministry of Finance, has held and directed that Nycil powder should be assessed to duty as “P. and P. Medicines” under item No. 14E of the Central Excise Tariff.” B 35. The revenue contends- in the Kerala case, that Nycil prickly heat powder is “medicated talcum powder” since there is a separate entry for medicated talcum powder (Entry 127). It, therefore,has to be classified under Entry 127 of the First Schedule to the KGST Act. In the Tamil Nadu case, it is contended that the exclusion of products capable C of being used as cosmetics from Entry 20 in Part C, on the one hand, and the inclusion of talcum powder, in Entry 1 of Part F, as cosmetics, read with the explanation to Entry 1, is decisive that the proper classification of the product is as a cosmetic. 36. In Hindustan Lever (supra) the product, Vaseline Intensive D Care Heel Guard, was held to be a medicament under Chapter 30 of Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (“CETA”) (Item 3003.10, as a patent or proprietary medicine).The court took note of the definition of medicament (Note 2(i) to Chapter 30) which were goods “other than foods or beverages such as diabetic, or fortified foods or beverages” not falling in Chapter heading 30.03 or 30.04 comprising of two or more E constituents for “therapeutic or prophylactic uses” or “unmixed products” suitable for such uses.