A of the trial or to the proper administration of justice which in the words of Justice Cardozo is “the end and purpose of all laws”. However, such s of postponement should be ed for a limited duration and without disturbing the content of the publication. They should be passed only when necessary to prevent real and B substantial risk to the fairness of the trial (court proceedings), if reasonable alternative methods or measures such as change of venue or postponement of trial will not prevent the said risk and when the salutary effects of such s outweigh the deleterious effects C to the free expression of those affected by the prior restraint. The of postponement will only be appropriate in cases where the balancing test otherwise favours non-publication for a limited period. …” (vi) In Thalapplam Service Cooperative Bank Ltd. (supra), D theright to know held as part of Article 19(1)(a) and the right to privacy being part of Article 21 were perceived as competing with each other, in a matter between holders of accounts in cooperative banks and members of the public who wanted details. This Court in paragraph 64 held: E “64. Recognising the fact that the right to privacy is a sacrosanct facet of Article 21 of the Constitution, the legislation has put a lot of safeguards to protect the rights under Section 8(j), as already indicated. If the information sought for is personal and has no relationship with any public activity or interest or it will not subserve larger F public interest, the public authority or the officer concerned is not legally obliged to provide those information. Reference may be made to a recent of this Court in Girish Ramchandra Deshpande v. Central Information Commr., (2013) 1 SCC 212, G wherein this Court held that since there is no bona fide public interest in seeking information, the disclosure of said information would cause unwarranted invasion of privacy of the individual under Section 8(1)(j) of the Act. Further, if the authority finds that information sought for can be made available in the larger public interest, then H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 649 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] the officer should record his reasons in writing before A providing the information, because the person from whom information is sought for, has also a right to privacy guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution.” (vii) In Subramanian Swamy (supra), the right to freedom of speech of an individual guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) B qua the right to dignity and reputation of another individual guaranteed under Article 21 were the competing rights. In this case, the Court held as follows: “98. Freedom of speech and expression in a spirited democracy is a highly treasured value. Authors, C philosophers and thinkers have considered it as a prized asset to the individuality and overall progression of a thinking society, as it permits argument, allows dissent to have a respectable place, and honours contrary stances. There are proponents who have set it on a higher D pedestal than life and not hesitated to barter death for it.