After the setting up of the unit by the appellants, by way of an G amendment, the term “blending of tea” was omitted from the definition of “manufacture”, leading to the appellant’s exclusion from claiming the said tax holiday. It is against this exclusion and omission that the appellants have filed the present batch of civil appeals. H 840 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 5. A detailed factual matrix of the present case at hand has been rendered by my esteemed brother in his opinion, and for the sake of brevity, I am not replicating the same herein. ANALYSIS 6. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of both the parties were B heard in great detail. 7. Through the present batch of civil appeals, two substantial questions of law have been raised, and for a ready reference, the two issues are being mentioned hereunder: I.Whether the appellants herein have a vested right in C claiming exemption from payment of sales tax under the Act, since the vested right was accrued upon the appellants before the amendment was made under Section 2(170) of the Act? II. Whether the doctrine of legitimate expectation is D applicable in the present case since the appellants had set up their industrial units on the basis of the allurement of a tax holiday granted by the Government? 8. I am in agreement with the conclusion arrived at by my esteemed brother on the first issue, and hence, my dissent is limited only E to the second question posed before this Court. RULE OF LAW 9. The doctrine of rule of law, as an ideal, denotes that a state must be governed, not by men, but by law. This concept finds its origins F in the work of Aristotle, where he remarks that in a state that functions on the principles of justice and equality, rule of law must be supreme, and the state as an institution must not be subject to the whims and fancies of its ruler. 10. While the origins of rule of law date back to ancient Greece, G the modern conception of rule of law, which is the bedrock for most democratic constitutions across the world, finds its roots in the book “The Law of the Constitution” authored by professor A.V. Dicey. 11. Professor Dicey, in his conception of the doctrine of rule of law, while echoing the thoughts of Aristotle, states that all individuals and entities must be subject to law, and that no one, not even the H M/S. K.B. TEA PRODUCT PVT. LTD. v. COMMERCIAL TAX 841 OFFICER, SILIGURI [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] government or its officials, are above the law. For such a functioning of A the law, Dicey points out that the law must be clear, unambiguous, and must apply to all equally. To further such a conception and bring clarity on the same, Professor Dicey elucidated on three principles that characterize a smooth application of the law. 12. The first principle, which is most relevant to the context of the B present case, is the ideal that the law is supreme, and no entity can be above it.