We have reproduced these expressions of the Adjudicating Authority verbatim to show the irrationality of reasoning and want of logic. A treatment or prevention of B hair fall by way of medication was sought to be rejected by the Adjudicating Authority by his impression that hair growth was only a cosmetic necessity. We could only disapprove such an approach. 27.1. The substance of the matter remains that in common parlance, the product in question would be approached essentially for its C claimed medicinal qualities and not as another hair oil. This aspect, in our view, is itself sufficient to reject the contentions of the appellant and the observations of the Adjudicating Authority. The Tribunal has rightly dealt with the matter in accordance with the law applicable to the facts of the present case. D 28. The Adjudicating Authority has also observed that drug licenses issued by respective authorities per se did not make AHAHO a preparation of Homeopathic medicine. However, the Adjudicating Authority has failed to consider that such drug license issued under Schedule K to the Rules of 1945 had not been a factor to be ignored altogether. Both in relation to common parlance test as also the ingredients E test, this factor carries its own relevance even if not finally decisive of the matter. The submission about want of condition of sale by authorised medical distributor or retailer under prescription has its own shortcomings for it has not been shown if such a preparation falling under Schedule K to the Rules of 1945 was also requiring such a mention in terms of Rule F 97. In any case, any such requirements for adherence to the Act of 1940 and the Rules of 1945 could only be a matter for consideration of the authorities dealing with licensing and regulating the manufacture and sale of drugs. The only relevant aspect for the present purpose is that the product in question being manufactured as a Homeopathy medicine, and being marketed and used as a Homeopathic medicine for its G pharmaceutical value, would fall in Chapter 30 and cannot be branded as cosmetic, so as to fall under Chapter 33 of the First Schedule to the Act of 1985. 29. In the passing, we may also observe that the very product in question, in relation to the entry in the Andhra Pradesh General Sales H Tax Act, 1957, has been accepted by this Court to be answering the COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 351 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] description of a medicine and not being a cosmetic product, after it was A found that the respondent-assessee’s assertion about its ingredients and thereby the product qualifying to be a drug within the meaning of Section 3 of the Act of 1940 could not be refuted by the Revenue. The said decision of this Court may not have a direct bearing on the question of classification of the product in question for the purpose of the Act of B 1985 but, it cannot be denied that the product in question has been found answering to the description of a ‘drug’ for the purpose of the Act of 1940 as also for the purpose of the said Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Act, 1957.