230 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 7P OS.RCT.RS. 230 [2023] 7 S.C.R. A BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS PVT. LTD. AND ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 2963 of 2023 Etc.) B APRIL 20, 2023 [SURYA KANT AND VIKRAM NATH, JJ.] Industrial Development – Industrial land – Appeals from passed by the High Court whereby the Writ Petition filed by Respondent No.1 was allowed – As a corollary, the decision by C the Cabinet Committee of the State of Rajasthan, and resulting instructions issued to the Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation Ltd. (“RIICO”) to cancel a series of permissions and approvals granted/awarded to Respondent No.1 in respect of industrial land in Kota, Rajasthan, were set aside – D Whether the Large-Scale Industrial Area (LIA), Kota has been always under the management and control of the State Government or it was transferred to RIICO pursuant to Government dated 18.09.1979 – Whether the 1979 Rules of RIICO are statutory in nature – Whether failure to observe Principles of Natural Justice by the State Government vitiated its decision to annul the permissions E /approvals granted by RIICO in favour of Respondent No.1 – Whether the State Government could have exercised its powers under Article 138 of the AoA of RIICO to direct cancellation – Whether the Rules of Business were not followed – Does the Doctrine of Legitimate Expectations and Promissory Estoppel apply in favour F of Respondent No. 1 – Whether the Appellant Unions are entitled to relief – Held: There was an uninterrupted and subsisting relationship of lessor and lessee between the State Government and either JKSL or Respondent No. 1, in the context of LIA, Kota – From the first lease deed executed in 1967, till date, the State Government has maintained the position of lessor – The lease with JKSL, and all G leases thereafter with JKSL and/or Respondent No. 1, have been signed under the 1959 Rules – The terms of the lease are clearly in compliance with the 1959 Rules – The land in LIA, Kota was never transferred to RIICO under the Government dated 18.09.1979 – The State Government has always maintained title and ownership H of the area – The land was also never allotted to RIICO on a 230 BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 231 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. leasehold basis under Rule 11A of the 1959 Rules – Thus, RIICO A was never expressly given any leasehold rights, and had no authority to further sub-lease the land, along with other corresponding powers, under Rule 12 of the 1959 Rules – In any case, Rule 11A of the 1959 Rules is of no importance, as there had to be an express allotment of the land to RIICO on a leasehold basis after the coming B into force of Rules 11A and 12 – No such express allocation was ever made in favour of RIICO – The 1979 Rules are not statutory in nature – The reference to the 1979 Rules in Rule 12 of the 1959 Rules, does not accord any statutory recognition to the former – There was no violation of the Principles of Natural Justice in this case – The entire basis for granting permission for conversion of C the land, and subdivision of the plots, was on an incorrect assumption of power by RIICO under the 1979 Rules, to act as the lessor of LIA, Kota – RIICO was never given any leasehold rights over the land – When the basis for a benefit received by a party is itself invalid, there is no question of giving the party a chance to be D heard – The State Government was competent to issue directions under Art.138 of the AoA of RIICO, to cancel the supplementary lease deeds and attendant permissions – This fell squarely within the ambit of Art.138 of the Articles of Association – There was no violation of the Rajasthan Rules of Business as the sub-committee which recommended the cancellation of the permissions /approvals E to Respondent No.1, was acting for and on behalf of the entire Council of Ministers – Hence, the Rules of Business were complied with – There was no legitimate expectation nor promissory estoppel that could operate to the benefit of Respondent No.