It was further submitted that from a perusal of the plaint, it is not evident that the plaintiffs were always ready and willing to fulfil the condition as mentioned in the conditional sale deed as they had no money B available with them. Further, the stand taken by the appellant in the written statement was that late Kishori Lal Sahu was not keeping good health, hence the Gift Deed executed in favour of Veena Gupta was not a valid document. 6.In support of the plea that the right as conferred in the sale deed C being personal, could not be assigned, reliance was placed upon the s of this Court in Bhoju Mandal and Ors. vs. Debnath Bhagat and Ors.1 and Kapilaben and Ors. vs. Ashok Kumar Jayantilal Sheth, through POA Gopal Bhai Madhusudan Patel and Ors2. It was further argued that multiple reliefs having been claimed in the suit, the same D was not maintainable as on the one hand, the claim was for specific performance whereas on the other hand, the plea of tenancy was also raised. ARGUMENTS OF THE RESPONDENTS 7.On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondents submitted E that the only relief pressed by him is at serial no. 1 in the suit i.e. with reference to the specific performance with possession. It is a case in which late Kishori Lal Sahu, father-in-law of Veena Gupta, had executed the Gift Deed in her favour pertaining to his properties including the property in question. It is specifically mentioned in the Gift Deed that Veena Gupta can take possession of the property sold to Indira Devi by F purchasing the same from her. She will have all rights available to her which late Kishori Lal Sahu had. As per the condition in the sale deed, the property could be repurchased in case 5000/- were paid to Indira Devi up to July, 1984. The amount was offered to Indira Devi, however, when she refused to accept the same, civil suit was filed. As the appellants G were not accepting the consideration, during the pendency of the civil suit an application was filed in March, 1984 seeking permission to deposit 5000/- in the Court. On permission being granted by the Court, the amount was deposited in Court on April 29, 1984. Hence, there was 11963 Supp (2) SCR 82 H 2 (2020) 20 SCC 648 INDIRA DEVI v. VEENA GUPTA & ORS. 377 [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] compliance of the condition laid down in the sale deed for getting the A property back. The right to get the aforesaid property back was assigned by late Kishori Lal Sahu to the respondent no.1 vide registered gift deed. The error committed by both the courts below in dismissing the suit was corrected by the High Court. 8.To counter the argument raised by the learned counsel for the B appellant that the right being personal to the deceased late Kishori Lal Sahu, could not be assigned, reliance was placed upon of this Court in T.M.