422 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 2P OS.RCT.RS. 422 [2023] 2 S.C.R. A RAMESH CHANDRA SHARMA & ORS. v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 8819 of 2022) B FEBRUARY 20, 2023 [KRISHNA MURARI AND S. RAVINDRA BHAT, JJ.] Land Acquisition Act, 1894– U.P. Land Acquisition (determination of compensation and declaration of award by agreement) Rules, 1997 – Payment of compensation – Classification C of landholders as Pushtaini or Gair-Pushtaini – Impermissibility of – Held: Classification made by the GNOIDA authority for the purposes of awarding differential compensation is bad in law – Land Acquisition Act does not distinguish between classes of owners, and uniformly provides compensation to all class of landowners – D Classification made between Pushtaini landowners and Gair-pushtaini landowners is violative of the law laid down in the Nagpur Trust case and Article 14 – Said classification made by the executive actions is bad in law, and is liable to be set aside – However, since the mischief lies only within the classification, it can be severed, and the remaining part of the executive actions that set out to grant E compensation for the purpose of rehabilitation remains valid in law – Impugned passed by the Full Bench of the High Court set aside – Appellants entitled to the reliefs claimed in the Writ Petition filed before the High Court – Constitution of India – Art.14. Constitution of India – Art.14 – Reasonable Classification F Test, Wednesbury Principle and Proportionality Test – Discussed – Administrative Law. Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1. Whether the Appellants are bound by the G compensation as per the agreement under the Land Acquisition rules, and have waived off their right to seek enhanced compensation? The Respondent Authority argued that since the agreement was consented to, no challenge could exist in the Court. This argument in the facts of the case, has been raised only to be H 422 RAMESH CHANDRA SHARMA v. STATE OF UTTAR 423 PRADESH rejected. The issue involved in adjudication is not in respect of A an agreement entered into by the appellants. Similar agreements were also entered into with the Authority by such identically situated landholders who have been granted additional compensation subsequent to the agreement by carving out a distinction on the basis of period of residence/occupation of the B land which was acquired by creating an artificial classification of ‘Pushtaini’ and ‘Gair-Pushtaini’ landholders. Furthermore, since the issue of additional compensation by making an artificial classification of ‘pushtaini’ and ‘Gair-pushtani’ was not in existence at the time of the agreement, there was no occasion to challenge the same. Further, specifically in the context of the grant of ex- C gratia payment, it is to be noted that the said payment granted to Pushtaini landowners through a separate notification, was assessed, and given, after the agreement was signed by both, Pushtaini and Gair-pushtaini Landowners. The Appellants herein, under those circumstances, could not have challenged the D agreement vis a vis the exgratia payment on grounds of violation of Article 14, when no such violation existed at the time of the agreement.