We are of the opinion that the impugned clause is H 776 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A reasonable and consistent with the provisions of the 2003 Act. Accordingly, the appellant was obligated to check the bills for previous months and ensure that all the outstanding amounts are duly paid up and discharged. Therefore, we find no merit in the challenge to the decision of the High Court. However, to balance the interests of parties, we make it clear that if any arrears of electricity are received from the B previous owner, the amount shall be adjusted with the power bills of the appellant. V. West Bengal 315. In West Bengal, the WB Electricity Supply Codehave been C enacted in 2012 under the 2003 Act. The relevant regulations - Clause 3.4.2, 4.6.1 and 4.6.4 - are set out below: “3.4.2. The licensee shall be eligible to recover from a new and subsequent consumer(s) the dues of the previous and defaulting consumers in respect of the same premises only if a nexus between the previous and the defaulting consumer(s) and the new D consumer(s) in respect of the same premises is proved. The onus of proving a nexus, if claimed by a licensee, shall lie on the licensee.” 4.6.1. If the power supply to any consumer remains disconnected continuously for a period of one hundred and eighty days where E the disconnection has been effected in compliance with any of the provisions of the Act or Regulations, the agreement of the licensee with the consumer for supply of electricity shall be deemed to have been terminated with consequential effect on expiry of the said period of one hundred and eighty days. This will be without F prejudice to such other action or the claim that may arise from the disconnection of supply or related issues therefor. On termination of agreement, the licensee shall have the right to remove the service line and other installations through which electricity is supplied to the consumer.” G “4.6.4. Notwithstanding anything contained contrary elsewhere in these Regulations where deemed termination of agreement has taken place, then on the basis of application of any consumer new service connection can only be provided in the same premises if the outstanding dues against the deemed terminated consumer is cleared along with the late payment surcharge.” H K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 777 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 316. Under Regulation 3.4.2 of the WB Electricity Supply Code, A the licensee is entitled to recover the outstanding dues of the previous owner from the new and subsequent owner if there is a nexus between the previous owner and the new consumer. Regulation 4.6.1 provides that there shall be a deemed termination of agreement if the power supply to any consumer remains disconnected for a continuous period of B 180 days. Regulation 4.6.4 overrides other provisions of the WB Electricity Supply Code as it contains a non-obstante clause. Under Regulation 4.6.4, a new consumer can be given a service connection only if the outstanding dues against the same premises is cleared along with late payment surcharge.