Authority can be substituted. In the written submissions filed, the respondent claims that, after the papers were traced, the mortgage was, in fact, eff ected. Even this would not make any diff erence to the charges and the fi ndings recorded, which themselves were based on the evidence on record. Scope of judicial review in disciplinary proceedings 32. From the above discussion, it is clear that it could not be said that the Enquiry Report, the fi ndings of the Disciplinary Authority and the of the Appointing Authority are based on no evidence or are perverse. Even if we eschew the report insofar as the aspect of non-submission of control form, the transgression of the area of operation and non-declaration of the immovable property and certain other charges are concerned, the of penalty can be sustained. 33. As has been demonstrated above, the aspects of failure to conduct periodic inspection and the negligence in not stipulating the taking of immovable property as collateral security in the case of M/s Saraswathi Fabricators in spite of the party off ering it, constrain us to conclude that there was material on record for the appellant to pass the of penalty. 34. Mr. S.N. Bhat, learned Senior Counsel, relying upon the s of this Court in Nand Kishore Prasad vs. State of Bihar and Others, (1978) 3 SCC 366 and Anil Kumar vs. Presiding Offi cer and Others, (1985) 3 SCC 378 contends that the Disciplinary Authority should arrive at its conclusion on the basis of some evidence with some degree of defi niteness pointing to the guilt of the delinquent in respect of the charge against him. He would contend that a suspicion cannot be allowed to take the place of proof and scrupulous care must be taken to see that the innocent are not punished by recording fi ndings merely based on ipse dixit of the Enquiry Offi cer. We are unable to accept the contention that the principles laid down in the above s are attracted to the present case. The s cited are clearly distinguishable, for the reasons that we have set out hereinabove, while analyzing the facts of the present case. 35. Shri Sanjay Kapur, learned counsel for the Bank relies on State Bank of India vs. Ram Lal Bhaskar and Another, (2011) 10 SCC 249. In that the scope of judicial review of departmental proceedings was STATE BANK OF INDIA v. A.G.D. REDDY 671 [K. V. VISWANATHAN, J.] set out and the principle laid down in State of A.P. vs. S. Sree Rama Rao, AIR 1963 SC 1723, was reiterated, which reads as follows:- “This Court has held in State of A.P. and Others v. S. Sree Rama Rao (AIR 1963 SC 1723, para 7): “7. … The High Court is not constituted in a proceeding under Article 226 of the Constitution a Court of appeal over the decision of the authorities holding a departmental enquiry against a public servant: it is concerned to determine whether the enquiry is held by an authority competent in that behalf, and according to the procedure prescribed in that behalf, and whether the rules of natural justice are not violated.