[2023] 15 S.C.R. 1 : 2023 INSC 839 CASE DETAILS RAJESH & ANR. v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH (Criminal Appeal No(s). 793-794 of 2022) SEPTEMBER 21, 2023 [B. R. GAVAI, J. B PARDIWALA AND SANJAY KUMAR, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: In a case based on circumstantial evidence as there was no eyewitness to the kidnapping and murder, and where the prosecution’s case essentially turned upon the ‘recoveries’ made at the behest of the appellants-convicts, purportedly u/s.27, Evidence Act, whether their conviction on diff erent counts and death sentence imposed on two out of the three appellants was justifi ed, when the confessions were made before their arrest and prior to being ‘accused of any off ence’. Evidence Act, 1872 – ss.26, 27 – Being in ‘the custody of a police offi cer’ and being ‘accused of an off ence’ – Pre-requisites to render a confession made to the police admissible to a limited extent by bringing into play the exception postulated u/s.27: Held: s.26 provides that no confession made by any person whilst he is in the custody of a police offi cer shall be proved against such person, unless made in the immediate presence of a Magistrate – s.27 is in the nature of an exception to s.26 – It is essential u/s.27 that the person concerned must be ‘accused of an off ence’ and being in the ‘custody of a police offi cer’, he or she must give information leading to the discovery of a fact and so much of that information, whether it amounts to a confession or not, that relates distinctly to the fact discovered, may be proved against him – Both aspects, viz, being in ‘the custody of a police offi cer’ and being ‘accused of an off ence’, are indispensable pre-requisites to render a confession made to the police admissible to a limited extent, by bringing into play the exception postulated u/s. 27 – In the present case, though one of the appellant was taken to the police station, be it on 1 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 29.03.2013 or even earlier, he could not be said to be in ‘police custody’ till he was arrested at 18:30 hours on 29.03.2013, as he did not fi gure as an ‘accused’ in the FIR and was not ‘accused of any off ence’ till his arrest – Therefore, it was his arrest which resulted in actual ‘police custody’, and the confession made by him, before such arrest and prior to his being ‘accused of any off ence’, would be directly hit by s.26 and there is no possibility of applying the exception u/s.27 to any information given by him in the course of such confession, even if it may have led to the discovery of any fact – Thus, the purported discovery of the dead body, the murder weapon and the other material objects, even if it was at his behest, cannot be proved against him, as he was not ‘accused of any off ence’ and was not in ‘police custody’ at the point of time he allegedly made a confession – Similarly, the other two appellants were also not named as the ‘accused’ in the FIR and were not ‘accused of any off ence’ till they were arrested and taken into ‘police custody’, well after the recording of their confessions and the alleged seizures based thereon – This lapse on the part of the police is fatal – There are yawning infi rmities and gaps in the chain of circumstantial evidence – The degree of proof required to hold appellants guilty beyond reasonable doubt, on the strength of circumstantial evidence, not established – No valid reasons were put forth by the Trial Court and the High Court as to why this case qualifi ed as the ‘rarest of rare cases’, for imposing and sustaining capital punishment – Conviction and sentences of all the appellants on all counts set aside and they are acquitted by giving them the benefi t of doubt – Penal Code, 1860 – ss.