That is why clause 11.7 of BoQ provides that the rates/prices shall include all taxes and clauses 7.1.1 and 7.1.2 clearly provide that rates quoted by the tenderer and accepted by the KRCL, shall hold good till the completion of the work and no additional individual claim shall be admissible on account of increases in tax or other levies except for the provision made by way of price variation clause. ... 43. ... As noticed above, the contract does not contemplate reimbursement of indirect cost, taxes incurred by the claimant KONKAN RAILWAY CORP. LTD v. CHENAB BRIDGE PROJECT 227 UNDERTAKING [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] for executing the work. The contract contemplates the contractor quoting a price for executing a work by taking all circumstances into account and all increase that may take place. The contractor knew when it quoted, that it is entitled to only the price quoted and only variation in price as permitted by the price variation clause. The contract does not provide for payment or reimbursement of each and every increase in the price of material or tax thereon, which may go into the execution of a work.” (emphasis supplied) 18. The Single Judge of the High Court affi rmed the fi ndings of the Arbitral Tribunal. The reason for upholding the decision of the Tribunal is not that the Single Judge exercising jurisdiction under Section 34 of the Act is in complete agreement with the interpretation of the contractual clauses by the Arbitral Tribunal. The Learned Judge exercising jurisdiction under Section 34 of the Act kept in mind the scope of challenge to an Arbitral Award as elucidated by a number of decisions of this Court. Section 34 jurisdiction will not be exercised merely because an alternative view on facts and interpretation of contract exists. In its own words, the conclusion of the Single Judge Bench of the High Court is as follows: “10. … The ambiguity does not come from clause 5.1.1, but from the fact that there are other clauses in the contract, such as clauses 7.1.1 and 7.1.2. One way to look at the co-existence of these clauses is to treat clauses 7.1.1 and 7.1.2 merely as an exclusion for working out price variation, since it is specifi cally provided for in clause 5.1.2. Equally, there is another way of looking at these three clauses, and that is : clauses 7.1.1 and 7.1.2 make it clear that no increase in tax in the case of any component forming part of BoQ rates, which was considered by the contractor for quoting his rates for any particular item, should be allowed to the contractor; it is only when particular taxes were actually to be paid on the deliveries of the contractor, these would be included for reimbursement by the employer under clause 5.1.2. The arbitrator adopted the latter view. It cannot be said either that it is an unreasonable view or a view which is either impossible or which no fair and judiciously minded person would have taken.