133. On the basis of the discussion on the public interest immunity claims for non-disclosure in the above-mentioned jurisdictions, the following conclusions emerge: (i) The earlier position of law across all jurisdictions was that C the courts should be deferential to the claim of the government that the disclosure of document(s) would be injurious to public interest. However, this position has undergone a sea-change. It is now a settled position of law that courts possess the power to assess the validity of public D interest immunity claims. The extent of such power is the bone of contention; (ii) The extent of scrutiny of public interest immunity claims by the courts hinges on four primary factors: (a) the identification of the injury that is caused due to non-disclosure E of information; (b) the extent of permissibility of classclaims; (c) the burden of proof; and (d) evidentiary requirement to prove the claim; (iii) The identification of injury due to non-disclosure and the assessment of the ground for non-disclosure impacts the F court’s standard of assessment of the permissibility of class claims, the burden of proof and the evidentiary requirement. The standard of scrutiny is higher when the effect of non- disclosure of information is not identified based on a narrow reference to the facts before the court but on its wider implications to democratic governance and rule of law; G (iv) The courts in India, the United Kingdom, and Canada have held that the non-disclosure of relevant material affects public interest, and the interests of the party seeking disclosure. The non-disclosure of information injures the principle of open government which is one of the basic H MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 691 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] premises of a democracy. It denies the citizens an A opportunity to initiate a discussion or question the functioning of the government. However, the Courts in the United States have been deferential to the claim of non-disclosure, particularly on the ground of national security so much so that the court does not undertake a balancing exercise B between the claims of disclosure and non-disclosure. This is also because the courts in the United States give prominence to the objective of non-disclosure as opposed to its effect; (v) The standard laid down in India (in SP Gupta), United C Kingdom, and Canada on the assessment of PII claims is similar to the extent that the impact of non-disclosure on broader principles of constitutional governance is also considered; (vi) In Canada, the party seeking production is required to prove D relevancy of the material sought after the PII claim is made by the state. The inclusion of the relevancy test as one of the tests imposes a heightened burden of proof than what is required otherwise. This is because the court is at that stage aware that the state is contesting the production on grounds of national security. Such claims are always met E with a deferential tone by the courts. Secondly, and most importantly, this leads to an integration of the discovery stages and the objection stages.