In some of the matters, the appeals have been filed only for the sake of filing the same. Several rounds of litigation have taken place in some G of the proceedings. Recently, this Court, in the case of MSEDCL v. APML & Ors. has noted that one of the reasons for enacting the Electricity Act, 2003 was that the performance of the Electricity Boards had deteriorated on account of various factors. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Electricity Act, 2003 would reveal that one of the main features for enactment of the H 194 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Electricity Act was delicensing of generation and freely permitting captive generation. In the said , the statement of the learned Attorney General made in the case of Energy Watchdog that the electricity sector, having been privatized, had largely fulfilled the object sought to be achieved by the Electricity Act was recorded. He had stated that delicensed electricity generation B resulted in production of far greater electricity than was earlier produced. The learned Attorney General had further urged the Court not to disturb the delicate balance sought to be achieved by the Electricity Act, i.e. that the producers or generators of electricity, in that they set up power plants, be entitled to a C reasonable margin of profit and a reasonable return on their capital, so that they are induced to set up more and more power plants. At the same time, the interests of the end consumers also need to be protected. However, in spite of this position, litigations after litigations are pursued. Though the concurrent s of D statutory expert bodies cannot be said to be perverse, arbitrary or in violation of the statutory provisions, the same are challenged. Even the Standing Committee of Parliament, in its report, has recommended that there should be consistency and uniformity with regard to s emanating from the status of ‘Change in Law’. It has also recommended that the provisions should also E be made for certain percentage of payments of regulatory dues to be paid by DISCOMS in case the s of regulators are being taken to learned APTEL/higher judiciary for their consideration and decision. The learned APTEL has also referred to the Policy Directive dated 27th August 2018 issued in terms F of Section 107 of the Electricity Act, 2003 by the MoP to the CERC, where it emphasized the need to ensure expeditious recovery of ‘Change in Law’ compensation. The learned APTEL has also referred to the Electricity (Timely Recovery of Costs due to Change in Law) Rules, 2021, notified by MoP on 22nd October 2021, which provide for timely recovery of compensation G on account of occurrence of ‘Change in Law’ events. The learned APTEL found that the Haryana Utilities have been adopting dilatory tactics, which not only defeat the public policy but also have the undesirable fallout of adding to the burden of the end- H GMR WARORA ENERGY LTD. v. CENTRAL ELECTRICITY 195 REGULATORY COMMISSION (CERC) consumers they profess to serve on account of increasing A ‘Carrying Cost’.