While the Stamp Act is primarily intended to collect revenue and it is not intended to arm a litigant to raise ‘technical pleas’, this would hardly furnish justification for the Court to ignore the voice of the Legislature couched in unambiguous terms. We find that the view expressed in E SMS Tea Estates (supra), being reiterated, despite the insertion of Section 11(6A), would promote the object of the Stamp Act and yet be reconcilable with the mandate of Section 11(6A). We may, however, qualify what we have said with a caveat. There may be cases, where no stamp duty is seen paid. It paves the way for the unambiguous F discharge of duty under Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act. There may, however, be cases, where it may be stamped but the objection is taken by the party that it is not duly stamped. In such cases, no doubt, it is ordinarily the duty of the Court to examine the matter with reference to G the duty under Section 33(2). If the claim that it is insufficiently stamped, appears to the Court to be on the face of it, wholly without foundation, it may make the Reference on the basis of the existence of an Arbitration Agreement otherwise and then leave it open to the Arbitrator to exercise the power under Section 33, should it become H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 371 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] necessary. This approach does justice to the word ‘examine’ A in Section 33(2) of the Stamp Act while not ignoring the command of Section 11(6A) of the Act. It is not to be confused with the duty to examine prima facie whether an ‘Arbitration Agreement’ exists under Section 11(6A) of the Act, but is related to the duty to examine the matter under B Section 33(2) of the Stamp Act. vi. Under the Evidence Act, production of only the original document is permissible by way of evidence (See Section 62). However, secondary evidence is permissible under Section 63 and certified copies are treated as secondary C evidence. Under the Scheme, in a proceeding under Section 11, without following the procedure in the Evidence Act, secondary evidence, in the form of certified copy, is permitted. It may be true that since certified copies are permitted to maintain an Application under Section 11 and, in law, impounding cannot be done of a certified copy, as it D is not an instrument, the duty of the Court to examine the matter from the point of view of Section 33 of the Stamp Act, may not exist as such. However, we have explained what constitutes a certified copy, and that, in view of SMS Tea Estates (supra), the stamp duty paid must be indicated E in the certified copy and, in appropriate case, the Court has power, under paragraph-5 of the Scheme, to call for information. It becomes the duty of the Court, in cases, where a certified copy is produced, to be satisfied that the production of the certified copy, fulfils the requirement in law.