A vii) Members shall have no right to resort to Court proceedings regarding Party matters. If any member of the party resorts to any Court proceedings against the Party Co-Ordinator’s and joint co-ordinator’s decision he/she shall cease to be a primary member of the party. B The decision of the General Council shall be final with regard to party matters and only those who abide by this condition are eligible to admission for Membership. All those who have become Members of the KAZHAGAM are bound by the decision of the General Council. C *** *** *** RULE-18: FUNCTIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES i) The responsibility and functions of the above mentioned Office bearers of the Party units at different levels will be as follows: D ii) CHAIRMAN: He will preside over and conduct the General Body and the Executive Committee Meetings. In his absence, the meeting shall be presided over and conducted by one of the members. E iii) SECRETARY: The Secretary of the Party unit will be responsible for the administration and execute the decisions of the respective Executive Committee. In case of emergency, where the Secretary is not in a position to convene the Executive F Committee Meeting, he should get the decisions taken by him ratified within fifteen days by the Executive Committee. He should submit any file required by the Audit Committee for scrutiny. *** *** *** G vi) Should a contingency of absence or void of Office Bearers in a Party unit arise, the person elected by the Executive Committee members will exercise the functions on adhoc basis till regular Office bearers of the set-up are elected within one month. H THIRU K. PALANISWAMY v. M. SHANMUGAM & ORS. 1181 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] RULE-19: GENERAL COUNCIL OF THE CENTRAL A ORGANISATION i) The General Council of the AIADMK shall consist of the Chairman, Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator, Deputy Co- ordinators, Treasurer, Headquarters Secretaries of the Party, the members of the Central Executive Committee, B the members of the General Council elected from the Districts and other States, the Members of the Audit Committee, Property Protection Committee, and the Parliamentary Board. The General Council shall be the Supreme body of the Party with all powers of the C Kazhagam. ii) The Secretaries of Union Kazhagams, the Secretaries of the Municipal Town Kazhagams and Township Kazhagams, the District Secretaries, the Chairman, Assistant Secretary and Treasurer of the District Kazhagam etc. in Tamil Nadu D as well as the Secretaries of State Kazhagams and the Chairman, Assistant Secretary, Treasurer of the State Kazhagams of other States shall be the members of the General Council by virtue of their offices. iii) The General Council members shall be elected from each E District Kazhagam in such numbers equivalent to the total number of Assembly Constituencies in the respective district. In respect of other, State including Pondicherry, the number of the General Council members will be determined by the Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator with reference to the total number of members registered in the respective State F Kazhagams.