Clause 9 further specified that “all taxes, land revenue, education cess, and other outstanding dues up to date has been paid and if any dues remain unpaid that is to be paid by the Company.” F 279. On 01 December 2004, the respondent applied for a new connection. However, the appellant refused to grant a new connection until the outstanding dues were cleared in terms of Clause 2(j) of the Conditions of Supply. In 2006, the respondent moved an application before the BIFR for a direction to release power supply. On 12 June 2006, the G BIFR sanctioned a Revised Rehabilitation Scheme directing the appellant to release an electricity connection to the respondent. Since the electricity supply was not released, the respondent instituted a writ petition before the High Court of Gujarat. In 2010, a Single Judge of the High Court 102 “MDTLCIL” H 762 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A allowed the writ petition by directing the appellant to release the electricity connection to the residential establishments on the surplus land without insisting on the payment of the dues of the previous owner. The Single Judge held that Clause 2(j) was not applicable because the worker’s co- operative society was a going concern and the Electricity Board can recover the dues from them. The Division Bench in the impugned B dated 21 November 2014 upheld the decision of the Single Judge. The Court held that the BIFR scheme would be binding on the appellant even though they were not a party to the proceedings. It was further held that SICA is a special Act in comparison to the 2003 Act. Therefore, a scheme framed under SICA was held to have an overriding C effect over Clause 2(j) of the Conditions of Supply. 280. The respondent has contended that according to the BIFR Scheme, electricity connection was provided to MDTLCIL separately and not to the surplus land sold to the respondent. Hence, no dues could have been recoverable from the respondent. The respondent further D contended that the rehabilitation schemes framed by BIFR have an overriding effect on the terms and conditions stipulated under Clause 2(j) of the Conditions of Supply. The respondents have also drawn attention to Clauses 3 and 9 of the sale deed which exempted the respondent from the payment of the past dues of NCSML. The said clauses are extracted below: E “(3) [...] On the said property, there is no debt i.e. lien or charge of anybody and is not under seize, attachment, or injunction of any court. [...] On the said property, nobody has maintenance and residence charge on it, there is no charge of Government taxes/ duties like, Income Tax, Sales Tax, etc. on said property. There is F no acquisition, requisition, or reservation of Government or local body or with that intention any notice in not served to the company. In short, there is no one claiming right title or claim as mortgage, claimant, shareholder or by other way or any other interest in the said property and the company has all rights and authority for G managing the said property by all way and by giving such trust and assurance, the company has executed this sale deed.