A 11. On behalf of the RBI and lender banks, we have heard Mr Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India, Mr Gopal Jain, Senior Counsel and Mr Ramesh Babu M R and Mr G N Reddy, learned counsel. Counsel submitted that the challenge to the classification of a loan account as fraudulent on the ground of a violation of the principles of natural justice is devoid of merit for the following reasons: B a. The Master Directions on Frauds were necessitated to protect the interests of depositors and banks from the growing instances of frauds. RBI is duly empowered to take pre-emptive measures in public interest to ensure that fraudulent borrowers are brought to justice and loss caused C to the banks is mitigated. The clauses of the Master Directions on Frauds, therefore, must be interpreted in light of their purpose and objective, that is, timely detection and dissemination of information and reporting about the fraud. b. The provisions of the Master Directions on Frauds must be D construed keeping in mind the following thresholds: (i) justness; (ii) fairness towards the parties aggrieved; (iii) reasonability; and (iv) proportionality between the mischief and the corrective measure. Considering that the Master Directions on Frauds is an economicpolicy decision, this E Court must exercise greater latitude while construing its provisions. c. The procedure for classifying an account as fraud under the Master Directions on Frauds is not arbitrary. The classification is done only for reporting the matter to law enforcement agencies. The banks already have in place a F structured organizational setup to identify and investigate fraudulent activities in bank accounts. Banks file complaints before law enforcement agencies, who conduct an investigation. The ultimate decision on fraud is rendered by a competent court of law. G d. Principles of natural justice are not applicable at the stage of setting the process of criminal law in motion. Since the lender bank is an injured party in case of fraudulent accounts, it has the right to report the crime to the law enforcement agencies without giving an opportunity of being heard to H STATE BANK OF INDIA & ORS v. RAJESH AGARWAL & ORS 493 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] the fraudulent borrower. Issuing of a show cause notice to A fraudulent borrowers may forewarn them and hamper the investigation by law enforcement agencies. e. Debarring fraudulent borrowers from availing bank finances is a preventive measure without which the Master Directions on Frauds will be rendered toothless. Such a measure is B necessary to prevent a fraudulent borrower from committing frauds in other banks. f. The requirement of notice or prior hearing could be excluded if it impedes the taking of prompt action. Further, it is not an inviolable rule that personal hearing ought to be given in all C cases. g. The process for classification of a borrower as a willful defaulter under the Master Circular on Willful Defaulters13 significantly differs from the process of classification of an account as fraud under the Master Directions on Frauds.