36. Taking into consideration that most of the evidence in the present case are documentary evidence, which are already in possession of the Investigating Agency and, further, that the charge-sheet has been filed, we find that she is entitled for bail. H 1154 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 37. Another factor that needs to be taken into consideration is that at the time of pronouncing the impugned , the learned Judge, though noticing that on account of of this Court dated 2nd September 2022 passed in Criminal Appeal No. 1417 and 1418 of 2022 the appellant was on interim bail, directed her to surrender immediately. The appellant prayed for stay of the said for thirty days. However, the said B prayer was also rejected. We fail to understand as to what was the alarming urgency to direct the appellant to surrender immediately, particularly, when the appellant was enjoying the interim protection under the s of this Court from 2nd September 2022. 38. Insofar as the apprehension of the prosecution that she may C influence the witnesses is concerned, the concern of the prosecution can be taken care of by directing her not to make any attempt to influence the witnesses. 39. In that view of the matter, we are inclined to allow the appeal. 40. The impugned is quashed and set aside and the appeal D is allowed. 41. The appellant is directed to be continued on bail, which was granted to her in terms of the dated 02nd September 2022. The appellant has already surrendered her passport, which shall continue to be in the custody of the Sessions Court. E 42. We make it clear that the appellant would not make any attempt to influence the witnesses and shall remain away from them. If the prosecution feels that any such attempt is made by the appellant, they would be entitled to move this Court directly for modification of our s. F 43. We clarify that none of the observations made in the impugned and any of the observations made by us in our would influence the trial court at the stage of the trial. 44. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. G Divya Pandey Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Roopanshi Virang, LCRA) H