Evidently, Haryana Financial Corporation (supra) had been a case of sale by the Corporation, which was distinguished from sale by an OL. Therein, while pointing out inapplicability of the decision B in United Bank of India (supra), this Court observed that OL would not be holding out any guarantee or warranty in respect of the property sold because he would be proceeding on the basis of records of the company in liquidation and, therefore, it was for the intending purchaser to satisfy himself in all respects as to the title, encumbrances etc. of the immovable property sought to be purchased; and such a purchaser could C not, after having purchased the property on such terms, claim diminution in the price on the ground of defect in the title or description of the property. The said decision cannot be read as an authority for any generalised proposition as if the Official Liquidator, while conducting sale of the assets of the company in liquidation, is absolved of the duty to D state basic stipulations in the sale notice. 19. In UT Chandigarh Administration (supra), this Court dealt with the consumer complaints of respondents filed to contend that the appellant was not legally entitled to claim balance of premium or annual rent, for having failed to provide basic amenities at the residential and E commercial sites auctioned by way of advertisement. This Court allowed the appeals as the purchaser was not a consumer with reference to public auction of existing sites. Notwithstanding this, it was observed, in regard to auction as per “as is where is basis” thus: - “19….. In a public auction of sites, the position is completely different. A person interested can inspect the sites offered and F choose the site which he wants to acquire and participate in the auction only in regard to such site. Before bidding in the auction, he knows or is in a position to ascertain, the condition and situation of the site. He knows about the existence or lack of amenities. The auction is on “as-is-where-is basis”. With such knowledge, G he participates in the auction and offers a particular bid. There is no compulsion that he should offer a particular price. When the sites auctioned are existing sites, without any assurance/ representation relating to amenities, there is no question of deficiency of service or denial of service. Where the bidder has a choice and option in regard to the site and price and when there is H OFFICIAL LIQUIDATOR v. UJJAIN NAGAR PALIKA NIGAM 1111 & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] no assurance of any facility or amenity, the question of the owner A of the site becoming a service provider, does not arise even by applying the tests laid down in LDA [(1994) 1 SCC 243] or Balbir Singh [(2004) 5 SCC 65]. 20. Where there is a public auction without assuring any specific or particular amenities, and the prospective purchaser/lessee B participates in the auction after having an opportunity of examining the site, the bid in the auction is made keeping in view the existing situation, position and condition of the site.