They had faced litigation for over two and a half decades, when the conversion certificate issued to them, was cancelled on the ground that the lands fell within the submergence area (Doobkshetra). The society was constrained to file a suit for perpetual F injunction, where the state was impleaded; the state relied on the deposition of an engineer from its irrigation department, who reiterated its stand. However, he was unable to point to any document or material in support of the state’s argument that the land fell within the submergence area. The state’s appeal was rejected; the first appellate court noted the G state’s stand, which was contradictory, i.e., that the lands fell in the submergence area, and at the same time, that they were required for some construction. The state’s second appeal, and special leave petition were also rejected. 10. Ms. Arora urged, as the second limb of her submissions, that the doctrine of finality of judgement and res judicata applied to the H SHRAMJEEVI COOPERATIVE HOUSING SOCIETY LTD. v. 1075 DINESH JOSHI & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] facts of this case. The principle plays a vital role as it is based on a A sound firm principle of public policy. The doctrine of finality has evolved with the objective of preventing unnecessary litigation under the colour and pretence of law. It also ensures an end to litigation, in public interest. The state, and all its agencies were bound by the decree of the courts, which had been confirmed up to this court. Learned counsel submitted B that the dismissing the special leave petition also held that the of the High Court was justified. 11. Mr. A.N.S. Nadkarni and Mr. P.C. Sen, learned senior counsels, Mr. Sumeer Sodhi, Ms. Pragati Neekhra, Mr. Amit Pai, and other counsel, appeared for other appellants. Mr. Brijendra Chahar, learned senior C counsel, and Mr. Yogeshwaran, learned Additional Advocate General (AAG) for Madhya Pradesh, appeared for the TCD and the Parishad respectively; and Mr. Saurabh Mishra, AAG, appeared for the state of Madhya Pradesh. They supported the submissions on behalf of the society, and urged that the NGT fell into serious error in not considering that the TCD had published the Development/Master Plan in 2001, which was D finally approved on 12.05.2003. This forms the basis for development of Mandsaur. The existence of the talab, its boundaries, and the extent of its catchment area, were made known. No one objected to the plan, which designated a green area immediately adjoining the talab, after which a road was permitted. The development of residences and colonies E was beyond this road. These facts were known to the general public. In this background, the applicant before the NGT persuaded it to issue s based on a “trace” map, which had not been finalised. 12. Learned counsel submitted that after much inter-departmental correspondence between the Sub-Divisional Officer of Mandsaur, the F Parishad and the Water Resources Department, as well as the Collector, finally a letter was addressed by the Sub-Divisional Officer, to the Collector, on 31.01.2022, which disclosed that the map shown to the NGT, based on which, it made its s was “not originally a map, but a proposed map to depict a situation if the FTL of Teliya Talab were to be increased by one feet G and which only bore the signature of Shri.