Indisputedly, the appellants (auction bidder) have neither paid the sale consideration in terms of clause (h) of the guidelines nor furnished the bank guarantee within 15 days of the acceptance of the bid in terms of clause (i) of the guidelines. G 30. When the matter was placed before the BIFR, the Bench took note of the fact that the appellants, viz., M/s Rajiv Kumar Jindal and others, were the sole bidder for Block IV of Rajpura Unit and have not complied with the ASC guidelines. Taking both the factors into consideration; (i) the appellant being the sole bidder; and (ii) guidelines H of ASC have not been complied with, the bid of the appellants was not RAJIV KUMAR JINDAL v. BCI STAFF COLONY 93 RESIDENTIAL WELFARE ASSOCIATION [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] confirmed but on appeal being preferred by the appellants, the AAIFR A has not taken into consideration that the guidelines of the ASC have not been followed and the appellant was the sole bidder, as there was no competitive bidding which is always to be taken care of to secure the optimized value of the property. 31. The appellants have shown their willingness to deposit the bid B amount in two instalments on 20th September, 2004 and 10th November, 2004 but the fact is that even before the came to be passed by the BIFR,neither the bank guarantee was furnished nor a single instalment was deposited by the appellants and here, in our view, the AAIFR has went wrong in setting aside the of BIFR. C 32. The Division Bench of the High Court had revisited the entire proceedings and taking into consideration the fact that there was no competitive bidding which is a sine qua non for public auction and guidelines of the ASC have not been complied with, accordingly set aside the of the AAIFR with a further direction to initiate the D process afresh in accordance with law and we do not find any error in the view expressed by the High Court which may call for our interference. 33. The submission of Mr. Gupta, learned senior counsel, that the appellants in Civil Appeal No.10127 of 2011 have not participated in the bidding process and made an offer at the later stage, have no locus E standi to challenge the of the AAIFR confirming the bid of the appellants. In the facts and circumstances of the case, it may not be of any assistance for the reason that the appellants in Civil Appeal No.10127 of 2011 (BCI Staff Colony, Residential Welfare Association and Others) indeed were not the bidders and have not tendered any sealed bid, but at the same time, they have made an offer at a later stage and directly F interested in the subject property in question as they are residing there for sufficiently long time, and not the strangers to the proceedings, being the person aggrieved their right to question invoking the jurisdiction of High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution cannot be ruled out.