[(2018) 7 SCC 646] has re-affi rmed this view, referring to Section 49 of the Registration Act. This is a prohibition for the Court to implement and even if the Trial Court has taken it in evidence, the same cannot confer legitimacy to that document for being taken as evidence at the appellate stage. The parties cannot by implied consent confer upon such document its admissibility. It is not in dispute in this case that the period between service of notice and institution 42 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. of the suit fell short by four days of completion of six months. In any case, we do not consider it necessary to address this question as in our opinion, the requirement to give six months’ notice does not arise in this case. That point has not been raised before us. 11. The fault line in the defendant’s case also lies on the point as to whether the lease was for manufacturing purpose or not, which was examined by the High Court and decided against the appellant. The defendant tried to establish from the clause of the lease agreement, statement made in the plaint as also his evidence before the Trial Court that the lease was for manufacturing purpose. All these materials no doubt point to the fact that the lease was given for commercial purpose (as pleaded in the plaint). In cross-examination, DW-1 had stated that he was doing business of rubber. In the case of G. Mackertich -vs- Steuart and Co. Ltd. [(1971) 3 SCC 39], it has been held that burden of proving that the lease was for manufacturing purpose lies on the party who claims it to be so.In the present appeal, it would have been for the defendant (appellant before us) to discharge this burden, as held by the High Court. In the case of Shivaji Balaram Haibatti -vs- Avinash Maruthi Pawar [(2018) 11 SCC 652] as also in a of the Calcutta High Court in the case of Messrs Shree Nursing Timber Works and Messrs. Shree Nursing Electric Stores -vs- Sm. Amala Bala Dassi [1973 CWN 522], it has been held that on this ground, there must be pleading supported by evidence to prove that the lease was for manufacturing purpose. 12. On behalf of the appellant, however, it was urged, referring to the provisions of Section 49 of the Registration Act that for establishing nature and purpose of possession, even an unregistered document could be looked into as that would come within the ambit of collateral purpose. On this point, of this Court in the case of Sevoke Properties Ltd. -vs- West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited [(2020) 11 SCC 782] has been relied upon. In the case of Sevoke Properties (supra) a coordinate Bench opined that as the agreement for lease in that case was unregistered, contents of the instrument were inadmissible in evidence. There was admission in the written statement of respondent in the case of Sevoke Properties (supra) by the defendants that they were in occupation under the lease agreement (in controversy in that case) for a period of M/S PAUL RUBBER INDUSTRIES PVT.