(ii) the Respondent No. 1 (herein Original Plaintiff) was held entitled to 1/6th share in the ancestral properties and 1/3rd share in the self-acquired properties of Late Shri Kumar Sahoo. The Civil Court also directed that the plaintiff was F entitled to mesne profits. (iii) similar shares and benefits accrued to the Defendant No. 2 (Respondent No. 2 herein) (iv) the Defendant No. 1 (the Plaintiff herein) was held entitled to 4/6th share in the ancestral properties and 1/3rd share in G the self-acquired properties of Late Shri Kumar Sahoo including the mesne profits. 11. It is pertinent to note that as against the and decree of the Trial Court referred to above, it is only the Defendant No. 1, who thought fit to file F.A. No. 359 of 1986 before the High Court of Orissa. H 34 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A This appeal was essentially filed on the ground that all the properties of Late Shri Kumar Sahoo, as scheduled in the plaint should have been held to be ancestral properties. 12. It appears from the materials on record that while the first appeal referred to above was pending before the High Court, the B Defendant No. 2 (Respondent No. 2 herein) entered into a settlement with the Defendant No.1 thereby relinquishing her share in accordance with the decree passed by the Trial Court in lieu of consideration of Rs. 50, 000/- and the portions of land in Schedule ‘A’ and ‘B’. In such circumstances referred to above, a compromise petition dated 29.03.1991 duly signed on affidavit by the Defendant Nos. 1 and 2 resply, was filed C before the High Court which came to be registered as the Miscellaneous Case No. 643 of 1990 in F.A. No. 359 of 1986 referred to above. 13. The learned Single Judge of the High Court, while disposing of the F.A. No. 359 of 1986 observed as under: “4. In this appeal, it is first contended that certain properties D having been given to the daughters by the father during his life time and certain properties having been gifted to them at the time of their marriage and certain other properties having been purchased by the father in the names of the two daughters, namely plaintiff and Defendant No. 2, they are E not entitled to any separate share after death of the father. 5. There is no challenge as such to the validity of the gift deeds, if any, in favour of the daughters at the time of their marriage. There is also no material to indicate that certain properties had been purchased in the names of the daughters F as name-lenders and actually the property belonged to the father. Therefore, even assuming that certain properties had been gifted and had been purchased in the names of plaintiff and Defendant No. 2, that cannot be a ground to negate the right of succession of the plaintiff and Defendant No. 2, which accrued after death of the father. G 6.