16.2 One another circumstance in the chain which came to be relied upon by the prosecution is with regard to the “last scene theory”.The case of the prosecution is that deceased Mr. Jose Kafan was living in his garden land at Kerodi village and was carrying on agricultural activities G in survey No.48 and 49. It is also the case of the prosecution that deceased had constructed a house in the garden land itself and was residing therein. The son of the deceased who came to be examined as PW-4 has deposed in unequivocal terms that he had been informed by his father that an advertisement had been given in the newspaper ‘Deepika’ about the requirement of a worker and pursuant to the same accused had applied H SIJU KURIAN v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 415 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] and he had been taken for work. He has identified the newspaper as A Ex.P-28 and the relevant advertisement as Ex.P-8(a). 16.3 Contending that prosecution had failed to prove that accused had been employed by the deceased and neither PW-4 nor any other witnesses namely PW-5, PW-6, PW-7, PW-8, PW-9, PW-11 and PW- 12 had deposed that they have seen the appellant working in the garden B land of the deceased. It is contended that accused and deceased were never seen together and the finding recorded by the Trial Court is well reasoned and particularly the finding recorded at paragraphs 14, 15, 16 and same ought not to have been interfered by the High Court is an argument at first blush looks attractive but on deeper examination it C belies the truth as noticed by High Court. The fact that accused was last seen in the company of the deceased is testified by PW-10 and PW-14. PW-10 in his examination in chief dated 26.02.2013 has stated to the following effect. “I have been residing in Sagar since 1962. I am driving auto D rikshaw from the past 23 years. I have the acquaintance of Jose Kafan and he belongs to Kerala. When an auto driver, who knew Malayalam, was required in the auto stand I was shown and I and Kafan have acquaintance of nearly 5-6 years. When he required auto rikshaw, he used to call me. I used to drop him to his farm land. I know where the land of Kafan is situated. The witness E was shown Ex.P.31 and 32 and he identified the person wearing purple colour shirt as Jose Kafan. People used to go to the land for working. I have seen the accused in the place of Kafan. The accused was a worker there. On 21.01.2012, a Dafedar namely Sundar told me that he wants F someone who knew Malayalam and requested to go with him in to do translation from Malayalam language. I went to Sagar Rural station. I was taken to the station and Dy.S.P Was there in the station.” The accused was shown to me and asked whether I have acquaintance of the accused and I have identified the G accused and stated that he was working in the garden land of Kafan.The police showed xxx informed to the police.The accused stated that on 02.12.2011 when Kafan was sleeping at 6:00-6:30 in his house in the garden land, I killed him by assaulting on his head with an iron rod.