49. According to the Respondent in terms of the PPA, the contracted capacity was defined to be 39.402 KW in the first E year of commercial operation and down rated annually as per original equipment manufacturer’s recommendation in successive years. However, the Claimant did not take into account the down rating factor in any of the bills which it submitted to the Respondent. After the dispute arose, the Respondent observed that the down rating factor ought to have been applied from the year 2000 F onwards, which was the second year of commercial operation, in terms of OEM recommendations. It was therefore that the Respondent sought necessary documents from the Claimant as regards the recommendations of the OEM, but the same were not provided, contending that the said documents were not available G with the Claimant. In the circumstances, the Respondent had to go by other material to calculate the down rating factor. The Respondent has relied upon a draft notification issued by the Government to calculate the down rating. The said notification provides that the down rating would start from the second year of operation and would proceed till the fifth year, after which the H RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 439 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] plant had to be overhauled as a result of which in the sixth year, A the down rating would be negligible. Based upon the draft notification issued by the Ministry for Power, the Respondent has made calculations taking into account the down rating right from the year 2000. 50. The Claimant responded by contending that a draft notification B issued by the Ministry for Power has no value unless the same is duly notified in the Gazette. The Respondent has not relied upon any final notification duly notified. The Government may have thought of not issuing the notification for good reasons. Being only a draft notification which was never finally issued, it has no C value in law and the Respondent cannot derive any benefit from such a draft notification. 51. It is the case of the Claimant that the contracted capacity under the PPA dated 10th of January 1997 was equal to 39,402 kilowatts in the first year of commercial operation and down rated D annually thereafter as per original equipment manufacturer’s recommendation in the subsequent years. Later, the parties agreed to convert the generating station from Open Cycle into a Combined Cycle generating station of 48 MW capacity. On 10th September 1997, a supplementary PPA was entered into which permitted the Claimant to sell power directly in excess of 39.8 MW to consumers E in Goa. After the Claimant commenced commercial operation of the power station on 14th of August 1999, on completion of one year thereafter, a second supplementary agreement was entered into on 20 September 2000 whereunder the Respondent agreed to consent to sale of electricity in full or in part, to the extent of F 2000 KW generated at the power station directly to any consumer in Goa.