The law consequently empowers them through the process of rehabilitation. The 2013 Act, including the aforementioned provisions, therefore, must be interpreted as being in furtherance of fraternity, assuring the dignity of the individual. 50. The entitlements for rehabilitation are provided under Section 13. It envisages that a manual scavengers must be provided, within one month, a photo identity card containing the details of dependent family members and an initial, one-time cash assistance as may be prescribed. The Act also envisages a scholarship for the children of a manual scavenger, allotment of a residential plot, fi nancial assistance for house construction, training of the manual scavenger himself or at least one adult member of his family, in a livelihood skill with a stipend of not less than ₹ 3,000 during the period of the training, a concessional loan for taking up alternative occupation, etc. 51. These rehabilitation entitlements are available only to those included in the fi nal list of manual scavengers published pursuant to a survey 110 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. under Section 11(6) or added to the list under Section 12(3) of the Act. It must thus be emphasized that without a survey in accordance with the Act and Rules, there cannot be any further steps of rehabilitation. 52. That rehabilitation can occur only on identifi cation has not been seriously disputed by the Union. The Union however contends that (i) the 2013 Act does not contemplate a national survey but mandates a localized survey at the level of local bodies and (ii) two national surveys have already been conducted in 2013 and 2018. Interpretation of Section 11 53. The Union’s contention that Section 11 requires localized surveys by local bodies and not a national survey is, facially, attractive. However, the 2013 Act is not a regular statute: it is emancipatory in character and is a manifestation of the constitutional code of upliftment. The groundbreaking purpose of the 2013 Act, as is evident from its title38 is to ensure that manual scavengers are rehabilitated. Rehabilitation, as found above, is a step after identifi cation. Without a survey, rehabilitation is not workable. The statutory scheme cannot be undermined through an interpretation that would leave the implementation of the 2013 Act solely with the local bodies, without any guidance from the Governments – State and Central. In other words, the salutary commitment made by the 2013 Act must be fulfi lled by the local bodies in accordance with a policy-framework laid down by the Central or State Government. 54. The Central and State Governments were and are, duty-bound to lay down the parameters under which a local body was mandated to conduct a survey. While the methodology of the Survey is provided under the 2013 Rules, the trigger for conducting the Survey is conspicuously absent from both the 2013 Rules as well as the 2013 Act. The absence of a trigger cannot render the 2013 Act and its constitutional commitments otiose by non-implementation. That is to say, the implementation of the Act cannot be left to the whims and fancies of local bodies.