Negativing the challenge to constitutionality of the provisions of GST, it was held, in Union of C India (UOI) & Ors. v VKC Footsteps India Pvt. Ltd39. that: “A claim to refund is governed by statute. There is no constitutional entitlement to seek a refund. Parliament has in Clause (i) of the first proviso allowed a refund of the unutilized ITC in the case of zero-rated supplies made without payment of tax. Under Clause (ii) of the first proviso, Parliament has D envisaged a refund of unutilized ITC, where the credit has accumulated on account of the rate of tax on inputs being higher than the rate of tax on output supplies. When there is neither a constitutional guarantee nor a statutory entitlement to refund, the submission that goods and services must E necessarily be treated at par on a matter of a refund of unutilized ITC cannot be accepted. Such an interpretation, if carried to its logical conclusion would involve unforeseen consequences, circumscribing the legislative discretion of Parliament to fashion the rate of tax, concessions and exemptions. If the judiciary were to do so, it would run the F risk of encroaching upon legislative choices, and on policy decisions which are the prerogative of the executive.” 73. In this court’s opinion, what applies to refunds, (the right to which can be curtailed legitimately) applies equally to exemptions. It has been held in Bannari Amman Sugars Ltd. vs. Commercial Tax Officer G & Ors40 that if there is any tax concession, it “can be withdrawn at any time and no time limit should be insisted upon before it was withdrawn”. 39 2021 (15) SCR 169. H 40 2004 (6) Suppl. SCR 264. UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. v. COSMO FILMS LIMITED 229 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 74. Commentators and economists have spoken about how A introduction of GST was one of the most significant tax reforms undertaken by India. It was preceded by a series of meetings and negotiations, whereby concerns of the states, and various other agencies were accommodated. It has ushered a unified market driven by a single tax, converting different markets in states, with different tariffs and B governing principles. It has smoothened movement of goods between different states. Before the advent of GST, the Union taxed production of goods and supply of services; and the states taxed sale of goods. With GST, both the Union and the states are entitled to share the taxes of the full value chain of goods and services. Such a transformation cannot be painless; disruptions – especially in the beginning will be felt. Yet, that in C the process of unification, if a certain section of the business is inconvenienced, and would have to pay taxes (which exist as levies, newly introduced) and conditions are imposed upon their ability to freely import inputs (for the purpose of export), this alone cannot lead the court to conclude that such a change is unreasonable or arbitrary. D 75. For the foregoing reasons, this court holds that the Revenue has to succeed.