According to C the testimony of police witnesses, it was the informant who gave information to the police about his son’s dead body being found in the forest and thereafter, on the basis of the FIR, investigation commenced. Whereas, according to PW-1 the police informed him that his son’s dead body has been found in the forest and thereafter, he went to the spot, brought the body to the police D station and then lodged the report. This cleavage in the testimony of prosecution witnesses is important because it would throw a question as to whether the prosecution case is based on informant’s own knowledge and information or on suggestions/ guess work, may be at the instance of the police. [Para 19][18-H; E 19-A-C] 2. Prosecution case is primarily based on the evidence of the deceased being last seen alive with the two accused near the place of occurrence on or about the probable time of occurrence. Such evidence is forthcoming from two witnesses, namely, PW-2 and PW-5. Insofar as PW-2 is concerned, admittedly, he is not F listed as a witness in the police report/charge sheet. He gave his statement to the police on an affidavit for the first time on 18.02.2002, that is, the date when the police report was prepared. This implies that he remained silent for as long as three and a half months. Hence, this Court is to examine whether there was G a cogent explanation offered by PW-2. In the instant case, the only explanation offered by PW-2 for his three and a half month’s silence is that he felt threatened. With regard to his threat perception, PW-2 stated that in the night of the incident when he witnessed ‘R’ and ‘S’ emerging from the forest, soon after the incident, he noticed their hands and clothes blood stained. On H RAVI MANDAL v. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 3 spotting PW-2, those two accused threatened him by saying that A if he tells to anyone about what he has seen, he would meet the same fate. PW-2 stated that with the arrest of the two accused his fear vanished, therefore, he is now appearing as a witness. If this was the reason for him not to make the disclosure earlier, there should have been a prompt disclosure by him once the accused B were arrested. Notably, the two accused were arrested on 24.11.2001, yet, till 18.2.2002 no disclosure was made by him. Therefore, the explanation offered by him for the delay in making disclosure is not confidence inspiring. [Paras 22-24[[20-E, G; 21- G-H; 22-A-B] C 3. Further, the presence of PW-2 at the spot does not appear natural, particularly, at that odd hour of the night. To explain his presence at the scene of crime, PW-2 stated that his parents stay at another place, and therefore, to meet them he visited them that fateful night and on way return he could witness the incident. During cross examination, PW-2 stated that he usually takes D dinner at 2100 Hours with his family; and that he used to visit his parents at least once a week.