Once the share of the deceased in property that would have been allotted to 372 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. him if a partition had taken place immediately before his death is ascertained, his heirs including the children who have been conferred with legitimacy under Section 16 of the HMA 1955, will be entitled to their share in the property which would have been allotted to the deceased upon the notional partition, if it had taken place; and (x) The provisions of the HSA 1956 have to be harmonized with the mandate in Section 16(3) of the HMA 1955 which indicates that a child who is conferred with legitimacy under sub-sections (1) and (2) will not be entitled to rights in or to the property of any person other than the parents. The property of the parent, where the parent had an interest in the property of a Joint Hindu family governed under the Mitakshara law has to be ascertained in terms of the Explanation to sub-section (3), as interpreted above. 55. Before concluding, it would be necessary to clarify that the reference to the three Judge Bench in this batch of cases is confi ned to Joint Hindu families governed by Mitakshara law. This Court has, therefore, dwelt on the interpretation of the provisions of the HSA 1956 in relation to Joint Hindu families of that class. 56. The reference shall stand answered in the above terms. 57. The proceedings in the individual cases shall now be listed immediately before a two Judge Bench in accordance with the assignment of work for disposal. 58. A large number of cases are likely to have remained pending before each High Court due to the pendency of this reference to the three judge Bench. The Registrar (Judicial) of this court is directed to immediately circulate a copy of the to the Registrars (Judicial) of all the High Courts who shall upon taking suitable directions from the Chief Justices on the administrative side ensure that all pending cases involving the issues decided here are listed for hearing and disposal before the assigned benches according to the rosters of work. 59. We express our appreciation of the able assistance rendered to this Court by all the Counsel who appeared in the batch of cases: Ms Kiran REVANASIDDAPPA & ANR. v. MALLIKARJUN & ORS. 373 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Suri, Senior Advocate, Mr A I S Cheema, Senior Advocate, Mr Sudhanshu S Choudhari, Dr Ravindra Chingale, Mr Nikhil Majithia, Counsel; Mr K Radhakrishnan, Ms V Mohana, Senior Advocate, Mr Vivek Chib, Senior Advocate, Mr Shirish K Deshpande, Mr Samrat Krishnarao Shinde, Mr P B Suresh, Mr Nishant Ramakantrao Katneshwarkar, Mr Mukesh K Giri, Mr V Prabhakar, and Mr Vivek Solshe, Counsel. Headnotes prepared by: Reference answered. Nidhi Jain