596 of 2020 (S-RES) titled “Sanjay Gandhi Institute of Trauma & Orthopaedics Vs. State of Karnataka and Others” and “Sitikanatha Mishra Vs. Union of India and Others, (2015) 3 SCC 670”. 13. Per contra, learned counsel representing respondent-Gulbarga University has submitted that the appellant tendered his resignation from the post of Offi ce Superintendent to join as ‘Assistant Registrar’ and in pursuance of the same, he was relieved from his duties. Therefore, in terms of Rule 252(b) of KCS Rules, it is to be treated as ‘resignation’ from previous employment. It is further submitted that, in absence of any representation made by the appellant seeking preservation/maintenance of his lien on the previous post during the pendency of litigation, he lost his right of lien and claim of seniority. Therefore, rejection of his representation by respondent- University on 08.02.2006 was in accordance with law and has been rightly upheld by impugned while setting aside the of the learned Single Judge. 14. Having heard learned counsel for the parties and considering the nature of issues involved, we deem it appropriate to deal with the questions as framed simultaneously. As the dated 08.04.1993 relieving the appellant from the duties of Office Superintendent was passed in pursuance to Rule 252(b) of KCS Rules and Offi ce Memorandum dated 22.01.1972, therefore, at the very outset, it is necessary to refer the said Rule and Offi ce Memorandum which are reproduced as thus for ready reference – “Rule 252(b) – Registration (sic ) of an appointment to take up, with proper permission, another appointment, whether permanent or temporary, service in which counts in full or in part, is not a resignation of public service.” 112 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. “Offi ce Memorandum No. FD 262 SRS 71 dated 22.1.1972 Under Rule 252(b) of KCSRs, resignation of an appointment to take up with proper permission another appointment, whether permanent or temporary service in which counts in full or part, is not resignation from public service. A question has been raised whether in such cases a separate sanction should be issued indicating that the resignation has been accepted under the above provision, in to enable the audit/Administrative Offi cer to regulate the consequential benefi ts in the matter of pay fi xation, carry forward of leave, pension etc. The matter has been considered and it has been decided that in cases of the above type the accepting the resignation should clearly indicate that the employee is resigning to join another appointment with proper permission and that the benefi ts under Rule 252(b) ibid will be admissible to him. The contents of the above should also be noted in the Service Book of individuals concerned under proper attestation. The issue of any separate sanction is considered not necessary.” At this juncture, reference to Rule 20 Note 4 of KCS Rules is also relevant and same is reproduced as under – “Rule 20 Note 4 – When a Government servant who has secured employment in one Department of Government under the rules of recruitment, seeks employment on his own accord in another unit or Department or in another cadre or grade in the same Department, his lien on the original appointment shall be continued to be maintained provided he has already been confi rmed in the post till he is permanently absorbed in the Department or cadre in which he is newly appointed and he shall be given the benefi t of the past service for purposes of leave and pension.