Vide the impugned dated 23rd November 2021, the High Court dismissed the writ petition. The High Court held that there E was no provision under the 1952 Act or the Rules framed thereunder governing transfer of shares in relation to a site or building whether owned singly or under joint ownership. However, the High Court held that the sale of share(s) out of a building/site by the allottee(s)/ transferee(s) was not barred, and rather was permissible under the general civil law. It further held that the status of such building/site, F however, even after the sale of share(s) continues to be under joint ownership. It further held that for constituting a fragmentation, there has to be an element of permanent severance. Mere construction of three floors on a private plot and utilization of the same as independent units would not amount to fragmentation. It held that unless there has G been a sub-division of the building duly recognized by the Estate Officer along with proportionate share in common areas and common facilities, the same would not amount to apartmentalization. 19. The High Court, however, found that the real estate agent/ developer/seller, in to extract maximum premium, would tend to H paint a picture to the prospective buyer that by virtue of purchase of a RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 615 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] share in the building, he would not only be entitled to have exclusive A possession but also ownership rights. The High Court observed that the same was not permissible and the purchaser, by purchase of share(s), only became a co-owner/co-sharer in the entire building to the extent of shareholding. In the eventuality of the dispute arising between the co-sharers/co-owners, the only remedy would be to put the property to B auction and they would be only entitled to the sale proceeds as per the share(s). It therefore issued certain directions to the UT of Chandigarh in to protect the interests of such innocent purchasers. Being aggrieved by the impugned , the appellants-original writ petitioners are before this Court. C III. SUBMISSIONS OF APPELLANTS: 20. We have heard Shri P.S. Patwalia, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in the main matter, Shri Ranjit Kumar, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in appeal arising out of SLP(C) No. 5489 of 2022, Shri K.M. Natraj, learned D Additional Solicitor General (ASG) appearing on behalf of respondent No.1 in both the appeals, Shri Kapil Sibal, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of respondent No.6 in the main matter and for respondent Nos. 7, 8 and 9 in appeal arising out of SLP(C) No. 5489 of 2022 and Shri Gaurav Chopra and Shri Ajay Tewari, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the applicant(s)/caveator(s) in both the E appeals. 21. Shri Patwalia submitted that, Phase-I Sectors, which constitute “Corbusian Chandigarh”, have now derived a modern heritage value. He submitted that, if any apartment is permitted to be constructed on single dwelling unit, it will jeopardize the original character of the city.