It was further observed that such an appeal is not a regular H DAKKATA BALARAM REDDY & ANR. v. STATE OF ANDHRA 891 PRADESH & ANR. [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] appeal and this Court would not interfere with concurrent findings of A fact based on pure appreciation of evidence and it is not the scope of such appeal that this Court would enter into reappreciation of evidence so as to take a view different from that taken by the Trial Court and approved by the High Court. 7. Earlier, in Sambhu Das alias Bijoy Das and another Vs. B State of Assam [(2010) 10 SCC 374], this Court affirmed that Article 136 of the Constitution does not confer a right of appeal on a party and only confers discretionary power on this Court to be exercised sparingly to interfere in suitable cases where grave miscarriage of justice has resulted from illegality or misapprehension or mistake in reading evidence C or from ignoring, excluding or illegally admitting material evidence. 8. This being the settled legal position, the case on hand may now be examined. There are no eye-witnesses to the actual commission of the offence and the case is built on circumstantial evidence. Trite to state, in such a situation, the chain of evidence must be so complete as D to not leave any reasonable grounds for a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused; the accused ‘must be’ and not merely ‘may be’ guilty, before the Court can convict, and the facts established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused [See Hanumant Govind Nargundkar Vs. State of M.P. (AIR 1952 SC 343)]. E 9. In this context, the following facts may be noted: Vetcha Kesava Rao (PW-1) stated that, on 21.08.2008 at about 05.00 pm, he went to Sompeta for business purposes and received a call from PW-7/LW-8 at about 09.30 pm that the accused went to his house at about 09.00 pm and that they heard loud cries and shouts coming from the house. PW-7 then told him that after some time A1 ran away with small bundles of F gold while he and LWs 6 & 7 (PW-4 and PW-6) were watching and A2 fled from upstairs towards the backside portion. PW-1 stated that he returned from Sompeta and reached his house at about 10.00 or 10.30 pm and by that time, people had gathered outside his house and all the doors of his house were open. His son was lying in a pool of blood near G the sofa in the shop room and there was an iron rod on the floor, and in the southern side room, his wife was lying in a pool of blood and he found another iron rod near her. All the gold ornaments were missing from the shop almirah and the show case. He then went to the police station and lodged a report (Ex.P-1). PW-1 stated that he told the police that his wife and son were killed by the accused.