It is apparent that if the property subject matter of the sale is in possession of the vendor himself, the bona fide purchaser will offer more price for the property than the price E which he may offer for a similar property which is in possession of a tenant. There is no doubt that a property in possession of a tenant or tenants will fetch lesser value in the open market than the market value of a similar property exclusively in possession of the vendor. The reason is that the buyer will not get actual F possession of the portion of the property in possession of the tenant. [Para 24][529-G-H; 530-A-B] 5. The market value can be determined by the comparison method even in case of a property in possession of tenants. For example, if there is a sale transaction of a property in possession G of a tenant which is comparable to the property sought to be valued and if the said sale transaction is held to be a genuine transaction, market value can be fixed on the basis of the sale transaction. If no comparable instances are found, the market H 516 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A value can be fixed of the property in possession of tenants by making an appropriate deduction from the market value of a comparable property in which there are no tenants. [Para 25][530- C] 6. The Assistant Collector, the Appellate Authority, and the B High Court have not decided the issue in terms of what this Court have held above. Even if the guidance value of Rs. 24,000/- per sq. meter is to be taken as the market value of the sale deed land, necessary deductions will have to be made from the market value as the appellants were already in possession of the sale deed land as tenants. The extent to which deduction can be made C will depend upon the nature of the tenancy and other material factors. Some tenancies may be protected under the relevant rent control legislation, whereas some may not be protected. That is all a matter of evidence. [Para 27][530-F-G] 7. The issue regarding the market value of the sale deed D land on the date of execution of the sale deed is required to be decided by permitting the parties to adduce oral and documentary evidence. The Assistant Collector will have to ascertain whether a comparable sale instance of a property in possession of tenants is available. If it is not available, the Assistant Collector will have E to ascertain the market value of the sale deed property on the relevant date again by comparison method by taking market value of a comparable property which does not have encumbrance of tenancy. Thereafter, he will have to determine the percentage of the deduction which should be made from the market value in the facts of this case. These questions are to be decided by the F Assistant Collector on the basis of the evidence on record.