4) Can a statement made by a Minister, traceable to any affairs G of State or for protecting the Government, be attributed vicariously to the Government itself, especially in view of the principle of Collective Responsibility? 5) Whether a statement by a Minister, inconsistent with the rights of a citizen under Part Three of the Constitution, H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 721 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] constitutes a violation of such constitutional rights and is A actionable as ‘Constitutional Tort’?” 6. His Lordship, Ramsubramanian, J. has answered the questions referred to this Constitution Bench in the scholarly proposed by him. My view on each of such questions, as contrasted with those of His Lordship’s have been expressed in a tabular form hereinunder, for B easy reference. C D E F G H 722 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A B C D E F G H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 723 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] A B C D E \ F G H 724 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A B C D E Submissions: 7. We have heard learned Senior Counsel, Sri Kaleeswaram Raj, F for the Petitioners and learned Attorney General for the Respondents, and learned Senior Counsel Ms. Aparajita Singh, amicus curiae. Arguments on behalf of the petitioners: 8. The submissions of learned Senior Counsel, Sri Kaleeswaram Raj, appearing on behalf of the Petitioners may be epitomized as under: G 8.1. That while upholding the constitutional right to freedom of speech and expression of Ministers, efforts should be made to frame a voluntary code of conduct for Ministers and public officials, which would ensure better accountability and transparency in their political activities and also place a H check on the misuse of freedom of speech and expression KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 725 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] exercised by public functionaries using the apparatus of the A State. 8.2. That while the state’s duty to protect life and liberty broadly falls within the right under Article 21, it is difficult to chain the State with responsibility in every instance where speech by a public functionary strikes at the dignity of another B person. That in the absence of such a provision to vicariously attribute responsibility to the State, every instance of such speech cannot be actionable and remediable through the judiciary. That no duty corresponding to Article 21 is imposed on individual Ministers nor such duty is imposed C on any government machinery to regulate the conduct of individual Ministers warranting judicial intervention. Therefore, even though no actionable breach of public duty can be said to have taken place when statements are made by people in power, this in turn, postulates the desirability to have a voluntary code of conduct in the better interest of D the government as well as the governed. 8.3. Reliance was placed on Article 75 (3) of the Constitution to contend that Ministers have a collective responsibility towards the legislature and thus, a code of conduct to self- regulate the speech and actions of Ministers is E constitutionally justifiable.