C iv) In Modern Dental College and Research Centre vs. State of Madhya Pradesh, (2016) 7 SCC 353, (“Modern Dental College and Research Centre”) this Court was called upon to adjudicate upon a challenge to the vires of the Niji Vyavasayik Shikshan Sanstha (Pravesh Ka D Viniyaman Avam Shulk Ka Nirdharan) Adhiniyam, 2007, read with the Madhya Pradesh Private Medical and Dental Post Graduate Courses Entrance Examination Rules, 2009. The said Act and Rules were framed primarily to regulate the admission of students in post graduate courses in private professional educational institutions and also contained E provisions for fixation of fee and reservation of seats in such colleges. A challenge was laid by the Appellants therein, which were unaided private medical and dental colleges, to those provisions of the Act and Rules, which sought to regulate admission, fixation of fee, reservation and eligibility criteria. The arguments raised by the Appellants therein F before this Court were founded, inter alia, on power of the State to enact such a legislation. It was argued that the matter of admission in higher educational institutional falls within the purview of Entry 66 of List I to the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution and is not covered under Entry G 25 of List III of Seventh Schedule. In that background, this Court undertook an analysis of the scope and ambit of Entry 66 of List I, relative to Entry 25 of List III. This Court held that Entry 66 of List I is a specific Entry having a very specific and limited scope. It deals with co- H ordination and determination of standards in institution of BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 959 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] higher education or research as well as scientific and A technical institutions. Thus, when it comes to prescribing the standards for such institutions of higher learning, exclusive domain is given to the Union. That such co- ordination and determination of standards, insofar as medical education is concerned, is achieved by Parliamentary B legislation in the form of Medical Council of India Act, 1956 and by creating the statutory body like Medical Council of India. With reference to Entry 25 of List III, it was observed that regulating ‘education’ as such, which includes medical C education as well as universities, is a matter under the concurrent list. That earlier, education, including university education, was the subject matter of Entry 11 of List II. Thus, power to this extent was given to the State Legislatures. However, this Entry was omitted by the Constitution (Forty-Second Amendment) Act, 1976 with D effect from 03 July, 1977 and at the same time Entry 25 of List II was amended. Education, including university education, was thus transferred to Concurrent List and in the process technical and medical education was also added within the scope of Entry 25 of List II. E With that preface, it was observed in the said case that on a harmonious reading of Entry 66 of List I and Entry 25 of List III, it would become manifest.