It was submitted that the law on the subject is well settled. Counsel stated that the s of this court, such as Saleem Bhai v. State of Maharashtra5and Mayar 5 2002 [5] Suppl. SCR 491 H BHIM RAO BASWANTH RAO PATIL v. K. MADAN MOHAN 1225 RAO AND ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (H.K.) Limited v. Owners and Parties, Vessel M.V. Fortune Express6 A had, in no uncertain terms, ruled that while considering an application under VII Rule 11, CPC, only the averments in the pleadings (i.e., in the suit or petition) and the accompanying documents can be looked into. Therefore, reference to and reliance on any document which was not part of the petition, but produced as a part of the respondent/ B defendant’s plea, cannot be considered. 11. It was next urged that while it is undoubtedly important to respect popular will and the courts ought to be slow in upsetting them, equally it important to maintain the purity of the election process. Courts are, hence, duty bound to examine the allegations whenever the same C are raised within the framework of the statute without being unduly hyper-technical in their approach and oblivious of the ground realities. Analysis and Conclusions 12. Section 33A of the Act, which requires disclosure of past criminal antecedents of every candidate, reads as follows: D “33A. Right to information: (1) A candidate shall, apart from any information which he is required to furnish, under this Act or the rules made thereunder, in his nomination paper delivered under sub-section (1) of section 33, also furnish the information as to whether— E (i) he is accused of any offence punishable with imprisonment for two years or more in a pending case in which a charge has been framed by the court of competent jurisdiction; (ii)he has been convicted of an offence [other than any offence referred to in sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), or covered F in sub-section (3), of section 8] and sentenced to imprisonment for one year or more. (2) The candidate or his proposer, as the case may be, shall, at the time of delivering to the returning officer the nomination paper under sub-section (1) of section 33, also deliver to him G an affidavit sworn by the candidate in a prescribed form verifying the information specified in sub-section (1). (3) The returning officer shall, as soon as may be after the furnishing of information to him under sub-section (1), display 6 2006 [1] SCR 860 H 1226 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A the aforesaid information by affixing a copy of the affidavit, delivered under sub-section (2), at a conspicuous place at his office for the information of the electors relating to a constituency for which the nomination paper is delivered.” Section 8 provides for disqualification of elected candidates, upon their conviction of specified offences. However, Section 33A, introduced B through an amendment to the Act, in 2002, compels those holding out their candidature to disclose information about their criminal antecedents.