It was the specific case on behalf of the respondent – original writ petitioner that her VRS application ought to have been considered as Scientist ‘H’ in DRDO. 2.3 The Tribunal on consideration of the matter observed and B held that the dated 12.02.2019, was an of discharge simpliciter during her probation period and as she had earlier rendered technical resignation from DRDO and/or appointment with DRDO on tendering a technical resignation, she continued to have lien with the DRDO and therefore, she was rightly repatriated to DRDO. The Tribunal also C observed and held that once the respondent reported back to her parent organization and thereafter sought promotion to the post of Scientist ‘H’ and she was found ‘not fit’ thereafter, it was not open for her to contend that she should be voluntarily retired on the post of Scientist ‘H’ by DRDO. Consequently, the Tribunal dismissed the OA filed by the respondent herein. The and passed by the Tribunal was D the subject matter before the High Court by way of the present writ petition. By the impugned and , the High Court has set aside the and passed by the Tribunal by observing that once the respondent was appointed as Scientist ‘H’ in NTRO on direct recruitment basis, NTRO could not have repatriated her on a lower post E that she originally held in DRDO. The High Court has also observed that the concept of reversion in the case of direct recruitment would not arise and therefore, her repatriation as Scientist ‘G’ to DRDO was illegal. However, thereafter the High Court has modified the passed by the Tribunal and ed that the dated 12.02.2019, shall be read as an of discharge simpliciter and that she shall be entitled to all F consequential benefits including the benefit of past service that she had rendered in DRDO for computing her terminal benefits. The High Court has also made it clear that the respondent would be entitled to all such benefits as are permissible to her on the premise that she held the post of Scientist ‘H’ and the last drawn pay in that post would be the criteria G for settling all her benefits. At this stage, it is required to be noted that the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the original writ petitioner did not press for the prayer to accept the VRS application. 2.4 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned and passed by the High Court, the National Technical Research H 374 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Organization (NTRO) and others have preferred the present appeal. 3. Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, learned ASG appearing on behalf of the NTRO has vehemently submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case, the High Court has committed a very serious error in directing to treat the dated 12.02.2019 as an of discharge simpliciter. B 3.1 It is vehemently submitted by Ms. Bhati that once the respondent was repatriated to the original parent department, i.e., DRDO and in fact she resumed the duty with the DRDO, the respondent ceased to be the employee of the NTRO.