This is why in May 2011, India became party to the United Nations Convention against Corruption (UNCAC) joining over 160 other countries who were party to this UN Convention. 89. The history of the legislation on money-laundering is almost G six decades old. In brief, this history can be traced as follows: (i) In 1961, United Nations Convention on Narcotic Drugs was adopted and it was amended by the protocol of the year 1972. 34 For short, “UNODC” H 1082 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (ii) In 1971, United Nations Convention on Psychotropic Substances was made. (iii) In 1974, a bank known as Herstatt Bank in Germany was forced into liquidation by the Regulators. On the day on which it happened, a number of banks had released payments to Herstatt in exchange for B US dollars to be delivered in New York. But due to the time zone differences, Herstatt ceased operations between the times of the respective payments. As a result, payments were not made in New York. Therefore, a Standing Committee which came to be known as Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) was formed by G-10 countries namely Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, C Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, UK and USA. (iv) In December 1988, two things happened. One was the adoption of a Convention by name UN Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (popularly known as Vienna Convention). The second was that at about the same time, the D Basel Committee issued a general statement of ethical principles which encourages banks’ management to put in place effective procedures to ensure that all persons conducting business with their institutions are properly identified, that transactions that do not appear legitimate are to be discouraged and that cooperation with law enforcement agencies is E achieved. (v) In 1989, the FATF was established at the G-7 summit held at Paris, as an inter-governmental body by the member countries namely Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, UK and USA. Now FATF consists of 39 members including India and over 200 jurisdictions around the world have committed to the FATF recommendations. F (vi) In 1990, the Member States of the Council of Europe signed and ratified a Convention known as The Convention on Laundering, Search, Seizure and Confiscation of the Proceeds from Crime, also known as the Strasbourg Convention or CETS 141. Interestingly, Australia though not a Member of the Council of Europe, also signed and ratified G this Convention. The Convention sought to facilitate international co- operation and mutual assistance in investigating crime and tracking down, seizing and confiscating the proceeds thereof. The purpose of bringing the States together was to assist them in attaining a similar degree of efficiency even in the absence of full legislative harmony. H Y. BALAJI v. KARTHIK DESARI & ANR. ETC. 1083 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] (vii) As part of United Nations office on Drugs and Crime, a A Global Programme against Money Laundering (GPML) was established in 1987 to assist Member States to comply with UN Conventions and other instruments that deal with money-laundering and terrorism financing.