It is widely accepted that however precise the treaty text appears to be, the way in which it is actually applied by the parties is usually a good indication of what they understand it to mean, provided the practice is consistent, and is common to, or accepted by, all the parties.81 A relevant case in point is the interpretation of Article 5 of the Chicago Convention, which governs charter air services. This provision does not require a charter airline to obtain permission to land en route, provided it does not pick up or set down passengers or cargo. However, the practice of the parties over many years has been to require charter airlines to seek permission to land in all cases, and the article is now so interpreted.82 82. The work of Sir Gerald Fitzmaurice during the drafting process that eventually led to the formulation of Article 31 VCLT is also worthy of note. Taking as a reference point the ICJ’s case law between 1951 and 1954, Fitzmaurice formulated the major principles of treaty interpretation that formed the basis for the ILC draft provisions on treaty interpretation. He outlined three subsidiary principles of interpretation, 78 Steven Ratner, ‘International Law Rules on Treaty Interpretation’ in The Law and Practice of the Northern Ireland Protocol, edited by Christopher McCrudden, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press (2022), pp. 80-91. 79 James Crawford, ‘A Consensualist Interpretation of Article31(3) of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties’ in Georg Nolte et al (eds. ), Treaties and Subsequent Practice (Oxford University Press, 2013), pp. 29, 31. 80 Bruno Simma, ‘Miscellaneous thoughts on subsequent agreements and practice’ in: Georg Nolte (ed.) Treaties and Subsequent Practice (Oxford University Press, 2013), pp 46–51. 81 Anthony Aust, Modern Treaty Law and Practice, (Cambridge University Press, 2013), at p. 194. 82 B. Cheng, ‘Air Law’, Max Planck Encyclopedia of Public International Law (1989), Vol. 11, pp. 8-9. ASSESSING OFFICER CIRCLE (INTERNATIONAL TAXATION) 2(2)(2) 1203 NEW DELHI v. M/S NESTLE SA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] ‘eff ectiveness’, ‘subsequent practice’, and ‘contemporaneity’, which he saw as complementary to the three primary ones: ‘actuality’, the ‘natural and ordinary meaning’, and ‘integration’. With regard to the principle of subsequent practice, Fitzmaurice remarked, as early as then, that: “Where the practice has brought about a change or development in the meaning of the treaty through a revision of its terms by conduct, it is permissible to give eff ect to this change or development as an agreed revision...”83 83. The ICJ in its decision in Case Concerning the Land, Island and Maritime Frontier Dispute (El Salvador v Hondurus)84 considered and explained how practice of parties assumes signifi cance in treaty interpretation: “380. The Chamber considers that, while both customary law and the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties (Art. 31, para. 3(b)) contemplate that such practice may be taken into account for purposes of interpretation, none of these considerations raised by Honduras can prevail over the absence from the text of any specifi c reference to delimitation.