The figure of existing employees, as on the date of B the issuance of the was 114; 130 had retired and 631 had sought voluntary retirement. However, all of them had benefited and secured interim relief to the extent of 30%, through the s of the MSFC itself. In these circumstances, singling out existing employees from a homogenous larger group, amounted to hostile discrimination against those C left out. 13. It was submitted that those who had sought voluntary retirement cannot be left out, on the ground that they had secured benefits and not completed their tenure. In this regard, Mr. Salva placed reliance on the following condition (Clause 5) of the VRS scheme2: D “The officers/employees whose request for voluntary retirement is accepted by the Corporation will be entitled for payment of arrears on account of revision of pay-scales and allowances as also for the difference of voluntary retirement benefits accruing to them on account of revision of pay-scales, E if and as may be made effective retrospectively to the employees of the Corporation by the Board and approved by Govt. of Maharashtra and IDBI.” 14. Reliance was placed on the decisions of this court in Col B.J. Akkara (Retd) v. Govt of India3 , D.S. Nakara v. Union of India4 to urge that the employer cannot discriminate and divide a homogenous F class of employees, and deprive one section of them by the artificial device of a cut-off date. Contentions of MSFC 15. Mr. Sachin Patil, learned counsel appearing for the respondents G – the State government, and MSFC, urged that the impugned does not call for interference. It was submitted that MSFC is an autonomous corporation established under the State Financial Corporation 2 Introduced by the MSFC’s Office No. 14 dated 29.03.1996 3 [2006] 7 Suppl. SCR 58; (2006) 11 SCC 709 4 [1983] 2 SCR 165; (1983) 1 SCC 305 H 1180 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Act. It is not bound to follow the terms and conditions applicable to Maharashtra Government employees. In fact, it has to independently generate its income from its own resources to meet any additional burden or expenditure due to increased pay or increase in wages for its employees. It was submitted that under Section 39 of the State Financial Corporations Act, 1951 it has to seek guidance and directives of the B State Government in policy matters. 16. It was submitted that the MSFC was not bound by the decision of the State to implement the decisions of the Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Pay Commissions for its employees. In fact, the State never directed the Corporation to implement such Pay Commission recommendations. It C only approved a proposal to extend the benefit of Fifth Pay Commission recommendations to the Corporation’s employees in terms of its letter dated 23.09.2010. Before that, the State refused to grant approval to the resolution passed by the Board of Directors on 24.07.1996. 17. It was further argued that the employees of the Corporation D cannot claim, as a matter of right, any benefit of pay revision without MSFC’s ability to bear the burden of such pay increase.