74. 101 (1972) 1 SCC 536 342 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. ii. Alterations to Article 370 of the Constitution itself must be permitted through the route of amending Article 367 in exercise of the President’s powers under Article 370(1)(d). If this route is not left open, Article 370 would become permanent, which is not what the Constitution makers envisaged as inter alia apparent from the Chapter under which it fell. The only other method to alter the provision was through Article 370(3) (such as the change made in C.O. 44). This route was closed after State Constituent Assembly dissolved itself and the provision became otiose. Alternatively, if it were to be accepted that Article 370(3) was the only possible route to alter the provision, then even an amendment under Article 368 would have been impermissible. iii. The amendment to Article 367, through Article 370(1)(d), was also with concurrence, which is a sine qua non under the second proviso to Article 370(1)(d). This is notwithstanding the fact that the concurrence so obtained from the Governor was when he was acting in place of the Council of Ministers. In any case, ‘concurrence’ constitutes a higher threshold than ‘recommendation’ and the framers consciously insisted on a lower threshold of agreement under Article 370(3). The absence of recommendation would not be fatal to the exercise of power. iv. C.O. 272 refl ects democratic principles, as it was made on the recommendation of the Parliament. The decision of the President also refl ects a decision made on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers, which is collectively responsible to the Parliament. v. Any Constitutional measure meant to further equality and fraternity, assuring the dignity of the individual, and the unity and integrity of the nation should be welcomed102. B. C.O. 273 is intra vires. i. In the line of the arguments already advanced, it was suggested that when the Constituent Assembly dissolved itself without giving any recommendation, the proviso to Article 370(3) became otiose. However, this could never render the main provision inoperative. The President would always have the power to abrogate Article 370 in the 102 Raghunath Ganpatrao’s case (supra) IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 343 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] absence of any modifi cation to Article 367 through C.O. 272. Nevertheless, the option under Article 370(1)(d) was chosen in view of the strategic importance of the State and the need to have the issue debated before both Houses of Parliament. ii. Article 370 vests the President with constituent power, i.e. power to apply or re-fashion diff erent provisions of the Constitution of India, as applicable to Jammu & Kashmir. Thus, it is not amenable to ordinary forms of judicial review, such as the grounds of mala fi des, etc. Delhi Laws, in Re was distinguishable as the said case dealt with statutory delegation of power. But, on the other hand, in the present scenario, the assignment of the powers to the President is directly from the Constitution itself.