Subsequently a review petition was fi led before this Court seeking review of the dated 13.02.2018. The matter was hence reconsidered by this court, in the light of the 2016 amendment and the question was whether the amendment now necessitates a reappraisal of the earlier view of this Court. This Court after giving an extensive hearing to the parties reaffi rmed its earlier views holding that the amendment in the Act, would not make any diff erence to the legal position held earlier. 12. The main argument of the appellants was that subsequent to the amendment in the year 2016 (Act No. 3 of 2016) by which the Parliament added the word “notwithstanding any , decree or ” refer the parties to arbitration unless it fi nds that prima facie no valid arbitration agreement exists, the legislative intent was clear that hereinafter Judicial SMT. M. HEMALATHA DEVI & ORS. v. B. UDAYASRI 277 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] Authority is mandated to refer a dispute for arbitration once there was a valid arbitration agreement, and an application under Section 8 is duly presented. The argument was that though prior to the amendment, and in view of the law laid down by this Court in National Seeds Corporation Limited (supra), an option was available to the consumer to avail a remedy under the Consumer Protection Act, but post amendment and in terms of the unambiguous language of Section 8, the judicial authority is left with no option but to refer the dispute for arbitration when an application is moved before the judicial authorities under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996. The same argument has been made before us by the appellants, though in the context of their Section 11 application before the High Court, they would argue that in view of the similar mandate now given in sub-section 6A of Section 11, the High Court had no choice but to appoint an arbitrator! 13. The counter argument before this Court raised on behalf of the consumer (in Emaar MGF Land Ltd. case), was that the Consumer Protection Act is a benefi cial legislation for the consumers, which gives a speedy, and expeditious remedy for redressal of consumer disputes. If the argument of the review petitioners were to be accepted then it would amount to setting at naught the benefi cial legislation i.e., Consumer Protection Act. It would also have similar eff ect in cases relating to trusts, tenancy disputes, industrial disputes, IPR and other non-arbitrable disputes. It was for this reason that the three-member Bench of NCDRC in Emaar I (supra) had said “the ripple of the amendment to Section 8(1) cannot be so large as to inundate domains of other legislations and jurisprudence, painstakingly built by the Legislators and Courts, especially without any engagement, debate and critique with the foundations of these related laws.” 14. This court then examined the legal position as it existed prior to the amendments and the eff ect of the amendment on the legal position. The preamble of the 1986 Act was examined.3 The 1986 Act was enacted to provide better protection of consumer interest and to have level 3 Although the Consumer Protection Act of 1986 has now been repealed and the new Act of 2019 i.e., the Consumer Protection Act, 2019 has come into force, yet for our purpose the reference to the 1986 Act at various places in the present would not make any diff erence as the basic purpose of the 1986 Act and 2019 Act remains primarily the protection of consumers and providing them with an easy, inexpensive redressal mechanism of their grievances 278 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R.