A feeder cadre of 205 Senior Civil Judges was created with eligibility of C those who have at-least two years of qualifying service. The list was uploaded on 12.04.2022 and the petitioners were enlisted in the said list. ; (iv) That the suitability of a candidate had four components, which were duly reflected in the Recruitment Notice. The “Merit” eligibility required a candidate to secure minimum D of 40% marks in each component with 50% marks aggregate. Upon achieving this, the final selection would be based on seniority. Accordingly, a Select List of 68 candidates was prepared, which was in consonance with the decision of this Court in the case of C.P. Kalra (supra). ; E (v) That the Select List was placed before the Full Court meeting and upon approval, was published on the website of the High Court on 10.03.2023.; (vi) That the methodology, which has been followed by the High Court is being followed since the year 2011.; F (vii) That the methodology pointed out by the writ petitioners only points out to selection based on merit. It is submitted that once the feeder cadre includes the candidates who have just two years of experience and the only Marks Criterion is to be seen, the same becomes a selection based G only on Merits giving a complete go-by to the principle of seniority. ; (viii) That in the present case, for the selection, merit is given preference in as much as senior candidates pave way for meritorious candidates, if at the first instance, they fail to H RAVIKUMAR DHANSUKHLAL MAHETA & ANR. v. HIGH 425 COURT OF GUJARAT AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] qualify the suitability test and thereafter the remaining A candidates fail to secure minimum marks in each of the components and fail to secure aggregate 50% marks out of total 200 marks. It is submitted that, therefore, once merit is determined, seniority takes over. It is submitted that, therefore, the principle of “merit-cum-seniority” has been B followed. ; (ix) That the petitioners were aware of this procedure and participated in it without any demur. It is submitted that therefore, the writ petitioners are estopped from making the present challenge. ; C (x) That the same formula was applied when the present petitioners were promoted from their respective posts to the cadre of Senior Civil Judge. It is submitted that therefore, the writ petitioners, thereafter, cannot make any grievance with respect to the same methodology adopted while D considering the post of District Judge. ; (xi) That the Andhra Pradesh High Court and the Orissa High Court have also followed the same methodology of principle of merit-cum-seniority. ; 6. Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the respondents not E to entertain the present writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India is concerned, the said objection is overruled. Taking into consideration the fact that the impugned decision of the High Court has been approved by the Full Court of the High Court and taking into consideration the earlier decision of this Court in the case of All India F Judges’ Association and Ors.