Under Section 257 of the CrPC, the complaint can G be withdrawn at any point of time before the final is passed. Under Section 147 of the NI Act the offence can be compounded. The case may end in acquittal or conviction at the conclusion of the trial. 33. Section 141 of the NI Act states that if the person committing an offence under Section 138 is a company, every person who, at the H 1008 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A time the offence was committed, was in charge of, and was responsible to the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly. The expression “as well” is occurring in Section 141 of the NI Act. This expression means “on par”. Therefore, the liability of such persons in charge of and B responsible to the company for the conduct of its business is thus co- extensive. SCHEME OF THE IBC, 2016 34. I shall now try to understand the scheme of the IBC. C 35. It is a comprehensive Code enacted, as the Preamble states, to “consolidate and amend the laws relating to reorganisation and insolvency resolution of corporate persons, partnership firms and individuals in a time bound manner for maximisation of value of assets of such persons, to promote entrepreneurship, availability of D credit and balance the interests of all the stakeholders including alteration in the of priority of payment of Government dues and to establish an Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India, and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto”. 36. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the IBC indicates E that the Legislature was of the opinion that the existing framework for insolvency and bankruptcy was inadequate and ineffective and resulted in undue delays in resolution. The IBC was proposed with the objective of consolidating and amending the laws relating to reorganisation and insolvency resolution of corporate persons, partnership firms and individuals in a time bound manner for maximisation of the value of F assets of such persons, to promote entrepreneurship, availability of credit and balance the interests of all the stakeholders, including alteration in the priority of payment of Government dues and to establish an Insolvency and Bankruptcy Fund, and matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. The IBC provides for designating the NCLT and G the Debts Recovery Tribunal (DRT) as the adjudicating authorities for corporate persons, firms and individuals for resolution of insolvency, liquidation and bankruptcy. The IBC was published in the Gazette of India dated 28.05.2016. Provisions of the IBC were, however, brought into effect from different dates in terms of the proviso to Section 1(3) of the IBC. H AJAY KUMAR RADHEYSHYAM GOENKA v. TOURISM 1009 FINANCE CORP. OF INDIA LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 37. Section 7 of IBC lays down the procedure for the initiation of A the corporate insolvency resolution process by the financial creditor or any other person or more financial creditors jointly.