However, the relief was denied to the appellants only on the ground that F the identity of the property was in dispute. The High Court was of the opinion that it is not forming part of Khasra No. 4833. The finding of the High Court that Khasra No. 4833 is owned by the appellants/plaintiffs has not been challenged by the respondents. 7. He further submitted that an application was filed by the G Respondents on 2.8.1993 before the Tehsildar-cum-Assistant Collector, 2nd Grade, Karnal for correction of Khasra Girdawari from Rabi 1990 onwards. A categoric admission was made by the respondents therein that the area in possession of the respondents was part of Khasra No. 4833 and they are in possession thereof, which is evident from Jamabandi for the year 1994-95. The report of the Local Commissioner, submitted H MURTI SHRI DURGA BHAWANI (HETUWALI) TRUST v. SH. 369 DIWAN CHAND (DEAD) THROUGH LRS [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] in a different litigation i.e. Civil Suit No. 371 of 1981, which was relied A upon by the Lower Appellate Court (Ex. D-16), was without ascertaining any pucca points. He further referred to document at page 97 of the paper book whereby the respondents submitted building plans to the Municipal Committee for the property in dispute specifically mentioning that it is part of Khasra No. 4833. With the aforesaid material on record, B the findings recorded by the lower appellate court as well as the High Court that identity of the property was in dispute, are totally perverse, as it was the admitted case of the respondents themselves that property in their possession was part of Khasra No. 4833. 8. It was also argued that earlier the respondents, namely, Sunder C Dass and Gopal Singh had filed Civil Suit No. 371 of 1981 on 29.05.1975 for permanent injunction restraining Bhagwat Sarup, Anand Sarup and Pt. Har Sarup from dispossessing them from the suit property and the plea of adverse possession was also raised. As far as the plea of adverse possession is concerned, the findings were against the present respondents/the plaintiffs therein whereas decree of permanent injunction D was passed on account of long possession of respondents holding that they cannot be dispossessed except in due course of law. It was with reference to the same suit property. The suit was partly decreed on 30.09.1981. 9. On the other hand, Sh. Sanjay Parikh, learned senior counsel E appearing for the respondents submitted that it is too late for the appellants to raise all the factual issues before this Court. There is concurrent finding of facts recorded by both the courts below in favour of the respondents and there is nothing on record to dislodge that finding. The respondents are unnecessarily being dragged in litigation. The report of F the Local Commissioner dated 2.12.1978, already on record, clearly points out that the premises in possession of the respondents is not part of Khasra No. 4833, rather it is 434 feet beyond that. New issues are sought to be raised before this Court, which cannot be permitted.