F Rule 19 of the 1975 Rules, read with section 56, provide as under:- “19. Acquisition of land - (1) For the purpose of land acquisition under section 56 of the Act, the land shall be in the Town and Country Development Authority subject to the following terms G and conditions namely:- (i) Within three years from the date of publication of the Town Development Scheme under Section 50, the town and country development authority shall proceed to acquire the land required for the implementation of the scheme. H INDORE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY v. BURHANI GRIH NIRMAN 101 SAHAKARI SANSTHA MARYADIT SNEH NAGAR [M. R. SHAH, J.] (ii) Where such acquisition is by agreement, the land A shall vest in the Town and Country Development Authority on terms and conditions arrived at through such agreement. (iii) On failure of agreement the Town and Country Development Authority shall request the state B government to acquire such land under the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (1 of 1894) on payment of compensation awarded under that Act. (iv) Declaration shall be published under section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (1 of 1894) C (v) After such declaration the collector shall proceed to take for the acquisition of the land under the said Act, and the provisions of the Act shall apply so far as may be, apply to the acquisition of the said land with the modification that the market value of D the said land shall be the determining factor.” Rule19(1)(i) contains a general statement enabling the authority to “proceed to acquire” the land required for implementation of the scheme. This, can be done in two ways - (1) acquisition by agreement under 19(1)(ii), and on failure to acquire by agreement, (2) by compulsory E acquisition the steps necessary for which are provided under 19(1)(iii)(iv) and (v). Thus, for compulsory acquisition there should be :- (1) A request by the Town and Country Development Authority for compulsory acquisition, (2) A declaration under section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, and F (3) A request by the Collector to the appropriate government for an for acquisition of land under section 7 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894. 4.7 It is submitted that thus, while the restrictions under section G 53 are in place, the Authority is expected to “implement” the scheme. During the period, the authority must act in a manner and reach the stage where the position becomes “irreversible” or substantially irreversible” so far as the land owner is concerned, i.e., H 102 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A (i) The land of the land owner is either “acquired” by agreement, in which case he would get the agreed compensation for his land; or (ii) Substantial steps are taken for compulsory acquisition of the land under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 such that the B position reaches the stage of the under section 7 of the said Act; or (iii) Passing of an award under section 11 or takeover of possession under section 16 resulting in complete vesting is however not the requirement of “implementation” for the C purposes of section 54 read in conjunction with section 56 read and rule 19.