)]: Insofar as Demonetization is concerned, the delegation is made to the Central Government i.e. the highest executive body of the country – India has a Parliamentary system in which the Government is responsible to the Parliament – H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 7 In case the Executive does not act reasonably while exercising its A power of delegated legislation, it is responsible to Parliament who are elected representatives of the citizens for whom there exists a democratic method of bringing to book the elected representatives who act unreasonably in such matters. Judicial Review – Scope of – Held [per B.R. Gavai, J. (for B himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ. )]: The duty of the court is to confine itself to the question of legality – The Court would be entitled to interfere only when it is found that the action of the executive is arbitrary and violative of any constitutional, statutory or other provisions of C law. Judicial Review – Scope of – Inquiry in economic matters – Held [per B.R. Gavai, J. (for himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ. )]: Is limited only to find out as to whether there is an illegality in the decision-making process. D Demonetisation – Procedural Propriety of – Held [per B.R. Gavai, J. (for himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ. )]: The final say with regard to economic and monetary policies of the country will be with the Central Government – It cannot be expected that the RBI and the Central Government E will act in two isolated boxes – An element of interaction/consultation in such important matters pertaining to economic and monetary policies cannot be denied to the RBI and the Central Government – The matter was under active consideration for a period of six months between the RBI and the Central Government – RBI and the Central Government were in consultation with each other for a period of F six months before the impugned notification was issued – The record would also reveal that all the relevant information was shared by both the Central Board as well as the Central Government with each other – As such, merely because the Central Government has advised the Central Board to consider recommending demonetization G and that the Central Board, on the advice of the Central Government, has considered the proposal for demonetization and recommended it and, thereafter, the Central Government has taken a decision, cannot be a ground to hold that the procedure prescribed under s.26 of the RBI Act was breached – The two requirements of sub- section (2) of s.26 of the RBI Act are (i) recommendation by the H 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Central Board; and (ii) the decision by the Central Government – Both the Central Board while making recommendation and the Central Government while taking the decision, have taken into consideration all the relevant factors.