It was opined by the H LAND AND BUILDING DEPARTMENT THR. SECRETARY v. 377 ATTRO DEVI & ORS. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] Constitution Bench that compliance of either of the two conditions i.e. A taking over of possession of the land or payment of compensation, is good enough to sustain the acquisition. From the undisputed facts available on record it is evident that in the present case, the possession of land in dispute was taken after the acquisition was complete. 8. Additionally, an important fact brought to our attention is that B the subject land is required by NHAI for construction of the Delhi- Saharanpur-Dehradun Highway starting from Akshardham Junction to Delhi/UP B, in the State of Delhi in Phase-I of Bharatmala Pariyojana. Even the contractors have been appointed to execute the project, which may be delayed due to pendency of the present appeal. C The subject land is therefore a part of the project which is of national importance. 9. On the other hand, the arguments raised by learned counsel for the respondents are that the writ petition having been decided on the basis of law as existing on the date of decision by the High Court cannot be set aside on the basis of the subsequent of this Court. The D High Court had held that compensation having not been paid, as per the interpretation of Section 24(2) of the 2013 Act by this Court in Pune Municipal Corporation’s case (supra), the acquisition proceedings lapsed. It is a matter of fact which has been noticed in the passed by the High Court that the possession of the land had already been taken E by the authority concerned. 10. Heard learned counsel appearing for the parties and perused the records. 11. The Constitution Bench of this Court in Indore Development Authority’s case (supra) had opined that satisfaction of either of the F conditions namely either taking possession of the acquired land or payment of compensation to the landowners would be sufficient to save the acquisition from being lapsed in terms of Section 24(2) of the 2013 Act. Various questions posed before the Constitution Bench of this Court were also answered. Relevant para-Nos. 362 and 366 are extracted G below: “362. Resultantly, the decision rendered in Pune Municipal Corporation & Anr. (supra) is hereby overruled and all other decisions in which Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) has been followed, are also overruled. … ... H 378 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 366. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we answer the questions as under: 366.1. Under the provisions of Section 24(1)(a) in case the award is not made as on 1-1-2014, the date of commencement of the 2013 Act, there is no lapse of proceedings. B Compensation has to be determined under the provisions of the 2013 Act. 366.2. In case the award has been passed within the window period of five years excluding the period covered by an interim of the court, then proceedings shall continue as provided C under Section 24(1)(b) of the 2013 Act under the 1894 Act as if it has not been repealed.