The debt ‘due’ must have become payable at any time within twelve months next before the relevant date. The debt ‘due and payable’ prior to twelve months next to the relevant date is not a preferential debt in terms of Section 530(1)(a) of the Companies Act. Such debt will rank pari passu with ordinary or unsecured creditors, without any preferential treatment. In this regard, we quote the following passages from the decision of this Court in Rajratha Naranbhai Mills Co. Ltd. (supra): “8. We have gone through both the s afore-referred to very carefully and minutely and have heard learned counsel on the confl icting decisions. There are wide ranging discussions in the interpretative process relating to the word ‘due’ occurring in the earlier part of the provision and the words ‘due and payable’ in the later part, and whether they are diff erent expressions meant to convey diff erently or they mean the same thing. With due respect to the High Court, we feel that relevant and important considerations and material though available, which could go to interpret the section purposively was overlooked, and at this juncture we wish to put it to use. ×× ×× ×× 26 (1974) 44 Comp Cas 65 (Guj). 1072 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 11. In A. Ramaiya’s The Companies Act (11th edn. 1988) it has been noticed at page 1320 that Section 530 of the Companies Act, 1956 has been largely recast and amended in the light of the following recommendations (excerpted) of the Company Law Committee in paragraph 218 of their Report: ×× ×× ×× In this connection we should like to refer to a memorandum that we received from the Central Board of Revenue, on the question of a priority to be given to crown demands generally and, in particular, to arrears of income tax, super tax and corporation tax. It was suggested that there should be no time limit for the preferential payment of these crown debts and that Section 230 of the Indian Companies Act should be amended accordingly. The practical diffi culty of giving eff ect to the suggestion is that it would place a great majority of the unsecured creditors of the company at the mercy of the income tax authorities, inasmuch as, whatever may be the nature of the security on which they may have lent money to a company at the time of the loan, the unforeseeable demands of the income tax authorities on the company without any time limit would rank over the claims of such creditors. In these circumstances, it may be extremely diffi cult for the company to raise capital for its working...We are aware of the large arrears of income and other taxes which are due by many companies, which are in liquidation, but we would venture to think that the remedy for this unsatisfactory situation is not the conferment of preferential rights without limit to the income tax authorities under Section 230 of the Indian Companies Act, but the energetic completion of assessment proceedings and vigorous measures for the collection of the assessed taxes.