In to determine whether the remedy under 9 is E lost or not what is necessary to be seen is whether in the first instance the Court had resorted to the Explanation of Rule 2. 8. The Explanation permits the court in its discretion to proceed with a case where substantial portion of evidence of any party has already been recorded and such party fails to appear on any F day to which the hearing of the suit is adjourned. As the provision itself shows, discretionary power given to the court is to be exercised in a given circumstance. For application of the provision, the court has to satisfy itself that: (a) substantial portion of the evidence of any party has been already G recorded; (b) such party has failed to appear on any day; and (c) the day is one to which the hearing of the suit is adjourned. Rule 2 permits the court to adopt any of the modes provided in 9 or to make such as he thinks fit when on any day to which the hearing of the suit is adjourned, the parties or any of them fail H to appear. The Explanation is in the nature of an exception to the PREM KISHORE & ORS. v. BRAHM PRAKASH & ORS. 657 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] general power given under the rule, conferring discretion on the A court to act under the specified circumstance i.e. where evidence or a substantial portion of evidence of any party has been already recorded and such party fails to appear on the date to which hearing of the suit has been adjourned. If such is the factual situation, the court may in its discretion deem as if such party was B present. Under 9 Rule 3 the court may make an directing that the suit be dismissed when neither party appears when the suit is called on for hearing. There are other provisions for dismissal of the suit contained in Rules 2, 6 and 8. We are primarily concerned with a situation covered by Rule 6. The crucial words in the Explanation are “proceed with the case”. Therefore, C on the facts it has to be seen in each case as to whether the Explanation was applied by the court or not. 9. In Rule 2, the expression used is “make such as it thinks fit”, as an alternative to adopting one of the modes directed in that behalf by 9. Under 17 Rule 3(b), the only course D open to the court is to proceed under Rule 2, when a party is absent. Explanation thereto gives a discretion to the court to proceed under Rule 3 even if a party is absent. But such a course can be adopted only when the absentee party has already led evidence or a substantial part thereof. If the position is not so, the E court has no option but to proceed as provided in Rule 2. Rules 2 and 3 operate in different and distinct sets of circumstances.