Hence, a charge cannot be enforced against a transferee if they have no notice of the same, unless the requirement of such notice has been dispensed with by law.47 E 97. In AI Champdany Industries Ltd. v. Official Liquidator,48 this Court held that such a provision of law should not merely create a charge, but it must expressly provide for the enforcement of a charge against the property in the hands of a transferee for value without notice of the charge. F 98. In Haji Abadulgafur Haji Husseinbhai (supra), this Court considered the doctrine of constructive notice as provided under Section 100. In that case, the Municipal Corporation had a charge on the property of a person who was in arrears of property tax. An auction purchaser, who became the owner of the property, resisted the attempt of the G Municipal Corporation to recover the arrears of pending taxes in exercise of its charge on the ground that they were not aware of the past municipal 46 Dattatreya Shanker Mote v. Anand Chintaman Datar & Ors, (1974) 2 SCC 799 47 Dattatreya Shanker Mote v. Anand Chintaman Datar, (1974) 2 SCC 799; State of Karnataka v. Shreyas Papers Pvt. Ltd, 2006 (1) SCC 615 48 (2009) 4 SCC 486 H 696 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A tax arrears. The Corporation argued that the transferee was imputed with constructive knowledge of the charge created against the property due to Section 141 of the Bombay Provincial Municipal Corporations Act 1949. The Court held against the Municipal Corporation on the ground that in the facts of the case, the plaintiff did not have constructive notice of the arrears of municipality. B 99. While explaining the purport of Section 100, this Court held that the second half of Section 100 enacts a general prohibition and no charge can be enforced against property in the hands of a transferee for consideration without notice of the charge. In terms of Section 100, an exception to this rule must be expressly provided by law. The Court held C that whether a transferee has actual or constructive notice which satisfies the requirement of notice in the proviso to Section 100, must be determined in the facts and circumstances of each case. This Court observed: “4. This section in unambiguous language lays down that no charge is enforceable against any property in the hands of a D transferee for consideration without notice of the charge except where it is otherwise expressly provided by any law for the time being in force. The saving provision of law must expressly provide for enforcement of a charge against the property in the hands of a transferee for value without notice of the charge and not merely E create a charge. …… The real core of the saving provision of law must be not mere enforceability of the charge against the property charged but enforceability of the charge against the said property in the hands of a transferee for consideration without notice of the charge.