In the years preceding B the proclamation of Republic of India (i.e. before 26th January 1950), it was agreed that the Kingdom of Sikkim was a Special Protectorate State of Indian Union, having its own separate territory. (v) From 1947 onwards, the Kingdom of Sikkim had C continued to allow the British Indian Subjects as well as Indian Nationals to hold Office and employment in the posts and services of the Government Establishment of the Kingdom of Sikkim, i.e. ‘Sikkim Darbar’. Such persons of Indian origin serving/ D appointed in the posts and services of Government Establishment of the Kingdom of Sikkim were referred to as ‘Darbar’ Employees of British Indian origins and ‘Darbar’ Employees of Indian Nationality.” In view of the above historical developments, persons of E Indian origin belonging to diverse ethnic, religious and socio- cultural backgrounds from across the territories of Undivided British India and later Independent India, resided in Sikkim for the purpose of their employment in various posts and services or for trade and business. (b) On 5th December, 1950, the Indo-Sikkim Peace Treaty was F entered into and under this Treaty, Sikkim was to be a protectorate of India. However, Sikkim still enjoyed autonomy in its internal administration. It is pertinent to note that Article VII of this Treaty allowed the subjects of Sikkim as well as Indian citizens, free movement in each other’s G territories. Under the said Treaty, Indians in Sikkim were subject to Sikkimese law and the Sikkimese in India were subject to Indian Laws. Indian citizens in Sikkim had reciprocal rights to hold government employment and buy immovable properties once settled in Sikkim and were to be treated equally with Sikkimese in all matters. H ASSOCIATION OF OLD SETTLERS OF SIKKIM AND ORS. v. 321 UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] (c) The Chogyal promulgated the Sikkim Subjects Regulation A in 1961 (hereinafter called “1961 Regulation” for the sake of convenience). This Regulation had extraordinary provisions by which a ‘National of another State’ ordinarily residing in the erstwhile Kingdom of Sikkim then, could acquire a Naturalised Sikkim Subject/Citizenship status. B Regulations 8(3), 8(4) of the 1961 Regulation provide for the power of the government of the erstwhile Chogyal of the Kingdom of Sikkim to naturalise a person upon an application being made in this regard. However, in to be qualified for naturalization, the applicant/person must be employed in the Posts or Services of the Government C Establishment of the Kingdom of Sikkim and must fulfil the following parameters: (i) must have been in the service of the Government of the erstwhile Kingdom of Sikkim for a period not less than ten years immediately preceding the date D of his application, or (ii) must have rendered meritorious service to the erstwhile Kingdom of Sikkim. The Government of the Chogyal may as provided for under Regulation 8(4) also naturalise the wife and minor children of a E person who is granted a Certificate of Naturalisation, if an application is made in this regard.