In the aforesaid decisions, it is observed and held that levy of penalty is E automatic on the eventualities occurring under sub-section (5) of Section 45 of the Act, 1969. 6.10 In the recent decision in the case of Arcelor Mittal Nippon Steel India Limited(supra), while dealing with the very provision of Section 45 of the Act, 1969, it is observed and held in para 23 and 23.1 as under: - F “23. Now, so far as the levy of penalty is concerned, it is to be noted that the penalty is leviable under Section 45 and such a penalty is leviable under sub-sections (5) and (6) of Section 45 of the Act, 1969 and the penalty is leviable on purchase tax assessed. It provides that if the difference of tax paid and tax leviable/ G assessed is more than twenty-five percent, in that case, the dealer shall be deemed to have failed to pay the tax to the extent of the difference between the amount so assessed/re-assessed and the amount paid and, in that case, there shall be levied on such dealer a penalty not extending one and one-half times the difference as H STATE OF GUJARAT AND ANR. v. M/s. SAW PIPES LTD. 501 [M. R. SHAH, J.] per sub-section (5). Therefore, there being difference of more A than twenty five percent, penalty to the aforesaid extent shall be leviable. This is a clear case of false and wrong claim of exemption, as the exempted goods were transferred to a third person and used in an ‘ineligible’ industry. This is a case of deliberate violation and evil doing. B 23.1 In the present case, as the difference between total tax paid and the purchase tax is more than twenty-five percent, the respondent is deemed to have failed to pay the tax as per sub- section (5) of Section 45 and, therefore, liable to pay the penalty not exceeding one and one-half times. The words used in sub- C section (6) of Section 45 is “there shall be levied on such dealer a penalty not exceeding one and one-half times the difference”. As noted above, in the present case, the modus operandi which was adopted by the respondent - Essar Steel warrants a penalty. Though, the raw material was required to be used by itself for the manufacture of their goods, after availing the exemption as eligible D unit and instead of using the same for itself/himself, the ESL sold the raw materials to an ‘ineligible’ entity - EPL, who used it for manufacture of its own goods - generating the electricity, which again came to be sold to ESL under the power purchase agreement.” E 6.11 Even otherwise, the word used in Section 45(6) is “shall be levied”. The dealer shall be liable to pay the penalty not exceeding one and one-half times of the difference of the tax as mentioned in sub- section (5) of Section 45 of the Act, 1969. The language used in Section 45 is precise, plain and unambiguous.