H APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 683 Words & Phrases: A “may presume”, “shall presume” and “conclusive proof” – Discussed – Evidence Act, 1872 – ss.4, 112 and 114. “inference”, “adverse inference” – Meaning of – Discussed. Maxims – Pater est quem nuptiae demonstrant – Held: Questions B as to illegitimacy of a child, are only incidental to the claim of dissolution of marriage on the ground of adultery or infidelity – Allowing DNA tests to be conducted on a routine basis, in to prove adultery, would amount to redefinition of the aforesaid maxim, which means, the father is he whom the nuptials point out. C Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1. The principle underlying Section 112 is to prevent an unwarranted enquiry as to the paternity of the child whose parents, at the relevant time had “access” to each other. In other words, once a marriage is held to be valid, there is a D strong presumption as to the children born from that wedlock as being legitimate. This presumption can be rebutted only by strong, clear and conclusive evidence to the contrary. Section 112 of the Evidence Act is based on the presumption of public morality and public policy. Since Section 112 creates a presumption of legitimacy that a child born during the subsistence of a marriage E is deemed to be legitimate, a burden is cast on the person who questions the legitimacy of the child. Further, “access” or “non- access” does not mean actual cohabitation but means the “existence” or “non-existence” of opportunities for sexual relationship. Section 112 refers to point of time of birth as the F crucial aspect and not to the time of conception. The time of conception is relevant only to see whether the husband had or did not have access to the wife. Thus, birth during the continuance of marriage is “conclusive proof” of legitimacy unless “non- access” of the party who questions the paternity of the child at the time the child could have been begotten is proved by the G said party. A conjoint reading of Section 112 of the Evidence Act, with the definition of “conclusive proof” under Section 4 thereof, makes it amply clear that a child proved to be born during a valid H 684 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A marriage should be deemed to be a legitimate child except where it is shown that the parties to the marriage had no access to each other at any time when the child could have been begotten or within 280 days after the dissolution of the marriage and the mother remains unmarried, that fact is the conclusive proof that the child is the legitimate son of the man. Operation of the B conclusive presumption can be avoided by proving non-access at the relevant time. The latter part of Section 112 of the Evidence Act indicates that if a person is able to establish that the parties to the marriage had no access to each other at any time when the child could have been begotten, the legitimacy of such child can C be denied.