By including B.Ed. as a qualifi cation for teachers for primary school, the Central Government has acted against the provisions of the Constitution and the laws. The only logic given by the Central Government to include B.Ed. as a qualifi cation is that 196 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. it is a ‘higher qualifi cation’. This we have already seen is not correct. Under these circumstances, we have no hesitation to say that the notifi cation has rightly been quashed and the decision of the Division Bench of the Rajasthan High Court has to be upheld. In our considered opinion therefore the direction of the Central Government dated 30.05.2018 culminating in the notifi cation dated 28.06.2018 of NCTE are violative of the principles as laid down in RTE Act. Not only this, the notifi cation goes against the purpose and the mandate of law, which is to provide a meaningful and ‘quality’ primary education to children. The entire exercise is also procedurally fl awed. The notifi cation dated 28.06.2018 is not an independent decision of NCTE taken after due deliberation, but it simply follows the direction of the Central Government, a direction which fails to take into consideration the objective realities of the day. Having made the above determination we, all the same, are also of the considered opinion that the State of Rajasthan was clearly in error in not calling for applications from B.Ed. qualifi ed candidates, for the reasons that till that time when such an advertisement was issued by the Rajasthan Government, B.Ed. candidates were included as eligible candidates as per the statutory notifi cation of NCTE, which was binding on the Rajasthan Government, till it was declared illegal or unconstitutional by the Court. The Rajasthan High Court had rightly observed as under :- “..we are of the opinion that the State Government could not have ignored the notifi cation while inviting applications for REET. Even if the State Government was of the opinion that such notifi cation was unconstitutional or for any reason illegal, the same had to be stayed or set aside by a competent court before it could be ignored.” [Para 45 of the Impugned Judgement] What the Rajasthan High Court had stated above is the settled legal position. In a recent three Judge of this Court in State of Manipur & Ors. v. Surjakumar Okram & Ors.21 this position that a statute which is made by a competent legislature is valid till it is declared unconstitutional by a court of law; has been reiterated. 21 2022 SCC Online SC 130 DEVESH SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. 197 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] 37. Consequently, the Appeals are dismissed and the judgement dated 25.11.2021 of the Rajasthan High Court is upheld. The notifi cation dated 28.06.2018 is hereby quashed and set aside. The Writ Petitions and all pending applications stand disposed of in light of the above . Headnotes prepared by: Appeals dismissed. Nidhi Jain