[2023] 10 S.C.R. 775 : 2023 INSC 613 775 RESERVE BANK OF INDIA & ORS. A v. A.K. NAIR & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 529 of 2023) JULY 04, 2023 B [S. RAVINDRA BHAT AND DIPANKAR DATTA, JJ.] Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunity, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995 – s. 33 – Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 – s. 34 – Reservation in promotion for C person with disabilities – Bank employee having post polio paralysis of limbs with 50% disability – Appeared for All India Merit Test, to secure promotion to Class I post, however, fell short of qualifying marks by three marks – Representation for condonation of short fall of marks, on par with SC/ST category but not considered – Writ petition by the employee – High Court directed the bank to apply D reservation for persons with disabilities on the basis of total number of vacancies appearing in direct recruitment quota as well as in promotion quota in Group ‘A’ and Group ‘B’ posts respectively – Review petition filed by the employee since the High Court did not clarify the position on grace marks and his claim of qualification/ E seniority from the date of eligibility – Disposed of, without examining the merits – Held: PwD Act, 1995 not only mandated reservation in appointment but also contemplated reservation in promotion – PwD Act, 1995 did not contain any express provision mandating reservation of posts for promotion to persons with disabilities serving in the feeder cadre though it is ordained that no promotion shall be F denied to a person merely on the ground of his disability – Mere absence of an express mandate in requiring reservation in promotion for persons with disabilities could not have been construed as not obliging the appropriate Government not to keep reserved vacancies on promotional posts – On facts, it was harsh to apply standards G which are applicable to general candidates to the employee while he competed with such general candidates for securing his promotion – Bank ought to have taken an informed decision in this regard commensurate with the aspirations of persons with disabilities – Omission or failure of the Bank in condoning the shortfall in marks coupled with the neglect to identify a Group ‘A’ post suitable H 775 776 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A for reservation to accommodate the employee on promotion is unjustifiable – In view thereof, issuance of direction to the Bank to grant promotion to the employee on the post of Assistant Manager Grade-‘A’ – Service law – Constitution of India – Art 142. Disposing of the appeals, the Court B Per Dipankar Datta, J. HELD: 1.1 Mere absence of an express mandate in Chapter VI of the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunity, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995, requiring reservation in promotion for persons with disabilities could not have been C construed as not obliging the appropriate Government not to keep reserved vacancies on promotional posts for those answering clauses (i) to (iii) of section 33.