D We hasten to add that there can be several other relevant factors which, depending upon the peculiar facts and circumstances of a case, would be required to be kept in mind while granting or refusing bail to an accused. It may be difficult to illustrate all such circumstances, for there cannot be any straight jacket formula for exercising the discretionary E jurisdiction vested in a Court under Sections 438 and 439 respectively of the CrPC, as the case may be. 11. We are of the view that in the case in hand, several important factors ought to have been kept in mind by the learned High Court while considering the prayer of the respondents for their enlargement on regular F bail. The murder of Ashfaque Ahmad took place in broad day light. The occurrence has been witnessed by the appellant and two more eye witnesses. Two of the accused were nabbed at the spot. It was apparently a case of contract killing. There is material to indicate the motive behind the commission of gruesome murder of Ashfaque Ahmad. Both the respondents have chequered criminal record and it is difficult to accept G their sweeping statement that all the cases registered against them are politically motivated. Suffice to take notice at this stage that earlier both the respondents have been found guilty in a case under Section 302 IPC and while on bail, they have been prima facie found involved in the instant case. If that is true, it is a clear case of misuse of the concession H 582 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A of bail granted to them in the earlier case. We find it difficult as to why the reasons assigned by the High Court a few days before its dated 03.09.2021, passed in the case of Satish Kumar @ Satai, were found distinguishable in the case of the private respondents except that Satish Kumar @ Satai was physically involved in the commission of murder and was allegedly one of the accused who fired at the deceased. B 12. The other important factor is that Razi Ahmad @ Manu is one of the eye witnesses. He is yet to depose as a prosecution witness. Though not as a general rule but it is expedient and is always in the interest of criminal justice system that the prayer for bail is considered after ensuring that the statements of the vital witnesses stand recorded C and there is no likelihood of influencing or tampering their evidence. 13. The appellant has also placed on record the copies of s passed by the Trial Court on various dates after the release of private respondents on bail by the High Court. The dated 15.03.2022 suggests that the respondent – Subhash Yadav was absent from trial D and non-bailable warrants were issued against him. There are series of subsequent s to indicate that both the respondents have been seeking exemption from personal appearance and thus the trial has been completely stalled.