He submits that a number of persons have deposed that the appellant had forced them to give affidavits so as to implicate the higher B ups in the State Government at that time. He submits that the attempt was to destabilize a democratically elected Government. Shri Raju submits that the appellant, by accepting huge sums of money, has indulged in such heinous activities and thus, is not entitled for bail. 20. Shri Raju submits that the considerations which weigh with C the Court for grant or refusal of bail to an ordinary litigant would differ with the considerations that will weigh while considering an application of a person who is involved in a serious crime of attempting to convict innocent citizens for offences punishable with capital punishment and destabilize the democratically elected Government. D 21. Shri Raju further submits that the learned Single Judge, upon appreciation of the materials placed on record, has prima facie found that the ingredients to constitute an offence under Section 194 IPC are present and a prima facie case has been made out and, therefore, the High Court has rightly rejected the bail application. E 22. As held by this Court in a catena of cases right from Niranjan Singh and Another v. Prabhakar Rajaram Kharote and Others2, a detailed elaboration of evidence at the stage of bail has to be avoided. This is neither in the interest of the prosecution nor the accused. As such, we would be avoiding any detailed elaboration of evidence at this stage. F 23. The passed by the learned Judge, running into more than a hundred pages, makes for an interesting reading. On one hand, the learned Judge has spent pages after pages to observe as to how it is not necessary, rather not permissible at the stage of consideration of grant of bail to consider as to whether a prima facie case is made out or not. G 24. Having made the aforesaid observation on the one hand, the learned Judge, on the other hand, goes on to discuss the statements of some witnesses and observes that a prima facie case under 2 (1980) 2 SCC 559 H 1152 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Section 194 IPC is made out. The findings are totally contrary, to say the least. 25. The learned Judge has further observed that since the appellant, after filing of an FIR and filing of a charge-sheet, has neither challenged the same in a proceeding under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal B Procedure, 1973 (“Cr.P.C.” for short) or under Article 226 of the Constitution of India before the High Court or under Article 32 of the Constitution of India before this Court, it is not permissible for her to contend that a prima facie case is not made out. 26. In the limited understanding of law that we have, the factors C which are required to be taken into consideration at the stage of grant of bail are - (i) prima facie case, (ii) the possibility of the accused tampering with the evidence or influencing the witnesses, and (iii) the possibility of the accused fleeing away from the hands of justice.