A (iv) where any action under this sub-section has been deferred on account of any stay granted by the Court in any case, or by reason of the fact that another proceeding is pending before the Court involving a question of law having a direct bearing on the or proceeding in question, the period during which the stay was in force or each proceeding was pending shall be B excluded in computing the period of six months specified in the proviso to clause (I) of this section for the purposes of exercising the power under this sub-section. (4) Any person aggrieved by an of the Collector under sub- section (2) or sub-section (3) may appeal to the appellate authority C specified in sub-section (5). All such appeals shall be preferred within such time and shall be heard and disposed of in such manner, as may be prescribed by rules made under this Act. (4A) Any person aggrieved by the of the Inspector General under subsection (3A) may appeal to the High Court within a D period of two months from the date of receipt of such . (5) The appellate authority shall be—- (i) in the cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad, the City Civil Court, E (ii) elsewhere— (a) the Subordinate Judge or if there are more than one Subordinate Judge, the Principal Subordinate Judge, having jurisdiction over the area in which the property concerned is situated; or (b) if there is no such Subordinate Judge, the District Judge having F jurisdiction over the area aforesaid. (6) For the purpose of this Act, market value of any property shall be estimated to be the price which in the opinion of the Collector or the appellate authority, as the case may be, such property would have fetched or would fetch if sold in the open market on the date G of execution of any instrument referred to in sub-section (1); Provided that in respect of instruments executed by or on behalf of the Central Government or the State Government or any authority or body incorporate by or under any law for the time being in force and wholly owned by Central/state Government, H THE SUB REGISTRAR, AMUDALAVALASA & ANR. v. M/S 1127 DANKUNI STEELS LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] the market value of any property shall be the value shown in such A instrument.” 28. Now, we must notice the definition of the word ‘immovable property’ in the Registration Act, General Clauses Act, and the Transfer of Property Act. We must also advert to Section 8 of the Transfer of Property Act: B “In the Registration Act, 1908, the definition is; “1(6) “Immovable Property” includes land, buildings, hereditary allowances, rights to ways, lights, ferries, fisheries or any other benefit to arise out of land, and things attached to the earth, or C permanently fastened to anything which is attached to the earth, but not standing timber, growing crops nor grass; In the General Clauses Act, 1897 it reads: “3(26) “immovable property” shall include land, benefits to arise out of land, and things attached to the earth, or permanently D fastened to anything attached to the earth; Transfer of Property Act, 1882 3.