That apart, it will strengthen D the mind of the treating doctors as they will be in a position to ensure, after being satisfied, that they are acting in a lawful manner. We may hasten to add that Advance Medical Directive cannot operate in abstraction. There has to be safeguards. They need to be spelt out. We enumerate them as follows: E 198.1. Who can execute the Advance Directive and how? 198.1.1. The Advance Directive can be executed only by an adult who is of a sound and healthy state of mind and in a position to communicate, relate and comprehend the purpose and consequences of executing the document. 198.1.2. It must be voluntarily executed and without any coercion F or inducement or compulsion and after having full knowledge or information. 198.1.3. It should have characteristics of an informed consent given without any undue influence or constraint. 198.1.4. It shall be in writing clearly stating as to when medical G treatment may be withdrawn or no specific medical treatment shall be given which will only have the effect of delaying the process of death that may otherwise cause him/her pain, anguish and suffering and further put him/her in a state of indignity. 198. 2. What should it contain? 198.2.1. It should clearly indicate the decision relating to the H COMMON CAUSE (A REGD. SOCIETY) v. UNION OF INDIA 1139 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] circumstances in which withholding or withdrawal of medical A treatment can be resorted to. 198.2.2.It should be in specific terms and the instructions must be absolutely clear and unambiguous. 198.2.3. It should mention that the executor may revoke the instructions/authority at any time. B 198.2.4. It should disclose that the executor has understood the consequences of executing such a document. 198.2.5.It should specify the name of a guardian or close relative who, in the event of the executor becoming incapable of taking decision at the relevant time, will be authorised to give consent to refuse or withdraw medical treatment in a manner consistent with C the Advance Directive. 198.2.6. In the event that there is more than one valid Advance Directive, none of which have been revoked, the most recently signed Advance Directive will be considered as the last expression of the patient’s wishes and will be given effect to. D 198.3. How should it be recorded and preserved? 198.3.1. The document should be signed by the executor in the presence of two attesting witnesses, preferably independent, and countersigned by the jurisdictional Judicial Magistrate of First Class (JMFC) so designated by the District Judge concerned. 198.3.2. The witnesses and the jurisdictional JMFC shall record E their satisfaction that the document has been executed voluntarily and without any coercion or inducement or compulsion and with full understanding of all the relevant information and consequences. 198.3.3. The JMFC shall preserve one copy of the document in his office, in addition to keeping it in digital format. F 198.3.4. The JMFC shall forward one copy of the document to the Registry of the jurisdictional District Court for being preserved.