All these are charges under the Notifications issued by the Indian Railways, through the Railway Board. As such, no error can be found with the finding of the learned APTEL that they would G amount to ‘Change in Law’ events. 139. Insofar as levy of ‘Forest Tax’ is concerned, the same is levied by the State Government under the statutory provisions. 140. The issue with regard to ‘Carrying Cost’ has also been discussed by us herein above. H GMR WARORA ENERGY LTD. v. CENTRAL ELECTRICITY 233 REGULATORY COMMISSION (CERC) [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 141. In that view of the matter, we do not find any reason to A interfere with the of the learned APTEL. The appeals are, accordingly, liable to be dismissed. Civil Appeal Nos. 2935-2936 of 2020 142. In addition to the ‘Change in Law’ benefits granted by the B State Commission, ‘Coal Terminal Surcharge’, ‘Chhattisgarh Paryavaran Upkar’ and ‘Chhattisgarh Vikas Upkar’ were also considered to be ‘Change in Law’ events by the learned APTEL. 143. The ‘Coal Terminal Surcharge’ was levied by the Indian Railways subsequent to the cut-off date. Similarly, the Government of C Chhattisgarh, under Section 8 of the Chhattisgarh Adhosanrachna Vikas Evam Paryavaran Upkar Adhiniyam, 2005, vide Notification dated 16th June 2015, which is admittedly after the cut-off date, introduced ‘Chhattisgarh Paryavaran Upkar’ and ‘Chhattisgarh Vikas Upkar’. Even the Change in Swacch Bharat Cess at the rate of 0.5% on Service Tax for Operation Period and Change in Krishi Kalyan Cess at the rate of D 5% on Service Tax for Operation Period, which had been granted concurrently by the State Commission and the learned APTEL, were notified by the Union of India after the cut-off date. 144. It could thus be seen that all these additional taxes or cesses were introduced by the instrumentalities of the Government of India or E by the Government of Chhattisgarh. The same are issued under the provisions of the concerned statutes, rules, notifications, s, etc. It is thus clear that they would amount to ‘Law’ within the meaning of the term ‘Law’ as defined in the PPAs. As such, no error can be found with the of the learned APTEL. F 145. We, therefore, find no merit in the appeals. The appeals are, accordingly, liable to be dismissed. Civil Appeal No. 3123 of 2019 and Civil Appeal No.5372 of 2019 146. In the present matter, in addition to the claims granted by the G CERC, the learned APTEL also granted the following claims: (i) Change in NCDP (cancellation of Captive Block vis-à-vis tapering linkage), (ii) Busy Season Surcharge and Developmental Surcharge, H 234 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (iii) Carrying Cost; and (iv) Add on Premium Price. 147. Insofar as the issue with regard to change in NCDP is concerned, this Court in the case of Energy Watchdog (supra)so also in Adani Rajasthan case (supra) and recently in MSEDCL v. APML B & Ors. (Supra)has held that the change in NCDP would amount to ‘Change in Law’.