It is also a matter of record that some of the land owners, being still dissatisfi ed with the rate of compensation determined by the High Court, approached this Court in C.A. No.12631/2017 (Jitendra and others vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and another) & connected matters. A coordinate Bench vide dated 12.12.2017 allowed those appeals in part, in terms of the following : “Delay condoned. Leave granted. The notifi cation under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 was issued on 17th March, 1988. The Land Acquisition Offi cer granted compensation at the rate of Rs.70/- per square yard and the Reference Court enhanced it to Rs.106/- per square yard. The value determined by the High Court was Rs.130/- per square yard after making a deduction of 35% towards development cost. In the facts and circumstances of the case, in our opinion, the only modifi cation required in the impugned s is with respect to the aspect that 25% deduction deserves to be made instead of 35% made by the High Court. We make deduction of 25% in the facts and circumstances of the case instead of 35%. Thus, the amount of compensation comes to Rs.150/- per square yard instead of Rs.130/- per square yard. The compensation amount is enhanced to Rs.150/- per square yard along with statutory benefi ts. The appeals fi led by the land owners are allowed to the aforesaid extent.” 9. Learned Senior Counsel for the appellants fi rstly seek parity with their co-land owners to whom the High Court granted compensation at the rate of Rs.130 per sq. yard, followed by further enhancement by this Court to Rs.150 per sq. yard. It is urged that the High Court ought to have condoned the delay and treated the appellants at par with their co-villagers, whose appeals were at that time pending consideration before the High Court. On the same analogy, he seeks the higher compensation as assessed by this Court 846 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. in Jitendra and others (Supra), without prejudice to the second contention raised hereinafter. 10. It is then canvassed that the Reference Court while assessing the market value of Rs.106 per sq. yard had relied upon the rate of compensation awarded for the adjoining land of village Makanpur and since, the High Court subsequently enhanced the compensation for the land of village Makanpur to Rs.297 per sq. yard in First Appeal No.522/2009 (Pradeep Kumar and another vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and others) decided on 21.04.2016, such revised rate deserves to be adopted to restore parity between the land of village Khora with that of village Makanpur. On this premise, it is asserted that the appellants too are entitled to be compensated with the higher rate of Rs.297 per sq. yard. 11. Contrarily, learned Senior Counsel for the NOIDA vehemently contends that there was an inordinate and unexplained delay of almost 13 years in fi ling the fi rst appeal(s). The appellants who slept over the matter being satisfi ed with the rate of compensation as determined by the Reference Court, have rightly been non-suited by the High Court on account of their gross negligence.