D 13. The content of a free speech right, as described hereinabove, is to be understood in terms of the structural elements or components of a free speech right. Only when a free speech right is understood as such, deductions can be made as to the precise boundaries thereof and the basis on which such right can be limited E or restrained. Stephen Gradbaum, in his essay titled “The Structure of a Free Speech Right,” in the Oxford Handbook of Freedom of Speech has discussed six components of a free speech right, in the following words: “The first is the ‘force’ of a free speech right. This includes what type of legal right to free speech is formally recognized or at F issue: for example, common law, statutory, or constitutional. This in turn helps to determine whether and how easily a free speech right can be legally superseded. Another aspect of force is whether and how the right is judicially enforceable. The second component is the ‘subject’ of free speech rights, or who are the rights-holders: G for example, all persons within a jurisdiction or only citizens; legal persons including corporations or only natural persons? The third is the ‘scope’ of a free speech right: a right to say or do what exactly? Does it include falsehoods, hate speech, or baking a cake? The fourth, as a distinct structural element concerning content, addresses whether the right includes not only negative H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 735 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] prohibitions on relevant others but also positive obligations, A such as a duty to affirmatively protect the free speech of rights- holders from third-party threats? The fifth component is the ‘object’ of a free speech right: who are these ‘relevant others’ that are bound by the holder’s rights? Against whom can the right be validly asserted? Finally, there is the ‘limitation’ of a free B speech right. If the prior questions have all been answered to the effect that a free speech right is implicated and infringed in a particular situation, when, if ever, might there be a legally justified limitation of that right? Is the right an absolute bar or ‘trump’ against inconsistent action and, if not, what presumptive weight attaches to it? How, when, and why can the presumption be C rebutted? Collectively, by constituting and expressing the underlying structure of the right to free speech, the answers to these six questions help to define the nature and extent of any particular such right in a given legal system.” (Emphasis by me) D Referring to the aspect of limitation of a free speech right, the learned author has observed that the teleology of a Constitutional , can also play a role in fashioning the contours of free speech protections. That is to say, a free speech right may be fashioned to serve Constitutional commitments. E 14. According to Wesley Hohfeld’s analysis of the form of rights, every right has a complex internal structure, and such structure determines what the rights mean for those who hold them.