(3) The captive status of such generating plants, where captive generating plant and its captive user(s) are located in more than one M/S. DAKSHIN GUJARAT VIJ COMPANY LTD. v. M/S. GAYATRI 355 SHAKTI PAPER AND BOARD LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] state, shall be verifi ed by the Central Electricity Authority as per the procedure issued by the Authority with the approval of the Central Government. Explanation.—(1) For the purpose of this rule,— (a) ‘Annual Basis’ shall be determined based on a fi nancial year; (b) ‘captive user’ shall mean the end user of the electricity generated in a Captive Generating Plantand the term “captive use” shall be construed accordingly: Provided that the consumption of electricity by the captive user may be either directly or through Energy Storage System: Provided further that the consumption by a subsidiary company as defi ned in clause (87) of Section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) or the holding company as defi ned in clause (46) of Section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), of a company which is a captive user, shall also be admissible as captive consumption by the captive user; (c) ‘Ownership’ in relation to a generating station or power plant set up by a company or any other body corporate shall mean the equity share capital with voting rights. In other cases ownership shall mean proprietary interest and control over the generating station or power plant; (d) ‘Special Purpose Vehicle’ shall mean a legal entity owning, operating and maintaining a generating station and with no other business or activity to be engaged in by the legal entity.” 6. Section 2(8) of the Act defi nes a“captive generating plant”as a power plant set up by any person to generate electricity primarily for his own use. A power plant set up by co-operative society or associations of persons for generating electricity primarily for use of the members of the co-operative society or association is also a CGP. 7. Section 2(8) emphasises on the words, “primarily for his own use” and “primarily for use of the members of the co-operative society or association of persons”. Secondly, while specifi cally referring to a co- 356 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. operative society and association of persons, the clause does not refer to a company. Section 2(49) defi nes the word, “person”, to include any company or body corporate or association or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, or artifi cial juridical person. 8. On a conjoint reading of Section 2(8) and Section 2(49) of the Act, a CGP can be an individual, body corporate, association or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, “primarily for his own use” and “primarily for use of the members of the co-operative society or association of persons”. An association of body corporates is permitted to set up a CGP. 9. Section 9 of the Act, a specific provision relating to captive generation, applies notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of the Act.