ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 237 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. the lessor without there being any right to do so, and issued the A requisite permissions. Evidently, such approvals had no legs to stand on as they were devoid of any force of law. The lessor of LIA, Kota, was the State Government. When the entity purporting to exercise the powers of a lessor, RIICO in this case, does so without having the requisite legal status to act in this manner, B Respondent No. 1 as the beneficiary of these wrongful actions, cannot seek any legitimate expectation or promissory estoppel in its favour. Supervening public interest acts as a veto against the invocation of promissory estoppel. Respondent No. 1 cannot claim any right to the continuation of the supplementary lease deeds. [Paras 93 and 96][304-D-F; 305-F] C Conclusion 7.1. The supplementary leases signed between Respondent No. 1 and RIICO are unsustainable. RIICO did not possess the authority to enter into these agreements, as the land in LIA, D Kota remained under the ownership and control of the State Government uninterruptedly from the first lease signed with JKSL, till the present date. Respondent No. 1 was also cognizant of this fact as evinced by it entering into the 7 transfer lease deeds with the Collector, Kota, in 2007, after it stepped into the shoes of JKSL. [Para 104][307-E-F] E 7.2. The leases with JKSL were executed under the 1959 Rules which remained applicable and there was no authority ever vested in RIICO to have issued the permissions for conversion and sub-division of plots in the LIA, Kota, and for signing the supplementary lease deeds with Respondent No. 1. There is no F legal infirmity in the action of the Appellants in setting aside the decisions taken by RIICO or in directing to cancel the supplementary leases of 2018. Hence, we uphold the cancellation of the supplementary deeds and quashing of the approvals for conversion of land and sub-division of plots. [Para 105][307-F- G H] 7.3. This shall, however, not preclude Respondent No. 1 from reapproaching the State Government and seeking conversion of the usage of land and attendant approvals under the 1959 Rules. The State Government shall be at liberty to consider such a H 238 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A proposal in public interest and in accordance with the 1959 Rules. With regard to the Appellant Unions, it is not considered expedient by this Court to enter into the demands made by the labour unions for the dues of JKSL’s employees. No views are expressed on the content of the prayers by the Appellant Unions, and it is left open for them to seek their remedies under law from B the Appropriate Government, and judicial forums. [Para 107, 106][308-A-C] 7.4. The overall conclusions are summarized in the following points: – C A. There has been an uninterrupted and subsisting relationship of lessor and lessee between the State Government and either JKSL or Respondent No. 1, in the context of LIA, Kota.