the consequence of creation of sub-tenancy in breach of the injunction itself to be illegal conferring no right on the subtenant to remain in possession. This clear pronouncement of the apex court fortifi es the conclusion which we have reached and plea of the company that, in no circumstances, the transaction carried on in breach of the injunction can be held to be void, cannot be sustained.” (Emphasis supplied) 93. In Surjit Singh and others etc. etc. v. Harbans Singh and others reported in AIR 1996 SC 135, this Court considered the question whether a person to whom the suit property is alienated after passing of the preliminary decree by the trial court, which had restrained the parties from alienating or otherwise transferring the suit property, has the right to be impleaded as a party. The trial court accepted the application fi led by the transferees and the of the trial court was confi rmed by the lower appellate court and the High Court. While allowing the appeal against the of the High Court, this Court observed: “4. … In defi ance of the restraint , the alienation/assignment was made. If we were to let it go as such, it would defeat the ends of justice and the prevalent public policy. When the Court intends a particular state of aff airs to exist while it is in seisin of a lis, that state of aff airs is not only required to be maintained, but it is presumed to exist till the Court s otherwise. The Court, in these circumstances has the duty, as also the right, to treat the alienation/assignment as having not taken place at all for its purposes. Once that is so, Pritam Singh and his assignees, respondents herein, cannot claim to be impleaded as parties on the basis of assignment. Therefore, the assignees-respondents could not have been impleaded by the trial Court as parties to the suit, in disobedience of its s.” (Emphasis supplied) 94. In Sarvinder Singh v. Dalip Singh and Others reported in (1996) 5 SCC 539, this Court considered the question whether the respondent therein who had purchased the property during the pendency of a suit for declaration fi led by the appellant on the basis of a registered will executed by his mother was entitled to be impleaded as party and observed: BALWANTBHAI SOMABHAI BHANDARI v. HIRALAL 1121 SOMABHAI CONTRACTOR (DECEASED) REP. BY LRS. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] “5. … The respondents indisputably cannot challenge the legality or the validity of the Will executed and registered by Hira Devi on 26- 5-1952. Though it may be open to the legal heirs of Rajender Kaur, who was a party to the earlier suit, to resist the claim on any legally available or tenable grounds, those grounds are not available to the respondents. Under those circumstances, the respondents cannot, by any stretch of imagination, be said to be either necessary or proper parties to the suit. A necessary party is one whose presence is absolutely necessary and without whose presence the issue cannot eff ectually and completely be adjudicated upon and decided between the parties.