Having set aside the said compromise, as recorded in the impugned of the First Appellate Court, the trial court is restored with regard to the share assigned by him in favour in of defendant no.2 In respect of suit schedule properties. H PRASANTA KUMAR SAHOO & ORS. v. CHARULATA SAHU 79 & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] Accordingly the cross-objection of the second defendant is A allowed by answering the aforesaid point no. (iii) in her favour.” (Emphasis supplied) 99. We are in complete agreement with the aforesaid findings B recorded by the High Court in its impugned and while allowing the cross-appeal. 100. The third question that arises for our consideration in context with the legality and validity of the settlement is whether the learned advocate appearing for the cross-objector i.e., Defendant No. 2 could C have signed the compromise petition without an express consent. It is an imperative duty of the Court to ascertain the genuineness and lawfulness of the compromise deed. Indisputably, in the case on hand, the First Appellate Court had neither recorded the statements of the parties in the Court nor had made any inquiry into the terms of the settlement. It is in such circumstances that the High Court in its impugned has D observed that the Compromise Petition was signed by the advocate without any express authority or without special vakalatnama executed in favour of the advocate. In fact, the authority was expressly curtailed in the compromise deed. 101. In the aforesaid context, we may refer to the decision of this E Court in the case of Himalayan Cooperative Group Housing Society v. Balwan Singh and Others reported in (2015) 7 SCC 373, more particularly, paras 22 to 33, which read thus: “22. Apart from the above, in our view lawyers are perceived to be their client’s agents. The law of agency may not strictly F apply to the client-lawyer’s relationship as lawyers or agents, lawyers have certain authority and certain duties. Because lawyers are also fiduciaries, their duties will sometimes be more demanding than those imposed on other agents. The authority-agency status affords the lawyers to act for the client on the subject-matter of the retainer. One of the most basic G principles of the lawyer-client relationship is that lawyers owe fiduciary duties to their clients. As part of those duties, lawyers assume all the traditional duties that agents owe to their principals and, thus, have to respect the client’s autonomy to make decisions at a minimum, as to the objectives of the H 80 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A representation. Thus, according to generally accepted notions of professional responsibility, lawyers should follow the client’s instructions rather than substitute their for that of the client. The law is now well settled that a lawyer must be specifically authorised to settle and compromise a claim, that merely on the basis of his employment he has no B implied or ostensible authority to bind his client to a compromise/settlement. To put it alternatively that a lawyer by virtue of retention, has the authority to choose the means for achieving the client’s legal goal, while the client has the right to decide on what the goal will be.