vii) If the charges are denied, the complainant should be asked to produce her witnesses if any before the Complaints Committee for recording their statements. viii) Cross examination of the witnesses should be allowed by the complainant and alleged offi cer. However, cross examination of complainant by the alleged offi cer is permissible as per Indian Evidence Act 1872 subject to the directions as laid down by Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in AIR 2004 SC 3566-Sakshi Vs UOI & Others i.e. to say “Questions put in cross examination on behalf of accused (charged offi cer in our case), which relate directly to incident, should be given in writing to the Chairperson of the Complaints Committee who may put them to victim or witnesses in a language which is clear and NOT UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 533 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] EMBARRASSING.” The questions shall thus be vetted by the Chairperson of such Complaints Committee. ix) The cross examination of witnesses should be with strict regard to decency and should not be against the dignity of the women. x) During the course of enquiry by the Complaints Committee, the question of relevance is to be decided by the Chairperson and aggrieved provided with opportunity of being heard. xi) There may not be any Presenting Offi cer but a Defence Assistant shall be provided during the course of enquiry and rest of the enquiry shall be completed as per the provisions provided in CCS (CCA) Rules 1965 or as per the provisions of any other Rules. xii) The statement of witnesses to be authenticated by the signature of witnesses, the alleged offi cer/offi cial and the Complaints Committee Chairperson. xiii) After completion of recording statement of witnesses (say from the prosecution side), the alleged offi cer/offi cial should be given opportunity to produce defence, if any. It shall be ensured that the Rule of Law & principles of natural Justice are strictly followed. xiv) The Committee to give the fi ndings / opinion after recording the defence and proceedings of cross examination of Defence Witnesses, documents etc if any. xv) In the dated 26.4.2004 in Writ Petition (Crl.) No. 173- 177/1999 (Medha Kotwal Lele & Others Vs Union of India and Others) the Supreme Court has directed that “the report of the Complaints Committee shall be deemed to be an inquiry report under the CCS (CCA) Rules. Thereafter the disciplinary authority will act on the report in accordance with the rules.” Sub-rule (2) of rule 14 of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 has accordingly been amended to provide that the Complaints Committee shall be deemed to be the inquiring authority appointed by the disciplinary authority for the purpose of 534 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. these Rules by the Notifi cation No.11012/5/2001-Estt. (A) dated 01.07.2004 (GSR 225 dated 10th July, 2004) and the report of the Complaints Committee should be treated as an enquiry report. xvi) On receipt of the fi ndings from Complaints Committee, copy of the same should be provided to the alleged offi cer/offi cial for his reply representation by the disciplinary authority (Govt in the case of the Group ‘A’ Offi cers).