3.72 per unit. As against this, the State Electricity Board fi xed the rate payable to the assessee for the surplus power generated and fed into the state grid at Rs. 2.32 per unit for the fi nancial year 2000-2001 corresponding to the assessment year 2001-2002. 11.13. In the above context, respondent assessee has asserted that the rate fi xed by the State Electricity Board for purchase of surplus power from the assessee cannot be treated as the market price of power. Assessee was under an obligation to sell the excess power to the State Electricity Board and at such a rate fi xed by the agreement. It is mentioned that during the period under consideration, there was monopoly of State Electricity Board as far as power supply was concerned and there was no open market for sale and purchase of electricity. The rate prescribed by the State Electricity Board was the price imposed upon the assessee as a condition precedent to sell excess power to the only purchaser i.e. State Electricity Board. It is the price at which assessee had to supply electricity to the State Electricity Board under compulsion. Such a price cannot be regarded as determined by the market forces which is the sine qua non for determining market value. 11.14. Respondent has also mentioned that for the assessment year 2000-2001, the assessing offi cer had sought to disturb the book profi ts computed under Section 115 JA of the Act by substituting Rs.2.32 per unit as the price for sale of power generated including for the power captively consumed by the manufacturing units of the respondent. The Tribunal and the High Court did not approve of the decision of the assessing offi cer in seeking to disturb the computation of book profi t under Section 115 JA of the Act. Revenue preferred Special Leave Petition (SLP (C)…CC No.10935 of 2009) against the decision of the High Court affi rming the of the Tribunal. However, the same was dismissed by this court vide the dated11.09.2009. 11.15. In these circumstances, Tribunal was fully justifi ed in reversing the fi nding of CIT (A) who had affi rmed the decision of the assessing offi cer. Reasonings given by the Tribunal for discarding the rate of Rs. 2.32 as the 498 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. market value of the surplus electricity per unit supplied by the assessee to the State Electricity Board and in accepting the rate adopted by the assessee i.e. Rs. 3.72 at which rate the State Electricity Board was supplying electricity to the industrial consumers including the respondent assessee are correct and justifi ed. The High Court had rightly upheld the of the Tribunal. No case for interference is made out. Therefore, all the civil appeals fi led by the revenue on this issue may be dismissed. 12. Mr. Rupesh Kumar, learned counsel for the appellant vehemently argued that the assessee had deliberately infl ated its profi ts on account of generation of electricity only with a view to claim higher deduction under Section 80 IA of the Act.