HEALTH FOOD PVT. LTD. v. UNION OF INDIA AND 277 ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] vary greatly in color and content according to the circumstances and A time in which it is used.” 46. Smt. Anita Shenoy, learned Senior Counsel, would assert that what is ‘out’ cannot be considered as being ‘in’. She expatiates by pointing out that the storage facility of the appellants is located a few kilometres away of the notified limits of the Chennai Port. She poses the question B that on such facts could this Court be persuaded to still hold that it is inside the notified port, viz., the Chennai Port. It would involve doing violence to the clear words. The word ‘within’ and ‘in’ therefore, in the context of the Notification must be given the same meaning.The Notification and the policy is not under a shadow, by way of a challenge C to the Notification. It is the plain duty of the Court to give effect to the law as it is found. No doubt, as pointed out by Shri Dhruv Mehta, if it is found otherwise acceptable, an interpretation which accords with constitutional principles, may appeal to the Court, even if there is no challenge mounted. D 47. A detour may be apposite. Chennai Port is a Port, which is, admittedly, a major port within the meaning of Major Ports Act, 1964. Another enactment, which deals with ports, is the Indian Ports Act, 1908. The appellants would contend that, while the storage facility may not be located within the Chennai Port, it is licenced under Section 57 of the Customs Act as a customs station. In the Major Ports Act, the word E ‘port’ is defined in Section 2 (q). It reads as follows: “(q) “port” means any major port to which this Act applies within such limits as may, from time to time, be defined by the Central Government for the purposes of this Act by notification in the Official Gazette, and, until a notification is so issued, within such F limits as may have been defined by the Central Government under the provisions of the Indian Ports Act.” 48. Section 57 of the Customs Act, 1962 reads as follows: - “57. Licensing of public warehouses. —The Principal G Commissioner of Customs or Commissioner of Customs may, subject to such conditions as may be prescribed, licence a public warehouse wherein dutiable goods may be deposited.” 49. It is not the case of the appellants that the storage is located within the limits of the Chennai Port as contemplated in Section 2 (q). It H 278 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A is, therefore, not inside the said Port. However, it is appellants case that the storage facility is located in the Customs notified area. This is based on the license issued under Section 57 of the Customs Act. Under Section 15 of the Customs Act, the date for determination of the rate of duty and tariff valuation of any imported goods in the case of goods cleared from a warehouse, under Section 68, is declared to be the date, on which, a B bill for entry for home consumption, in respect of such goods, is presented under Section 15.Goods, which are imported may be cleared immediately with reference to their being entered for home consumption under Section 46, and the relevant date, would then be the date of presentation of the bill of entry.