The communication states that, as per the decision of the Government, D the higher cost of import/market based e-auction coal will have to be considered for being made a pass-through on a case to case basis by CERC/SERC to the extent of shortfall in the quantity indicated in the LoA/FSA. 131. The Tariff Policy dated 28th January 2016 issued by the MoP E in paragraph 6.1 also specifically notes this position and states that, in case of reduced quantity of domestic coal supplied by CIL vis-à-vis the assured quantity or quantity indicated in LoA/FSA, the cost of imported/ market based e-auction coal procured for making up the shortfall shall be considered for being made a pass-through by the Appropriate Commission. F 132. Undisputedly, in the case of Energy Watchdog (supra) as well as in Adani Rajasthan case (supra) this Court has held that on account of the Change in Law, the generating companies were entitled to compensation so as to restore the party to the same economic position as if such Change in Law had not occurred. Had the Change in Law not G occurred, the generating companies would have been entitled to the supply as assured by the CIL/Coal Companies under the FSA. 133. It is contended by the DISCOMS that in the case of Energy Watchdog (supra), this Court has specifically held that the doctrine of force majeure was not applicable if there was an unexpected rise in the H 144 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A price of coal and, as such, it will not absolve the generating companies from performing their part of the contract. It is submitted that when the bidders submitted their bids, this was a risk they knowingly took. We find the said submission to be without substance. The generators are not claiming compensation on the basis of rise in price of coal or on the ground of force majeure. Their claims, in fact, are on the basis of the B Change in Law, which this Court, in the case of Energy Watchdog (supra) as well as in Adani Rajasthan case (supra), has upheld on the ground of Change in Law. 134. The contention of the DISCOMS that the Adani Rajasthan case (supra) is not applicable to the facts of the present case inasmuch C as in Adani Rajasthan case (supra), the State of Rajasthan had assured 100% coal supply and that it was not a case of FSA, is, in our considered view, without substance. In the present case also, the NCDP 2007 had assured 100% fuel/coal supply of the normative value. 135. The restitutionary principle has been stated by this Court in D the case of Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (UHBVNL) (supra) thus: “10. Article 13.2 is an in-built restitutionary principle which compensates the party affected by such change in law and which must restore, through monthly tariff payments, the affected party E to the same economic position as if such change in law has not occurred. This would mean that by this clause a fiction is created, and the party has to be put in the same economic position as if such change in law has not occurred i.e.