Thus, going by the stand taken in the written statement of the respondents, they admitted that the appellant’s father was the owner of the suit property. After the demise of his father, the appellant became one of the co-owners along with his brothers. The deed of partition pleaded by the respondents, based on which, according to them, Jayarama became the owner, has admittedly not been proved. In fact, in the written statement, the bare particulars of the partition on the basis of which Jayarama became the owner were not even pleaded by the respondents. The relevant part of the pleadings is as follows: “The defendants submit that pursuant to the death of Muniswamappa, the plaintiff and his brothers have partitioned their properties and the property in question was allotted to M.Jayaram Reddy though he was not in possession.” 14. Hence, the respondents admitted the ownership of the appellant’s father through whom the appellant claims title. Even going by the respondents’ case, the appellant was the co-owner of the property, and the respondents admittedly had no title in respect of the suit property. Therefore, there was no dispute about the appellant’s title as pleaded in the suit. The issue was whether the plea of adverse possession defeated that title. The burden of proving the plea of adverse possession was on the respondents. The burden on the appellant was to prove his possession on the date of the suit. 15. The question is whether it was necessary for the appellant to claim a declaration of title. On this aspect, a decision of this Court in the case of Anathula Sudhakar Vs. P. Buchi Reddy (dead) by Lrs. And Others1 is relevant. Para 13 and 14 of the said decision read thus: “13. The general principles as to when a mere suit for permanent injunction will lie, and when it is necessary to fi le a suit for declaration and/or possession with injunction as a consequential relief, are well settled. We may refer to them briefl y. 1 (2008) 4 SCC 594 SRI. K.M. KRISHNA REDDY v. SRI. VINOD REDDY & ANR. 217 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] 13.1. Where a plaintiff is in lawful or peaceful possession of a property and such possession is interfered or threatened by the defendant, a suit for an injunction simpliciter will lie. A person has a right to protect his possession against any person who does not prove a better title by seeking a prohibitory injunction. But a person in wrongful possession is not entitled to an injunction against the rightful owner. 13.2. Where the title of the plaintiff is not disputed, but he is not in possession, his remedy is to fi le a suit for possession and seek in addition, if necessary, an injunction. A person out of possession, cannot seek the relief of injunction simpliciter, without claiming the relief of possession. 13.3. Where the plaintiff is in possession, but his title to the property is in dispute, or under a cloud, or where the defendant asserts title thereto and there is also a threat of dispossession from the defendant, the plaintiff will have to sue for declaration of title and the consequential relief of injunction.