From the and dated 26.04.2022 of the High Court H of Judicature at Bombay in WP No.411 of 2021. ANANT THANUR KARMUSE v. THE STATE OF 59 MAHARASHTRA & ORS. Mahesh Jhethmalani, Siddharth Dave, Sr. Advs., Chirag Shah, A Utsav Trivedi, Anirudh Ganu, Ms. Manini Roy, Himanshu Sachdeva, Ms. Shivani Bhushan, Piyush Tiwari, Ms. Kanjani Sharma, Prastut Dalvi, Ms. Mugdha Pande, Ms. Astha Prasad, Advs. for the Appellant. Tushar Mehta, SG, Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, ASG, Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Shekhar Naphade, Sr. Advs., Ms. Diksha Rai, Tushar Sonawane, B Ms. Ragini Pandey, Ms. Atiga Singh, Rahul Chitnis, Siddharth Dharmadhikari, Aaditya Aniruddha Pande, Bharat Bagla, Ms. Kirti Dadheech, Rajat Nair, Pratyush Srivastava, Madhav Sinhal, A K Sharma, Advs. for the Respondents. The of the Court was delivered by C M. R. SHAH, J. 1. Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned and passed by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay dated 26.04.2022 passed in Writ Petition No. 411 of 2021 by which the High Court has dismissed the said writ petition preferred by the appellant D herein – the victim seeking transfer of the investigation to Central Bureau of Investigation or to any other agency to investigate / re-investigate the FIR Nos. 119 of 2020 and 120 of 2020 registered at Vartak Nagar Police Station, Thane, the original writ petitioner – the victim has preferred the present appeal. E 2. The facts leading to the present appeal and as per the case on behalf of the appellant in nutshell are as under:- 2.1 That the appellant is a Civil Engineer, working as a consultant, shared on his Facebook account on 05.04.2020, a viral picture of one Mr. Jitendra Awhad, the then sitting Cabinet Minister of the State of F Maharashtra (who is subsequently arrayed as accused No. 13 after the High Court intervened), criticizing his act of ridiculing the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India. According to the appellant, at around 11.50 pm at night on 05.04.2020, four Policemen, two dressed in Civilian Dress and other two in uniform came to his residence and forcibly took him to the G Bungalow of the said Minister. According to the appellant, thereafter, the Minister instructed his men to beat him and make him apologies for circulating the said viral picture of the Minister. The Minister threatened him to delete the post immediately. Thereafter, an ally of the Minister called the appellant on his number as he left his phone in his house and told his wife to delete the controversial post. According to the appellant, H 60 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A he was mercilessly and ruthlessly beaten up by the police personnel present at the premises of the Minister. 2.2 That the appellant went to the Police Station and he got the information that an FIR bearing No. 119 of 2020 under Section 292 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 66(E) of the Information and B Technology Act has been registered against him by the Police on the complaint of one Mr. Hitesh Wani, accused No.