out to be Rs.25.12 lakhs. The appellants failed to justify that the loan of A Rs. 12 lakhs from Vijaya Bank was ever invested in the subject theatre. There was no document placed on record which could justify that Rs.12 lakhs was invested in the construction of theatre. According to the finding recorded by the competent authority, more than 50% of the value assessed(i.e. Rs. 13.12 lakhs) of the theatre has remained unexplained B and accordingly the theatre was liable for forfeiture under Section 7 of the Act, 1976, free from all encumbrances, under dated 31st December, 1997.On appeal being preferred, the finding stood affirmed by dated 7th September, 1999. 16. Against the said , a writ petition was filed before the C High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution. The learned Single Judge of the High Court revisited the factual matrix on record and returned a finding that no documentary evidence was placed by either of the appellants, during the proceedings initiated by the competent authority, who are under an obligation to prove in terms of Section 8 of the Act 1976. From the evidence which came on record, it could be D gathered that out of the investment made by the partners(Appellant nos. 2 to 5) to the tune of Rs.10.20 lakhs, N.A. Yusuf contributed Rs.5 lakhs and Appellant no.2(P.M. Saheeda) and her children have contributed to the tune of Rs.5.2 lakhs each but neither N.A. Yusuf has justified any source from where his capital contribution was made nor the explanation E was tendered by Appellant nos. 2 to 5 regarding their source of income and it was disbelieved at all stages and a finding was returned that major part of the investment has been treated as income from undisclosed sources. That apart, no evidence was placed by Appellant no. 2(P.M. Saheeda) on record to justify that the land in question was purchased from the resources available at her command in the year 1969, through F the sale deed dated 16th April, 1969. In the given circumstances, the appellants are not entitled to seek protection of Section 9 of the Act 1976. 17. That apart, as regards the submissions made by the counsel for the appellants to impose fine in lieu of forfeiture, as contemplated G under Section 9 of the Act 1976, after noticing the argument advanced by the appellants before the High Court, a categorical finding has been recorded as to why the appellants are not entitled to seek protection of Section 9 of the Act 1976, which is as follows: H 1098 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A “The argument of petitioners’ counsel is, major contribution is from the petitioners and that the land in question was acquired in the year 1969 prior to the entering into a partnership agreement out of the borrowings of 2nd petitioner Saheeda and that land in question ought not have been taken into consideration to forfeit the same, and as such, the Competent Authority and the Appellate B Tribunal ought to have taken note of the same into consideration only to impose fine and not to forfeit the property and also the land in question should be available to the petitioners and it should not be the subject matter of forfeiture.