Hence, this raises a suspicion as to whether that these Applications D as filed by the objectors are motivated. 91. Thus, the objections as raised by the objectors in relation to the procedural irregularities in relation to the conduct of the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process, are not so grave in to defeat the Resolution Plan as filed by the Resolution E Professional. Hence, for the said reasons, the objections as raised by the objectors in respect of the same are overruled. Accordingly, IA/181/CHE/2021, IA/183/CHE/2021, IA/192/CHE/2021, IA/172/ CHE/2021 and IA/291/CHE/2021 stand dismissed.” 15.4. Moving on to the questions concerning the related party - F Dharani Finance Limited - and the applications moved by it, the Adjudicating Authority took note of the submissions on its behalf with reference to Section 21(2) of the Code that it could not have been categorised as related party but rejected this contention while observing as under: - G “93. A bare perusal of the said provision shows that, even though the Applicants viz. M/s. Dharani Finance Limited are regulated by a financial service regulator, they have miserably failed to establish that the debts due to them have become due solely on account of conversion or substitution of debt into equity shares or instruments convertible into equity shares. Further the phrase H 814 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A “completion of such transactions as may be prescribed” would also be of no avail, since the transactions as such have not been prescribed by the Board. In any case, this Tribunal is of the considered view that the Applicants in MA/18/CHE/2021 and MA/ 48/CHE/2021 are related party in respect of the Corporate Debtor and that the decision of the IRP / RP in categorizing the Applicant B viz. M/s. Dharani Finance Limited as “Related Party” of Corporate Debtor is free from all legal infirmities and does not warrant any interference by this Adjudicating Authority. Accordingly, MA/18/ CHE/2021 and MA/48/CHE/2021 stands dismissed.” 15.4.1. The Adjudicating Authority also examined the question of C discrimination in the resolution plan in respect of distribution of amount to the financial creditor-related party compared with the financial creditor- unrelated party. The Adjudicating Authority referred to the principles stated by this Court in Committee of Creditors of Essar Steel India Limited through Authorised Signatory v. Satish Kumar Gupta and D Ors. :(2020) 8 SCC 531 and rejected those contentions while observing that in the scheme of the Code, there was no provision which mandatorily requires payment to the related party in parity with the unrelated party. In this regard, the Adjudicating Authority, inter alia, observed as under:- “(IV) DISCRIMINATION IN THE RESOLUTION E PLAN:- 94. Another rival contention put forth by the Learned Senior Counsel for the objectors was that there was is a discrimination in respect of the distribution of amount to the Financial Creditor - Related Party compared with the Financial Creditor – unrelated Party. It was contended that no amount is paid by the Resolution F Applicant, to the Related Party of the Corporate Debtor, be it Financial Creditor or Operational Creditor.