This was to demonstrate that it was possible for a bidder under the same tender notice to furnish the additional performance security deposit on 15.03.2021. 10. On the basis of the above fi ndings, the High Court held that the tender issuing authority could not have accepted the additional performance security from the appellant herein on 17.03.2021, since 17.03.2021 was the third working day from the opening of the fi nancial bid. On Additional Findings of the High Court 11. After recording the fi ndings above, the High Court considered the events subsequent to the issuance of the work in favour of the Appellant and found as follows: a) the work in question was issued on 24.05.2021 and the work was to be completed within six months with a period for rectifi cation of defi ciency within further 24 months; 384 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. b) that the appellant had on 04.02.2022 issued a communication to the Executive Engineer stating that it could not complete the work as allotted and had sought time till 31.03.2023. After noticing these facts, the High Court concluded, without any view having been expressed by the tendering authority and without discussing any reason given in the letters seeking extension, that the appellant had not been able to meet the time limit. The High Court further held that the appellant was not justifi ed in not adhering to the time limit. Therefore, the High Court interfered in the matter under Article226 on the ground that it aff ects public interest. 12. The High Court should not have ventured into the question with regard to the time limit for completion of work and the extension sought by the appellant since that was a matter which would depend on the facts and circumstances that arise therein. That was for the authorities to decide keeping in mind the myriad facts that would arise there. Even for deciding about the need for exercise of discretionary jurisdiction, the High Court should not have ventured into this aspect without the full facts having been placed before it. As to, under what circumstances the extension was sought and what view the authority has taken over the same, even we are completely oblivious to. The High Court should have just confi ned itself to the examination of the question whether the acceptance of the additional performance security on 17.03.2021 and the consequential issue of the work was justifi ed in law or not. Having found that it was not justifi ed, it should have stopped there and not ventured into this issue, since full facts were not available on the record. On alleged breach of Clause 2.22.0 (ix) 13. In this background, the primary question that arises is, whether the High Court was justifi ed in setting aside the work on the ground that the tendering authority had breached Clause 2.22.0(ix) by accepting the additional performance security on 17.03.2021? 14. We have heard Shri Amit K. Pathak, learned counsel for the appellant, Shri Prashant Shrikant Kenjale, learned counsel for the fi rst respondent herein and Shri Uday B. Dube, learned counsel for the tendering authority.