What is important is the terrorist act and what is required for the Court to see is the D material before the Court to show that such a person has been involved in or has indulged in a terrorist act. Terrorist act is very widely defined under Section 15. In the present case, seizure of the incriminating material as alluded to hereinabove does not in any manner prima facie leads to draw E an inferance that, Appellant has committed or indulged in a ‘terrorist act’ as contemplated under Section 15 of the UAP Act.” 31.This has not been interfered with by this Court and we also affirm this interpretation given to Section 20 of the 1967 Act for testing as to who would be a member of terrorist gang or terrorist F organisation. Moreover, no material has been demonstrated by the NIA before us that the appellants are members of the terrorist organisation. AF’s involvement with IAPL as a frontal organisation of the Communist Party of India (Maoist) is sought to be established, and that has been referred to in the chargesheet as well. But the link between IAPL and G the CPI (Maoist) has not been clearly demonstrated through any material. Reference to AF and VG as members of the CPI (Maoist) appears from the statement of protected witness, but that link is made in relation to events between the years 2002-2007, before the organisation was included in the First Schedule to the 1967 Act. No evidence of continued membership after the party was classified as a terrorist organisation has H VERNON v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA & ANR. 907 [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] been brought to our notice. Nor is there any reliable evidence to link A IAPL with CPI (Maoist) as its frontal organisation. We have already dealt with the position of the appellants vis-à-vis terrorist acts in earlier paragraphs of this and we prima facie do not think that Section 20 can be made applicable against the appellants at this stage of the proceeding, on the basis of available materials. B 32. “Terrorist act” as defined under Section 2(k) of the 1967 Act carries the meaning assigned to it in Section 15. This Section also stipulates that the expressions “terrorism” and “terrorist” shall be construed accordingly. This implies construction of these two expressions in the same way as has been done in Section 15. C “terrorist organisation” has been independently defined in Section 2(m) to mean an organisation listed in the First Schedule or an organisation operating under the same name as an organisation so listed. But so far as the word “terrorist” is concerned, in this Section also, the interpretation thereof would be relatable to the D same expression as used in Section 15. It is one of the basic rules of statutory construction that an expression used in different parts of a statute shall ordinarily convey the same meaning – unless contrary intention appears from different parts of the same enactment itself. We do not find any such contrary intention in the 1967 Act.