There can be no doubt that the obligation/onus of the defence would arise only when the prosecution discharged its burden in such matters. By not examining Poonam the prosecution had actually withheld the best evidence. Perhaps, by examining her this case would have turned to a case of direct evidence, if the prosecution story is to be believed as in respect of many of the questions, she could have thrown light. 33. Now, before dealing with the oral testimonies of the other witnesses we think it apt and appropriate to deal with the aforesaid link in the chain of circumstances viz., ‘motive’, a little more. It is true that in a case of circumstantial evidence motive does have signifi cance, but that is no reason to say that in the absence of motive, conviction, based on circumstantial evidence, cannot be made. (See the decision of this Court in Jagdish v. State of Madhya Pradesh10). ‘Motive’ is something which makes a man to do any particular act and it must, in all probability, exist behind every voluntary act. Initially, PW-9 suggested an incident that occurred on 29.05.1999 as motive. According to him on that day his father Sukhbir Singh and brother deceased Devinder were assaulted by eight persons and somehow, Devinder had managed to escape. But the appellants were not named as assailants 9 (2006) 3 SCC 374 10 (2009) 9 SCC 495 880 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. in connection with that incident. We are at a loss to understand how that could be a motive. The appellants are also not named among the suspected abductors/kidnappers. The motive thereafter projected by the prosecution against the appellants-convicts is that they found their sister, Poonam, in a compromising position with deceased Devinder in the evening of 25.06.1999 in the fodder room near Katvawala passage. Though, as noted earlier, this was the motive as per the prosecution projected through PW 7, a scanning of the entire oral evidence of all witnesses would reveal that none of them had actually spoken to the eff ect that he had seen the deceased and sister of the appellants Poonam either inside the fodder room near Katvawala passage at the relevant point of time or even at any time proximate to the occurrence near the aforesaid place. As a matter of fact, none had spoken to the eff ect of even seeing Poonam and Devinder together, on the day of occurrence, much less in a compromising position. The said motive has been ascribed on the appellants, virtually, based on the extra judicial confession allegedly made by them before PW-7 Daya Nand. Of course, as per the prosecution motive was also revealed as part of the extra judicial confession. We will deal with the admissibility or otherwise of the extra judicial confession a little later. It is the prosecution case that it is the sight of their sister, Poonam, in a compromising situation with the deceased Devinder at the aforesaid place that prompted them to commit the aforesaid off ence.