This Court clarified as under: “So far as the present case is concerned, relief of G regularization was declined, but this Court directed the payment of minimum of the pay which, as we have explained above, would mean basic pay + grade pay + dearness allowance + washing allowance. H 500 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A However, we make it clear that the pay that is given to the petitioners will not be on a monthly basis, but will be calculated with reference to each day of work put in by the petitioners.” 6.2 Thereafter, Government of India, Ministry of Home Affairs vide communication dated 16.09.2016 requested Chief Secretaries of all B the States and Union Territories to issue necessary directions for compliance of the of this Court in the case of Grah Rakshak (supra) and further clarificatory . That thereafter a complaint was made on behalf of the Home Guards of the State of Orissa about disobedience of the passed by this Court regarding payment of salary to Home Guards in the State and to that the Government of India, C Ministry of Home Affairs vide communication dated 05.10.2016 addressed to the Secretary, Home Department, Government of Orissa, requested for taking appropriate action. That thereafter in the recommendation dated 10.11.2016, Director General (Fire Service, Home Guards, Civil Defence) Orissa recommended to pay to the Home Guards in the State D of Orissa, DCA at Rs.533/- per day as per minimum of the pay to which the Police personnel of the State were entitled. Despite the above, the State Government did not pay the DCA as per the of this Court in the case of Grah Rakshak (supra) and as per the further clarificatory . However, the Home Guards in the State were being E paid the DCA at Rs.7,200/- per month/Rs.9,000/- per month as being paid to the Constables appointed under Rule 2013. It is required to be noted that under Rule 2013, the Constables in the State initially are appointed on contractual basis and thereafter, after few years of service, they are made permanent. However, after they are made permanent, they are being put in the minimum of the pay-scale and therefore, the F Home Guards shall be entitled to the DCA taking into consideration the minimum of the pay to which the Police personnel of the State are entitled at the time of their initial appointment on regular basis/permanent basis, after rendering their contractual services under Rule 2013. At this stage, it is required to be noted that the decision of this Court in the case of G Grah Rakshak (supra) and further clarificatory has also been complied with by several States like Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Chhastisgarh, Maharashtra, Kerala, Haryana, Goa, NCT of Delhi and Union Territory of Lakshadweep etc. which is evident from the following chart: H PRAKASH KUMAR JENA & ORS. v. THE STATE OF ODISHA 501 & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] A B C D E 6.3 Therefore, the State of Orissa cannot be permitted to now submit that as contractual Constables appointed under Rule 2013 are being paid a fixed lump sum amount at the entry level, the Home Guards after rendering 10 to 15 years of service also shall be entitled to the same fixed salary.