Reliance was placed by learned counsel on the decision in Firozuddin Basheeruddin v State of Kerala, (2001) 7 SCC 596for the proposition that conspiracy can also be established based on circumstantial evidence and that though not being a specifi c crime, but on the basis thereof, a conspirator can also be held responsible for a crime committed by co- conspirator in furtherance of the objective of the conspiracy. ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 13. The High Court relied on the of a 3-Judge Bench in Noor Mohammad Mohd. Yusuf Momin v State of Maharashtra, AIR 1971 SC 885to hold that ‘criminal conspiracy can be proved by circumstantial evidence’3. On a careful appreciation of Noor Mohammad Mohd. Yusuf Momin (supra), while in agreement with the law laid down therein, we are not able to see how the prosecution’s case is strengthened with its aid. Noor Mohammad Mohd. Yusuf Momin (supra) does not, in any manner, militate against this Court overturning a conviction when reasonable doubt emanates. 14. In State of Uttar Pradesh v Krishna Gopal, (1988) 4 SCC 302, the Court held: ‘25. A person has, no doubt, a profound right not to be convicted of an off ence which is not established by the evidential standard of proof beyond reasonable doubt. Though this standard is a higher standard, there is, however, no absolute standard. What degree of probability amounts to “proof” is an exercise particular to each case. Referring to the interdependence of evidence and the confi rmation of one piece of evidence by another a learned Author says [See: “The Mathematics of Proof-II”: Glanville Williams: Criminal Law Review, 1979, by Sweet and Maxwell, p. 340 (342)]: 3 Paragraph 51 of the Impugned . SURESH THIPMPPA SHETTY v. THE STATE OF 1143 MAHARASHTRA [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] “The simple multiplication rule does not apply if the separate pieces of evidence are dependent. Two events are dependent when they tend to occur together, and the evidence of such events may also be said to be dependent. In a criminal case, diff erent pieces of evidence directed to establishing that the defendant did the prohibited act with the specifi ed state of mind are generally dependent. A juror may feel doubt whether to credit an alleged confession, and doubt whether to infer guilt from the fact that the defendant fl ed from justice. But since it is generally guilty rather than innocent people who make confessions, and guilty rather than innocent people who run away, the two doubts are not to be multiplied together. The one piece of evidence may confi rm the other.” Doubts would be called reasonable if they are free from a zest for abstract speculation. Law cannot aff ord any favourite other than truth. To constitute reasonable doubt, it must be free from an over- emotional response. Doubts must be actual and substantial doubts as to the guilt of the accused person arising from the evidence, or from the lack of it, as opposed to mere vague apprehensions. A reasonable doubt is not an imaginary, trivial or a merely possible doubt; but a fair doubt based upon reason and common sense.