20.10.1989, any factory or establishment H THE ESI CORPORATION v. M/S. RADHIKA THEATRE 1049 [M. R. SHAH, J.] shall have to be governed by the ESI Act notwithstanding that the number A of persons employed therein at any time falls below the limit specified by or under the ESI Act. 3.4 Making the above submissions and relying upon the decision of this Court in the case of Bangalore Turf Club Limited Vs. Regional Director, ESIC; (2014) 9 SCC 657, it is prayed to allow the present B appeal. 4. Though served none has appeared on behalf of the respondent. 5. Having heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant – corporation and having gone through the impugned C and passed by the High Court, the short question which is posed for consideration of this Court is whether with respect to the demand notices post 20.10.1989 a factory or an establishment, established prior to 20.10.1989 shall be governed by the ESI Act notwithstanding that the number of persons employed therein at any time falls below the limit specified by or under the ESI Act? D An incidental question which is also posed for consideration of this Court is whether the demand notices for the period after 20.10.1989 i.e., from the date by which Sub-section (6) of Section 1 of the ESI Act came be inserted can it be said that the amended Section 1 of the ESI Act can be said to have been applied retrospectively? E 6. While answering the aforesaid issues/questions the object, purpose and preamble of the ESI Act is required to be referred to and considered. The Preamble of the ESI Act is as under: - “An Act to provide for certain benefits to employees in case of sickness, maternity and employment injury and to make provisions F for certain other matters in relation thereto.” 6.1 Thus, the ESI Act being a social welfare legislation, any interpretation which would lean in favour of the beneficiary should be given. The object and purpose of the ESI Act has been elaborately considered by this Court in the case of Bangalore Turf Club Limited G (supra). After considering catena of earlier decisions under the ESI Act, it is observed and held that ESI Act should be given liberal interpretation and should be interpreted in such a manner so that social security can be given to the employees. In paragraph 16 to 21, it is observed and held as under:- H 1050 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A “16. The primary rule of interpretation of statutes may be the literal rule, however, in the case of beneficial legislations and legislations enacted for the welfare of employees, workmen, this Court has on numerous occasions adopted the liberal rule of interpretation to ensure that the benefits extend to those workers who need to be covered based on the intention of the legislature. B 17. The ESI Act is a welfare legislation enacted by the Central Government as a consequence of the urgent need for a scheme of health insurance for workers.