87. It is to be noted that insofar as the appointment of the Director of CBI is concerned, this Court in the case of Vineet Narain (supra) had directed that the recommendations were to be made by a Committee headed by the Central Vigilance Commissioner with the Home Secretary D and Secretary (Personnel) as Members. However, Section 4A of the DSPE Act provides for a Committee, which is consisting of the Members which are at much higher pedestal. It is to be chaired by the Prime Minister, whereas the Chief Justice of India or his/her nominee and the Leader of Opposition in the House of the People are its Members. E Therefore, the appointment of the Director of CBI cannot be made unless it is recommended by the High-Level Committee consisting of the Prime Minister; the Leader of Opposition; and the Chief Justice of India or Judge of the Supreme Court nominated by him/her. 88. It is to be noted that the aforesaid provisions have been made F in to give effect to the directions issued by this Court in the case of Vineet Narain (supra). 89. This Court in the case of Vineet Narain (supra) has issued a specific direction that the Director of CBI as well as the Director of Enforcement shall have a minimum tenure of two years. G 90. What has been provided by the impugned Amendments is that the period for which the initial appointment has been made could, in public interest, be extended up to one year at a time. However, this can be done only on the recommendation of the Committee which is constituted for their appointments. The second proviso further provided that no such extension shall be granted after the completion of a period H 576 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A of five years in total including the period mentioned in the initial appointment. The impugned Amendments empower the Government to extend the tenure of the incumbent in the said office by a period of one year at a time subject to the maximum period of five years including the period mentioned in the initial appointment. As already stated herein above, such extensions can be granted by the Government only if the B Committees, which are constituted for recommending their appointment, recommend their extension, in public interest and also record the reasons in writing. 91. It is, thus, clear that it is not at the sweet-will of the Government that the extensions can be granted to the incumbents in the office of the C Director of CBI/Director of Enforcement. It is only on the basis of the recommendations of the Committees which are constituted to recommend their appointment and that too when it is found in public interest and when the reasons are recorded in writing, such an extension can be granted by the Government. D 92. What has been directed by this Court in the case of Vineet Narain (supra) and in subsequent s relied on by the petitioners is that such Director should have a minimum tenure of two years irrespective of their date of superannuation.