Consequently, the Trial Court considered the question whether the culled-out circumstances would form a complete chain unerringly E pointing to the guilt of the accused and that accused alone and obviously, the conviction was entered into upon answering that question in the affirmative. According to the Trial Court, the following three proven circumstances are sufficient to constitute circumstantial evidence unerringly connecting the accused with the homicidal death: - F “1. That, while the deceased was at the house of Chintaman Gatey, deceased accused Raju Pande along with the accused Nos.1 to 3. came to the house of Chintaman Gatey and succeeded in persuading the deceased to accompany them, for consuming liquor. G 2. That the deceased in the company of the accused Nos.1 to 3 and deceased accused Raju left the house of Chintaman Gatey, on two moto cycles. 3. That, soon thereafter, the deceased was found murdered.” H 674 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 18. There can be no doubt with respect to the fact that in a case where the conviction is based on circumstantial evidence, motive assumes great significance. A Three Judge Bench of this Court in Nandu Singh v. State of Madhya Pradesh (now Chhattisgarh)6 by its dated 25.02.2022, after observing thus, held as under:- B “It is not as if motive alone becomes the crucial link in the case to be established by the prosecution and in its absence the case of prosecution must be discarded. But, at the same time, complete absence of motive assumes a different complexion and such absence definitely weighs in favour of the accused.” C We may add here that just like complete absence of motive failure to establish motive after attributing one, should also give a different complexion in a case based on circumstantial evidence and it will certainly enfeeble the case of prosecution. 19. In the decision in Nandu Singh’s case an earlier decision of D this Court in Anwar Ali & Anr. v. State of Himachal Pradesh7, was quoted with agreement, thus: - “24. Now so far as the submission on behalf of the accused that in the present case the prosecution has failed to establish and prove the motive and therefore the accused deserves E acquittal is concerned, it is true that the absence of proving the motive cannot be a ground to reject the prosecution case. It is also true and as held by this Court in Suresh Chandra Bahri v. State of Bihar (1995 Supp (1) SCC 80) that if motive is proved that would supply a link in the chain of F circumstantial evidence but the absence thereof cannot be a ground to reject the prosecution case. However, at the same time, as observed by this Court in Babu (Babu v. State of Kerala, (2010) 9 SCC 189), absence of motive in a case depending on circumstantial evidence is a factor that weighs in favour of the accused. In paras 25 and 26, it is observed G and held as under: (Babu case, SCC pp.