Merely because the packages were presented before the customs authority, it does not ipso facto prove the ownership of the assessee of the goods. H 8 1993 Vol. 199 ITR 370 Calcutta M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 555 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] 7. In our view, it has not been established or found that the assessee A is the owner of the said idol and pedestal. On the contrary, the said letter dated May 30, 1973, addressed to the Assistant Collector of Customs shows that the Chogyal is the owner of the said articles. Under such circumstances, there is no reason to hold the assessee liable and to add Rs. 80,000 being the value of the said articles to B his income. 36. The High Court went on to distinguish Chuharmal (supra) by holding that in the case before the High Court, the assessee had produced the evidence to substantiate that the article found in his possession belonged to the Chogyal of Sikkim. C D. A CARRIER, A BAILEE? 37. When goods are entrusted to a common carrier, the entrustment would amount to a contract of bailment within the meaning of Section 148 of the Contract Act, 1872 when it is for being carried by road, as in this case. A contract for bailment may not involve any consideration D being payable in which case Section 58 of the Contract Act obliges the bailor to repay to the bailee the necessary expenses incurred by him for the purpose of bailment. Possession is central to bailment. [See Pullock and Mulla in the Indian Contract and Specific Relief Act]. Section 151 of the Contract Act declares that ‘in all cases of bailment the bailee is E bound to take as much care of the goods bailed to him as a man of ordinary prudence would, under similar circumstances, take of his own goods of the same bulk, quality and value as the goods bailed.’ Can it be said that the standard of care as declared in Section 151 is alone applicable to the common carrier. The subject matter is not res integra. In Patel Roadways Ltd. v. Birla Yamaha Ltd.9, the Court held inter alia as F follows: - “31. Coming to the question of liability of a common carrier for loss of or damage to goods, the position of law has to be taken as fairly well settled that the liability of a carrier in India, as in England, is more extensive and the liability is that of an insurer. The absolute G liability of the carrier is subject to two exceptions: an act of God and a special contract which the carrier may choose to enter with the customer.” 9 (2000) 4 SCC 91 H 556 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 38. In the same year, and what is more, in the same volume, this Court spoke on the subject in the decision reported in Nath Bros. Exim International Ltd. v. Best Roadways Ltd.10.