A10 Will dated 03.05.1982. Therefore, comparison of Exs. X1 & X2 thumb marks with the thumb marks available with the Registration Department in the context of Ex. A19 Will does not prove anything. 32. For the purposes of Section 69 of the Evidence Act, it is not enough to merely examine a random witness who asserts that he saw the attesting witness affi x his signature in the Will. The very purpose and objective of insisting upon examination of at least one attesting witness to the Will would be entirely lost if such requirement is whittled down to just having a stray witness depose that he saw the attesting witness sign the Will. The evidence of the scribe of the disputed Will (PW 6) also casts a doubt on the identity of the executant as he specifi cally stated that a woman was sitting 662 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. at a distance but he could not tell whether she was Venkubayamma and he could not also tell whether Venkubayamma had signed the document. In eff ect, Ex. A10 Will was not proved in accordance with law and it can have no legal consequence. Nalini Kanth’s claim of absolute right and title over Venkubayamma’s properties on the strength thereof has, therefore, no legs to stand upon and is liable to be rejected. 33. In addition thereto, the suspicious circumstances that surround Ex. A10 Will render it highly unbelievable. Venkubayamma performed Kaliprasad’s marriage in February, 1982, i.e., just a few months before the alleged adoption ceremony and execution of Ex. A9 and Ex. A10. PW 2, Nalini Kanth’s natural father, also stated so. He also said that Kaliprasad was residing with Venkubayamma at the time of the adoption. These being the admitted facts, Kaliprasad being fully disinherited under Ex. A10 Will is surprisingly odd and opposed to normal behaviour. The disowning of her own grandson by Venkubayamma is a suspicious circumstance that remained unexplained. Unless there was some catastrophic incident which estranged her from him during those two months, it is not believable that Venkubayamma would have cast out her own grandson and excluded him from her Will. A passing sentence in Ex. A10 Will that he became uncaring towards her and was placing her in diffi culties is not suffi cient to explain this total disinheritance of a grandson within a few months of performing his marriage. More so, when the witnesses’ evidence confi rmed that he was with her and was on amicable terms throughout. 34. That apart, Venkubayamma stated in Ex. A10 Will that the adopted child would perform her funeral rites, pinda pradaan and other annual shastric ceremonies of her ancestors. As already noted earlier, the adopted child was of less than one year age at that time and Venkubayamma was in her 70s, if not more. If so, this expectation on her part, if at all believable, was wholly unrealistic. Signifi cantly, Kaliprasad stated that it was he who performed the obsequies of Venkubayamma, his grandmother.