469. The Constitution of India is a complete code for constitutional governance. It provides for the establishment and scope of powers of the legislature, the executive, and the judiciary at the level of the Union and the States. It delineates the Fundamental Rights and the Directive Principles of State Policy. It regulates aspects of fi nance and property and provides for Public Service Commissions. The country and all the States are governed in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. Upon the application of the entire Constitution to the State of Jammu and Kashmir, Jammu and Kashmir too is liable to be governed in the same manner. 470. The Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, though subordinate to the Constitution of India, provided for many of these aspects of governance. This was necessitated by Article 370 in terms of which it was to apply in parts and 270 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. in a gradual manner to the State. The gaps left by the non-application of some parts of the Constitution of India were fi lled by the Constitution of the State. After the abrogation of Article 370 (as it stood before the issuance of CO 272 and CO 273) and the application of the entirety of the Constitution of India to the State, the Constitution of the State does not fulfi l any purpose or serve any function. Hence, the implicit but necessary consequence of the application of the Constitution of India in its entirety to the State of Jammu and Kashmir is that the Constitution of the State is inoperative. ix. The challenge to the Reorganisation Act on substantive grounds 471. Parliament enacted the Reorganisation Act 2019 in exercise of the power under Article 3. The Act received the assent of the President on 9 August 2019. Part II of the Reorganisation Act reorganises the State of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union territories – the Union Territory of Ladakh without a legislature308 and the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir with a legislature.309 The territories of the former comprise Kargil and Leh whereas the territories of the latter comprise territories other than Kargil and Leh.310 Section 103 of the Reorganisation Act empowers the President to issue an removing any diffi culties which arise in giving eff ect to the provisions of the statute. In exercise of this power, the President issued the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Removal of Diffi culties) Second 2019 which states that the territory of Leh district comprises of Gilgit, Gilgit Wazarat, Chilas, tribal territory and ‘Leh and Ladakh’ except the “present territory of Kargil.”311 472. The petitioners’ challenge to the constitutional validity of the Reorganisation Act is on the following grounds: a. The Reorganisation Act was enacted without fulfilling the prerequisites in Article 3; and b. Article 3 does not empower Parliament to extinguish the character of a state in its entirety. 308 Section 3, Reorganisation Act 309 Section 4, Reorganisation Act 310 Sections 3, 4 Reorganisation Act 311 Section 2, Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Removal of Diffi culties) Second 2019 IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 271 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] In response, the Union of India contended that this Court is not the appropriate authority to examine the desirability of the exercise of the power under Article 3 because administrative and other considerations have a bearing on Parliament’s decision.