Both of them were in a fi t condition when he recorded their statements. Exhibit Ka-2 and Exhibit Ka-5, the statement of Islamuddin does not bear the thumb impression or signature of anybody else except his own and the deceased. Exhibit Ka-2 and Ex. Ka-5 do not bear any certifi cate from the doctor with regard to fi tness of both the deceased. Ex. Ka-2 and Ex. Ka-5 do not bear his endorsement with regard to fi tness of the deceased at the time of recording the statements. There was a time gap of 15 – 20 minutes in recording of the two dying declarations. Both were written on the same day and at the same place. PW-5 had written only two statements. Diff erent pens were used in recording the statements, but to obtain thumb impressions of the deceased, one ink pad was used. IRFAN @ NAKA v. THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 805 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 32. A.S.I. Narender Singh Rawat PW-5 was recalled for the purpose of re-examination on 28.04.2017 in compliance of the dated 15.04.2017. That on 07.08.2014, he was posted at the RML Hospital. On that day he had recorded the statement of Islamuddin aged about 16 years, son of the convict, resident of mohalla Muglooshah, Najibabad, District Bijnore. Islamuddin was in a fi t condition to give a statement. He had recorded his statement word by word as stated by him. His thumb impression was taken on the statement. The thumb impression was identifi ed by him. He had also put his signature on the statement. His statement has been recorded earlier in the court. 33. The appellant-convict examined himself as a defence witness. He deposed that his parents had fi ve children. He was the eldest, his brothers were, namely, Shanu, Irshad and Naushad and one sister Soni. Islamuddin was born from his fi rst wife Ishrat. His fi rst wife had left his house as his brothers used to quarrel with her in respect of property. At the time, when his fi rst wife left the house, Islamuddin was aged about 10 years. His brothers and sister were taking undue advantage of the tender age of Islamuddin and his mother deserting them. Taking advantage, they sent him to jail, in a false case. He came out from jail three years before the incident. During these three years, he did not quarrel with any neighbours or any person from the mohalla. He married another woman, one and half years prior to this incident. His sister also used to quarrel with his second wife frequently for the property due to which she left her house. He has deposed that his brothers, deceased Irshad and Naushad and his son Islamuddin used to consider him to be a weak person and with a view to grab the property, they all colluded to get my brothers and son killed. It was not known through whom, they got them killed. They falsely implicated him in the case.