This is for D the obvious reason that an arbitration agreement is an agreement to resolve disputes arising out of a commercial agreement, through the mode of arbitration. On the basis of the doctrine of separability, the arbitration agreement being a separate and distinct agreement from the underlying commercial contract, would survive independent of the substantive contract. The arbitration agreement E would not be rendered invalid, unenforceable or non-existent, even if the substantive contract is not admissible in evidence, or cannot be acted upon on account of non-payment of stamp duty. 58. We consider it appropriate to refer the following issue, to be authoritatively settled by a Constitution Bench of five Judges of F this Court: “Whether the statutory bar contained in Section 35 of the Stamp Act, 1899 applicable to instruments chargeable to stamp duty under Section 3 read with the Schedule to the Act, would also render the arbitration agreement contained in such an instrument, which G is not chargeable to payment of stamp duty, as being non-existent, unenforceable, or invalid, pending payment of stamp duty on the substantive contract/instrument?” (Emphasis added) H 422 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 94. There appears to be an error in the view taken by the 3-Judge Bench. The Schedule I to the Act, 1899 in its Article 5 titled “Agreement or Memorandum of Agreement” has a residuary entry which says (c) if not otherwise provided for- Eight annas. Article 5 has been reproduced as: B C D E 95. The examination of the arbitration agreement at the stage of Section 11(pre-referral stage) should be done cautiously in a way that it does not breach the legislative intent behind the provisions by opening the door wide open for judicial intervention. F 96. We, however, refrain ourselves to examine the question regarding the scope and ambit of Section 9 of the Act, 1996 of which a reference has been made by a three-Judge Bench in M/s. N.N. Global Mercantile Private Limited (supra) since the present reference is not concerned to examine the scope of Section 9 of the Act, 1996 and leave it open to be examined in the appropriate proceedings. G X. Answer to the Reference 97. To conclude, in our view: i) We accordingly hold that the existence of a copy/certified copy of an arbitration agreement whether unstamped/ H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 423 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] insufficiently stamped at the pre-referral stage is an A enforceable document for the purposes of appointment of an Arbitrator under Section 11(6A) of the Act, 1996 where the judicial intervention shall be minimal confined only to the prima facie examination of “existence of an arbitration agreement” alone keeping in view the object of 2015 B amendment and the courts must strictly adhere to the time schedule for the appointment of Arbitrator prescribed under Section 11(13) of the Act, 1996. ii) All the preliminary/debatableissues including insufficiently stamped/unduly stamped or validity of the arbitration C agreement etc.are referrable to the Arbitrator/Arbitral Tribunal under Section 16 of the Act, 1996 which, by virtue of the Doctrine of Kompetenz-Kompetenz has the power to do so.