The manager, PW-3, of course, suggested the opinion that the appellant ought to have undergone the course for a period of 7-9 months and that the family members got him discharged against advice but, this statement cannot be read to mean that the appellant was to be treated as a person of unsound mind. In fact, the appellant remained admitted to the rehabilitation centre from C 20.11.2008 to 29.04.2009, i.e., for a period of over 5 months and, as noticed above, he was never found suffering from any mental illness so as to be regarded as a person of unsound mind. 24. It is also noticed that the plea of unsoundness of mind and, therefore, the benefit of Section 84 IPC, was never taken in the trial nor D any evidence was led in this regard. Significantly, not even a remote suggestion was made to any witness examined for the prosecution about the alleged mental incapacity of the appellant. In his examination under Section 313 CrPC, the response of the appellant to the questions relating to his admission to the rehabilitation centre and the related facts had E been that those aspects were ‘a matter of record’. In the given set of facts and circumstances, we are unable to find anything on record for which the benefit of Section 84 IPC could even be remotely extended to the appellant. 25. Similarly, the submissions that when the state of mind/mental F condition of appellant was brought on record, the Trial Court ought to have ed an evaluation to rule out any doubt, remain rather bereft of logic. 25.1. In the relied upon passage in the decision of Gujarat High Court cited on behalf of the appellant in case of Manjuben (supra), the G Court had explained the basics relating to the operation of Section 329 CrPC and its distinction from Section 84 IPC in following terms: - “43. *** *** *** 23. Section 329 of the Cr.P.C. on the other hand, provides for a procedure in case of a person of unsound mind tried H 858 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A before the Court. Section makes it clear that in a trial before the Magistrate or Court of Sessions, if the accused appears to be of unsound mind and consequently incapable of making his defence, then the Courts hall, in the first instance, try the fact of such unsoundness of mind and incapacity and if satisfied in this regard, shall record a finding to that effect B and shall postpone the further proceedings. This Section is similar to Section 328 of the Cr.P.C. with this-difference that the latter relates to an enquiry before a Magistrate, while this Section relates to the trial before the Magistrate or Court of Sessions. However, both the Sections relate to unsoundness C of mind at the time of inquiry or trial that the accused is of unsound mind. A Magistrate cannot act on his own opinion. Hemust have before him a statement of medical officer, who must be examined.