38. In Shailendra Rajdev Pasvan v. State of Gujarat16 this Court observed that the courts ought to have a conscientious approach in a case based on circumstantial evidence, and conviction ought to be recorded only in cases where all the links of the chain are complete, pointing only to the guilt of the accused and none else, also eliminating the element of his innocence. Each link, unless connected together to form a chain, may suggest suspicion, but the same, in itself, cannot take the place of proof and will not be suffi cient to warrant the conviction of the accused. 39. In Munikrishna v. State17 this Court, while following the parameters laid down in Hanumant Govind Nargundkar v. State of Madhya Pradesh18 and Sharad Birdhichand Sarda19, observed that in cases based on circumstantial evidence, heavy onus and duty is cast upon the prosecution to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. 16 (2020) 14 SCC 750 (3-Judge Bench) 17 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1449 (3-Judge Bench) 18 (1952) 2 SCC 71 (3 Judge Bench) 19 (1984) 4 SCC 116(3-Judge Bench) INDRAKUNWAR v. THE STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 975 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] 40. In Sharad Birdhichand Sarda (supra), while discussing the eff ect of non-explanation, this Court observed that the absence of explanation or a false explanation will amount to an additional link to complete the chain provided the following essential conditions must be satisfi ed, that is to say, various links in the chain of evidence led by the prosecution have been satisfactorily proved;it should only point to the guilt of the accused with reasonable defi niteness, and proximity of the circumstance with the time and situation. 41. It is a matter of record that none of the witnesses has seen the convict-appellant throwing the deceased child into the dabri; as hitherto observed, no conclusive proof, of any nature, of relationship had been put forth by the prosecution; no evidence has been led to cast doubt upon the version of the convict. The statement of the doctor is silent on the death of the deceased having occurred prior to or after birth, although in examination in chief, the doctor has deposed that the death of the deceased child was homicidal in nature; however, in the cross-examination, it is admitted that such fact does not form part of the record, thereby calling into question the conclusion itself as it is a vital piece of information that has been omitted. 42. Having considered the gaps mentioned above in the prosecution case, we cannot agree with the learned Courts below that the circumstances conclusively point to the guilt of the convict-appellant, Indrakunwar. 43. Given the foregoing discussion, we fi nd the conviction recorded against the convict-appellant to be entirely based on mere presumption, with the actual evidence on record failing to establish the prosecution case much less beyond reasonable doubt. We are constrained to observe that the High Court has confi rmed the view of the Trial Court awarding life imprisonment without supplying any cogent reasons therefor.