The Supreme Court affirmed the said H view of this court on slightly broader base, observing as follows: 126 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A “An expenditure is not deductible unless it is a commercial loss in trade and a penalty imposed for breach of the law during the course of trade cannot be described as such. Infraction of the law is not a normal incident of business and, therefore, only such disbursements can be deducted as are really incidental to the business itself. They cannot B be deducted if they fall on the assessee in some character other than that of a trader.” xxx xxx xxx “29. Applying this test laid down by Grover J., speaking for C the Supreme Court, in S.C. Kothari’s case and the test laid down by Kapur J., speaking for the Supreme Court, in the case of Haji Aziz and Abdul Shakoor Bros., it shall have to be held that confiscation of goods incurred for infraction of law cannot be said to be a normal incident of business and loss suffered therefrom falls on the assessee in some character D other than that of a trader. It is not possible to see how this principle can make any difference where the business itself is found to have been prohibited by the law. It is the commercial profit that is taxable and it is the commercial loss in trade in regard to which deduction can be claimed either because it E goes to lessen the amount of profits before the quantum of net profit is determined or because the expenses are required to be incurred for the purposes of running the said business or because losses are incurred under some other sources of business under the same head or they are incurred while carrying on business or vocation under some other head. Penalty and F confiscation of goods even when incurred or suffered in the course of prohibited trade or business still cannot be said to be the normal incident even of such unlawful business and the loss so suffered can still be not said to be a commercial loss in the trade for the same reason as gains of theft, dacoity, G misappropriation or cheating cannot be treated as taxable income from any business or commerce. The claim of Mr. Albal for deduction of value of gold confiscated by way of set- off cannot, therefore, be entertained. 30. It is true, as observed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Piara Singh’s case, the risk of confiscation of goods H THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX JAIPUR v. PRAKASH 127 CHAND LUNIA (D) THR. LRS. & ANR. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] and incurring of penalties is inherent in any unlawful trading or A business. So is the risk of conviction and fine. It does not, however, necessarily follow that every kind of damage suffered in such trading falls under the category of commercial loss. It shall have to be held, at any rate, on the authority of the Supreme Court in Haji Aziz and Abdul Shakoor Bros. that the B confiscation of property or penalty incurred while indulging in prohibited trading activities does not amount to commercial loss though it happens in fact to be a loss according to the ordinary meaning of the word “loss” as understood in common parlance.