224 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 3P OS.RCT.RS. 224 [2023] 3 S.C.R. A MUNNA LAL v. THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH (Criminal Appeal No.490 of 2017) B JANUARY 24, 2023 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT AND DIPANKAR DATTA, JJ.] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 : s. 374(2) –Appeal from convictions – Murder of the complainant’s father – Previous enmity between the parties – On the fateful day, the appellants armed with C weapons inflicted gun shot injuries and blows to the victim resulting in his death – FIR against the appellants – Surviving appellants convicted u/s. 302 IPC and sentenced to life imprisonment – Upheld by the High Court – On appeal, held : PW-2 being inimical to the appellants, his testimony to be taken carefully – PW-3 was at the D best, a chance witness – Circumstances on record do not justify the presence of PW-3 at the place of occurrence – Oral testimony of PW-2 and PW-3, the so-called eye witness, not free from doubt and their evidence not of unimpeachable quality – Rule of prudence demands corroboration of their versions from other witnesses present at the place of occurrence and witnessed the murder of the victim, E however, they were not examined – Moreover, non-examination of the investigating officer created reasonable doubt in the prosecution case – On proper evaluation, it has transpired that there were reasons for which PW-2 might have falsely implicated the appellants and also that PW-3 was not a wholly reliable witness – There is a F fair degree of uncertainty in the prosecution story and the courts below appear to have somewhat been influenced by the oral testimony of PW-2 and PW-3, without taking into consideration the effect of the other attending circumstances, thereby warranting interference – Charge that the appellants had murdered the victim, not proved beyond reasonable doubt, thus, entitled to benefit of G doubt – of conviction and sentence passed by the courts below set aside – Evidence Act, 1872. Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 By reason of the uncontroverted evidence of a H continued enmity existing from 10 (ten) years preceding the 224 MUNNA LAL v. THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 225 alleged murder of the victim by and between the two groups, it A could be established that PW-2 nurtured personal ill–will towards the appellants and the possibility of PW-2 having acted with intention to keep the appellants away from legal proceedings as well as interference in property rights cannot be totally ruled out; hence, PW-2 being inimical to the appellants, his testimony B has to be taken with a pinch of salt and a deeper scrutiny of the other evidence on record is also indeed called for. [Para 31][238- D-F] 1.2. Having found from the oral evidence of PW-2 what transpired on the fateful morning, it is considered necessary to C look into the oral testimony of PW-3. There was indeed an attempt on the part of the appellants to establish that PW-3 was a relative of PW-2 and that being an interested witness apart from a ‘chance witness’, his testimony is not wholly reliable.