Transfer of Property Act, 1882: s. 52 – Transfer of property E pending suit relating thereto – Doctrine of Lis pendens – Held: Import of s. 52 is that if there is any transfer of right in immovable property during the pendency of a suit such transfer will be non est in the eye of law if it will adversely affect the interest of the other party to the suit in the property concerned – Wherever TP Act is not applicable, such principle in the said provision of the Act, based on F justice, equity and good conscience is applicable in a given similar circumstance, like Court sale etc – On facts, the suit from which the appeal arises was one based on possessory title, the legality of sale deed need not be gone into in this appeal and rightly has not been gone into by the High Court – High Court declined to act upon the G same, in the light of the doctrine of lis pendens. Pleadings: Proof offered without pleadings – Relevance of – On facts, claim for possession/ownership over the suit property by the defendants – Original defendants failed to raise sufficient and appropriate pleadings in the written statement that they have better right for possession of the suit properties – No amount of proof H SHIVSHANKARA & ANR. v. H.P. VEDAVYASA CHAR 361 offered without appropriate pleadings would have any relevance – A Finding of the High Court that any volume of evidence sans appropriate pleadings would be of no avail is correct. Dismissing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 There can be no doubt with respect to the B settled position that the Court to which the case is remanded has to comply with the of remand and acting contrary to the of remand is contrary to law. In other words, an of remand has to be followed in its true spirit. [Para 7][372-H; 373- A] C 1.2. In dealing with prayers for amendment of the pleadings the Courts should avoid hyper technical approach. But at the same time, the Court should keep reminded of the position that the same cannot be granted on the mere request through an application for amendment of the written statement, especially at the appellate stage where what is called in question is the D and decree passed by the trial court and in other words, after the adverse decree and without a genuine, sustainable reason. The circumstances attending to the particular case are to be taken into account to consider whether such a prayer is allowable or not and no doubt, it is allowable only in rarest of rare E circumstances. In the case on hand, prayer to amend the plaint was allowed by the trial court. Accordingly, the amendment was carried out by the plaintiff. Indisputably, thereafter, during the span of one year or thereabouts more than eight opportunities were given to the defendants therein to file additional written statement, if any. Indubitably, the materials on record would reveal F that the opportunities were not availed and no additional written statement was filed.