A new Union Territory of Ladakh was created comprising territories of Kargil and Leh Districts in the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir. The Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir (for short, ‘the Union Territory of J & K) was formed comprising the existing State of Jammu and Kashmir other than Kargil and Leh Districts. The J&K Reorganisation Act came into force with effect from 31st G October 2019. By virtue of Section 13 thereof, Article 239A of the Constitution of India which was earlier applicable only to the Union Territory of Puducherry, became applicable to the Union Territory of J & K. Article 239A confers a power on the Parliament to enact a law for creating a legislature for the Union Territory. H 520 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 4. The Delimitation Act, 2002 which was not applicable to the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir, was made applicable by virtue of Section 62 of the J&K Reorganisation Act to the newly formed Union Territory of J&K. On 6th March 2020, the Central Government constituted a Delimitation Commission under Section 3 of the Delimitation Act, 2002 for the purpose of delimitation of Assembly and Parliamentary B Constituencies in the Union Territory of J & K as well as the States of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur and Nagaland. The Commission was headed by a retired Judge of this Court. The Election Commissioner and the State Election Commissioner were made ex-officio members of the Delimitation Commission. The term of appointment of the Chairperson C was fixed as one year. By a notification dated 3rd March 2021, the earlier notification dated 6th March 2020 appointing the Delimitation Commission was amended by deleting the States of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur and Nagaland from the purview of the Delimitation Commission. By the same notification, the term of the Chairperson was extended to two years. The notification dated 6th March 2020 was further amended D by a notification dated 21st February 2022 by providing that the term of the Chairperson shall be for two years and two months. 5. Sub-Section (1) of Section 60 of the J&K Reorganisation Act provides that the number of seats in the Legislative Assembly of Union Territory of J & K shall be increased from 107 to 114. Sub-Section (4) E of Section 14 provides that 24 seats in the Legislative Assembly of the Union territory of J & K shall remain vacant and shall not be taken into account for reckoning the total membership of the Assembly. PLEADINGS F 6. Very wide and sweeping prayers have been made in the present writ petition invoking Article 32 of the Constitution of India. The first challenge is to the provision regarding the increase in the number of seats in the Legislative Assembly of Union territory of J & K. The second challenge is to the modification made of the notification dated 6th March 2020 by deleting the States of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur and G Nagaland from the purview of the Delimitation Commission.