With the transfer of the amount of Rs. 104 crore, the Bank issued a “No Dues Certificate” on 28.08.23. On the very same day, the borrowers entered into an Agreement of Assignment of Leasehold Rights with a third-party viz. M/s Greenscape I.T. Park LLP for the transfer of leasehold rights in the secured asset and the said agreement was registered before the Joint Sub Registrar, Thane 8 vide Registration No. 19286 of 2023. 21. Being aggrieved and dissatisfied with the aforesaid passed by the High Court, the appellant is here before this Court with the present appeals. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT 22. Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, the learned Senior Counsel and Mr. Neeraj Kishan Kaul, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant made the following submissions: a. The writ petition filed by the borrowers before the High Court was not maintainable in view of the alternative remedy available to them under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act and more particularly when such alternative remedy had already been availed by the borrowers. b. The High Court ought not to have entertained the writ petition on the ground that although the auction proceedings had attained finality and the appellant herein was declared as the successful highest bidder yet the bank was getting more amount as offered by the appellant compared to the sale bid. CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 67 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] c. Mere apprehension on the part of the litigant that an adverse might be passed by a forum which was already looking into the issue cannot be a ground to invoke the extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution. d. The High Court failed to consider that in view of the amended provision of Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act, the right of redemption of mortgage stood extinguished upon publication of the auction notice. If the Borrower is permitted to redeem the mortgage at the very last moment, more particularly even after payment of entire amount by the auction purchaser, then no auction would ever attain fi nality and indirectly, the borrower is given indefi nite time to repay the outstanding amount. e. The High Court failed to appreciate an important fact that the Bank had already confi rmed the sale of the secured asset to the appellant and as such the appellant had a vested right to the secured asset. Once the sale was confi rmed, the Bank in accordance with Rule 9(2) read with Rule 9(6) of the Security Interest (Enforcement) Rules, 2002, (“Rules of 2002”) was under a legal obligation to issue a sale certifi cate to the appellant. The Bank could not have consented before the High Court to the borrowers’ plea of redemption. f. The High Court committed a serious error of law in considering the equities in favour of the borrowers unmindful of the fact that equity follows the law. g. In the last, Mr. Rohatgi submitted that his client is ready and willing to make good the entire amount of Rs.