A be lacking in bona fides or in pursuance of a conspiracy, would be an act in the discharge of his official duty, making the case come within the parameters of Section 197(1) of the Code. Therefore, the prosecution ought to have obtained previous sanction. The Special Court as well as the High Court did not apply their mind to this aspect. [Para 47][41-G-H; 42-A] B 2.5 The FIR actually implicated only four persons, namely PW-16, A-3, A-4 and A-5. A-1 was not implicated in the FIR. It was only after a confession statement was made by PW-16 in the year 1998 that A-1 was roped in. The allegations against A-1 were that he got into a criminal conspiracy with the others to commit C these offences. But the Management of PSU refused to grant sanction for prosecuting A-3 and A-4, twice, on the ground that the decisions taken were in the realm of commercial wisdom of the Company. If according to the Management of the Company, the very same act of the co-conspirators fell in the realm of D commercial wisdom, it is inconceivable that the act of A-1, as part of the criminal conspiracy, fell outside the discharge of his public duty, so as to disentitle him for protection under Section 197(1) of the Code. In view thereof, the prosecution ought to have taken previous sanction in terms of Section 197(1) of the Code, for prosecuting A-1, for the offences under the IPC. [Paras E 52, 53][43-C-F] 3.1 A careful look at the anatomy of Section 306 of the Code shows that it provides a plethora of steps either in the alternative or in addition. Section 307 of the Code empowers the Court to which the commitment is made, to tender pardon. The power can F be exercised at any time after the commitment of the case but before is passed. [Paras 61, 62][48-G; 50-A] 3.1 Sub-section (1) of s. 5 of the PC Act empowers the Special Judge to take cognizance of offences without the accused being committed to him for trial. It also says that while trying the G accused persons, the Special Judge is obliged to follow the procedure prescribed by the Code for the trial of warrant cases by the Magistrates. The Special Judge under the PC Act, while trying offences, has a dual power of the Sessions Judge as well as H A. SRINIVASULU v. THE STATE REP. BY THE INSPECTOR OF 15 POLICE that of the Magistrate and that such a Special Judge conducts A the proceedings both prior to the filing of the charge sheet and for holding trial. In contrast, Section 5(2) of the PC Act does not speak about the stage at which pardon may be tendered by a Special Judge. This is perhaps in view of the express provisions of sub-section (1) of Section 5 which empowers the Special Judge B himself to take cognizance without the accused being committed to him for trial. But the second part of sub-section (2) of Section 5 of the PC Act creates a deeming fiction that the pardon tendered by the Special Judge shall be deemed to be a pardon tendered under Section 307 of the Code.