Till January 1984, the relations between the parties were normal. The acrimony in their relationship appears to have developed when the appellant was posted at Madras in January 1984 and the respondent did not join him, and preferred to stay initially with the parents of the appellant and thereafter with her son. Despite sincere eff orts having been made by the parties, the diff erences and disputes could not be resolved, which ultimately led the appellant to fi le Divorce proceedings in the District Court. 5. As stated hereinabove, the District Court granted the decree of divorce, as prayed for by the appellant however the Single Bench of the High Court reversed the same and the Division Bench of the High Court confi rmed the and passed by the Single Bench vide the impugned . 6. At the outset, it may be stated that both the parties are in the late evening of their lives, in as much as the appellant is aged about 87 years and the respondent is aged about 82 years. The Court considering the age of the parties, had expected them to sit together and explore the possibility of an amicable settlement, however the same having failed, the Court had no option but to hear the respective learned counsels for the parties on merits. 7. Mr. Vipin Gogia, the learned advocate appearing for the appellant submitted that the High Court had committed gross error in reversing the well-reasoned decree of divorce granted by the District Court, which had concluded that the respondent had treated the appellant with cruelty and had deserted the appellant without any reasonable cause as alleged in the divorce petition. According to him, the acts of the respondent in not joining the appellant when he was transferred to Madras, and thereafter not taking care of the appellant though he had a heart problem, and subsequently making complaints to the Air Force Authorities against the appellant to malign his image, were the acts of “Cruelty,” entitling the appellant to a decree of divorce, in view of the decision in case of Naveen Kohli vs. Neelu 836 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Kohli1. He alternatively submitted that the parties are staying separate since the time the appellant had fi led the Divorce petition in the District Court, and that the marriage having been irretrievably broken down, the Court should exercise the powers under Article 142 of the Constitution of India and grant a decree of divorce. In this regard, he has heavily relied upon the recent decision of the Constitution Bench in the case of Shilpa Sailesh vs. Varun Sreenivasan2. 8. Per contra, the learned advocate Ms. Madhurima Tatia for the respondent submitted that the respondent being an aged lady does not want to die with the stigma of a “Divorcee.” According to her, the respondent had made all eff orts to respect the sacred relationship between the parties all through out and is still ready to look after the appellant with the assistance of her son.