20. This Court undoubtedly has a narrow scope of interference in an granting bail while exercising its power of judicial review and will be invariably reluctant to interfere in such even if it has a diff erent opinion. The Courts often grapple with balancing the most precious right to liberty embodied in Article 21 of the Constitution on one hand and the right of the ly society, which is committed to the rule of law, on the other. The delicate balance in the case of long incarceration is drawn by releasing a suspect on bail on such terms and conditions that will ensure that a fair and free trial is not hampered. However, if it is found that an undertrial has attempted to misuse the concession of bail either by infl uencing the witnesses or tampering with the evidence or trying to fl ee from justice, such person can be committed to custody by withdrawing the concession of bail. 21. The Courts are under an onerous duty to ensure that the criminal justice system is vibrant and eff ective; perpetrators of the crime do not go unpunished; the witnesses are not under any threat or infl uence to prevent them from deposing truthfully and the victims of the crime get their voices heard at every stage of the proceedings. C.1. THE REMEDIES IN LAW: C.1.1 CANCELLATION OF BAIL 22. Where, on consideration of the facts and circumstances of a case, the Court is satisfi ed that there are cogent and overwhelming circumstances indicating misuse of concession of bail, it becomes imperative upon the Court in the interest of justice to withdraw such concession forthwith. 23. The expression “cogent and overwhelming circumstances for cancellation of bail” has been well-illustrated by this Court in a catena MUNILAKSHMI v. NARENDRA BABU & ANR. 1069 [SURYA KANT, J.] of decisions including Dolat Ram and Ors. v. State of Haryana4, which are: (i) Evasion or attempt to evade the due course of justice or abusing or attempt to abuse the concession of bail granted; (ii) Possibility of the accused to abscond; (iii) Development of supervening circumstances impeding upon the principles of fair trial; (iv) The link between the gravity of the off ence, the conduct of the accused, and the societal impact on the Court’s interference. 24. In Vipan Kumar Dhir v. State of Punjab and Anr.5, this Court explained the impact of supervening circumstances developing post the grant of bail, such as interference in the administration of justice, abuse of concession of bail, etc., which are aversive to a fair trial and would warrant cancellation of bail. 25. Applying these parameters to the facts and circumstances of the case in hand, we are satisfi ed that there is a prima facie proximity between the grant of bail to Respondent No.1 and an emboldening opportunity for him to win over the witnesses. Respondent No.1, therefore, does not deserve to enjoy the concession of bail at least until all the crucial witnesses are examined. The privilege of liberty extended to him, thus, deserves to be withdrawn for an eff ective, fair, just and unbiased conclusion of trial.