In exercise of this power, the Central Government has framed the Indian Administrative Service (Recruitment) Rules, 1954. Rule 7 of the IAS (Recruitment) Rules, 1954 provides that a competitive examination for recruitment to the Service shall be held at such intervals as the Central Government may, in consultation with the Commission, from time to time, determine and Rule 7(2) states that the examination shall be conducted by the Commission in accordance with such regulations as the Central Government may from time to time in consultation with the Commission and State Governments. In pursuance of Rule 7 of these Rules, Central Government, in consultation with the State Governments and the UPSC, DIVYA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 67 [K. V. VISWANATHAN, J.] has made the Indian Administrative Service (Appointment by Competitive Examination) Regulations, 1955. Rule 2(c) of the Regulations provides as under:- “examination’ means a combined competitive examination consisting of a preliminary examination and a main examination for recruitment to the Service held under sub-rule (1) of rule 7 of the Recruitment Rules and includes a combined competitive examination for recruitment to the Service and such other Service or Services as may be specifi ed by the Central Government from time to time;” 49. It will be seen that the “examination” includes a combined competitive examination for recruitment to the Service and such other Service or Services as may be specifi ed by the Central Government from time to time. In Regulation 3, it is provided that the examination shall be conducted by the Commission in the manner notifi ed by the Central Government from time to time and Regulation 4 mentions the conditions of eligibility. These Regulations, having been framed in 1955 and amended periodically do not mention anything about the EWS Category since EWS category was notifi ed for the fi rst time only in January, 2019. The CSE Rules are clearly traceable to Regulation 3 of the 1955 Regulations since they deal with the manner of the conduct of the examination by the Public Service Commission read with Article 73 of the Constitution of India which deals with the executive power of the Union. It is well settled that the executive power under Article 73 is co-extensive with the legislative power and that the CSE Rules are traceable to Article 73 as held in Mohan Kumar Singhania and Others vs. Union of India and Others1992 Supp (1) SCC 594. The CSE Rules do not in any manner supplant any of the provisions of the All India Service Act or the IAS Recruitment Rules or the IAS (Appointment by Competitive Examination) Regulations. They only supplement them. While the manner of conduct of examinations is clearly traceable to Regulation 3, it is untenable to say that since Regulation 4 in the conditions of eligibility does not prescribe EWS category and EWS certifi cation and hence they do not qualify as part of eligibility. The EWS category itself came in 2019.If this contention was to be right, then there could be no EWS category at all in CSE-2022.