Thereafter, the State of Assam has protected the livelihood of the Rural Health Practitioners D by absorbing them as Community Health Professionals under the ‘2015 Act’. Thus, the future of Rural Health Practitioners has been protected by the State of Assam as they have been employed as Community Health Professional in the State. E ii. That the Central Act i.e., IMC Act, 1956, is relatable to Entry 66 of List I of Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. It is an exhaustive legislation covering all aspects of opening of new or higher courses of medicine, teaching and training, recognition of medical qualification, registration of medical practitioner, eligibility criteria for registration in State Medical F Register and practice of modern scientific medicine. Thus, the State Legislature is denuded of the power to make any law as the field is already occupied by the Central Act. iii. That Section 15(1) of the Central Act prescribes minimum qualification for registration in the State Medical Register. G Thus, medical qualification included in the Schedule of the Central Act is the only recognised medical qualification on the basis of which a person’s name can be entered in the State Medical Register maintained by the State Medical Council. Further, Section 15(2)(b) of the Central Act makes H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 939 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] it unequivocally clear that only those persons who are A enrolled in the State Medical Register are entitled to practice medicine in any State. iv. That Section 2(d) of the State Act read with Section 15 thereof, and Schedule to the Assam Medical Council Act, 1999, (“AMC Act, 1999”, for the sake of convenience) B provide that recognised medical qualification for the purposes of registration in the State Medical Register shall mean only those medical qualifications which have been included in Schedule I to the Central Act of 1956. Thus, a combined reading of Section 2(d), Section 15 and Section C 31 of the State Act, read with the Schedule to the AMC Act, 1999, makes it unequivocally clear that even the State Legislature of Assam intended that only a person possessing recognised medical qualification under Schedule I of the Central Act, is entitled in law to be entered in the State Medical Register and is allowed to practice modern scientific D medicine. v. That the Assam Act of 2004, was also in direct conflict and inconsistent with the AMC Act, 1999. That Section 31 of the AMC Act, 1999, prohibits practice of modern scientific medicine by any person, except those registered under the E State Medical Register maintained by the Assam Medical Council. vi. Respondent No. 7 next submitted that the provisions of Central Act, 1956, will prevail over the Assam Act, 2004, as Article 246(2) of the Constitution provides that law made F by the State Legislature on any subject enumerated in List- III of Seventh Schedule of the Constitution is subject to the law made by the Parliament under Article 246(1).