[2023] 13 S.C.R. 473 : 2023 INSC 975 CASE DETAILS UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS V. DILIP PAUL (Civil Appeal No. 6190 of 2023) NOVEMBER 06, 2023 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI, J. B. PARDIWALA AND MANOJ MISRA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issues for consideration: In an appeal directed against the passed by the High Court by which it allowed the writ petition fi led by respondent and thereby set aside the of penalty of withholding of 50% of his pension for all times to come, imposed upon the respondent in connection with disciplinary proceedings initiated against him on allegations of a lady employee of sexual harassment at workplace, the following questions arose for consideration:- I. Whether the Central Complaints Committee constituted by the Competent authority to inquire into the fi rst complaint dated 30.08.2011 committed error in looking into the second complaint dated 18.09.2012 containing additional allegations against the respondent alongwith few other documents including anonymous complaints made against the respondent in October 2011; II. Whether the Central Complaints Committee erred in assuming the role of a prosecutor by putting questions to the witnesses in the course of departmental enquiry and thereby vitiating the disciplinary proceedings; and III. Whether the Central Complaints Committee could be said to have based its fi ndings on mere conjectures and surmises and the case on hand was one of “No Evidence” Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 – Standing No. 1 of 2006 473 474 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. (Grievances Redressal Mechanism: To Redress Grievances of Women/ Sexual Harassment at Work Place) – Clauses 9 and 10(i) – Sexual harassment at workplace – Lady employee lodged complaint against respondent and subsequently submitted another (second) complaint containing additional allegations against respondent alongwith few other documents including anonymous complaints made against the respondent – Central Complaint Committee, constituted to inquire into the fi rst complaint, also looked into the second complaint – High Court held that the Central Complaints Committee was constituted by the competent authority to only inquire into the fi rst complaint – Correctness of. Held: Irrespective of whether a prior complaint had already been made to any authority, a complaint regarding sexual harassment could be made under Clause 10(i) of the 2006 Standing to the complaints committee as-well – In the instant case, the second complaint had been promptly preferred right after the Central Complaints Committee was constituted and duly before its fi rst hearing – The High Court’s reasoning that as the Central Complaints Committee was constituted on the basis of the fi rst complaint, its scope of inquiry was restricted to its content, is completely erroneous inasmuch as the Central Complaints Committee owed its existence to the 2006 Standing and not to the complaint – Moreover, even if it is assumed for a moment that the complaints committee owed its existence to the complaint, Clause 10(i) of the 2006 Standing envisages fi ling of a complaint to the complaints committee i.e., it envisages a situation where after a complaints committee had come into existence, a complaint may be preferred to it – In sensitive matters such as sexual harassment & misconduct, there is an obligation to look into the entire evidence of the complainant that inspires confi dence – It would be quite preposterous to hold that the complainant was precluded from making the second complaint before the Central Complaints Committee merely because she had already made one complaint – In the context of the second complaint, the only relevant aspect that required consideration was whether any serious prejudice was caused to the respondent – On facts, no prejudice could be said to have been caused to the respondent even if one believes that he was not asked to plead guilty to the second complaint – High Court mechanically proceeded to set-aside UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 475 the of punishment imposed by the disciplinary authority on the ground that there was nothing to indicate that the respondent was asked whether he pleaded guilty to the charges imputed in the second complaint without applying the principle of “test of prejudice” [Paras 49, 50, 55, 56, 65 and 66] Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 – Standing No.