It leads to the discovery of the fact that a knife is concealed in the house of the informant to his knowledge, and if the knife is proved to have been used in the commission of the offence, the fact discovered is very relevant. But if to the statement C the words be added “with which I stabbed A.”, these words are inadmissible since they do not relate to the discovery of the knife in the house of the informant.” [Emphasis supplied] D 21. It could thus be seen that Section 27 of the Evidence Act requires that the fact discovered embraces the place from which the object is produced and the knowledge of the accused as to this, and the information given must relate distinctly to the said fact. The information as to past user, or the past history, of the object produced is not related to its discovery. The said view has been consistently followed by this Court E in a catena of cases. 22. This Court, in the case of Chandran v. The State of Tamil Nadu5, had an occasion to consider the evidence of recovery of incriminating articles in the absence of record of the statement of accused No. 1. In the said case also, no statement of accused No. 1 was recorded F under Section 27 of the Evidence Act leading to the recovery of jewels. The Court found that the Sessions Judge as well as the High Court had erred in holding that the jewels were recovered at the instance of accused No. 1 therein in pursuance to the confessional statement (Ex. P-27) recorded before PW-34 therein. It will be relevant to refer to the following G observations of this Court in the said case: “36. ……Thus the fact remains that no confessional statement of A-1 causing the recovery of these jewels was proved under Section 27, Evidence Act…..” H 5 (1978) 4 SCC 90 BOBY v. STATE OF KERALA [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 349 23. It is thus clear that this Court refused to rely on the recovery A of jewels since no confessional statement of the accused was proved under Section 27 of the Evidence Act. 24. It will also be relevant to refer to the following observations of this Court in the case of State of Karnataka v. David Rozario and Another6: B “5. ……This information which is otherwise admissible becomes inadmissible under Section 27 if the information did not come from a person in the custody of a police officer or did come from a person not in the custody of a police officer. The statement which is admissible under Section 27 is the one which is the information C leading to discovery. Thus, what is admissible being the information, the same has to be proved and not the opinion formed on it by the police officer. In other words, the exact information given by the accused while in custody which led to recovery of the articles has to be proved.