He submitted RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 617 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] that, the finding of the High Court that fragmentation will take place only A if there is a division of the site or division of the building with an element of exclusive ownership, is patently erroneous. He submitted that the Chandigarh Administration is taking a totally contradictory stand. It is submitted that, on one hand it is admitted by the Chandigarh Administration that it is not permissible to build apartments on a plot allotted to a single B dwelling unit and on the other hand, it is admitting documents for registration which, in effect, permit a single plot to be fragmented into three apartments. 27. Shri Ranjit Kumar submitted that Chandigarh has been included in the Tentative United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural C Organization (UNESCO) World Heritage List due to its outstanding universal value, and the same needs to be maintained by prohibiting haphazard developments which will take away its distinct character. 28. Shri Kapil Sibal also supported the contention as raised on behalf of the appellants. He submitted that rampant developments are D being permitted while expanding urban areas without taking into consideration its impact on environment. He submitted that when such developments are permitted, no studies are conducted to find out as to whether the necessary infrastructure like water, sewage, roads etc. exists. He submitted that even in the CMP-2031, it has been recommended that an Effective Environment Management Plan has to E be devised for the entire region including Chandigarh, which includes the environmental strategy, monitoring regulation, institutional capacity building and economic incentives. It is submitted that though such a recommendation is made in the CMP-2031, the Chandigarh Administration is permitting construction of single dwelling units into F apartments. He submitted that this is a fit case wherein this Court should exercise its powers under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, and direct that Environmental Impact Assessment (for short, “EIA”) is to be mandatorily carried out before permitting expansion of urban areas. 29. All the learned counsel therefore submitted that the impugned of the High Court needs to be set aside and a mandamus G needs to be issued to the respondents restraining them from permitting construction of apartments on single dwelling units. They further submitted that a direction also needs to be issued to the Chandigarh Administration to take action against the persons, who, in contravention of the Rules, are constructing apartments on single dwelling units. H 618 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A IV. SUBMISSIONS OF RESPONDENTS: 30. Shri Ajay Tewari, on the contrary, submitted that the apprehension as raised by the appellants are totally unwarranted. It is submitted that the CMP-2031 duly takes care of the environmental aspects so as to ensure that the present character of the city on its B greenness is not compromised. He submitted that the CMP-2031 would reveal that the growth of population in Chandigarh as per the 2011 Census is less than the predicted growth.