The Act came into force on September 10, 2018. Its objectives are the prevention and control of the spread of HIV and AIDS and the reinforcement of legal and human rights of HIV infected persons and those aff ected by AIDS. It protects the rights of healthcare providers as well. 86. The HIV Act addresses stigma and discrimination68 (Section 3); and aims at the creation of an environment enabling or enhancing access 68 Section 2 (d) (b) defi nes discrimination as something where a person “denies or withholds any benefi t, opportunity or advantage from any person or category of persons, based on one or more HIV-related ground” Section 3, inter alia, states that: “3. No person shall discriminate against the protected person on any ground including any of the following, namely:— (a) the denial of, or termination from, employment or occupation, unless, in the case of termination, the person, who is otherwise qualifi ed, is furnished with— (i) a copy of the written assessment of a qualifi ed and independent healthcare provider competent to do so that such protected person poses a signifi cant risk of transmission of HIV to other person in the workplace, or is unfi t to perform the duties of the job; and Prohibition of discrimination. (ii) a copy of a written statement by the employer stating the nature and extent of administrative or fi nancial hardship for not providing him reasonable accommodation; (b) the unfair treatment in, or in relation to, employment or occupation;…” 658 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. to services. Section 5 of the HIV Act elaborately imposes obligations upon persons to seek informed consent of concerned persons, before HIV related testing or procedures are undertaken, and before any line of medical treatment is to be given. Other provisions enabling access to diagnostic facilities related to Anti-Retroviral Therapy (ART) and opportunistic infection management for people living with HIV and AIDS have been made. Further, the HIV Act provides for a grievance redressal mechanism in the form of an Ombudsman at the state level and a Complaints Offi cer at the establishment level for providing speedy redressal. Section 34 of the HIV Act imposes obligations upon courts to anonymise the name of the individual concerned aff ected by HIV positive or AIDS, and also expedite legal proceedings. 87. This court is conscious of the fact that the provisions of the HIV Act cannot be applied to the facts of this case. Yet, it enacts standards and imposes obligations upon several authorities, including the justice delivery system, to take specifi ed measures to ease and mitigate the hardships and barriers which HIV or AIDS aff ected persons, would ordinarily face. In the light of its provisions, this court proposes its eff ective implementation, through operative directions to be issued hereafter. Future care 88. The HIV positive condition is such that it can lead to slow and debilitating results. The steady weakening and degenerative form of the condition has been described as follows69: “Acute infection An HIV-positive person may not have many serious symptoms during this stage, but there are usually large quantities of virus in their blood as the virus reproduces rapidly.