D 8.Per Contra, learned counsel for the respondents submitted that there are two necessary ingredients which need to be proved on strict parameters; first the deceased being a ‘bonafide passenger’ and second being the occurrence of an ‘untoward incident’. As per the findings concurrently recorded by the Claims Tribunal and High Court, those E ingredients have not been found proved, therefore the present appeal may be dismissed. 9.After having heard learned counsel for the parties and on perusal of provisions of the Railways Act, in particular Chapter XIII which deals with the liability of Railway Administration for death and injury to F passengers due to accidents. Section 123 (c) defines “untoward incident”. As per clause (2), the accidental falling of any passenger from a train carrying passengers would be an untoward incident. As per Section 124A, the Railway Administration is liable to pay compensation on account of untoward incident. When in the course of working of railway, an untoward G incident occurs then whether or not there has been any wrongful act, neglect or default on the part of the Railway Administration as such, would entitle a passenger who has been injured or died. The claim can be maintained to recover the damages, and notwithstanding anything 1 (2019) 3 SCC 572 H 2 (2019) 3 SCC 410 KAMUKAYI & ORS. v. UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. 405 [J. K. MAHESHWARI, J.] contained in any other law the Railway is liable to pay compensation as A prescribed for such untoward incident. By the explanation of the said Section clarifying about ‘passenger’, it would include a person who has purchased a valid ticket for travelling by a train carrying passengers on any date or a valid platform ticket and becomes a victim of an untoward incident. B 10.This court in the case of Rina Devi (Supra) has explained the burden of proof when body of a passenger is found on railway premises. While analysing the said issue, this Court has considered the judgement of Madhya Pradesh High Court in Raj Kumari v. Union of India3 and the judgements of Delhi High Court in Gurcharan Singh v. Union of C India4, Andhra Pradesh High Court in Jetty Naga Lakshmi Parvathi vs. Union of India5 and also considered the judgement of this Court in Kamrunnissa vs. Union of India6 and in para 29 concluded as thus- “We thus hold that mere presence of a body on the railway premises will not be conclusive to hold that injured or deceased was a bona D fide passenger for which claim for compensation could be maintained. However, mere absence of ticket with such injured or deceased will not negative the claim that he was a bona fide passenger. Initial burden will be on the claimant which can be discharged by filing an affidavit of the relevant facts and burden will then shift on the Railways and the issuecanbedecidedonthe E factsshownortheattending circumstances. This will have to be dealt with from case to case on the basis of facts found.