e. The offi cer responsible for the negligence would be liable to suff er and not public interest through the State. The High Court felt inclined to take a pragmatic view since the negligence therein did not b on callousness. 32. Given these reasons, we do not consider discretion to have been exercised by the High Court in an arbitrary manner. The under challenge had to be a clearly wrong so as to be liable for interference, which it is not. 33. It is now time to distinguish the two decisions on which Mr. Sharma heavily relied on. 34. Balwant Singh (supra) arose out of a landlord-tenant dispute. Our thought process need not be guided by the law laid down on what would constitute ‘suffi cient cause’ in a dispute between private parties to a case where the Central Government is a party. 35. According to Mr. Sharma, University of Delhi (supra) is a decision by a larger Bench and, therefore, binding on us. This Court, while deciding University of Delhi (supra), was seized of a situation where even if the delay were to be condoned, it would cause grave prejudice to the respondent Delhi Metro Rail Corporation at the instance of the casual approach of the appellant University. This Court, on the argument of non-availability of the Vice Chancellor for granting approval to fi le the appeal, and other reasons put forth in the matter, could not conclude that there was fulfi lment of suffi cient cause for condonation of delay; hence, the refusal to condone the delay. The decision really turns on the facts before this Court because of the prejudice factor involved. SHEO RAJ SINGH (DECEASED) THROUGH LRS. 759 & ORS. V. UNION OF INDIA & ANR. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 36. We can also profi tably refer to Koting Lamkang (supra), cited by Mr. Sen, where the same Bench of three Hon’ble Judges of this Court which decided University of Delhi (supra) was of the view that the impersonal nature of the State’s functioning should be given due regard, while ensuring that individual defaults are not nit-picked at the cost of collective interest. The relevant paragraphs read as follows: “7. But while concluding as above, it was necessary for the Court to also be conscious of the bureaucratic delay and the slow pace in reaching a government decision and the routine way of deciding whether the State should prefer an appeal against a adverse to it. Even while observing that the law of limitation would harshly aff ect the party, the Court felt that the delay in the appeal fi led by the State, should not be condoned. 8. Regard should be had in similar such circumstances to the impersonal nature of the Government’s functioning where individual offi cers may fail to act responsibly. This in turn, would result in injustice to the institutional interest of the State. If the appeal fi led by the State are lost for individual default, those who are at fault, will not usually be individually aff ected.” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 37.