Such a direction is impossible to be implemented. [Para 50][630-B-G] 1.4 If such a direction is continued, rather than avoiding man-animal conflict, it would intensify the same. As observed in the said guilelines, the requirement of declaring ESZs is not to G hamper day to day activities of the citizens but is meant to protect the precious forests/Protected Areas from any negative impact, and to refine the environment around the Protected Areas. [Para 51][630-G-H] H 604 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 1.5 The necessity to have ESZs is to provide a buffer zone around the Protected Areas. The rights of the villagers residing in the Protected Areas are required to be settled in accordance with the provisions contained in the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972 and such villagers are rehabilitated outside the Protected Areas. However, no such settlement of rights is available to the B villagers residing in the ESZs areas. As stated in the said Guidelines, the purpose of declaring ESZs is not to hamper the day to day activities of the citizens. If the direction as issued is continued, it would certainly hamper the day to day activities of the citizens residing in ESZs. As such, the said direction needs C to be modified. [Para 52][631-A-C] 1.6 Insofar as direction in paragraph 56.1 of the dated 3 rd June 2022 is concerned, a perusal of various s would reveal that this Court has not directed any minimum area from the demarcated boundary of such Protected Areas. The area to D be declared as ESZ cannot be uniform and would be Protected Area specific. In some cases, it may be 10 kilometres on one side and 500 meters on the other side. In certain cases, it may not be possible to have a uniform minimum area by virtue of inter- state boundaries or a sea or a river beyond one side of the Protected Area. In any case, a detailed procedure is required to E be followed as prescribed under Rule 5 of the 1986 Rules. Once such a notification is issued after following the procedure prescribed under the Environment (Protection) Rules 1986, the ESZs would have to be as per the said notification. [Para 55][631- D-F] F 1.7 As required under sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 of the 1986 Rules, before any final notification is issued, a draft notification is required to be published in the Official Gazette and in such other manner as the Central Government may deem necessary from time to time. Any person interested in filing any objection to such G a draft notification is entitled to file objection within a period of 60 days from the date of publication of the draft notification in the Official Gazette. The Central Government can be directed to give a wide publicity to the draft notification so that all persons interested have knowledge about issuance of such draft notification. [Para 56][631-G-H; 632-A] H IN RE: T.N. GODAVARMAN THIRUMULPAD v. UNION OF 605 INDIA AND OTHERS 1.8 After following the said procedure, the matter is placed A before the Expert Committee consisting of 13 organizations having expertise in the relative field.