9. Enterprising Proportionate C a p i t a l Acquisition of a Enterprises lease rent paid expenditure leasehold right to vs. Deputy by mining lessee extract minerals. Commissioner for acquiring of Income Tax, leasehold right (2007) 293 ITR for extracting 437 (SC). minerals from mineral bearing land. 10. M/s Gotan Lime Royalty paid by R e v e n u e That the lease was Syndicate vs. the assessee per expenditure for excavation of Commissioner annum in lieu of limestone alone and of Income Tax, a mining lease/ no other rights were (1966) 59 ITR 718 rights to excavate created in immovable (SC). limestone in a property. That the certain area. royalty paid was not a payment for securing enduring advantage but was a payment in to obtain raw material and hence, was in the nature of a revenue expenditure. 11. Commissioner Compensation R e v e n u e That the assessee had of Income Tax received by receipt innumerable agencies vs. Best and Co. the assessee in diff erent lines and (Pvt.) Ltd. (1966) on account of had given up only 60 ITR 11 (SC). cancellation of one one, to continue of its agencies. business in other lines. Loss of agency was in the normal course of business and a part of normal business, therefore, the amount received as compensation was revenue in nature. 438 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 12. Travancore Sugars Payment of 20% R e v e n u e That the payment and Chemicals Ltd. of the annual net expenditure was to be made for vs. Commissioner profits subject to an indefinite period of Income-tax, a maximum of and had no limitation (1966) 62 ITR 566 Rs.40,000/- which of time attached to (SC). was to be paid to it; The payment was the Government related to the annual by the assessee, profi ts which fl owed in addition to a from the trading one-time cash activities of the consideration, on appellant-company taking over three and had no relation undertakings run to the capital value of by the Government the assets. of Travancore. 13. Commissioner Contribution R e v e n u e That the assessee did of Income Tax, payable by the expenditure not become entitled, Bombay City I vs. assessee at the rate even for the period of CIBA India Ltd., of 6% of the net the agreement to the (1968) 69 ITR 692 selling price, to the patents and trademark (SC). Swiss Company, of the Swiss on receiving the Company. That the formula, scientifi c assessee merely had data, working rules a licence to trade and and prescriptions access to the patents pertaining to the and trademark of the manufacturing Swiss Company for and processing the limited period of products of the agreement. discovered and That the assessee developed in the did not acquire any Swiss Company’s asset or advantage of laboratories. enduring nature. C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 439 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 14. Jabbar (M.A.) vs. Payment made for R e v e n u e That the lease was for Commissioner a short term lease expenditure a short period and the of Income Tax, of eleven months expenditure incurred Andhra Pradesh, for quarrying and by the assessee was (1968) 68 ITR 493 to carry away, not related to the (SC).