and thereby violates Articles 14 and 19 and, if so, to what A effect? (vi) In the event that Section 26(2) is held to permit demonetization, does it suffer from excessive delegation of legislative power thereby rendering it ultra vires the Constitution; B (vii) What is the scope of judicial review in matters relating to fiscal and economic policy of the Government; (viii) Whether a petition by a political party on the issues raised is maintainable under Article 32; and C (ix) Whether District Co-operative Banks have been discriminated against by excluding them from accepting deposits and exchanging demonetized notes.” Keeping in view the general public importance and the far-reaching implications which the answers to the questions may have, we consider D it proper to direct that the matters be placed before the larger Bench of five Judges for an authoritative pronouncement. The Registry shall accordingly place the papers before Hon’ble the Chief Justice for constituting an appropriate Bench.” 5. His Lordship,Gavai, J. has reframed the questions referred to E this Constitution Bench and culled out six questions, which have been answered in the erudite proposed by him. My views on each of such questions, as contrasted with those of His Lordship’s have been expressed in a tabular form hereinunder, for easy reference. F G H 148 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A B C D E F G H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 149 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] A B C D E F G H 150 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A B C D E F G H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 151 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] A B C D E F G H 152 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A B C D The reasons for the aforesaid conclusions shall now be discussed. Controversy in these cases: 6. Practices such as hoarding “black” money, counterfeiting, etc., when coupled with corruption, are eating into the vitals of our society E and economy. Any measure intended to strike at such practices, and thereby eliminate off shoots thereof, such as, terror funding, drug trafficking, emergence of a parallel economy, money laundering including Havala transactions, must be commended. Such measures are necessary to sanitize the economy and society, and enable it to recover from the plague caused by the evils listed hereinabove. Therefore, it cannot be F denied that demonetisation in the instant case was a well-intentioned proposal. However, in my separate opinion I shall proceed to legalistically examine whether demonetisation, as well-intentioned as it may have been, was carried out in accordance with the procedure established under law. G 6.1 The controversy in these cases revolves around the exercise of power by the Central Government under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. Sub- section (1) of Section 26 of the Act provides that every bank note shall be a legal tender as per the amount expressed therein and shall be guaranteed by the Central Government.