The NCDRC also set aside the award of compensation of Rs. 1 lakh. 2.1 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned and passed by the NCDRC awarding Rs. 12,60,000/- only instead F of Rs. 29,17,500/- i.e., awarding depreciated value and not the reinstatement value, the original complainant has preferred the present appeal. 3. Shri Jay Savla, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the appellant herein – original complainant has vehemently submitted that the impugned and passed by the NCDRC awarding G depreciated value and not the reinstatement value is just contrary to Clause 9 of Section 2 of the insurance policy. 3.1 It is submitted that as such the surveyor assessed the loss on reinstatement basis at Rs. 29,17,500/-. It is submitted that therefore, as such the repudiation was rightly held to be improper. H 988 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 3.2 It is submitted that as such the complainant had purchased the new machinery in view of five machines being gutted in fire and therefore, the State Commission was absolutely justified in awarding Rs. 29,17,500/ - being reinstatement value on the basis of the surveyor report. 3.3 Relying upon Clause 9 of Section 2 of the policy, it is vehemently submitted that the complainant shall be entitled to the B reinstatement value. It is submitted that the NCDRC has wrongly reduced the claim to Rs. 12,60,000/- by mis-interpreting Clause 9 of Section 2 of the policy. It is submitted that as such the said clause 9 shall not have any relevance. It is submitted that it only gives option to the insurance company to reinstate or replace the damaged/destroyed property. It is submitted that as the company has not reinstated the property, the clause C itself was not applicable. 3.4 It is submitted that as observed and held by this Court in the case of Canara Bank Vs. United India Insurance Company Limited and Ors. ; 2020 (3) SCC 455, provisions of the policy must be read and interpreted in such a manner so as to give effect to the reasonable expectations of all the parties. It is submitted that it is further held that D coverage provisions should be interpreted broadly and if there is any ambiguity, the same should be resolved in favour of the insured. 3.5 Making the above submissions and relying upon the above decision, it is prayed to allow the present appeal by quashing and setting aside the impugned and passed by the NCDRC and to E restore the passed by the State Commission. 4. Present appeal is vehemently opposed by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the insurance company. 4.1 It is submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case and on true interpretation of Clause 9 of Section 2 of the insurance policy, the NCDRC has not committed any error in awarding the F depreciated value and not awarding the reinstatement value as claimed by the complainant. 4.2 It is submitted that as rightly observed by the NCDRC that the goods insured were to be replaced on “as is basis” i.e., if the machinery is an old machinery, it is to be replaced by an old machinery G and therefore, as the actual reinstatement has not been done by the complainant or by the insurance company and the money is to be paid to the insured on reinstatement basis, one has to find out the value of the machinery on replacement basis i.e., the value of the old machinery, which can be calculated only through deducting the value of the depreciation from the current value of the machinery.