Qualifications for appointment of President and member of District Commission.—(1) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as President, unless he is, or has been, or is qualified to be a District Judge. C (2) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as member unless he— xxx (c) is a person of ability, integrity and standing, and having special knowledge and professional experience of not less than fifteen D years in consumer affairs, law, public affairs, administration, economics, commerce, industry, finance, management, engineering, technology, public health or medicine. xxx 6. Procedure of appointment. E xxx (9) The Selection Committee shall determine its procedure for making its recommendation keeping in view the requirements of the State Commission or the District Commission and after taking F into account the suitability, record of past performance, integrity and adjudicatory experience. xxx 6.1 While considering the correctness of the impugned and passed by the High Court and while considering the constitutional G validity of Rule 3(2)(b) and Rule 4(2)(c) and Rule 6(9) of Rules, 2020, the earlier decisions of this Court, more particularly, the decision in the case of UPCPBA (supra) which was under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 is required to be referred to. The issue with respect to the conditions of eligibility for appointment of non-judicial members was one of the issues before this Court in the case of UPCPBA (supra). This H THE SECRETARY MINISTRY OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS v. DR. 313 MAHINDRA BHASKAR LIMAYE [M. R. SHAH, J.] Court earlier constituted a committee presided over by Mr. Justice Arijit A Pasayat, a former Judge of this Court to examine various issues including the conditions of eligibility for appointment of non-judicial members. The Committee in its interim report observed that the Fora constituted under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 do not function as effectively as expected due to a poor organizational set-up; grossly inadequate B infrastructure; absence of adequate and trained manpower and “lack of qualified members” in the adjudicating bodies. This Court in paragraphs 4 to 6 noted and observed as under: “4. The quality of presiding members, especially of non-judicial members at the State and district levels is poor. One of the reasons C is that the remuneration which is being paid to non-judicial members of consumer for a varies from State to State and is too meagre to attract qualified talent. Most of the non-judicial members are not even capable of writing or dictating small s. At certain places non-judicial members act in unison against the Presiding Officer, while passing s contrary to law, damaging the reputation of D the adjudicating body. The Presidents, as a result, prefer a situation where such non-judicial members absent themselves from work if only so that judicial work can be carried out by the Presiding Judge impartially and objectively. Many non-judicial members do not maintain punctuality and others attend to work sporadically E once or twice a week. The Committee has observed that the problem lies in — (i) absence of proper remuneration; (ii) appointment of former judicial officers who lack motivation and zeal; (iii) appointment of practising lawyers as Presiding Officers of District Fora; and (iv) political and bureaucratic interference in appointments.