in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution”. The title to the article “failure of constitutional machinery in the States” also throws light upon the nature of the situation contemplated by it. It means a situation where the government of the State, — and not one or a few functions of the Government — cannot be carried on in accordance with the Constitution. The inability or unfi tness aforesaid may arise either on account of the non- performance or malperformance of one or more functions of the Government or on account of abuse or misuse of any of the powers, duties and obligations of the Government. A Proclamation under Article 356(1) necessarily contemplates the removal of the Government of the State since it is found unable or unfi t to carry on the Government of the State in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. In our considered opinion, it is not possible to give eff ect to the argument of Shri Ram Jethmalani. Acceptance of such an argument would introduce the concept of two Governments in the same sphere — the Central Government exercising one or some of the powers of the State Government and the State Government performing the rest. Apart from its novelty, such a situation, in our opinion, does not promote the object underlying Article 356 nor is it practicable.” (emphasis supplied) 191. Both Justice Sawant and Justice Reddy held that when a Proclamation is issued, the dissolution of the Legislative Assembly of the State is not an automatic consequence and whether the assembly must be suspended or dissolved must depend on the circumstances. However, they disagreed on the issue of whether the removal of the Government is a necessary consequence of the exercise of power under Article 356. Justice Sawant held that it is not a necessary consequence. Justice Reddy held that it is a necessary consequence because otherwise it would lead to simultaneous governance by both the Union and the State Government in the same sphere. We agree with the view of Justice Reddy. The meaning of the phrase ‘all or any functions of the Government of the State” cannot be stretched to mean that the Union Government exercises some powers IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 119 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] of the state’s political executive while the remaining powers vest with the State Government. The suspension of the State Government is a necessary consequence of the exercise of the power under Article 356. 192. A Proclamation issued under Article 356 impacts federal principles on two levels. At the fi rst level, the federal nature of States is diluted because the Union is empowered to take over the executive and legislative powers of the State. During the operation of the Proclamation, the State loses its autonomy which is a core characteristic of a federal State. At the second level, a Proclamation under Article 356 can be issued by the President on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers without the approval of Parliament.