That provision merely required the intending spouses to declare and express to each other their willingness to take each other as spouses and symbolically garlanding each other and tying a “Thali”. The Court interpreted the procedure of declaration by the intending spouses “in the presence of relatives, friends or other persons”. The High Court was of the opinion that such marriages involved a public declaration: “We are very clear in our mind that even the protagonists of the Suyammariyathai/Seerthiruththa form of marriage did not visualize marriages being solemnized in secrecy. The very idea of performing marriages with celebration is to publicly declare the marital status of the parties. Even Thanthai Periyar used to conduct Suyamariyathai form of marriages publicly so that the world recognized the status of the couples. Hence, celebration of marriage is not antithetical to form of marriage. Therefore, we are of the opinion that a marriage conducted in secrecy with few strangers around, be it Suyammariyathai form, will not amount to solemnization, as required under Section 7 & 7-A of the Hindu Marriage Act.” 7. This Court in “ S.Nagalingam vs. Shivgami” (2001) 7 SCC 487, had upheld Section 7A inserted in the Tamil Nadu Amendment Act, declaring as follows: “Section 7-A applies to any marriage between two Hindus solemnized in the presence of relatives, friends or other persons. The main thrust of this provision is that the presence of a priest is not necessary for the performance of a valid marriage. Parties can enter into a marriage in the presence of relatives or friends or other persons and each ILAVARASAN v. THE SUPERITENDENT OF POLICE & 329 ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] party to the marriage should declare in the language understood by the parties that each takes the other to be his wife or, as the case may be, her husband, and the marriage would be completed by a simple ceremony requiring the parties to the marriage to garland each other or put a ring upon any fi nger of the other or tie a thali. Any of these ceremonies, namely, garlanding each other or putting a ring upon any fi nger of the other or tying a thali would be suffi cient to complete a valid marriage. Sub-section (2)(a) of Section 7-A, specifi cally says that notwithstanding anything contained in Section 7, all marriages to which this provision applies and solemnized after the commencement of the Hindu Marriage (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1967, shall be good and valid in law. Sub-section (2) (b) further says that notwithstanding anything contained in Section 7 or in any text, rule or interpretation of Hindu law or any custom or usage as part of that law in force immediately before the commencement of the Hindu Marriage (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1967, or in any other law in force immediately before such commencement or in any , decree or of any court, all marriages to which this section applies solemnized at any time before such commencement, shall be deemed to have been valid.