635-36) “10. It is true that till recently the Constitution did not expressly refer to the existence of political parties. But their existence is implicit in the nature of democratic form of Government which 102 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. our country has adopted. The use of a symbol, be it a donkey or an elephant, does give rise to a unifying eff ect amongst the people with a common political and economic programme and ultimately helps in the establishment of a Westminster type of democracy which we have adopted with a Cabinet responsible to the elected representatives of the people who constitute the Lower House. The political parties have to be there if the present system of Government should succeed and the chasm dividing the political parties should be so profound that a change of administration would in fact be a revolution disguised under a constitutional procedure. It is no doubt a paradox that while the country as a whole yields to no other in its corporate sense of unity and continuity, the working parts of its political system are so organised on party basis — in other words, “on systematised differences and unresolved confl icts”. That is the essence of our system and it facilitates the setting up of a Government by the majority. Although till recently the Constitution had not expressly referred to the existence of political parties, by the amendments made to it by the Constitution (Fifty-second Amendment) Act, 1985 there is now a clear recognition of the political parties by the Constitution. The Tenth Schedule to the Constitution which is added by the above Amending Act acknowledges the existence of political parties and sets out the circumstances when a member of Parliament or of the State Legislature would be deemed to have defected from his political party and would thereby be disqualifi ed for being a member of the House concerned. Hence it is diffi cult to say that the reference to recognition, registration, etc. of political parties by the Symbols is unauthorised and against the political system adopted by our country.” (emphasis supplied)” (emphasis supplied by us via bolding) 44. For reasons aforesaid, the entire election process, initiated pursuant to Notifi cation dated 02.08.2023 issued by the Administration of Union Territory of Ladakh, Election Department, UT Secretariat, Ladakh, under S.O.53 published vide No.Secy/Election/2023/290-301 dated 05.08.2023 stands set aside. A fresh Notifi cation shall be issued within seven days from today for elections to constitute the 5th Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council, UNION TERRITORY OF LADAKH v. JAMMU AND KASHMIR 103 NATIONAL CONFERENCE [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] Kargil. R1 is declared entitled to the exclusive allotment of the Plough symbol for candidates proposed to be put up by it. 45. Accordingly, this appeal stands dismissed with costs of Rs.1,00,000/- (Rupees One Lakh) to be deposited in the Supreme Court Advocates on Record Welfare Fund. The same be done within two weeks, and receipt evincing proof thereof be fi led with the Registry of this Court within a week thereafter.