A Corporate Debtor from third persons. The withdrawal of an application for CIRP by the applicant would not prevent any other financial creditor from taking recourse to a proceeding under IBC. The urgency to abide by the timelines for completion of the resolution process is not a reason to stifle the settlement.” B 38. This Court relying upon the in the case of Kamal K. Singh (supra) issued directions in paragraph 32 to the NCLT to take up the settlement application and decide the same in the light of observations made therein. The said paragraph is reproduced hereunder: “32. The application for settlement under Section 12A of the IBC C is pending before the Adjudicating Authority (NCLT). The NCLAT has stayed the constitution of the Committee of Creditors. The impugned is only an interim which does not call for interference. In an appeal under Section 62 of the IBC, there is no question of law which requires determination by this Court. The appeal is, accordingly, dismissed. The NCLT is directed to D take up the settlement application and decide the same in the light of the observations made above.” 39. One more aspect needs to be flagged here.From a perusal of the of the NCLT it appears that it was annoyed with the conduct of CD and its counsel. NCLT has recorded its displeasure and annoyance E at a couple of places referring to the conduct of the CD and its counsel before the NCLAT, and maybe for this reason, the NCLT passed the impugned ignoring the observation in the NCLAT dated 26.03.2021 which had specifically expressed that the Adjudicating Authority (NCLT) would pass s on the withdrawal application without standing on technicalities. F 40. Both the parties have relied upon paragraph 82 of the in the case of Swiss Ribbons (supra). According to the appellant, the NCLT ought to have exercised its inherent powers under Rule 11 of the NCLT Rules whereas for the intervenors it is submitted that this Court had observed that power under Rule 11 would be exercised after hearing G all concerned parties. It may be noted that at the time when the application for withdrawal of the proceedings was filed the CoC was not constituted as such there could not have been any other concerned parties except the OC, CD and IRP. It was only because of the delay caused by the NCLT in disposing of the applications under section 12A of IBC and H Regulation 30A of IBBI Regulations that large number of creditors filed ABHISHEK SINGH v. HUHTAMAKI PPL LTD. & ANR. 615 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] their claims. The inherent powers are to be invoked in to meet the A ends of justice which, in our opinion, the NCLT failed to invoke. 41. Regulation 30A of IBBI Regulations provide a complete mechanism for dealing with the applications filed under such provision. The issue raised by the IRP regarding its claim for expenses is well taken care of under the said provision. Various safeguards have been B provided in Regulation 30A ofIBBI Regulations to be fulfilled by the OC which apparently have been fulfilled as there is no complaint in that regard either by the IRP nor it is apparent from the impugned of the NCLT.