The statute then sets out the procedure to be followed upon impounding a document. This procedure ensures that stamp-duty is paid. After the payment of the appropriate amount under the appropriate description in Schedule I and the penalty (if any), the Stamp Act provides for the certifi cation of such payment by an endorsement by the appropriate authority. Once an instrument has been endorsed, it may be admitted into evidence, registered, acted upon or authenticated as if it had been duly stamped. b. The diff erence between inadmissibility and voidness 44. The admissibility of an instrument in evidence is distinct from its validity or enforceability in law. Section 2(g) of the Contract Act provides that an agreement not enforceable by law is said to be void. The admissibility of a particular document or oral testimony, on the other hand, refers to whether or not it can be introduced into evidence. P Ramanatha Aiyar’s The Law Lexicon defi nes ‘admissible’ thus: 42 Section 40(1)(b), Stamp Act 43 Section 40(3), Stamp Act IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1119 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] “Admissible Proper to be received, capable and worthy of being admitted. As applied to evidence, the term means that it is of such a character that the court or judge is bound to receive it, that is, allow it to be introduced in evidence”44 Many statutes have rules on the admissibility of documents, with the Indian Evidence Act 187245 being one of them. 45. An agreement can be void without its nature as a void agreement having an impact on whether it may be introduced in evidence. Similarly, an agreement can be valid but inadmissible in evidence. For instance, A and B may enter into an agreement by which B is restrained from undertaking a particular trade. This agreement would be void under Section 27 of the Contract Act46 but this does not impact its admissibility in evidence should A attempt to enforce it against B. The court will not enforce the agreement between the parties because it is void but the agreement is nonetheless admissible in evidence. 46. When an agreement is void, we are speaking of its enforceability in a court of law. When it is inadmissible, we are referring to whether the court may consider or rely upon it while adjudicating the case. This is the essence of the diff erence between voidness and admissibility. c. Section 35 of the Stamp Act renders a document inadmissible and not void 47. The majority in N N Global 2 (supra) summed up its holding in the following terms: 44 P Ramanatha Aiyar, The Law Lexicon (Second edition, 1997) 45 “Evidence Act” 46 “27. Agreement in restraint of trade void.— Every agreement by which any one is restrained from exercising a lawful profession, trade or business of any kind, is to that extent void. Exception 1.—Saving of agreement not to carry on business of which goodwill is sold.—One who sells the goodwill of a business may agree with the buyer to refrain from carrying on a similar business, within specifi ed local limits, so long as the buyer, or any person deriving title to the goodwill from him, carries on a like business therein: Provided that such limits appear to the Court reasonable, regard being had to the nature of the business.” 112 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R.