shall be maintainable unless the contractor furnishes to the satisfaction of the Executive Engineer of the work, a security deposit of a sum determined according to details given below and the sum so deposited shall, on the termination of the arbitration proceedings, be adjusted against the cost, if any, awarded by the Arbitrator against the claimant party and the balance remaining after such adjustment, in the absence of any such cost being awarded the whole of the sum will be refunded to him within one month from the date of the award: S r . Amount Claims Rate of Security Deposit No. i. For claims below Rs. 10,000/ 2% of amount claimed ii. For claims of Rs. 10,000/- & 5% of amount claimed above but below Rs. 1,00,000/- iii. For claims of Rs. 1,00,000/- and 7.5% of amount claimed” above (Emphasis supplied) 50. The relevant observations from the are as under: “All the questions and grounds sought to be raised by learned counsel for the petitioner are succinctly answered by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in M/s. ICOMM Tele Limited’s case (supra) itself while discussing S.K. Jain’s case (supra). It is obvious that a clear cut distinction has been made in respect to the type of pre-deposit clause. Discussion of the of S.K. Jain’s case (supra) makes it crystal clear that such like clauses, which provide for adjustment and refund to the party making the deposit after the passing of the award are materially diff erent from the clause which was under challenge in M/s. ICOMM Tele Limited’s case (supra). In case of M/s. ICOMM Tele Limited’s case (Supra), the objectionable clause 25(viii) was struck down fi nding the same to be arbitrary… It is in the said factual matrix that the observations regarding the clause of pre-deposit discouraging arbitration was made and the said clause was struck down while distinguishing the earlier passed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in S.K. Jain’s case (supra). LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 973 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] Learned counsel for the petitioner is unable to deny that Clause 33(7) of the Agreement in the present writ petitions is identical to Clause 25(7) of the Agreement, which was under consideration in S.K. Jain’s case (supra). Though learned senior counsel for the petitioner/s was at pains to submit that the ratio of M/s. ICOMM Tele Limited’s case (supra) suggests that any kind of pre-deposit has to be set aside as it necessarily leads to deterring a party to an arbitration from invoking this alternate dispute resolution system and in-fact renders the entire arbitral process ineff ective, however, keeping in view the specifi c discussion by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in its decision in M/s. ICOMM Tele Limited’s case (supra) of S.K. Jain’s case (supra), I do not fi nd any merit in the argument raised by learned counsel for the petitioner. The same is accordingly rejected as it is clear that this Court is bound by the of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in S.K.