These rights include possession of the land, handling water, sewer, electricity, power B connections, and other services related to the property, paying lease payments and other dues, making additions or modifications to the existing structure with required permissions, renting out the land, issuing receipts, and managing tenant-related matters. Furthermore, the Appellants granted authority for selling, disposing, or transferring the land, entering into C agreements, and receiving consideration on behalf of the principal. However, regardless of obtaining all the rights over the Subject Land, Respondent No. 2 does not appear to have ever informed the Revenue/ local authorities that he had purportedly ‘purchased’ the Subject Land through a GPA. The ownership of the land always remained in the name of the Appellants in the revenue record and no application for change of D mutation, etc. was moved by the 2nd Respondent. We are informed that at a very belated stage, after the execution of the alleged 1996 GPA, a portion of the Subject Land was acquired by the Government and compensation in this regard was paid to the Appellants. Respondent No. 2 neither objected to the payment of such compensation nor asserted his E title over the land, which he normally would have done had he possessed any rights over it. It would be incongrous to accept transfer of ownership rights in an immovable property merely on execution of a power of attorney. 21. We must keep in mind that the Subject Land is a prime property F situated in the National Capital Region. Even in the year 1996, it’s value must have been quite significant. The 2nd Respondent has so far not been able to show payment of any consideration to the Appellants in the year 1996. The original GPA, as we have noted on multiple ocassions, is conspicuous by its absence. A certified copy of this GPA is said to have been relied upon to execute the disputed sale deed. We fail to understand G or comprehend as to how a bona fide purchaser could pay crores of rupees as sale consideration to a person who neither possesses documents showing ownership and title nor has original GPA of the true owner(s) of the property being sold. The fact that the sale deed was allegedly executed without mentioning the PAN Number or without deducting H TDS, underlines the dubious nature of this transaction. We are equally PRATIBHA MANCHANDA & ANR. v. STATE OF HARYANA & 423 ANR. [SURYA KANT, J.] intrigued at the behaviour of the Registering Authorities and their A acceptance of the conveyance deed in the absence of these formalities being completed. The Sub-Registrar and his officials were obligated to verify the ownership rights before registration of the sale deed. As per the Appellants’ claim, the prior original sale deeds of the land are still in their possession. The fact that the vendee agreed to pay such massive B sums of money to Respondent No. 2 without obtaining the original records as of now casts a shadow over the legitimacy of the transaction.