Section 16 enshrines the Principle of Kompetenz-Kompetenz. It reads as follows: “16. Competence of arbitral tribunal to rule on its jurisdiction.— C (1) The arbitral tribunal may rule on its own jurisdiction, including ruling on any objections with respect to the existence or validity of the arbitration agreement, and for that purpose,— (a) an arbitration clause which forms part of a contract shall D be treated as an agreement independent of the other terms of the contract; and (b) a decision by the arbitral tribunal that the contract is null and void shall not entail ipso jure the invalidity of the arbitration clause. E (2) A plea that the arbitral tribunal does not have jurisdiction shall be raised not later than the submission of the statement of defence; however, a party shall not be precluded from raising such a plea merely because that he has appointed, or participated in the appointment of, an arbitrator. F (3) A plea that the arbitral tribunal is exceeding the scope of its authority shall be raised as soon as the matter alleged to be beyond the scope of its authority is raised during the arbitral proceedings. (4) The arbitral tribunal may, in either of the cases referred to G in sub-section (2) or sub-section (3), admit a later plea if it considers the delay justified. (5) The arbitral tribunal shall decide on a plea referred to in sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) and, where the arbitral tribunal takes a decision rejecting the plea, continue with the arbitral proceedings and make an arbitral award. H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 331 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] (6) A party aggrieved by such an arbitral award may make an A application for setting aside such an arbitral award in accordance with section 34.” H. THE SCHEME OF THE STAMP ACT 39. Section 2(6) defines the word ‘chargeable’ as follows: B “2(6) “Chargeable”. — ¯chargeable means, as applied to an instrument executed or first executed after the commencement of this Act, chargeable under this Act, and, as applied to any other instrument, chargeable under the law in force in India when such instrument was executed or, where several persons C executed the instrument at different times, first executed:” 40. Section 2(11) defines the words ‘duly stamped’ as follows: “2(11) “Duly stamped”. — duly stamped, as applied to an instrument, means that the instrument bears an adhesive or impressed stamp of not less than the proper amount and that D such stamp has been affixed or used in accordance with the law for the time being in force in India:” 41. Section 2(12) defines the word ‘executed’ with reference to instruments as meaning ‘signed’. 42. Section 2(14) defines the word ‘instrument’ as ‘including every E document, by which any right or liability is or purports to be created, transferred, limited, extended, extinguished or recorded’. 43. Section 3 deals with the instruments indicated therein being chargeable with duty, subject to what is provided by way of exemptions contained in Schedule I. F 44.