The Court held: “28. In the present case, the application for a certifi ed copy was sent from Delhi to Chennai on 2 September 2022, which was received on 5 September 2022, within the period of limitation of 30 days specifi ed in Section 61(2). This aspect lies in contrast to the facts as they obtained before this Court in the in V Nagarajan (supra)where even the application for obtaining the certifi ed copy was not fi led. In the present case, the appellant exercised due diligence and applied for a certifi ed copy upon pronouncement of the in terms of Rule 22(2) of the NLCAT Rules 2016. The certifi ed copy was provided to the appellant on 15 September 2022. Hence, the period of 10 days between 5 September 2022 and 15 September 2022 taken by the court to provide a certifi ed copy of the ought to be excluded when determining the period of limitation under Section 61(2) of the IBC. 29. In view of the above discussion, we have come to the conclusion that the NCLAT was in error in dismissing the appeal on the ground of limitation.” 16. From the above discussion of law, It is clear that the date on which the limitation begins to run is intrinsically linked to the date of pronouncement. The question that arises in the facts of the present case, therefore, is when is an deemed to be pronounced. The National Company Law Tribunal Rules, 20167provide guidance in this regard. Rule 7 “NCLT Rules” SANJAY PANDURANG KALATE v. VISTRA ITCL (INDIA) 321 LIMITED [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 89(1) of the NCLT Rules indicates that when NCLAT registry publishes its cause list, a distinction is drawn between cases listed for pronouncement of s and other cases. It states as follows: “89. Preparation and publication of daily cause list.— (1) The Registry shall prepare and publish on the notice board of the Registry before the closing of working hours on each working day the cause list for the next working day and subject to the directions of the President, listing of cases in the daily cause list shall be in the following of priority, unless otherwise ed by the concerned Bench; namely;- (a) cases for pronouncement of s; (b) cases for clarifi cation; (c) cases for admission; (d) cases for s or directions; (e) part-heard cases, latest part-heard having precedence; and (f) cases posted as per numerical or as directed by the Bench;” (emphasis supplied) 17. Further, Part XIX of the NCLAT Rules governs the ‘disposal of cases and pronouncement of s’. The following rules are relevant: “146. Disposal of Cases.- On receipt of an application, petition, appeal etc, the Tribunal, after giving the parties a reasonable opportunity of being heard, pass such s thereon as it thinks fi t: Provided that the Tribunal, after considering an appeal, may summarily dismiss the same, for reasons to be recorded, if the Tribunal is of opinion that there are no suffi cient grounds for proceedings therewith.