(4) There is also material contradiction in her statement to the effect that she had gone to her maternal uncle’s house to give F her examination whereas in her own statement she has stated that her mother told her to go to her maternal uncle’s house. (5) Her statement is also quite unnatural inasmuch as she has stated the fact that she rang her maternal uncle Kamal (PW- 2) informing him about the incident but did not inform her G paternal uncle or any of her neighbours or persons residing nearby. 33. It is also pertinent to note that a bare perusal of the case diary statement of Madhuri, Exhibit P-38, and the statement made by her in Court clearly indicates that there is omission and H 614 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A contradiction in regard to the alleged extra-judicial confession made by the accused to Madhuri (PW-4) as she has not stated anything about any such extra-judicial confession in her case diary statement. In fact, this contradiction and omission, deficiency and weakness in the statement of Madhuri (PW-4) has also been taken note of by the court below in paras 33 and 44 of its but B the court below has chosen to ignore the same on the ground that there is a mistake committed by the prosecutor in recording of her statement and the interest of justice demands that the omissions and contradictions be ignored. 34. The fact that her father had taken her mother forcibly to the C field and had told her that he would murder her mother but she did not inform this fact to either her paternal uncle who is her neighbour or any other neighbour residing nearby or any other person residing in the locality or her acquaintance except her maternal uncle who was residing 2 kms away also casts a shadow of doubt upon her D statement as this conduct is unnatural. The aforesaid omissions, contradictions and embellishments in the statement of Madhuri (PW-4) when read with the uncorroborated and unsupported unnatural statements made by her to the effect that her father told her on three occasions that he would murder her mother and after committing the crime again came back and confessed to the E commissions of the crime which confession was not disclosed by her in her case diary statement makes it clear that her statement cannot be said to be of unimpeachable and sterling quality and cannot be relied upon as it does not satisfy the tests laid down by the Supreme Court in the above referred s. F 35. In view of the aforesaid detailed analysis of the evidence of Madhuri (PW-4) we arrive at a conclusion that her statement is full of embellishments, exaggerations and material discrepancies and, therefore, we find ourselves unable to pick out the grain of truth from the falsehood of her statement.” G 13. In addition to above, the High Court noticed that neither younger sister of Madhuri (PW4) nor neighbours or members of the locality were produced as witnesses to lend assurance to the prosecution story.