3.3 It is submitted that once the award under Section 11 of the Act, 1894 was a consent award, the same could not have been set aside H 704 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A by the High Court subsequently on the ground that the compensation under the Act, 1894 has not been paid for number of years and that the land owner continued to be in possession of the land in question. It is submitted that as such it was the specific case on behalf of the appellants before the High Court that it was the original land owner who did not accept the compensation offered and despite consent award, he continued B to cultivate the land forcibly. It is submitted that even it was the specific case on behalf of the appellants before the High Court that possession of the land in question was taken over by drawing panchnama at the time of passing of the consent award. It is submitted that however the High Court has not believed taking over the possession considering the C affidavit filed by the Assistant Commissioner in which the Assistant Commissioner stated that the land owner continued to cultivate the land. It is submitted that however the High Court has not considered the entire affidavit on possession in its true perspective. It is submitted that as per the decision of this Court in the case of Indore Development Authority (Supra) taking over the possession of land / open land by drawing the D panchnama is one of the mode which is legally permissible. It is submitted that therefore the High Court has materially erred in setting aside the award dated 11.06.1993 under Section 11 of the Act, 1894 and also declaring that the acquisition with respect to the land in question is deemed to have lapsed under Section 24(2) of the Act, 2013. E 3.4 Ms. Deepanwita Priyanka, learned counsel appearing for the appellants – State of Gujarat and Others has further submitted that even otherwise in the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall not be any deemed lapse of acquisition under Section 24(2) of the Act, 2013. It is submitted that in the present case admittedly pursuant to the F consent award passed under Section 11 of the Act, 1894, the s were passed to pay the compensation to the land owner and the land owner was called upon to come to the office of Talati-cum-Mantri, Tarsava to accept the compensation. However, the land owner refused to accept the compensation as offered. It is submitted that once there G was a refusal on the part of the land owner to accept the compensation though offered, there shall not be any deemed lapse under Section 24(2) of the Act, 2013. 3.5 It is further submitted that as observed and held by this Court in the case of Indore Development Authority (Supra), only in a case where there is a lapse on the part of the Acquiring Body in not tendering H STATE OF GUJARAT AND ORS.