Reply of Shashi Bala was: “tum phikr mat karo may bhi tumhare saath hu, court tak E tumhara saath dungi”. The only other witness who deposed about such statements is PW-5 Zahir Ahmed. According to him, he heard the appellant telling PW-12 “Madam, apane isko marva diya ab mera kya hoga”. Both the witnesses have stated that they heard the cry “Mujhe bachao”. Surprisingly, PW-25, who claims to have seen the incident has not deposed about any such statements made by the appellant, PW-12 F and the deceased. PW-5 claims to have attended the funeral of the deceased. He admitted that as per the instructions of the father of the deceased, he met an inspector of the Crime Branch two months after the incident when his statement was recorded. Till that time, he did not report anything to the police about what he heard. PW-13 stated that G PW-6, PW-17 and certain other persons were present when he heard the accused making aforesaid statements. Both PW-6 and PW-17 did not support the prosecution. The others who were present according to PW-13 were not examined by the prosecution. Therefore, the version of the prosecution about the appellant and PW-12 making such statements does not inspire confidence. H ARVIND KUMAR v. STATE OF NCT, DELHI 721 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] 17.We will also examine the effect of such statements assuming A that the same were really made. These statements were allegedly made immediately after the incident. The statements do have a connection with the incident. The statements were allegedly made spontaneously. Therefore, the Courts have treated the statements as relevant by invoking the doctrine of res gestae incorporated in Section 6 of the Indian Evidence B Act. We have held that the theory of the prosecution that the appellant fired intentionally has not been established. The appellant was instructed by PW-12 to go to the deceased and to prevent him from continuing the use of the telephone. Therefore, he went near the deceased. It is the reaction or the action of the deceased which resulted in the SAF getting entangled with the chain attached to the appellant’s belt; which led to C the accidental fire from SAF. Therefore, the accused spontaneously reacted by telling PW-12 what she has got done from him. While implementing the direction issued by PW-12, the accidental fire took place and that is how the appellant became responsible for the death. It is in this context that the reaction of the appellant has to be understood. D By those words, he has blamed the PW-12. The statement attributed to PW-12 means that she would support the appellant before the Court by telling the truth. If the theory of accidental firing is accepted, the interpretation of the aforesaid statements as made by us becomes a possible interpretation which is consistent with normal human conduct. E 18.Section 6 of the Evidence Act and illustration(a) below Section 6 read thus: “6. Relevancy of facts forming part of same transaction.–– Facts which, though not in issue, are so connected with a fact in issue as to form part of the same transaction, are relevant, whether F they occurred at the same time and place or at different times and places.