By so invoking Section 73, the High Court came to the conclusion that the signatures found in the demand draft applications were that of A-7 and that the diversion of funds to M/ F s. Insecticides & Allied Chemicals is a circumstance which corroborated the same. 22. It was argued before the High Court on behalf of A-3 and A- 4 that BHEL Administration had refused to accord sanction to prosecute them for the offences under the PC Act and that therefore they cannot be held guilty of other offences. But this contention was rejected by the G High Court, on the ground that the decision taken by the Management of the Company cannot have a bearing upon the prosecution case. 23. On the basis of the above findings, the High Court dismissed the appeals and confirmed the conviction and sentence awarded by the Trial Court. H 32 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 24. Appearing on behalf of A-1, Shri Huzefa Ahmadi, learned senior counsel contended:- (i) That there was no evidence to connect A-1 with the commission of any of the offences and that none of the charges stood established beyond reasonable doubt; B (ii) That the substratum of the allegations was based entirely upon the statement of the approver (PW-16), but the same suffers from serious irregularities; (iii) That though no sanction was required to prosecute A-1 for the offences under the PC Act in view of his retirement C before the filing of the final report, a previous sanction was necessary under Section 197(1) of the Code, but the same was not obtained; and (iv) That the prosecution failed to establish the necessary ingredient of “obtaining any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage either for himself or for any other person” D for holding him guilty of the offences under Section 13(1)(d) of the PC Act. 25. Appearing on behalf of A-4, it was contended by Shri S.R. Raghunathan, learned counsel:- E (i) that A-4 played no role either in the preparation of tender or in choosing the tenderers; (ii) that what was constituted on 23.12.1992, after the tenderers were shortlisted, allegedly by PW-16 at the instance of A- 1, was only a Negotiation Committee; F (iii) that in the said Committee comprising of three members, namely A-3, A-4 and PW-16, he (A-4) was the one who was subordinate to the other two members and hence the logic applied to A-2 should have been extended to him also; (iv) that both the Special Court and the High Court overlooked G the evidence of PW-14 to the effect that no tender committee was constituted; (v) that no wrongful loss was caused to BHEL; (vi) that on the contrary, due to the role played by A-4, a bank guarantee to the tune of Rs.4.84 crores was obtained from H Entoma Hydro Systems; A. SRINIVASULU v. THE STATE REP. BY THE INSPECTOR OF 33 POLICE [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] (vii) that the bank guarantee was invoked and the entire amount A paid by BHEL towards mobilization advance was recovered; (viii) that as a matter of fact a sum of Rs.