Classifi cation, involves diff erentiation; further, this court has discussed how ‘under classifi cation’ per se does not warrant 151 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. invalidation. In contrast, in the latter segment on discriminatory impact (Part VI), the issue that this court was considering, was not reasonable classifi cation but the impact upon queer couples through neutral laws or regulations that they encounter in their everyday lives; the purpose of which, or even their substantive provisions, have nothing to do with matrimony. Its rather to confer other benefi ts – many of which are earned or accrued on account of individual skill and attainment. Yet the framing of some benefi ts or their intended benefi ciary – wherever articulated in terms of entitlement to families or spouses, tends to exclude from its ambit, queer couples and their lived realities. When such queer couples are entitled to benefi ts wherever they fulfi l other eligibility criteria; it is the disparate impact of these neutral laws in disbursal of entitlements or benefi ts, which is seen through the eff ect/impact lens. Therefore, the discussion on the constitutionality of the SMA is markedly diff erent from the section on discriminatory impact in certain points for queer persons, as they have no avenue for marriage like heterosexual persons. In the latter, the impact of various laws were pointed as a starting point for the State to take remedial action. 156. What is apparent, however, from our judicial diff erences and the manner in which we have articulated them – is that a certain question, of fair signifi cance, arises: whether the absence of law or a regulatory framework, or the failure of the State to enact law, amounts to discrimination that is protected131 against under Article 15? With respect, this was perhaps neither argued, nor answered by us; our opinion is limited to testing the provisions of the SMA for violation of fundamental rights and noticing that there are various cracks through which the queer community slip through, in other neutral laws, policies and frameworks, due to the manner in which they privilege marital/ spousal status (access to which, is not enabled/possible under existing law). Article 15(1) now, can be understood as permitting a classifi cation 131 Sexual orientation has been recognised under ‘sex’ in Article 15 by this court in Navtej Johar (supra) and does not merit elaboration, further than to say that any law or policy which directly, or indirectly, discriminates against a queer individual on the basis of their sexual orientation would fall foul of the Constitution, unless the law is a permissible classifi cation. SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1511 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] for the purpose of fashioning policies. Can the state’s omission to create a classifi cation, and further, its absence of a policy for a distinct group, which in the court’s opinion deserves favourable treatment, amount to violation of Article 15? There is no known jurisprudence or case law (yet) pointing to the absence of law being considered as discrimination as understood under Article 15.