The non-payment of stamp duty, being a temporary affl iction, cannot aff ect the validity of an arbitration agreement; and c. Mandating the courts at the Section 8 or Section 11 stage of the Arbitration Act to examine the issue of stamping will defeat the legislative purpose of minimal judicial interference enshrined in Section 5 of the Arbitration Act. 14. Mr Darius J Khambata, learned senior counsel, made the following submissions: a. The doctrine of separability recognizes that an arbitration agreement is a self-contained agreement, distinct from the underlying contract; b. An arbitration agreement contained within an underlying contract would be a “distinct matter” in terms of Section 5 of the Stamp Act, and would therefore continue to remain valid and enforceable notwithstanding the non-stamping or inadequate stamping of the contract; c. The majority in N N Global 2 (supra) failed to give full eff ect to the doctrine of separability by incorrectly holding that non- stamping of the underlying contract would ipso facto invalidate the arbitration agreement contained in such contract; d. The inadmissibility of a document on account of non-stamping or insuffi cient stamping does not result in the document being void, invalid, or non-existent in law; e. The majority in N N Global 2 (supra) disregarded the principle of competence-competence by mandating the referral court under Section 11 to examine an instrument for stamping; 110 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. f. At the pre-arbitral stage, the referral courts should leave all issues pertaining to the stamping for the decision of the arbitral tribunal; and g. Section 33 of the Stamp Act provides that a person can have authority by “consent of parties” to determine issues of stamping. Such authority necessarily includes an arbitral tribunal which is constituted by the consent of parties through an arbitration agreement. 15. Mr Gourab Banerjee, learned senior counsel, made the following submissions: a. The object of the legislature in enacting the Stamp Act is to protect public revenue and not to interfere with commercial life by invalidating instruments vital to the smooth fl ow of trade and commerce; b. Non-stamping does not render an instrument null and void. Such instrument, even if unstamped, exists in fact and law; c. Investigation into the aspects of stamping at the referral stage under Section 11(6A) of the Arbitration Act is contrary to the plain language and legislative intent of the said provision; and d. The adjudication of stamp duty is a time-consuming process. Mandating the court under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act to adjudicate on the issue of stamp duty would be against the goal of expeditious appointment of arbitrators contained under Section 11(13) of the Arbitration Act. 16. Mr Jayant Mehta, learner senior counsel, made the following submissions: a. Although compliance with the provisions of the Stamp Act is imperative, its non-compliance is curable and does not render an unstamped or insuffi ciently stamped instrument void or invalid; b. The majority view in N N Global 2 (supra) does not deal with Section 9 of the Arbitration Act creating a serious diffi culty in seeking interim measures of protection in both domestic as well as international arbitrations seated in India; and IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1105 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] c. A fi scal statute does not bar the entertainability of a lis, except where the statute specifi cally so prescribes.