(2) Not withstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898), off ences under this section in respect of a wireless telegraph shall, for the purposes of the said Code, be bailable and non-cognizable. (3) When any person is convicted of an off ence punishable under this section, the Court before which he is convicted may direct that 410 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. the telegraph in respect of which the off ence has been committed, or any part of such telegraph, be forfeited to Government.” “20A. Breach of condition of licence:– If the holder of a licence granted under section 4 contravenes any condition contained in his licence, he shall be punished with fi ne which may extend to one thousand rupees, and with a further fi ne which may extend to fi ve hundred rupees for every week during which the breach of the condition continues.” “21. Using unauthorized telegraphs:– If any person, knowing or having reason to believe that a telegraph has been established or is maintained or worked; in contravention of this Act, transmits or receives any message by such telegraph, or performs any service incidental thereto, or delivers any message for transmission by such telegraph or accepts delivery of any message sent thereby, he shall be punished with fi ne which may extend to fi fty rupees.” 12.1. The Telegraph Act is the parent legislation under which licences to establish, maintain or work a telegraph are issued. Section 4(1) of the Telegraph Act states that the Central Government shall have the exclusive privilege of establishing, maintaining and working telegraphs. The proviso to Section 4(1) indicates that the Central Government may grant a licence to any person to establish, maintain or work a telegraph within any part of India on such conditions and in consideration of such payment as it thinks fi t. 12.2. Section 8 of the Telegraph Act allows the Central Government to revoke at any time any licence granted under Section 4 thereof, on breach of any of the conditions therein contained or in default of payment of any consideration payable thereunder. 12.3. Section 20 of the Telegraph Act declares that any person who establishes, maintains or works a telegraph in contravention of the provisions of Section 4 shall be punished with imprisonment, which may extend to three years, or with fi ne, or with both. Section 20A and 21 deal with breach of conditions of licence and the consequences of using unauthorised telegraphs. 12.4. A bare perusal of the aforesaid provisions of the Telegraph Act would throw light onto the following aspects: C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 411 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] i. The Central Government may grant a licence to establish, maintain or work a telegraph, by granting a licence on payment of a licence fee, under the proviso to Section 4(1) of the Telegraph Act. ii. The Central Government may, under Section 8, revoke any licence issued under Section 4 of the Telegraph Act, on ground of default in payment of consideration.