A with an option to the assessee to avail the benefit of Composition Scheme. Therefore, either the assessee has to go for Composition Scheme or go for Determination of Value as per Rule 2A and the assessee has to pay service tax on the service element and can claim CENVAT Credit on the said amount only. B 9. In view of the above the impugned and passed by the CESTAT taking the contrary view is unsustainable by which it is held that the assessee is entitled to take the total contract value which includes both goods and services and remit service tax on the entire value as ‘works contract’ and the assessee is also entitled to avail the CENVAT Credit on the same. C 9.1 However, at the same time the service tax needs to be paid in terms of Rule 2A of Service Tax (Determination of Value) Rules, 2006 and since the assessee has not opted for composition scheme, the matter is to be remitted back for re-computation of the demands in terms of Rule 2A. As the issue with respect to the extended period of limitation D has also not been decided by CESTAT the matter is to be remanded to the CESTAT to decide the issue of limitation. 10. In view of the above and for the reason stated above, the present appeal succeeds. The impugned and passed by the CESTAT is hereby quashed and set aside and it is held that the E assessee is not entitled to take the total contract value which includes both goods and services and remit service tax on the value as works contract service and, in the process, also entitled to avail the CENVAT Credit on the entire amount. It is observed and held that the assessee has to pay the service tax on the value of services as per Rule 2A of the (Determination of Value) Rules, 2006 and thereafter to avail the CENVAT F Credit accordingly. However, it is also observed and held that demand for the period January 2007 to May 2007 is unsustainable. 10.1 In that view of the matter now the service tax needs to be computed in terms of Rule 2A of the(Determination of Value) Rules, 2006 and as the assessee has not opted for the composition scheme, the G matter is remitted back to the CESTAT for re-computation of the demands in terms of Rule 2A. As observed hereinabove the Tribunal has also not decided the issue of extended period of limitation. Therefore, while quashing and setting aside the impugned and passed by the CESTAT, H CC AND CE AND ST, NOIDA v. M/S INTERARCH BUILDING 1003 PRODUCTS PVT. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] the matter is remitted back to the CESTAT limited only to decide the A issue of limitation and re-computation of the demands in terms of Rule 2A. The aforesaid exercise be completed by the CESTAT on remand within a period of three months from the date of the present .