Adding technicalities disturbs the parties’ “autonomy of the will” (l’ autonomie de la volonti), i.e., their F wishes. [For a general discussion on this doctrine see Law and Practice of International Commercial Arbitration, Alan Redfern and Martin Hunter, Street & Maxwell, London, 1986 at pages 4 and 53]. 60. Technicalities like stamps, seals and even signatures are G red tape that have to be removed before the parties can get what they really want - an efficient, effective and potentially cheap resolution of their dispute. The autonomie de la volonti 67 Supra at Note 59; P. 274 68 (2008) 14 SCC 240 H 478 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A doctrine is enshrined in the policy objectives of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (“UNCITRAL”) Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration, 1985, on which our Arbitration Act is based. [See Preamble to the Act]. The courts must implement legislative intention. It would be improper and undesirable for the courts to add a number of B extra formalities not envisaged by the legislation. The courts directions should be to achieve the legislative intention.” [emphasis supplied] 80.8 Relying on the above case, in Trimex International FZE vs C Vedanta Aluminum Limited, India69, this Court held that the implementation of a contract cannot be affected merely because offer and acceptance was made via email. 80.9 In the context of the evolving law, it is important to observe that although an arbitration agreement is liable to stamp duty under the residuary entry, the technicality of stamping places hurdles in ensuring D efficiency and efficacy in arbitration proceedings. An arbitration agreement does not even mandatorily require signature for it to be valid as per Section 7 of the Arbitration Act, 1996. The Stamp Act, 1899 is rooted in the past and does not take into account the changing nature of transactions and enactments such as the Arbitration Act, 1996. This is E an aspect which would require the attention of the legislature. J. Doctrine of Separability 81. It appears that the Court in Garware(supra) rejected the concept of separability when it held: F “15. …..it is difficult to accede to the argument made by the learned counsel on behalf of the respondent that Section 16 makes it clear that an arbitration agreement has an independent existence of its own, and must be applied while deciding an application under Section 11 of the 1996 Act.” G 81.1. Historically, an arbitration agreement was treated as an accessory to the main contract70. Even if the main contract was found to be invalid or unenforceable, the arbitration agreement contained 69 2010 (1) SCALE 574 70 Gary B. Born, International Commercial Arbitration (3rd ed., Kluwer Law International H 2014) P. 380 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 479 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] therein was also considered void71. This diminished the effectiveness A of arbitration as a dispute resolution mechanism since it made the enforceability of arbitration agreements dependent on the validity of the underlying contract.