The in Dr. T.A. Quereshi(supra) was delivered by a two- Judge Bench while not taking note of a three-Judge Bench decision in Haji Aziz (supra),which has neither been disapproved nor distinguished. C Hence, this decision is per incuriamand not a binding precedent.Once again, the question of a confiscation proceeding being in rem was not brought to the notice of the Court. 25.2 Therefore, there cannot be a situation where an assessee carrying on an illegal business can claim deduction of expenses orlosses D incurred in the course of that business, while another assessee carrying on a legitimate one cannot seek deduction for loss incurred on account of either a confiscation or penalty. The interpretation of Section 37 of the Act given by the Court in Dr. T. A. Quereshi (supra) leads to a situation where the expenditure incurred in manufacturing something E illegal may not be allowable as a deduction in view of the Explanation 1,however, if upon seizure, the manufactured goodsare confiscated, in that case deduction will be allowable on commercial principles. This classification being artificial not borne out by statute, which mischief is sought to be clarified by the explanation, has no legal basis. Conclusion(s) F 26. On the abovesaid analysis, the following conclusions are arrived at: I. The word ‘any expenditure’ mentioned in Section 37 of the Act takes in its sweep loss occasioned in the course of G business, being incidental to it. II. As a consequence, any loss incurred by way of an expenditure by an assessee for any purpose which is an offence or which is prohibited by law is not deductible in terms of Explanation 1 to Section 37 of the Act. H THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX JAIPUR v. PRAKASH 133 CHAND LUNIA (D) THR. LRS. & ANR. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] III. Such an expenditure/lossincurred for any purpose which is A an offence shall not be deemed to have been incurred for the purpose of business or profession or incidental to it, and hence, no deduction can be made. IV. A penalty or a confiscation is a proceeding in rem, and therefore, a loss in pursuance to the same is not available B for deduction regardless of the nature of business, as a penalty or confiscation cannot be said to be incidental to any business. V. The decisions of this Court in Piara Singh (supra) and Dr. T.A. Quereshi (supra) do not lay down correct law in C light of the decision of this Court in Haji Aziz (supra) and the insertion of Explanation 1 to Section 37. 27. In view of the aforesaid discussion, I am inclined to hold that the appeal of the Revenue deserves to be allowed, though conscious of the fact that Section 115BBE of the Act may not have an application to D the case on hand being prospective in nature. Accordingly, the & dated 22.11.2016 passed in DBITA No. 96/2003 & DBITR No. 6/1996 by the High Court of Rajasthan at Jaipur stand set aside.