The CIT(A) also upheld the G of the AO. The Assessee preferred the appeal against the fresh passed by the CIT(A) before the ITAT. The ITAT, in the second round as well upheld the of the authorities below. A reference was made by the ITAT to the High Court with the following questions of law: H 92 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A (i) “Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal after construing and interpreting the provisions contained in section 69A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 was right in law, in holding that the assessee was the owner of the 144 silver bars found at premises no A 11 & 12 , Sector - VII, Noida and two silver bars found at premises of M/s B Lunia & Co Delhi and in sustaining addition of Rs.3,06,36,909/- being unexplained investment in the hands of the assessee under Section 69A of the Act? (ii) If the answer to the above question is in affirmative then, whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, C the Tribunal was right in law in distinguishing the ratio laid down by their Lordships of the Supreme Court in the case of Piara Singh v/s CIT, 124 ITR 41 and thereby not allowing the loss on account of confiscation of silver bars?” 2.3 While the reference was pending before the High Court, penalty D proceedings were initiated against the assessee. An under Section 271 (i) (c) of the Act came to be confirmed by both the CIT (A) and the ITAT. Accordingly, the assessee filed an appeal under Section 260A of the Act against the Penalty , before the High Court. The High Court while deciding both the cases together, qua the first question, E decided in favour of the Revenue and the rental premises of the assessee, the same is to be added to his income as a natural consequence. However, with regard to the second question, the High Court held that loss of confiscation by the DRI official of Customs Department is business loss. While holding the High Court has relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of CIT, Patiala vs. Piara Singh reported in 124 F ITR 41. The impugned and passed by the High Court is the subject matter of the present appeal. 3. Shri Balbir Singh, learned ASG has appeared on behalf of the Revenue and Shri Arijit Prasad, learned Senior Advocate has appeared on behalf of the assessee. G 3.1 Shri Balbir Singh, learned ASG appearing on behalf of the Revenue has vehemently submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case and while dealing with the relevant provisions of the Act, 1961, the High Court has materially erred in relying upon the decision of this Court in the case of Piara Singh (supra). It is submitted that as H such the AO, CIT(A) and ITAT have correctly distinguished the THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX JAIPUR v. PRAKASH 93 CHAND LUNIA (D) THR.