However, they have raised the complaint that further, apart from the direction to execute the gift, the condition, imposed to provide exclusive frontage for the said open space into the main road, is unsustainable in law. It is the complaint that the attempt to the third respondent is to gain entry into the property of the petitioner to make use E of the open space reserved, detrimental to the rights of the property owner. 153. The matter may be viewed in the following manner. In the facts in Pandit Chetram Vashishta (supra), it was held that the position of the developer, would be that of a trustee. It was so held in the absence F of a statutory mandate. Now, in this case, there is a statutory mandate to execute a gift deed. The question would arise as to what would be the nature of the rights of the donee, viz., the local authority. Would the donee become an absolute owner? Can the local authority transfer the land? Can the local authority build on the OSR area? The answer to all these questions is only in the negative. Unlike the donee, in the case of a G gift, the local authority cannot in anyway acquire the right as the absolute owner. Just as in the case of Pandit Chetram Vashishta (supra), where the developer would be a trustee, we would think that the Rule, if is to be upheld, in the conspectus of the law and bearing in mind the object, the transfer by way of a gift to the donee will be only for the purpose of H 1148 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A ensuring that the object of the law is attained, i.e., the property is maintained as OSR. The local authority, under the gift deed, would be a mere trustee. As trustee, it will be the obligation of the local authority to ensure that all such lands, set apart under the impugned Rules/ Regulations, are effectively maintained as such. In this regard, in the Open Space Act, 1906, a U.K. Law, Section 3 reads as follows: B “3 Transfer to local authority of spaces held by trustees for purposes of publicrecreation. (1) Where any land is held by trustees (not being trustees elected or appointed under any local or private Act of Parliament) upon C trust for the purposes of public recreation, the trustees may, in pursuance of a special resolution, transfer the land to any local authority by a free gift absolutely or for a limited term, and, if the local authority accept the gift, they shall hold the land on the trusts and subject to the conditions on and subject to which the trustees held the same, or on such other trusts and subject to such other D conditions (so that the land be appropriated to the purposes of public recreation) as may be agreed on between the trustees and the local authority with the approval of the Charity Commission. (2) Subject to the obligation of the land so transferred being used for the purposes ofpublic recreation, the local authority may hold E the land as and for the purposes of anopen space under this Act.” 154.