[2023] 11 S.C.R. 886 : 2023 INSC 765 CASE DETAILS MUKESH SINGH v. THE STATE (NCT OF DELHI) (Criminal Appeal No. 1554 of 2015) AUGUST 24, 2023 [M. M. SUNDRESH AND J. B. PARDIWALA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issues for consideration: (i) Whether the High Court committed any error in dismissing the appeal fi led by the appellant convict and thereby affi rming the and of conviction and sentence passed by the Trial Court for the alleged off ences? ; (ii) Whether an accused can decline to participate in the TIP on the ground that he was already shown to the eye witnesses prior to the conduct of the TIP and in such circumstances, the TIP would be nothing short of creating evidence against him? ; (iii) Can an accused decline to participate in the TIP that the investigating offi cer may propose to hold in the course of investigation on the ground that no person accused of any off ence shall be compelled to be a witness against himself? To put it in other words, can an accused decline to subject himself to the TIP on the ground that the same violates his fundamental right under Article 20(3) of the Constitution? ; (iv) To what extent the Court can draw an adverse inference against the accused for having refused to participate in the TIP? Whether by virtue of drawing such adverse inference, is it open for the Court to accept the substantive evidence of identifi cation before the Trial Court without any corroboration to such identifi cation? ; (v) What is the true purport of Section 54A of the CrPC? ; 886 MUKESH SINGH v. THE STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 887 (vi) Whether the Courts below were justifi ed in placing reliance on the discovery of weapon of off ence and the currency notes from the residence of the appellant convict as one of the incriminating circumstances against the appellant convict? Test Identifi cation Parade – Whether an accused can decline to participate in the TIP on the ground that he was already shown to the eye witnesses prior to the conduct of the TIP: Held: The accused while subjecting himself to the TIP does not produce any evidence or perform any evidentiary act – It may be a positive act and even a volitional act, but only to a limited extent, when the accused is brought to the place where the TIP is to be held – It is certainly not his evidentiary act – The accused concerned may have a legitimate ground to resist facing the TIP saying that the witnesses had a chance to see him either at the police station or in the Court, as the case may be, however, on such ground alone he cannot refuse to face the TIP – It is always open for the accused to raise any legal ground available to him relating to the legitimacy of the TIP or the evidentiary value of the same in the course of the trial – However, the accused cannot decline or refuse to join the TIP.