examination, the matter should be left for fi nal determination by the Arbitral Tribunal selected by the parties by consent. The underlying rationale being not to delay or defer and to discourage parties from using referral proceeding as a ruse to delay and obstruct. In such cases a full review by the courts at this stage would encroach on the jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal and violate the legislative scheme allocating jurisdiction between the courts and the Arbitral Tribunal. Centralisation of litigation with the Arbitral Tribunal as the primary and fi rst adjudicator is benefi cent as it helps in quicker and effi cient resolution of disputes.” (Emphasis supplied) 29. Following the general rule and the principle laid down in Vidya Drolia (supra), this Court has consistently been holding that the arbitral tribunal is the preferred fi rst authority to determine and decide all questions of non-arbitrability. In Pravin Electricals Private Limited v. Galaxy Infra and Engineering Private Limited reported in (2021) 5 SCC 671, Sanjiv Prakash v. Seema Kukreja and Others reported in (2021) 9 SCC 732 and Indian Oil Corporation Limited v. NCC Limited reported in (2023) 2 SCC 539, the parties were referred to arbitration, as the prima facie review in each of these cases on the objection of non- arbitrability was found to be inconclusive. Following the exception to the general principle that the court may not refer parties to arbitration when it is clear that the case is manifestly and ex facie non-arbitrable, in Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited and Another v. Nortel Networks India Private Limited reported in (2021) 5 SCC 738, Secunderabad Cantonment Board v. B. Ramachandraiah and Sons reported in (2021) 5 SCC 705 and B and T AG v. Ministry of Defence reported in 2023 SCC OnLine SC 657, arbitration was refused as the claims of the parties were demonstrably time-barred. 30. In the case on hand, we are not concerned with the issue relating to the arbitrability of the dispute. It is not even the case of the respondent that the dispute is ex facie non-arbitrable. The case put up by the respondent is that there is defi nitely an arbitrable dispute and the same should be referred to the arbitral tribunal, however, the petitioner should abide by Clause 55 of the Contract. 960 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 31. In the case on hand, we are concerned fi rst with the validity of the arbitration clause which provides for 7% pre-deposit of the total claim for the purpose of invoking arbitration and secondly, the discretion vested with the Principal Secretary/Secretary (Irrigation) to appoint a sole arbitrator. RE: ISSUE NOS. 1 AND 2 32. Before, we proceed to answer the issues framed by us, we must look into few decisions referred to by us as aforesaid. S.K. JAIN V. STATE OF HARYANA 33. In S.K. Jain (supra), the challenge was to an passed in a writ petition fi led by the appellant, wherein it had prayed to quash a memo directing it to deposit 7% of the claimed amount before the arbitral tribunal.