Having failed to challenge the earlier decision to have the re-evaluation of 13 candidates only and even having not applied for the re-evaluation at the relevant time though the exercise of re-evaluation was going on thereafter, it was C not open for the respondents to make a grievance subsequently that the re-evaluation of the marks of 13 candidates cannot be at their disadvantage. Once on re-evaluation, the marks are increased the respective candidates whose marks are increased will have to be placed at appropriate place in the merit list. Non-grant of seniority based on D revised marks, thus, would render the process of re-evaluation redundant.The candidates whose marks have been increased cannot be deprived of their position in the select list dated 30.01.2017 and on the correction of error, they were required to be given the benefit of notional seniority i.e., inter se seniority on the basis of merit. There was no fault on the part of the appellants. It was because of the wrong marking at E the relevant time they were deprived of the appointments and they were not placed in the merit list and as such was required to be corrected on the revision of the marks on re-evaluation. Therefore, the Special Committee was absolutely justified in taking the decision dated 01.10.2018 to accord the notional seniority in accordance with the revised marks to F candidates. The Division Bench of the High Court has materially erred in setting aside the conscious decision taken by the Special Committee to accord the notional seniority in accordance with the revised marks to candidates. 8. Now, so far as the decisions relied on behalf of the respondents G referred to hereinabove, shall not be applicable to the facts of the case on hand. In the case of K. Meghchandra Singh (supra)the issue under consideration was that whether while deciding the inter se seniority between promotees and direct recruits, seniority to direct recruits can be granted from the date on which vacancy arose/date of initiation of recruitment. In the present, case the appointment of appellants w.e.f. H 102 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 30.01.2017 has been upheld, which has not been challenged by the respondents. The grant of inter se seniority to appellants from 30.01.2017 is because the exercise of the re-evaluation was essentially a correction in the select list dated 30.01.2017. 9. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the B present appeals are allowed. The impugned (s) and (s) passed by the High Court are hereby quashed and set aside. The decision of the Special Committee dated 01.10.2018 is hereby restored and it is observed and held that the respective appellants herein shall be entitled to the notional seniority w.e.f. 30.01.2017 in accordance with the revised marks on re-evaluation. Present appeals are accordingly allowed. No C costs. Ankit Gyan Appeals allowed. (Assisted by : Abhishek Agnihotri and Aarsh Choudhary, LCRAs) D E F G H