3. The facts are that the assessee society was founded in the year 1921 by the legendary freedom fighter Lala Lajpat Rai during the G freedom struggle for the nation building, general awareness and welfare of the people. In 1928 the famous freedom fighter of Odhisha Shri Pt. Gopa Bandhu Dass made a Will of his property and his printing press which is managing the Oriya newspaper “Samaj”- for people’s welfare. H 1 dated 16.11.2021 in ITA No. 161/2021 PR. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX (EXEMPTIONS) DELHI V. 867 SERVANTS OF PEOPLE SOCIETY [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] The assessee was enjoying exemption under Section 11 of the Act but A the same was denied during the A.Y. 1973-74 and later allowed by the ITAT and affirmed by the High Court. The assessee was also earlier allowed exemption for three years i.e. 1990-91 to 1992-93 under Section 10(23C)(iv) of the Act. The assessee has established and is running B schools in the name of Balwant Rai Mehta Vidya Bhawan in Lajpat Nagar and in Greater Kailash in New Delhi and one Medical Centre in Lajpat Nagar and old age home in Dwarka in Delhi. The assessee is also building a hospital in the name of Gopa Bandhu Medical Research Centre in Odisha. The assessee was also allowed exemption under C Section 11(1) but the same has been denied during the A.Y. 2010-11 and 2011-12. The Assessee Officer denied the exemption invoking the proviso to Section 2(15) on the ground that the assessee is involved in trade, commerce or business as it manages and runs a printing press and a newspaper. The assessee argued that it was primarily a non-profit D institution involved in charitable activities and did not engage in any trade, commerce or business or any such activity. 4. The assessee approached the Appellate Commissioner who allowed its plea and directed that the income earned by it ought to enjoy E the benefit of exemption. The revenue carried the matter in appeal to the ITAT and the High Court, both unsuccessfully. As a consequence, it has approached this Court in appeal by the special leave. 5. It is urged on behalf of the revenue that the Appellate Commissioner and the Tribunal fell into error in granting the exemption F to the assessee. The Learned Additional Solicitor General Mr. Balbir Singh, points out that the ITAT followed the decision of the Delhi High Court in India Trade Promotion Organisation v. Director General of Income Tax (Exemption)2 and other decisions. It was urged that those decisions are no longer good law in view of the of this Court in G CIT v. Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority3,whereby the Court has held that activities which are in the nature oftrade, and carry on by 2 371 ITR (Del) 333 3 2022 SCC Online SC 1461 H 868 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A a trust established for general public utility, have to specify certain parameters. 6. Learned counsel highlighted that the assessee in this case is not merely earning revenue from sale of newspaper but also earned B substantial advertisement revenue.