A reading of the Adoption Regulations indicates that while a person can in their individual capacity be a prospective adoptive parent, they cannot adopt a child together with their partner if they are not married. 293. The Adoption Regulations are framed in exercise of the power conferred under the JJ Act. Section 57(5) of the JJ Act grants the Authority (which means CARA in terms of Section 2(3) of the JJ Act) the power to specify any other criteria. Set out below is a table comparing the criteria SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1391 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] to be prospective adoptive parents prescribed under the JJ Act and the Adoption Regulations: JJ Act Adoption Regulations The prospective adoptive In addition to the criteria prescribed parents must be physically fi t, under the JJ Act, the prospective parents fi nancially sound, mentally alert should not have been convicted of a and highly motivated to provide criminal act and should not have a life- a good upbringing. threatening medical condition. Couples can adopt. The consent Only married couples can adopt. A of both spouses is required in married couple should have been in two case a couple chooses to adopt. years of stable marital relationship to be eligible to adopt. A single male is not eligible to A single male is not eligible to adopt a adopt a girl child. girl child but a single female is eligible to adopt a child of any gender. 294. The petitioners submitted that the Adoption Regulations are ultra vires the provisions of the JJ Act because they bar unmarried couples from adopting. It was also submitted that the distinction between married and unmarried persons for the purpose of adoption is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. 295. It is settled law that delegated legislation must be consistent with the parent act and must not exceed the powers granted under the parent Act (JJ Act).257 The rule making authority must exercise the power for the purpose for which it is granted. The provisions of the delegated legislation will be ultra vires if they are repugnant to the parent Act or exceed the authority which is granted by the parent Act. Section 57(5) delegates to CARA the power to prescribe any other criteria in addition to the criteria prescribed by the provision. However, in view of the line of cases on subordinate law- making, this power cannot be read expansively. CARA’s power to prescribe additional criteria is limited by the express provisions and legislative policy of the JJ Act. 257 See J K Industries Limited v. Union of India, (2007) 13 SCC 673; Indian Express Newspapers (Bombay) P Ltd. V. Union of India, (1985) 1 SCC 641 139 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 296. The Adoption Regulations place two restrictions on a couple who wish to adopt: fi rst, the couple must be married, and second, the couple must have been in a stable marital relationship. We will now determine if the prescription of these two additional conditions is violative of the provisions of the JJ Act and the Constitution.