11.7. It was next submitted that Article 20(1) of the Constitution would have no application in this case as investigation is only part of the procedure for collecting evidence and it neither amounts to conviction nor to sentence. Reliance was placed upon a of this Court in the case of Rao Shiv Bahadur Singh (supra). C: Dr. R.R. Kishore – respondent in person in Crl.A.No.377 of 2007: 12. The respondent, Dr. R.R. Kishore has throughout represented himself in person and has argued the matter at length before us. His submissions are summarized hereunder: 12.1. At the outset, it was submitted that CBI is contesting this case against the stand of the Union of India. Initially Union of India was not a party to the proceedings, however, pursuant to an dated 27.04.2012 passed in this appeal, the Union of India was made a party by the Court suo moto. The affi davit fi led by Union of India, served upon the respondent on 25.02.2013 and which is part of the record, categorically stated that CBI does not have jurisdiction to initiate investigation against the respondent without prior approval of the Central Government. It further stated that the view taken by the learned Single Judge of the Delhi High Court in the impugned dated 05.10.2006 is correct and eff ectively captures the purpose of enactment of a provision. It further took stand in paragraph 23 that purport of Section 6A of the DSPE Act is to accord meaningful protection to the persons imbued with decision making powers from frivolous or motivated investigation by providing a screening mechanism. Reference was also made to the directions issued by this Court in the case of Vineet Narain (supra) to the eff ect that Central Government shall remain answerable for the CBI’s functioning and shall further take all measures necessary to ensure that CBI functions eff ectively, effi ciently and is viewed as a non-partisan agency. On such submissions, it is the case of the respondent that nothing survives in this appeal fi led by the CBI and the same deserves to be dismissed. 12.2. It was next submitted that CBI had not only violated Section 6A of the DSPE Act but had also violated Section 6 of the said Act and also Sections CBI v. R.R. KISHORE 21 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] 17 and 18 of the PC Act, 1988. Even though the FIR was registered only under Section 7 of the PC Act, 1988 against the respondent alone, but still the CBI conducted investigation regarding possessing assets disproportionate to known sources of income not only against the respondent but also his wife, who was working as an employee of the State of U.P. 12.3. Referring to the facts of the case, it was stated that the case was registered under Section 7 of the PC Act on 16.12.2004, the High Court delivered the impugned in the appeal on 05.10.2006, the petition was preferred by the CBI in January, 2007, leave was granted thereafter and notice was issued to the Union of India on 27.04.2012.