The in original, however, held otherwise, confirming the demand made in the show cause notices. Since the first show cause notice covered an extended period, penalty too was imposed. Aggrieved, B the assessee approached CESTAT which, by its dated 20.02.2002 allowed the appeal holding that the method adopted by the Commissioner was incorrect. The Commissioner had for the purposes of determining the value of SDS, determined the highest rate of the product of SDS prevalent in another unit at Sarai District, Gorakhpur, on a specific date. C 4. The revenue’s appeal was allowed by this Court which remanded the matter for fresh consideration, inter alia, observing that the mere rejection of the highest rate was insufficient and the Court had to decide on the basis of judicial discretion of the assessing officer, whether there was any rationale in the fixation done and what was the appropriate method of valuation. D 5. CESTAT in the second round, after remand held, inter alia, as follows after considering the evidence on the record : “The normal price of the goods is the price at which the goods are ‘ordinarily’ sold in the course of wholesale trade, it is a sort of representative price of the course of wholesale E trade. It is a sort of representative price of the goods during a particular period. Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of A.K. Roy ad another vs. Voltas Limited (supra), in para ‘19’ the has observed the while determining the price which is to represent the real value of the goods to be taxed, the price must be conservative in every respect. Therefore, F while determining the price of the goods being cleared for captive consumption by invoking Rule 6(b) (i), on the basis of the price of comparable goods of the same assessee or other assesses, the most conservative price must be adopted, not the highest of the prices as itwill loose the character of G the normal price.” 6. Learned counsel for the revenue submitted that CESTAT fell into error in not accepting the Commissioner’s determination that the value of the goods were properly determined under Rule 6(b)(i). He submitted that given the various ingredient mentioned in that provision, H 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A the revenue was under an obligation to decide the value based upon factors such as material characteristics and the nearest ascertainable value of the goods. Given these circumstances, the discretion exercised by the Commissioner in basing himself upon the value of the goods on a particular day (when it was in its highest price) in the Sarai Distillery at Gorakhpur was valid and legal one. B 7. Having considered the records and the submissions of the parties, this Court is of the opinion that the impugned cannot be faulted. This Court in its reported as ‘A.K. Roy Vs. Voltas Limited1’ held as follows :- “21. The next question is : what exactly is the meaning of the C term the ‘wholesale cash price’? In Vacuum Oil Company v. Secretary of Statefor India in Council, it was held that the term means the price paid by retail traders on wholesale purchase.