Who are these senior offi cers of PW 5 and why they instructed the PW 5 not to procure the FSL report should have been a subject matter of inquiry by both, the State as well as the trial court. 23. The aforesaid lapse is just a tip of the iceberg. We are at pains to state that it is a very serious fl aw on the part of the investigating offi cer and that too in such a serious matter. MUNNA PANDEY v. STATE OF BIHAR 1031 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] FAILURE TO CONDUCT MEDICAL EXAMINATION 24. One another serious fl aw in the present case on the part of the investigating offi cer that has come to our notice is the failure to subject the appellant to medical examination by a medical practitioner. No explanation, much less any reasonable explanation, has been off ered for such a serious fl aw on the part of the investigating offi cer. 25. Section 53(1) of the CrPC enables a police offi cer not below the rank of sub-inspector to request a registered medical practitioner, to make such an examination of the person arrested, as is reasonably necessary to ascertain the facts which may aff ord such evidence, whenever a person is arrested on a charge of committing an off ence of such a nature that there are reasonable grounds for believing that an examination of his person will aff ord evidence as to the commission of an off ence. Section 53(1) reads as follows:- “Section 53. Examination of accused by medical practitioner at the request of police offi cer.—(1) When a person is arrested on a charge of committing an off ence of such a nature and alleged to have been committed under such circumstances that there are reasonable grounds for believing that an examination of his person will aff ord evidence as to the commission of an off ence, it shall be lawful for a registered medical practitioner, acting at the request of a police offi cer not below the rank of sub-inspector, and for any person acting in good faith in his aid and under his direction, to make such an examination of the person arrested as is reasonably necessary in to ascertain the facts which may aff ord such evidence, and to use such force as is reasonably necessary for that purpose.” 26. By Act 25 of 2005, a new Explanation was substituted under Section 53, in the place of the original Explanation. The Explanation so substituted under Section 53 by Act 25 of 2005 reads as follows:- “Explanation.—In this section and in Sections 53A and 54— (a) “examination” shall include the examination of blood, blood stains, semen, swabs in case of sexual off ences, sputum and sweat, hair samples and fi nger nail clippings by the use of modern and scientifi c techniques including DNA profi ling and such other tests which the registered medical practitioner thinks necessary in a particular case; 1032 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R.