An granting bail to an accused, if passed in a casual and cryptic manner, de hors reasoning which would validate the grant of bail, is liable to be set aside by this Court while exercising power under Article 136 of the Constitution of India. The Latin maxim “cessante ratione legis cessat ipsa lex” meaning “reason is the D soul of the law, and when the reason of any particular law ceases, so does the law itself. [Para 18-21][512-G-H; 513-B, D-E] 1.2 While liberty of an individual is an invaluable right, at the same time while considering an application for bail, courts cannot lose sight of the serious nature of the accusations against E an accused and the facts that have a bearing on the case, particularly, when the accusations may not be false, frivolous or vexatious in nature but are supported by adequate material brought on record so as to enable a Court to arrive at a prima facie conclusion. While considering an application for grant of F bail, a prima-facie conclusion must be supported by reasons and must be arrived at after having regard to the vital facts of the case brought on record. Due consideration must be given to facts suggestive of the nature of crime, the criminal antecedents of the accused, if any, and the nature of punishment that would follow a conviction vis aÌ vis the offence/s alleged against an accused. G [Para 22][513-F-H] 1.4 It is not necessary for a Court to assign elaborate reasons or engage in a roving inquiry as to the merits of the prosecution’s case while granting bail, particularly, when the trial is at the initial stages and the allegations against the accused would not have H 504 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A been crystalised as such. Elaborate details cannot be recorded so as to give an impression that the case is one that would result in a conviction or, by contrast, in an acquittal while passing an on an application for grant of bail. However, the Court deciding a bail application cannot completely divorce its decision from material aspects of the case such as the allegations made B against the accused; severity of the punishment if the allegations are proved beyond reasonable doubt and would result in a conviction; reasonable apprehension of the witnesses being influenced by the accused; tampering with the evidence; criminal antecedents of the accused; and a prima-facie satisfaction of the C Court in support of the charge against the accused. [Para 23][514- B-D] 1.5 In the instant case, it cannot be said that the accusations against the respondents-accused are prima-facie wholly false, frivolous or vexatious in nature, so as to justify grant of bail. While D not expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, that the prosecution has brought on record adequate material that would prima-facie point towards the guilt of the accused. Details as to the manner in which the deceased, and N were traced by the accused, the acts of reconnaissance that were carried out by the accused before the alleged fateful incident and the manner in E which each of the accused participated in the alleged crime have been brought on record.