NRI seats or supernumerary seats, which is B discriminatory and violative of Article 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India. Article 14 prohibits class legislation, but permits reasonable classification. However, for reasonable classification to be valid, there are twin tests i.e. (i) classification must be founded on C intelligible differentia and (ii) that the differentia must have a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved. The seats have remained, unfilled. Hence Indian Citizens are not prejudiced. That Article 14 and 21 are available to “persons” and not only citizens and hence the OCIs who are “persons” and who have D been residing in India for years together, in view of the rights of living (since life long visa is granted) and undertaking various professions in India granted under section 7B vide 05.01.2009 notification, have a right not to be discriminated against, which is guaranteed under Article 14 and also have a right of meaningful existence, which is a facet of Article 21 of the Constitution of E India. Moreover, there is no valid rationale for having withdrawn the said rights of being entitled to various seats other than seats reserved for NRIs, which they have been enjoying for considerable amount of time at par with NRIs, who today (notification dated 12.10.2022) also are entitled to all seats including seats reserved F for Non-Residents. It is further contended that the only object as can be culled out from the Counter Affidavit of the Respondent no.1 appears to be to protect rights of Indian citizens as seats are limited. However, if the statistics of past few years i.e 2018-2019 onwards are seen, even when the OCIs were entitled to all seats and they took G admissions then, few hundred seats were remaining vacant at the end of final counselling. In fact the data also shows that seats have been significantly increased year on year, yet at the end of final counseling seats have remained vacant. Hence, it is clear that the said objective is a misnomer and the said portion of the H 258 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A impugned notification smacks of arbitrariness and non-application of mind. The said portion of the impugned notification falls foul of the doctrine of “non-retrogression” as discussed in the matter of Navtej Singh Johar [2018 (10) SCC 1], as it is resulting in B withdrawal of the rights which the OCIs have enjoyed for the past several years. OCIs have taken up particular stream of education, passing 10th and 12th from schools in same state, meeting domicile/residence requirements, keeping in mind the rights which were available to C them and hence their such acts would be saved as “things done” as per the words “except as respect things done or omitted to be done before such supersession” appearing in impugned notification dtd 04.03.2021. In support of this submission, reliance was placed on Universal Import Agency and Anr. v. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports and Ors. [1961 (1) SCR 305] D The OCIs were entitled to have “legitimate expectation” as enshrined in the case of Navjyoti [1992 (4) SCC 477] that the said rights will continue to be available to them and not retrograded.