[Para 8][161- E-G] 1.4 Another conduct on the part of the plaintiffs submitting the application to amend the plaint under 6 Rule 17 CPC submitted before the first appellate court also creates doubts E about the genuinity of the PoA. It was never the case on behalf of the plaintiffs before the trial court and in the suit that the PoA was handed over by the plaintiffs to original defendant No.1 and that despite his demands he never returned the same. Having found and realised that the non-production of the PoA had gone F against them, subsequently, before the first appellate court, the plaintiffs sought to make out a case that the PoA was handed over by plaintiff No.2 to original defendant No.1 and that despite his demands, never returned the same. The amendment sought under 6 Rule 17 CPC was rightly refused by the first appellate court. The plaintiffs tried to make out altogether a new G case which was not even the case of the plaintiffs earlier. This conduct on the part of the plaintiffs also deserves serious consideration and it creates serious doubts on the genuinity of the PoA. In that view of the matter, the High Court committed a serious error in drawing a statutory presumption as to the H MANIK MAJUMDER AND OTHERS v. DIPAK KUMAR SAHA 143 (DEAD) THROUGH LRS. & OTHERS authenticity of the sale deeds. There may be a statutory A presumption as per Section 60 of the Registration Act where all other requirements of execution of the sale deed, required to be complied with under the Registration Act and the genuineness of the PoA on the basis of which the sale deed was executed is not doubted. [Para 9][161-G-H; 162-A-D] B 1.5 As the PoA is not produced on record; the executant of the PoA in favour of plaintiff No.2 has not stepped into the witness box; there is a non-compliance of Section 33(1)(c) of the Registration Act; and the plaintiff no.2 is claiming title on the basis of the PoA alleged to have been executed by the original C owner which is not forthcoming and that plaintiff no.1 is claiming the title on the basis of the sale deed dated 29.09.1968 executed by plaintiff No.2 as a PoA holder of the original owner which is not forthcoming, the trial court was justified and right in dismissing the suit and refusing to pass a decree for a declaration of title in D favour of the plaintiffs. The same was rightly confirmed by the first appellate court. The High Court committed a serious error in decreeing the suit. The impugned and of the High Court is unsustainable both, on law as well as on facts. The impugned and passed by the High Court decreeing the suit is hereby quashed and set aside and the E and decree passed by the trial court, confirmed by the first appellate Court, is restored. [Paras 10, 11][162-D-H] Prem Singh and others v. Birbal and others, (2006) 5 SCC 353 : [2006] 1 Suppl.