International commercial arbitrations may be left outside the purview of the timelines provided in Section 29A. E 2. Section 29A(1) may be amended such that the time in section 29A(1) starts to run post completion of pleadings. Further, a time period of 6 months may be provided for submission of pleadings. 3. Section 29A(4) may be amended to provide that if an application under Section 29A(5) is filed before a court, the mandate of the F arbitral tribunal continues till the application is disposed. 4. Section 29A(9) may be amended to add if the application is not disposed of within the period mentioned therein, it is deemed to be granted. G 5. A new sub-section should be inserted in Section 29A providing that where the court seeks to reduce the fees of the arbitrator(s), sufficient opportunity should be given to such arbitrator(s) to be heard.” (emphasis supplied) H 1282 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 29. The Committee indicated that international arbitration institutions had been critical of the setting up of timelines for conducting international arbitrations. International arbitral institutions with their own machinery for case management were of the view that they did not require the monitoring of timelines by the intervention of the court. The Committee also noted that in other jurisdictions, timelines for arbitral B proceedings are usually agreed by the parties themselves in accordance with the nature and complexity of the dispute. The intervention of the court in the extension of timelines was criticized by arbitral institutions and eventually led to the formulation of the amended provisions of Section 29A which have expressly kept international commercial arbitrations C outside the purview of the mandatory timelines provided in Section 29A. Hence, in terms of the amended provisions of Section 29A, arbitral tribunals in international commercial arbitrations are only expected to make an endeavor to complete the proceedings within twelve months from the date of completion of pleadings and are not bound to abide by the time limit prescribed for domestic arbitrations. D 30. Having clarified that the 2019 Amendment Act has excluded international commercial arbitrations from the statutorily prescribed mandatory time limits, the question arises whether the amended Section 29A would apply prospectively or retrospectively. E 31. The provisions of Section 29A, as introduced by Act 3 of 2016, were prospective in nature by virtue of Section 26 of the 2015 Amendment Act. In terms of Section 26, Section 29A was introduced with effect from 23 October 2015 and applied to all arbitration proceedings that commenced on or after 23 October 2015.Section 26 of the 2015 Amendment Act read as follows: F “26. Nothing contained in this Act shall apply to the arbitral proceedings commenced, in accordance with the provisions of Section 21 of the principal Act, before the commencement of this Act unless the parties otherwise agree but this Act shall apply in relation to arbitral proceedings commenced on or after the date G of commencement of this Act.” 32. In Board of Control for Cricket in India v. Kochi Cricket Pvt.