To bring or classify an article under Entry 79 of E the First Schedule, the article must be a medicinal formulation or preparation which is ready for use either internally or externally for treatment or mitigation or prevention of diseases or diss in human beings or animals. “Treatment” relates to diseases or diss. Though medicinal formulations or preparation,can be used internally or externally, unless such use is by way of treatment of a disease or dis in human F beings or animals, it cannot be brought under the category of medicine. Clearly, in this case, Nycil powder is used to treat several dermatological conditions, including prickly heat. In fact, there is no medical treatment for that condition other than the use of Nycil. 13. It was argued that having regard to the above circumstances, G Nycil prickly heat powder, which is used only to absorb sweat and moisture from the body and to keep away rashes in human beings, should be considered to be either a “drug” or “medicine”-in view of the composition, it is nothing but a medicinal preparation used as such and for the purpose for which talcum powder is used. H HEINZ INDIA LIMITED v. THE STATE OF KERALA 437 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 14. Learned senior counsel urged this court to follow the decision A in Puma Ayurvedic Herbal (supra) where the assessee’s claim that its various products, including herbal powders, were medicaments, was considered. The court adopted a twin test to consider whether any item is a drug, or medicament, or cosmetic. The first is whether, the item is commonly understood as a medicament i.e. the common parlance test. B If a product falls in the category of medicament it will not be an item of common use. A user will use it only for treating a particular ailment and will stop its use after the ailment is cured. The approach of the consumer is crucial. The second is, whether the ingredients are described in the medical literature, as necessary for healing. C 15. Learned senior counsel submitted that in B.P.L Pharmaceuticals v. Collector of Central Excise11 (hereafter “B.P.L Pharmaceuticals Ltd.”),”Selsun Shampoo” was under consideration for purposes of Central Excise classification. The manufacturers claimed that the shampoo was a medicated one, meant to treat dandruff, a scalp disease. This court took note of the preparation, label, literature, character, D common and commercial parlance and held the product was classifiable as a medicament, asit was not an ordinary shampoo of common use but was meant to cure a particular scalp or hair disease.After the cure, it was not meant to be used in the ordinary course. Muller & Phipps (India) Ltd (supra) was next relied on to urge that similar to this case, E “Johnson Prickly Heat Powder” was held to be a medicament as it was “not an ordinary talcum powder but a powder to be used to get rid of the problem of prickly heat”. 16. In Ponds India (supra), the court had to consider whether white or yellow petroleum jelly (non-perfumed) sold as “Vaseline” was F a “drug” or a “cosmetic”.