The National Commission rejected all the contentions urged on behalf of the appellant against the so passed by the State Commission and also found no reason to interfere with the relief granted by the State Commission in view of the decision of this Court in the case of Dr. Manjeet Kaur F Monga (supra). 3. On 09.05.2022, while considering the petitions leading to these appeals at the initial stage, this Court found the question of awarding compound interest @ 14% on the refund of deposited amount requiring consideration and hence, notice was issued to this limited extent. However, G this Court also took note of the fact that a sum of Rs. 1,48,52,000/- had 3Hereinafter also referred to as ‘the District Forum’. 4Hereinafter also referred to as ‘the Act of 1986’. 5Reference to this case has occurred at multiple places hereafter; where it has been referred to as the case of ‘Dr. Manjeet Kaur Monga’ or the case of ‘Dr. Monga’. 6‘COMPAT’, for short. H 7Hereinafteralso referred to as the ‘MRTP Act’. M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR. v. ANITA 1101 MERCHANT [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] been deposited by the appellants pursuant to an earlier passed by A the National Commission and, in the totality of circumstances, execution of the s impugned was stayed subject to the condition of the petitioners-appellants depositing a further sum of Rs. 1 crore with the District Forum within four weeks with liberty to the respondent to withdraw the deposited amount with accrued interest. Such deposit and B withdrawal were, however, made subject to the final s of this Court. The dated 09.05.2022 reads as under: - “Having heard learned senior counsel for the respective parties preliminarily and having examined the material placed on record, in our view, only the question of awarding compound C interest at the rate of 14% on the refund of deposited amount is required to be considered in this matter. Issue notice to the limited extent as above. Ms. Supriya Juneja, learned counsel accepts notice on behalf of the respondent No. 1. D Counter affidavit may be filed within three weeks. The petitioners shall have one week thereafter to file rejoinder affidavit, if so chosen. During the course of submissions, we have been informed E that pursuant to the dated 11.11.2020, as passed by the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, the petitioners had deposited an amount of Rs.1,48,52,000/- with the President, District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum-II, New Delhi on 25.11.2020. F Learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioners submits that as per his instructions, the said amount has been invested in a fixed deposit. Having regard to the circumstances of the case, it is considered appropriate and hence provided in the interim that until G further s of this Court, execution of the s impugned shall remain stayed, subject to the condition that the petitioners shall deposit further an amount of Rs. 1 crore with the said District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum within four weeks from today. H 1102 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R.