B (c)”group” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (b) of the Explanation to section 5.” 60. Section 5 deals with regulation of combinations. At this stage, we may only sum up and state that the law prohibits anti-competitive C agreements and also abuse of dominant position. It also regulates combinations as explained in Section 6. Chapter 3 deals with the establishment of the CCI. Section 9 provides that the Selection Committee for appointment of Members of the CCI, including Chairperson, will include the Chief Justice of India or his nominee among others. 61. Section 8 speaks about the composition of the Commission. D There must be a chairman and not less than two and not more than six other members to be appointed by the Central Government. 62. Section 8(2) reads as follows: “8(2) The Chairperson and every other Member shall be a person E of ability, integrity and standing and who has special knowledge of, and such professional experience of not less than fifteen years in, international trade, economics, business, commerce, law, finance, accountancy, management, industry, public affairs or competition matters, including competition law and policy, which in the opinion of the Central Government, may be useful to the F Commission.” 63. Section 17 reads as follows: “17. (1) The Commission may appoint a Secretary and such officers and other employees as it considers necessary for the G efficient performance of its functions under this Act. (2) The salaries and allowances payable to and other terms and conditions of service of the Secretary and officers and other employees of the Commission and the number of such officers and other employees shall be such as may be prescribed. H 862 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A (3) The Commission may engage, in accordance with the procedure specified by regulations, such number of experts and professionals of integrity and outstanding ability, who have special knowledge of, and experience in, economics, law, business or such other disciplines related to competition, as it deems necessary to assist the Commission in the discharge of its functions under this Act.” B 64. The duties of the CCI are spelt out in Section 18. It reads as follows: “18. Subject to the provisions of this Act, it shall be the duty of the Commission to eliminate practices having adverse effect on C competition, promote and sustain competition, protect the interests of consumers and ensure freedom of trade carried on by other participants, in markets in India: Provided that the Commission may, for the purpose of discharging its duties or performing its functions under this Act, enter into any memorandum or arrangement with the prior approval of the Central Government, D with any agency of any foreign country.” 65. The aforesaid provisions indicate the width of the power lodged with CCI to bring about the sweeping changes in the economy. Section 19 empowers the Commission to make inquiries into agreements which are anti-competitive within the meaning of Section 3. More importantly, E Section 19(4) deals with inquiring into the question as to whether an enterprise enjoys a dominant position.