2 (1997) 3 SCC 261. 3 323A. Administrative tribunals. 4 323B. Tribunals for other matters. H 604 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 5. The discussion in the case of L. Chandra Kumar5referred to the of this Court in the seminal case of Kesavananda Bharti v. State of Kerala6 and many other subsequent s. It would be useful to extract the discussion in para 62 of L. Chandra Kumar7 as under: B “62. In Kesvananda Bharati case, a thirteen-Judge Constitution Bench, by a majority of 7:6, held that though, by virtue of Article 368, Parliament is empowered to amend the Constitution, that power cannot be exercised so as to damage the basic features of the Constitution or to destroy its basic structure. The identification of the features which constitute the basic structure of our C Constitution has been the subject-matter of great debate in Indian Constitutional Law. The difficulty is compounded by the fact that even the s for the majority are not unanimously agreed on this aspect. [There were five s for the majority, delivered by Sikri, C.J., Shelat & Grover, JJ. Hegde & Mukherjee, D JJ. Jaganmohan Reddy, J. and Khanna, J. While Khanna, J. did not attempt to catalogue the basic features, the identification of the basic features by the other Judges are specified in the following paras of the Court’s s : Sikri, C.J. (para 292), Shelat and Grover, JJ. (para 582), Hegde and Mukherjee, JJ. (paras 632 & 661) and Jaganmohan Reddy, J. (paras 1159, 1161)]. The aspect E of judicial review does not find elaborate mention in all the majority s. Khanna, J. did, however, squarely address the issue (at para 1529): ..The power of judicial review is, however, confined not merely to deciding whether in making the impugned laws the Central F or State Legislatures have acted within the four corners of the legislative lists earmarked for them; the courts also deal with the question as to whether the laws are made in conformity with and not in violation of the other provisions of the Constitution... As long as some fundamental rights exist and G are a part of the Constitution, the power of judicial review has also to be exercised with a view to see that the guarantees afforded by those rights are not contravened.... Judicial review 5 (supra) 6 AIR 1973 SC 1461 H 7 (supra) UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. PARASHOTAM DASS 605 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] has thus become an integral part of our constitutional system A and a power has been vested in the High Courts and the Supreme Court to decide about the constitutional validity of provisions of statutes. If the provisions of the statute are found to be violative of any article of the Constitution, which is touchstone for the validity of all laws, the Supreme Court and B the High Courts are empowered to strike down the said provisions.” 6. It was further submitted that the exclusion of judicial review under Article 226 of the Constitution ought not to be countenanced because of lack of any viable alternative appeal mechanism.