[2023] 10 S.C.R. 95 : 2023 INSC 592 95 SHANTABAI ANANDA JAGTAP & ANR. A v. JAYRAM GANPATI JAGTAP & ANR. (Civil Appeal No. 5786 of 2012) JULY 04, 2023 B [ABHAY S. OKA AND RAJESH BINDAL, JJ.] Employees Compensation Act, 1923: Compensation – Claim for – Death of victim during the course of employment in a road accident while driving jeep owned by the respondent no.1 – Claim C for compensation by the legal heirs – Award of compensation by the tribunal, only against the owner of the vehicle, however, the not executed – Appellants then filed claim petition before the Commissioner and the same was dismissed on account of delay as well as on merits – High Court upheld the findings on the delay in filing the claim petition, however, no passed as regards the D merits of the case – On appeal, held: Relationship of employer and employee between the deceased and the respondent no. 1 not proved before the Commissioner, which is the basic requirement to be fulfilled for claiming compensation under the 1923 Act – Also, no sufficient cause established for condonation of delay in filing the application E – Thus, the appellants not entitled to receive any compensation – No infirmity found in the impugned – Motor Vehicles Act, 1988. Dismissing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 In the evidence led by the appellant no.1, she F admitted in her cross–examination that the owner of the vehicle was brother of her husband. It was further admitted that they were having common ration card. They were members of the same Joint Hindu family. Salary certificate of the deceased was produced on record, however the same was not proved. There is nothing G to suggest that the so-called employer had admitted the relationship of master and servant. Even before this Court, the appellants has not been able to refer the evidence produced on record to show that there existed the master and servant relationship between the deceased and the respondent no.1, namely, the owner of the vehicle who has not chosen to put in H 95 96 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A appearance despite service. In fact, the conduct of the parties now shows that they intended to claim compensation from the offending vehicle. In a calculated move, no claim was made against the owner of the vehicle or the Insurance Company of the vehicle, being driven by the deceased, before the Tribunal. [Paras 12, 13][99-E-H] B 1.2 The relationship of employer and employee has not been proved before the Commissioner. The same being the basic requirement to be fulfilled for claiming compensation under the Employees Compensation Act, 1923, the appellants may not be C entitled to receive any compensation. [Para 14][100-B] 1.3 Case set up by the appellants themselves was that they had not claimed any compensation against the owner of the vehicle, who is alleged to be the employer, while filing application before the tribunal. It was for the reason that they wished to claim D compensation under the 1923 Act.