A submitted that as observed and held by this Court in catena of decisions vagueness and possibility of misuse cannot be a ground for reading down a declaration of unconstitutionality. It is submitted that possibility of abuse/ misuse of a law would not be a relevant consideration while considering the constitutionality of a provision. B Reliance is placed on the decisions of this Court in the case of Kedar Nath Singh vs. State of Bihar, AIR 1962 SC 955; Kesavananda Bharti vs. State of Kerala, (1973) 4 SCC 225; T.N. Education Deptt. Ministerial and General Subordinate Services Assn. vs. State of Tamil Nadu, (1980) 3 SCC 97 and Mafatlal Industrial Ltd. vs. Union of India, (1997) 5 SCC 536. It is submitted C that in the aforesaid decisions it is held that merely because power may sometimes be abused, it is no ground for denying the existence of power. 9.4 Now so far as the reliance placed upon the decision of Thawaha Fasal vs. Union of India, (2021) SCC Online SC 1000 by D Shri Parikh, learned Senior Counsel, it is vehemently submitted by Shri Mehta, learned Solicitor General that the said decision shall not be applicable while considering the offence under Section 10(a)(i) of UAPA, 1967. It is submitted that in the said this Court was dealing with the offence under Section 38 of UAPA, 1967 and was not dealing with E the provisions concerning membership. Sections 38 and 39 of the UAPA, 1967 are worded completely differently as compared to the provisions concerning criminalization of membership of a banned organization. It is submitted that therefore any observations made while considering the different provision/offence may not be stricto sensu applicable while considering Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA, 1967. F Making above submissions, it is prayed to declare that the observations made by this Court in the case of Raneef (supra), Arup Bhuyan (supra) and Indra Das (supra) are not a good law taking the view that mere membership of a banned organization will not make a person a guilty unless he resorts to violence or incites people to violence G or creates public dis by violence or incitement to violence. 10. Heard Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General appearing on behalf of Union of India, Shri Vinay Navare, learned Senior Cou sel appeaing for the State of Assam and Shri Sanjay Parikh, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant/intervener. H ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 533 [M. R. SHAH, J.] 10.1 At the outset, it is required to be noted that pursuant to the A passed by this Court reported in the case of Arup Bhuyan vs. State of Assam, (2015) 12 SCC 702, the present reference is before the larger Bench. The present reference to the larger Bench is made on the request made on behalf of the Union of India and the State of Assam doubting the correctness of the decisions of this Court in the case of B Raneef (supra) and Arup Bhuyan (supra) taking the view on reading down Section 10(a)(i) that mere membership of a banned organization will not make a person a criminal/guilty unless he resorts to violence or incites people to violence or creates public dis by violence or incitement to violence.