The signifi cant words are by removing any person bound by the decree. 21 Rule 36 conceives of immovable property when in occupancy of a tenant or other person not bound by the decree, the court delivers possession by fi xing a copy of the warrant in some conspicuous place of the said property and proclaiming to the occupant by beat of drum or other customary mode at some convenient place, the substance of the decree in regard to the property. In other words, the decree-holder gets the symbolic possession. 21 Rule 97 conceives of resistance or obstruction to the possession of immovable property when made in execution of a decree by “any person”. This may be either by the person bound by the decree, claiming title through the -debtor or claiming independent right of his own including a tenant not party to SMT. VED KUMARI (DEAD THR. HER LEGAL REPRESENTATIVE) DR. VIJAY 611 AGARWAL v. MCD THR. ITS COMMISSIONER [PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, J.] the suit or even a stranger. A decree-holder, in such a case, may make an application to the executing court complaining such resistance for delivery of possession of the property. Sub-clause (2) after 1976 substitution empowers the executing courts when such claim is made to proceed to adjudicate upon the applicant’s claim in accordance with the provisions contained hereinafter. This refers to 21 Rule 101 (as amended by 1976 Act) under which all questions relating to right, title or interest in the property arising between the parties under 21 Rule 97 or Rule 99 shall be determined by the court and not by a separate suit. By the amendment, one has not to go for a fresh suit but all matter pertaining to that property even if obstruction by a stranger is adjudicated and fi nally given even in the executing proceedings. We fi nd the expression “any person” under sub-clause (1) is used deliberately for widening the scope of power so that the executing court could adjudicate the claim made in any such application under 21 Rule 97. Thus by the use of the words “any person” it includes all persons resisting the delivery of possession, claiming right in the property, even those not bound by the decree, including tenants or other persons claiming right on their own, including a stranger.’ 13. In “Sameer Singh & Anr. Vs. Abdul Rab & Ors.” (2015) 1 SCC 379, this Court again observed that the Executing Court has the authority to adjudicate all the questions pertaining to right, title or interest in the property arising between the parties including the claim of a stranger who apprehends dispossession from the immovable property. This is provided to avoid multiplicity of proceedings and if a court declines to adjudicate by stating that it lacks jurisdiction, that by itself would occasion failure on part of the Executing Court to exercise the jurisdiction vested in it. 14. In most recent in “Jini Dhanrajgir & Anr. Vs. Shibu Mathew & Anr.” (2023) SCC Online SC 643, the legal position has been reiterated that Rules 97 to 103 of XXI of the CPC provide the sole remedy both to the parties to a suit as well as to a stranger to the decree put to execution.