It was observed that no strand of mutuality remained as no contribution was made by any member of the Association to the Association in respect of the fair. That the amount paid by the organiser of the fair to the Association was not a fee payable by the members of the Association into a common fund and the fair, though it benefi tted members of the Association, was not a mutual, non-profi t activity. Its essence was that of trading for profi t by individual traders, though through the medium of a common activity, the fair. Therefore, SECUNDRABAD CLUB ETC. v. C.I.T.-V ETC. 1013 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] it was observed that the Association’s receipts from the organiser of the fair were not receipts which had a mutual character. The receipts were income assessable to tax. 8.9.7 Discussing the early formulations of the mutuality principle which was generally associated with insurance, reference was also made to Styles (supra) which was followed in Jones vs. South-West Lancashire Coal Owners’ Association Limited, (1927) AC 827 (Jones). Five years later, in Municipal Mutual Insurance Limited vs. Hills, (1932) 16 TC 430, the House of Lords distinguished Styles and Jones. The facts in the latter case were that the appellant therein was formed by various local authorities primarily for the purpose of enabling them to insure against fi re, on favourable terms. The eff ective control of the said Company was held by fi re policy holders, who alone were entitled to the surplus assets of the Company on winding up of the Company. However, in the course of time, the Company also undertook an extensive business in employers’ liability and other insurances, both with existing fi re policy holders and others. The revenue conceded that the fi re insurance business is a business of mutual insurance which did not attract liability to income tax. The appellant company therein agreed that it was liable for tax on its profi ts from employers’ liability and other insurances undertaken on behalf of persons who were not fi re policy holders. However, there was an issue between the parties as to whether the appellant company was liable to pay tax on the profi ts which it earned on such other insurances, with fi re policy holders. At fi rst instance, Justice Rowlatt dealt with the critical question and analysed that in the said case there was no distinction between what is made out of a member in respect of non-fi re business and what is made out of a stranger in respect of non-fi re business; the member is a stranger. He is not, as a miscellaneous policy holder, getting any share in the miscellaneous policy business. The miscellaneous policy business is done for the benefi t of the body of fi re policy holders. Therefore, revenue earned out of fi re insurance business of the company by the members who were all fi re policy holders was a business of mutual insurance which did not attract liability to income tax but the revenue earned from miscellaneous policy business was taxable.