Even otherwise the face of the assailants was not identifi able in the CCTV footage as found by the trial court itself and, therefore, no inference could have been drawn to implicate the appellant(A-4). 5. He would contend that the alleged motive attributed to the accused persons is due to a quarrel that had ensued between the deceased, Suraj, Ravi, and Nabbu on the day of Dulhandi and there was no evidence placed on record by prosecution to suggest any common object had been shared by the appellants with other accused persons. He would contend that appellant has not been alleged to have been armed with any weapon, so no inference could have been drawn about the common object to commit the off ence. He would submit that the reasoning adopted by the courts below to convict the accused by overlooking the fact that TIP had not been conducted and only on the ground of PW-9 having known the remaining accused by face before the incident was erroneous, though the testimony of PW-9 would NARESH @ NEHRU v. STATE OF HARYANA 777 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] suggest that accused persons were not previously known to him and his admission in evidence that came to know about them only when they were arrested and their names were published in the newspaper. The non- disclosure of the names of the accused persons at the fi rst instance creates reasonable doubts as to the appellant’s identity. The learned counsel for the appellant (A-4) would also contend that there was unexplained delay in recording PW-9’s statement, namely it was recorded at 11:30 p.m., despite the incident having taken place at 6:30 p.m. and PW-9 was present during this period. The alleged confessional statement of the appellant is of no value in the light of Section 25 of the Evidence Act and said statement does not indicate any common object having been shared by the appellant with other assailants. Hence, he prays for his appeal being allowed and the appellant (A-4) being acquitted. 6. Mr. Vikas Walia, learned counsel appearing for the appellants, namely, Irshad and Sonu Kumar (accused numbers 5 and 6 respectively) in Criminal Appeal Nos.1787-1788 of 2023, contends that courts below had erred in not considering the fact that a person liable for being punished for the off ence of being a member of an unlawful assembly under Section 149 IPC would be necessary to prove that such persons had acted in pursuance of a common object. He would further contend that prosecution had failed to prove that appellants were aware of Pawan’s (Accused No.1) possessing the pistol and he had the intention/object to kill Ajay and such intention could not be inferred. He would contend that appellants’ involvement in the unlawful assembly and sharing a common object to kill Ajay could not be inferred in the circumstances of the case, particularly when there was no evidence to support the stand of the prosecution that appellants were aware of pistol being in possession of Pawan (A-1).