D 15. Now so far as the submission of Shri Parikh, learned Senior Counsel on mens rea element and the reliance placed upon the s referred to hereinabove on mens rea and in support of his submissions that mere membership of a person of such unlawful association alone cannot be a ground to punish such person including E the decision of Kedar Nath(supra) and other decisions are concerned, at the outset it is required to be noted that the said decisions shall not be applicable while considering the provisions of UAPA. The offences under IPC and offences under the UAPA both are different. As observed hereinabove in the present case an association is declared F unlawful after following due procedure as required under Section 3 and subject to the approval by the Tribunal under Section 4 and after giving an opportunity to such association, the officebearers ofthe association and even the member of the association. 15.1 Now so far as the reliance placed upon the decision of this G Court in Kedar Nath Singh (supra) by Shri Parikh, learned Senior Counsel is concerned, at the outset it is required to be noted that the said decision was pre – Constitution (Sixteenth Amendment) Act, 1963. Post Kedar Nath Singh (supra) on the recommendation of the National Integration Council, Article 19(2) and 19(4) which operate as exception H 556 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A to freedom of speech and freedom of association respectively, have been amended to specifically include an exception as to “sovereignty and integrity of India”. Therefore, the same will have a material bearing on any question as to the application of Articles 19 & 21 in the context of UAPA. Thus, UAPA is to be interpreted in congruence with the amendment of the Constitution in 1963 including “sovereignty and integrity B of India” as an exception to Article 19. 16. Now so far as the submission made by Shri Parikh, learned Senior Counsel on the vagueness and possibility of misuse of Section 10(i)(a) is concerned, at the outset it is required to be noted that as per catena of decisions of this Court mere possibility of misuse cannot be a C ground and/or relevant consideration while considering the constitutionality of a provision. As per the settled position of law any action which is the result of abuse/misuse of any law is subject to challenge. But on the possibility of abuse/misuse of law otherwise constitutionally valid legislation cannot be declared unconstitutional. D 16.1 Now so far as the submission on vagueness of Section 10(a)(i) is concerned, as observed hereinabove an association is declared unlawful after complying with all the requirements under Sections 3 & 4 of the UAPA, 1967 as discussed hereinabove. A person who is a member of such an unlawful association is as such aware of the declaration of such E association as unlawful and despite the same if he still continues to be the member of such unlawful association which is indulging into the unlawful activities and acting against the sovereignty and integrity of India, his intention is very clear that he still wants to associate with such an association which is indulging into ‘unlawful activities’ and acting against the interests of sovereignty and integrity of India.