All claims must be submitted to and decided by the resolution professional so that a prospective resolution applicant knows exactly what has to be paid in that it may then take over and run the business of the corporate debtor. This the successful resolution applicant does on a fresh slate, as has been pointed out by us hereinabove. For these reasons, NCLAT must also be set aside on this count.” 1 (2020) 8 SCC 534 (hereinafter referred to as ‘Essar Steel’). M/S. RPS INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. 155 MUKUL KUMAR & ANR. [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] On the other hand, the appellant explained that it could not fi le the claim in time as it was unaware of the public announcement. A belated claim should not be shut out as the time-periods in the IBC are merely directory and not mandatory as per Brilliant Alloys Private Limited v. Mr. S. Rajagopal & Ors.2, and in any case the resolution plan was yet to be approved by the Adjudicating Authority. The appellant contended that respondent no.1 had failed to discharge his duty to include the appellant’s claim in the information memorandum as a contingent liability. 9. The NCLAT, vide the impugned dated 30.07.2021, did not favour the view adopted by the Adjudicating Authority. Their reasoning was as follows: (i) Respondent no.1 had eff ectuated proper service for inviting claims in accordance with Regulation 6 of the IBBI Regulations which only mandates a pronouncement through newspapers and not through personal service - an aspect that was not disputed by the appellant; (ii) the appellant failed to show that it fi led its claim as soon as it came to know of the initiation of the CIRP. The appellant even issued a Special Power of Attorney on 26.07.2019 in favour of the Corporate Debtor after confi rmation of the arbitral award on 25.04.2019; (iii) respondent no.1 even fi led an application under Section 19 of the IBC before the Adjudicating Authority seeking that a direction be issued to the ex-management to provide all records. Although nothing came of this attempt, it refl ected his sincere eff orts; (iv) Regulations 12 and 13 of the IBBI Regulations obliged the RP to accept claims fi led within the extended period of 90 days of the commencement of CIRP. Brilliant Alloys3 dealt with the timelines under Section 12A of the IBC and Regulation 30A of the IBBI Regulations. These provisions pertained to the withdrawal of an application. In this context it was held that that IBBI Regulations can be directory depending on the facts of each case; and 2 (2022) 2 SCC 544 (hereinafter referred to as ‘Brilliant Alloys’). 3 (supra). 156 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. (v) the resolution plan, as approved by the COC, would be jeopardised if new claims were entertained. 10. The aforesaid view of the NCLAT resulted in the appellant approaching this Court. Appellant’s pleas before the Supreme Court: 11. The appellant contended that the claim in terms of the award was a contingent claim as proceedings under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act remain pending before the High Court of Punjab and Haryana against the dismissal of the Corporate Debtor’s challenge.