In other words, the decision is an authority for what is specifi cally decides and not what can logically be deduced therefrom. 22. Further, the precedential value of an of the Supreme Court which is not preceded by a detailed would be lacking inasmuch as an issue would not have been categorically dealt with. What is of essence in a decision is its ratio and not every observation found therein, nor what logically follows from the various observations made therein. 23. Another important principle to be borne in mind is that declaration of the law by the Supreme Court can be said to have been made only when it is contained in a speaking , either expressly or by necessary implication and not by dismissal in limine. In the words of Mukherji, CJ, in DTC vs. DTC Mazdoor Congress Union, AIR 1991 SC 101, the expression ‘declared’ is wider than the words ‘found or made’. The latter expression involves the process, while the former expresses the result. 24. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we think that we cannot accept the argument advanced by learned Sr. Counsel, Sri Datar, for the following reasons: fi rstly, the in Cawnpore Club is not on the basis of any reasoning or a deduction made as to whether on the interest earned on fi xed deposits made by a club in a bank, income tax would be attracted or not. In the absence of any deduction or reasoning or analysis, the said cannot carry precedential value so as to be binding on this Court in a subsequent case. This is because there is no discernable ratio decidendi in the said . Of course, the said would bind the parties to the case. While carefully reading the passed by this Court in Cawnpore Club, it can be discerned that the High Court had clearly spelt out that in the case of income earned from letting out of rooms/property to its members, the same would not be subjected to tax. On the aforesaid aspect, the revenue had not fi led any appeal before this Court, and therefore, on that aspect the matter should conclude in favour of the assessee therein i.e. Cawnpore Club. Secondly, without going into the other aspects of the case, this Court simply noted that the assessee therein (Cawnpore Club) could not be taxed on the 1022 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. principle of mutuality, therefore, it would not serve any purpose to proceed with the appeals on the other questions. What those other questions were has not been spelt out in the nor have reasons been assigned as to on what aspect or activities of the said Club and its transactions the principle of mutuality would apply. In the absence of there being any clear indication in the discussion or analysis and there being a simple closure of a case, it would clearly imply that the doctrine of mutuality would apply only to those activities to which it would normally apply.