Rule 4 contemplates that every such lease may be renewed for further period of 99 years at the option of the lessee. 38. We may now advert to Rule 8 of the 1959 rules, as reproduced in para 6, which mandates that the land given for industrial purposes C shall not be used for any other purpose except constructing factory premises and such other residential quarters as are required for those engaged in that industry. Rule 8 further empowers the State Government to grant permission for establishment of industry other than for which the land was initially allotted. D 39. In this context, the stipulations contained in the first lease deed executed by State Government in favour of JKSL in 1967 are relevant. Under this lease, the lessee was obligated to use the allotted land for the prescribed industrial purpose, failing which the land was liable to be reverted “to the lessor”. This leads to the inescapable conclusion that the first formal lease of 1967 was strictly in conformity E with provisions of the 1959 Rules. 40. The relationship of lessor and lessee between State of Rajasthan and JKSL continued uninterruptedly till JKSL was declared a ‘sick company’. Respondent No. 1 then stepped into the shoes of JKSL under the s of AAIFR, and by virtue of the tripartite agreements executed F with the labour unions, for the land at LIA, Kota. It is also an admitted fact that neither under the tripartite settlements dated 9.10.2002 and 22.10.2002, nor under the sanctioned rehabilitation scheme dated 23.1.2003, the relationship of lessor and lessee between State, JKSL, or Respondent No.1, as the case may be, was ever disrupted. This jural relationship was further cemented between the State and Respondent G No.1 when 7 fresh lease deeds were executed in favour of Respondent No.1 by the State Government through the Collector, Kota. The details of these 7 leases have been provided in para 20 of this . It is pertinent to mention that the terms and conditions contained in these fresh lease deed executed on 17.3.2007 were broadly the same as were incorporated H while leasing out the subject land originally to JKSL. BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 283 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] 41. What clearly emerges from this sequence of events is that A from 1958 to 2007, and further onwards till the present date, there is no cessation in the relationship of lessor and lessee between the State and Respondent No. 1, or its predecessor JKSL. This contractual relationship duly governed under the 1956 Act read with the 1959 Rules, was never terminated expressly or otherwise and neither was it substituted by a B supplementary conveyance deed. 42. We may now address some of the important intervening circumstances, events and Government s and circulars, heavily relied upon by Respondent No. 1. It is a matter of record that Government of Rajasthan issued an on 18.09.1979 (reproduced in para 9) where C under it was decided that “all the industrial areas of Rajasthan shall only be developed through Rajasthan State Industrial and Mining Development Corporation”.