v. M/S 1123 DANKUNI STEELS LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] vessel registered under the Merchant Shipping Act 1894, Act No. A 57 & 58 Vict. c. 60 or under Act XIX of 1838 Act No. or the Indian Registration of Ships Act, 1841, (CX of 1841) as amended by subsequent Acts. 4. Several instruments used in single transaction of sale, mortgage or settlement. — (1) Where, in the case of any sale, mortgage or B settlement, several instruments are employed for completing the transaction, the principal instrument only shall be chargeable with the duty prescribed in Schedule I, for the conveyance, mortgage or settlement, and each of the other instruments shall be chargeable with a duty of one rupee instead of the duty (if any) prescribed C for it in that Schedule. (2) The parties may determine for themselves which of the instrument so employed shall, for the purposes of sub-section (1), be deemed to be the principal instrument: Provided that the duty chargeable on the instrument so determined D shall be the highest duty which would be chargeable in respect of any of the said instruments employed. 5. Instruments relating to several distinct matters. — Any instrument comprising or relating to several distinct matters shall be chargeable with the aggregate amount of the duties with which E separate instruments, each comprising or relating to one of such matters, would be chargeable under this Act.” 25. The next relevant provision is Section 27 of the Indian Stamp Act. F “27. Facts affecting duty to be set forth in instrument. —The consideration (if any) and all other facts and circumstances affecting the chargeability of any instrument with duty, or the amount of the duty with which it its chargeable, shall be fully and truly set forth therein.” G 26. Vide Andhra Pradesh Amendment Act 8 of 1988, the following proviso was added to Section 27: “Provided that a registering officer appointed under the Registration Act, 1908 or any other officer authorised in this behalf, may inspect the property, which is the subject matter of such instrument, make H 1124 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A necessary local enquiries, call for and examine all the connected records and satisfy that the provisions of this section are complied with.” 27. The next relevant provision is Section 47A inserted by Andhra Pradesh (Amendment) Act, which reads as follows: B “47-A. Instruments of conveyance, etc., under-vaulted how to the dealt with: - (1) where the registering officer appointed under the Registration Act, 1908, (Central Act 16 of 1908), while registering any instrument of conveyance, exchange, gift partition, settlement, release , agreement relating to construction, C development or sale of any immovable property or power of attorney given for sale, development of immovable property, has reason to believe that the market value of the property which is the subject matter or such instrument has not been truly setforth in the instrument, or that the value arrived at by him as per the guidelines prepared adopted by the parties, he may keep pending D such instrument, and refer the matter to the Collector for determination of the market value of the property and the proper duty payable thereon: Provided that no reference shall be made by the registering officer unless an amount equal to fifty percent of the deficit duty arrived E at by him is deposited by the party concerned.