OF DELHI 755 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] 55. In Selvi & Others v. State of Karnataka14, following the A above view, it was observed: “145. … For instance, even though acts such as compulsorily obtaining specimen signatures and handwriting samples are testimonial in nature, they are not incriminating by themselves if they are used for the purpose of identification B or corroboration with facts or materials that the investigators are already acquainted with.The relevant consideration for extending the protection of Article 20(3) is whether the materials are likely to lead to incrimination by themselves or “furnish a link in the chain of evidence” C which could lead to the same result. Hence, reliance on the contents of compelled testimony comes within the prohibition of Article 20(3) but its use for the purpose of identification or corroboration with facts already known to the investigators is not barred.” D (Emphasis supplied) 56. The above view has been consistently followed by this Court in several decisions i.e.State of U.P. v. Sunil15; Ritesh Sinha v. State of U.P. & Another16; and,State (NCT of Delhi)v.Navjot Sandhu17.” 57. A conspectus of the decisions above would indicate that since E specimen signatures and handwriting samples are not incriminating by themselves as they are to be used for the purpose of identification of the handwriting on a material with which the investigators are already acquainted with, compulsorily obtaining such specimens would not infringe the rule against self-incrimination enshrined in Article 20(3) of the Constitution of India. F 58. In the instant case, the suicide letter was already seized by the investigating agency and therefore obtaining specimen signatures and handwritings of Neeraj was with a view to enable a comparison for the purposes of identifying the signature/writing on the suicide letter. As such an exercise does not infringe the mandate of Article 20(3) of the G Constitution of India, the defence argument that use of specimen signatures of Neeraj,forcibly obtained during investigation, would violate 14 (2010) 7 SCC 263 15 (2017) 14 SCC 516 16 (2013) 2 SCC 357 H 17 (2005) 11 SCC 600 756 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A the rule against self-incrimination is worthy of rejection and is, accordingly, rejected. We therefore hold that the specimen signature/handwriting of Neeraj obtained by the investigating agency could not have been discarded merely because of allegations that they were forcibly obtained during investigation without permission of the Magistrate/ Court. The view to the contrary taken by the High Court is erroneous and is, accordingly, B set aside. 59. We shall now examine whether the specimens used for comparison were duly proved to be that of Neeraj. In the instant case, according to the prosecution evidence, the specimen signatures and handwritings of Neeraj were obtained during investigation.Memorandum/ C documents in connection therewith including the specimens were produced, proved and marked exhibits thereby proving that they were properly kept and dispatched to FSL along with the disputed suicide letter for obtaining expert opinion. Genuineness of those specimens have not been questioned by Neeraj.