It is their contention that even if it is found by this Court that in terms of the OSR requirement of 10 percent of the land, it can only be used as open space for communal and recreational B purpose and not for a road, this Court may not interfere. 168. Firstly, we must consider the ambit of the words communal and recreational purpose and find whether it could take in a public road for being used by members of the public generally. Equally, we must consider whether the word communal is capable of extending the benefit C of the open space requirement to the members of the general public or whether it must be confined to the beneficiaries of the group development. In other words, if the word communal is interpreted as the community of the beneficiaries of the group development, then it must be understood as meaning that members of the general public cannot be permitted to D partake of the benefits flowing from the open space reservation. For instance, if adjoining the site and as indicated in the explanation in a shape and location determined by the CMDA, a park is constructed. By use of the word communal and interpreting it to mean a community which is larger than the mere beneficiaries of the group development as such, then the benefit of the open space may become available to the E general public in the nearby area. This would have the advantage of facilitating the members of the public avoiding travelling to the areas where there is recreation or open space, as for instance, under the zoning requirements. Undoubtedly, the absence of any construction which is indispensable to make it an open space area and which is insisted upon F also will provide a large chunk of space for all the people in the area. Making available the facilities on the basis that when development is permitted, it brings in its train certain responsibilities for the project proponents which can be appreciated as legitimate State interests, is one way of approaching the issue. It must be understood in all these cases that setting apart of 10 percent of the area is actually as such not G objected to. This means all parties are agreed that the law providing for setting apart of 10 percent of the total area excluding roads in the case of group development in excess of 10,000 square metres is legitimate and valid,unless we find favour with the arguments that it is otherwise constitutionally infirm.We have already found that the provision does not H offend Article 14 on the ground that it represents a species of class ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1159 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] legislation. We are unable to also find that the provision is manifestly A arbitrary. If in other words, there is no other basis to find the impugned rule vulnerable, we can safely proceed to hold that the requirement of OSR is not unjustified.