[2023] 1 S.C.R. 1035 1035 AMD INDUSTRIES LIMITED (EARLIER KNOWN AS M/S. A ASHOKA METAL DECOR PVT. LTD.) v. COMMISSIONER OF TRADE TAX, LUCKNOW & ANR (Civil Appeal No. 108 of 2013) B JANUARY 09, 2023 [M. R. SHAH AND KRISHNA MURARI, JJ.] U.P Trade Tax Act – s.4-A(5) – Whether for the goods, manufactured by use of modern technologies can be said to be “diversification”, and manufacturing of the goods of a nature C different from the goods manufactured earlier if entitles the appellant to claim the exemption from trade tax provided u/s.4-A(5) – Held: In case of “diversification” the goods manufactured by diversification shall be different from the goods manufactured before such diversification – In the present case, the earlier product being D manufactured by the appellant was used for sealing glass bottles and subsequently the additional product produced with the use of modern technology is also being used for the same purpose namely, “sealing glass bottles” – Therefore, the same cannot be said to be manufacturing of goods different from being manufactured before such diversification – With the passage of time, due to advancement E in technology, if there is a replacement of the old machinery with the new machinery for improvement in quality and quantity of a product, at the most, it can be said to be expansion and/or modernization, but it cannot be said to be “diversification” Words used in s.4-A are clear and unambiguous – Exemption provisions are to be read as they are and construed literally – Giving the literal F meaning to s.4-A, it cannot be said that the appellant is entitled to the exemption as claimed – High Court committed no error in refusing to grant exemption to the appellant. Dismissing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 On a fair reading of Section 4 - A(2)(c), Section G 4-A(5)(b)(i) & (ii) and Section 4-A(5)(c), it is clear that in case of “diversification” the goods manufactured by diversification shall be different from the goods manufactured before such diversification [Section 4-A(2)(c)]. In the case of “expansion or modernization”, the exemption shall be available, if there is an additional production as a result of such modernization or H 1035 1036 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A expansion. The present case is concerned with the case of “diversification”. Therefore, the goods manufactured after diversification must be different goods from the goods manufactured before such diversification. In case of an exemption notification/exemption provision, the same is required to be construed literally and the person claiming the exemption must B satisfy all the conditions of exemption provision. [Paras 8.1, 8.2][1043-D-F] 1.2 In the present case, the appellant was manufacturing / producing “Spun Line Crown Cork” used for sealing the glass bottles. With the use of modern technologies, now the appellant C is manufacturing “Double Lip Dry Blend Crowns”, which is also used for sealing the glass bottles. The earlier product being manufactured by the appellant was used for sealing glass bottles and subsequently the additional product produced with the use of modern technology is also being used for the same purpose namely, “sealing glass bottles”.