This gives the document, the character of a registered document. Thus, D compliance of the provisions of Sections 34, 35, 52, 58 and 59 constitutes registration. The certificate of registering officer is admissible to prove the admission of execution. However, a registered deed has to be proved in accordance with Section 67 of the Evidence Act, 1872. Section 67 states that if a document E is alleged to be signed or to have been written wholly or in part by any person, the signature or the handwriting of so much of the document as is alleged to be in that person’s handwriting must be proved to be in his handwriting. Section 67 states that proof of signature and the genuineness of document proved by the proof of handwriting is proof of execution. Execution of a document means signing a document by consenting on it F by a party. Section 67 does not prescribe any particular mode of proof. Mere registration of a document is not self-sufficient proof of its execution. It is only a prima facie proof of its execution particularly when no other evidence is available. Registration of a document is evidence of its execution by its executor. Certificate by registering officer G under Section 60 of the Registration Act, 1908 is relevant for proving its execution. Proof by evidence afforded by the contents of the documents is of considerable value. In the instant case, what is sought to be proved is title by the sale deed and not the power of attorney as it is the sale deed which H 178 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A conveys title and the sale deed has been executed in accordance with the provisions of Registration Act, 1908, and proved in accordance with Section 67 of Evidence Act. It cannot be held that the sale made on behalf of the seller (original owner of the suit land) to the buyer through the power of attorney is vitiated as the power of attorney was not produced before the Court. This is because even in the absence of the B production of the power of attorney, the contents of the sale deed and the execution of the power of attorney as well as the sale deed have been established by proving the sale deed in accordance with the law. 19. A primary plank in the arguments advanced on behalf of the appellants-defendants is that the requirements of Section 33(1) (c) of C the Registration Act had not been complied with while executing the power of attorney dated 01st August, 1968 and therefore, no validity could be attached to the said document. Consequently, the sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968 which was executed on the strength of the said power of attorney could also not be presumed to be valid. In D to determine whether the statutory requirements of Section 33 (1) (c) of the Registration Act, 1908 had been complied with while executing the power of attorney, the recitals of the sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968 may be referred to.