[2023] 11 S.C.R. 835 : 2023 INSC 797 CASE DETAILS LAL BAHADUR SHASTRI EDUCATIONAL SOCIETY & ANR. v. DELHI DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 5647 of 2023) SEPTEMBER 05, 2023 [A. S. BOPANNA AND PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Claim for payment of interest on refund of the amount deposited by the appellants-charitable institutions with the respondent to avail the benefi t of the construction based on additional FAR, if justifi ed. Interest – Claim for, on refunded amount – Propriety: Held: On facts, as on the date when the writ petition was fi led and the petitioner had voluntarily off ered to deposit the amount, the amount was to be paid and recoverable under the notifi cation dated 10.10.2008 and 23.12.2008 if the benefi t of additional FAR was to be availed – Petitioners being desirous of availing the same and to proceed with the construction on obtaining the Sanctioned Plan in-curred the expenditure by off ering to deposit the amount and avail the benefi t instead of awaiting adjudication and thereafter availing – Thus, when as on the date the deposit was made, the notifi cation remained valid and even subsequently there is no declaration that the notifi cation and the demand made is illegal, but through the subsequent notifi cation an exemption was granted by the respondents themselves to a certain category of institutional plots to avail additional FAR without levying such charges – Thus, the circumstances in which the deposit was made is not in a situation where the appellant suff ered any loss due to the ‘Act of Court’ – Further, insofar as the respondent is concerned, the notifi cation providing for additional FAR charges was in force on the date when the deposit was made – Even though in the interim dtd.07.05.10 passed by the High Court there was an indication that the question of refund of 835 836 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. amount with interest would be examined at the stage of conclusion of the writ petitions, on facts, when there was no adjudication and determination with regard to the right of the appellant and a declaration that the amount was illegally demanded and retained by the respondent, either the direction to pay interest or to compensate in any other manner for the pendente lite period would not arise. [Paras 13 and 14] Contempt petition – Scope – Amount refunded: Held: In a circumstance where subsequently the amount has been refunded and the contempt, if any, to that extent is purged, the ultimate conclusion to dispose of the contempt petition by the High Court is justifi ed – No error committed – However, insofar as the contention relating to the retention of the money belonging to the appellant in the second of the cases herein subsequent to the expiry of the period indicated in the dated 27.08.2012 passed in W.P. (C) No.2823 of 2010 before the High Court and as to whether such retention has caused loss to the appellant and conversely the benefi t derived from the same by the respondent, if any, and the manner in which the same is to be compensated or not as also the rate at which it is to be done are matters which would have to be considered in appropriate proceedings and in accordance with law wherein the parties will avail all opportunities to put forth their contentions and place material – Therefore, in a similar manner in which the appellants in the fi rst of the appeals have availed their remedy, it would be open for the appellant in the second of the appeals also to avail the remedy before the appropriate forum, in accordance with the law – All contentions of both parties in that regard are left open.