The suggestion is that this requirement should be extended to other cases as well, irrespective of the age of the woman undergoing a hysterectomy. F 15. Responding to the above submission of Ms Kawalpreet Kaur, Ms Aishwarya Bhati, Additional Solicitor General, submits that once the full data on hysterectomies is duly captured on the portal of MoHFW and the National, State, and District Level Committees are constituted, a considered decision will be taken by the Union of India on this aspect. The Additional Solicitor General submitted that while certain States G already have such a procedure in place, the network of government hospitals may not be adequate enough to implement such a regulation across India even if it were made.Moreover, the ASG urged that there is a real danger that this may result in the denial of treatment to women who are genuinely in the need of it. It has been submitted that since the H DR NARENDRA GUPTA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 1001 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] situation is evolving, the Union of India would take a considered view A once adequate data is available. 16. We accept the submission. 17. The Guidelines mandate that the National Committee should review the landscape and take necessary policy decisions, as required, B once in every six months. 18. The second suggestion which has been urged on behalf of the petitioner is that the state should take steps for blacklisting hospitals where hysterectomies were carried out without medical necessity and without obtaining the informed consent of the patient. In this context, it C was urged that as a first line of treatment, other non-invasive methods should be adopted and, in any event, the woman who is undergoing the hysterectomy should be properly informed about the reason and likely consequences of the hysterectomy, bearing on the health of the patient. D 19. We are in agreement with the submission that all the States and Union Territories must take stringent action for blacklisting hospitals once it is detected that any unnecessary hysterectomy was carried out or that the procedure was taken recourse to without the informed consent of the patient. We direct that necessary action be taken in accordance with law. E 20. Since steps have been taken by the Union government in framing the Guidelines in 2022 and the States of Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Rajasthan have indicated to the Court of the steps which were taken to detect unnecessary hysterectomies and to deal with them, we see no F further reason to keep the petition alive. 21. The Union government shall take all necessary steps in accordance with the Guidelines to effectuate the public interest which is sought to be achieved. 22. We appreciate the assistance which has been rendered to the G Court by Ms Kawalpreet Kaur, counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner and Ms Aishwarya Bhati, Additional Solicitor General. 23. The petition is disposed of in terms of the above directions. 24. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of.