Thus, there is no diffi culty in holding that the fi rst respondent–Enforcement Offi cer, was authorised to fi le a complaint as provided in clause (ii) of sub-section (2) of Section 61 of FERA. What is material here is sub-section (4) of Section 49 of FEMA, which provides that subject to the provisions of sub-section (3), all off ences committed under the repealed Act shall continue to be governed by the provisions of the repealed Act as if that Act had not been repealed. Sub- section (3) of Section 49 saves the prosecution for the off ences punishable under Sections 56 and 57, which have been committed prior to the repeal of FERA, provided the competent Court takes its cognizance within two years from the date of coming into force of FEMA. In view of sub-section (4) of Section 49, for the purposes of the prosecution of off ences punishable under Sections 56 and 57 of FERA, by a legal fi ction, the provisions of the repealed Act will continue to apply. However, the same will continue to apply only for the purposes of prosecution of the off ences which are saved by sub-section (3) of Section 49 of FEMA. That is how the complaint fi led by the Enforcement Offi cer, duly authorised under clause (ii) of sub- section (2) of Section 61 of FEMA, will continue to be valid, inasmuch as by virtue of the legal fi ction incorporated in sub-section (4) of Section 49, the prosecution will continue to be governed by the provisions of FERA as if the same had not been repealed. Therefore, during the sunset period, the FIRST GLOBAL STOCKBROKING PVT. LTD. v. ANIL 429 RISHIRAJ [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] authorisation of the Enforcement Offi cers to fi le the complaints continues to be valid for the limited purposes of sub-section (3) of Section 49 of FEMA. 12. If the arguments of the appellants are accepted, the offi cer nominated under sub-clause (b) of clause (ii) of sub-section (2) of Section 61 of FERA will not be empowered to fi le complaints for the off ences punishable under FERA even within the sunset period of two years. Such interpretation will prevent the Court from taking cognizance after the repeal of FERA on a complaint fi led after the repeal of FERA by an offi cer authorised under sub- clause (b) of clause (ii) of sub-section (2) of Section 61 of FERA. Thus, no complaint can be fi led during the sunset period of two years provided in sub-section (3) of Section 49 of FEMA. A Statute cannot be interpreted in such a manner that any provision thereof is rendered otiose. Therefore, we are unable to accept the submissions made by the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants. Any construction which will defeat the plain intention of the legislature must be rejected. The Court must adopt the interpretation which makes the provisions of a Statute workable. 13. By FERA, the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 (for short, ‘FERA, 1947’) was repealed.