[B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] property under the contract of sale to the buyer. A warranty may be A express or implied. It is express if entered into a contract in express terms or implied when deemed to be entered into a contract by implication of law, that is, in the absence of express stipulation to the contrary. 13.4. A breach of the warranty cannot entitle the vendee to rescind the contract and revest the property in the vendor without his consent. B Under Section 59 of the Act, the remedies available for a breach of warranty for a seller are prescribed. One of the remedies is the right to return of goods; return of goods by the buyer falls into two categories, namely, (i) where there is an obligation to return the goods and (ii) where the buyer has the right or the power to return the goods. C 13.5. We may discuss on collateral contracts and collateral warranties as discerned from various legal treatises and commentaries: (i) A contract between two persons may be accompanied by a collateral contract between one of them and a third person relating to the same subject matter. When a person buys D goods from a dealer, he is given a “guarantee” in the name of the manufacturer. Here the main contract of sale is between the customer and the dealer but it seems that the “guarantee” could also be regarded as a collateral contract between the manufacturer and customer. Special E legislation applies to certain guarantees given to consumers in respect of goods sold or supplied to them. Where the requirements specified in the legislation are satisfied, such guarantees take effect as contractual obligations whether or not the requirements of a collateral contract are satisfied; and these requirements continue to apply to manufacturers’ F guarantees not covered by any legislation. [Source: Chitty on contracts, Thirty-First Edition]. (ii) A collateral contract between a third party and one of the parties to a main contract may be associated with the main contract. Such a contract may enable a third party to enforce G the main contract. A “manufacturer” guarantee is an example of such contract collateral to the main contract of purchase of goods. When such collateral contract is expressed, it may not be an exception to the third-party rule, because the third party is a party to the collateral contract. It is a H 1316 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A devise used or implied to impose obligations on persons not parties to the main contract. [Source: Pollock and Mulla - The Indian Contract Act]. (iii) Where a preliminary statement or assurance is not a term of the principal agreement, the Courts may deem it as a B contract or warranty, collateral to the principal agreement. Where a necessary contractual intention is present, the Courts would treat or would construe an assurance as a collateral contract or warranty conferring a right to damages. The device of a collateral warranty has been employed where the principal contract is one to which either C the person giving or the person receiving the assurance is not a party vide Shanklin Pier Ltd. vs. Detel Products Ltd., (1951) 2 KV 854.