In this context, it is not incorrect to point out that it is fairly well-known that schools are started much prior to getting offi cial permission/recognition, which follows after many years, if at all. Moreover, in the present case, the competent authorities have come to a fi nding, upon scrutiny and verifi cation of relevant records about the factum of Respondent No.5 having worked in the Sri Thakur Nigamananda High School, Terundia from 04.01.1995 to 18.08.2002, which this Court has no reason to disbelieve. 19. The decision by a Division Bench of the High Court in Bibekananda Das (supra), is not of any help to the Respondent No.5 as we have not delved into the issue of eligibility for appointment on the post of PET on the relevant date(s). BICHITRANANDA BEHERA v. STATE OF ORISSA AND 413 OTHERS [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] 20. On an overall circumspection, thus, in the present case the Respondent No.5 should have been non-suited on the ground of delay and laches, which especially in service matters, has been held consistently to be vital, juxtaposed with the sign of acquiescence. To the mix, we add that the State has supported the factual circumstances concerning the appointment of the appellant, his continuance in service as also the Respondent No.5 having worked during the said period in another school viz. the Sri Thakur Nigamananda High School, Terundia. Notably, the Respondent No.5 does not, from the record before us, appear to have approached the authorities in the interregnum. 21. Profi tably, we may reproduce relevant passages from certain decisions of this Court: (A) Union of India v Tarsem Singh, (2008) 8 SCC 648: “To summarise, normally, a belated service related claim will be rejected on the ground of delay and laches (where remedy is sought by fi ling a writ petition) or limitation (where remedy is sought by an application to the Administrative Tribunal). One of the exceptions to the said rule is cases relating to a continuing wrong. Where a service related claim is based on a continuing wrong, relief can be granted even if there is a long delay in seeking remedy, with reference to the date on which the continuing wrong commenced, if such continuing wrong creates a continuing source of injury. But there is an exception to the exception. If the grievance is in respect of any or administrative decision which related to or aff ected several others also, and if the reopening of the issue would aff ect the settled rights of third parties, then the claim will not be entertained. For example, if the issue relates to payment or refi xation of pay or pension, relief may be granted in spite of delay as it does not aff ect the rights of third parties. But if the claim involved issues relating to seniority or promotion, etc., aff ecting others, delay would render the claim stale and doctrine of laches/limitation will be applied. Insofar as the consequential relief of recovery of arrears for a past period is concerned, the principles relating to recurring/successive wrongs will apply.