(6) On confi rmation of sale by the secured creditor and if the terms of payment have been complied with, the authorised offi cer exercising the power of sale shall issue a certifi cate of sale of the immovable property in favour of the purchaser in the Form given in Appendix V to these rules. (7) Where the immovable property sold is subject to any encumbrances, the authorised offi cer may, if he thinks fi t, allow the purchaser to deposit with him the money required to discharge the encumbrances and any interest due thereon together with such additional amount that may be suffi cient to meet the contingencies or further cost, expenses and interest as may be determined by him. Provided that if after meeting the cost of removing encumbrances and contingencies there is any surplus available out of money deposited by the purchaser such surplus shall be paid to the purchaser within fi fteen days, from date of fi nalisation of the sale. (8) On such deposit of money for discharge of the encumbrances, the authorised offi cer shall issue or cause the purchaser to issue notices to the persons interested in or entitled to the money deposited with him and take steps to make, the payment accordingly. CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 91 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] (9) The authorised offi cer shall deliver the property to the purchaser free from encumbrances known to the secured creditor on deposit of money as specifi ed in sub-rule (7) above. (10) The certifi cate of sale issued under sub-rule (6) shall specifi cally mention that whether the purchaser has purchased the immovable secured asset free from any encumbrances known to the secured creditor or not.” 37. From the above provisions under Rule 8(6) it is clear that the authorised offi cer of the Bank shall serve on the borrower a notice of thirty days for sale of immovable property, and that if the sale of such secured assets is by way of public auction, the Bank/secured creditor, shall cause publication of such notice in two leading newspapers, one in vernacular, language having suffi cient circulation in the locality by setting the out the terms of sale, mentioned in the said provision; and under sub-rule (1) of Rule 9, such sale of immovable of property under these Rules shall not take place before the expiry of thirty days from the date on which the public notice of sale is published in newspapers as referred to in the proviso to sub-rule (6), or notice of sale has been served to the borrower. 38. In Mardia Chemicals (supra), this Court examined the provision of Section 13 of the SARFAESI Act and made the following relevant observations reproduced below: - “38. We may now consider the main enforcing provision which is pivotal to the whole controversy, namely, Section 13 in Chapter III of the Act. It provides that a secured creditor may enforce any security interest without intervention of the court or tribunal irrespective of Section 69 or Section 69-A of the Transfer of Property Act where according to sub-section (2) of Section 13, the borrower is a defaulter in repayment of the secured debt or any instalment of repayment and further the debt standing against him has been classifi ed as a non- performing asset by the secured creditor.