Even if, the allegations against the said Gaffar Molla and his associates are taken at their face C value, it is difficult to accept the contention raised by the learned counsel for the appellant that the damage caused by the frenzied mob which had chased said Gaffar Molla and his associates, was caused due to the malicious act on the part of the respondent and therefore was excluded from the coverage in view of Clause V(d) of the subject Policy. D 14. It is trite to say that wherever such an exclusionary clause is contained in a policy, it would be for the insurer to show that the case falls within the purview of such clause. In case of ambiguity, the contract of insurance has to be construed in favour of the insured. E 15. Beneficial reference of the decision in National Insurance Company Limited vs. Ishar Das Madan Lal1 be made in this regard, in which it has been held that: - “8. However, there may be an express clause excluding the applicability of insurance cover. Wherever such exclusionary clause is contained in a policy, it would be for the insurer to show F that the case falls within the purview thereof. In a case of ambiguity, it is trite, the contract of insurance shall be construed in favour of the insured. “ 16. The Constitution Bench in case of General Assurance Society Ltd. Vs. Chandumull Jain and Another2had also observed as back as G in 1966 that: - “11.……there is no difference between a contract of insurance and any other contract except that in a contract of insurance there 1 (2007) 4 SCC 105 H 2 AIR 1966 SC 1644 NATIONAL INSURANCE COMPANY LTD. v. VEDIC RESORTS 425 AND HOTELS PVT. LTD. [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] is a requirement of uberrima fides i.e. good faith on the part of A the assured and the contract is likely to be construed contra proferentem that is against the company in case of ambiguity or doubt”. 17. In the instant case, the appellant-Insurance Company had failed to discharge its burden of bringing the case within the exclusionary clause B V(d) of the policies in question. The surveyor in the Final Survey Report dated 16.06.2011 had also opined that the loss had occurred due to the insured peril and the claim was admissible. Though it is true that the Surveyor’s Report is not the last and final one nor is so sacrosanct as to the incapable of being departed from, however, there has to be some C cogent and satisfactory reasons or grounds made out by the insurer for not accepting the Report. We are afraid in the instant case, the appellant- Insurance Company has failed to make out any such cogent reason for not accepting the surveyor’s Report. 18. In that view of the matter, we do not find any merit in the D present appeal and the same is accordingly dismissed. Ankit Gyan Appeal dismissed. E F G H