xxx xxx xxx 54. Lapse of scheme - If the Town and Country Development Authority fails to commence implementation of the town development scheme within a period of two years or complete its F implementation within a period of five years from the date of notification of the final scheme under Section 50, it shall, on expiration of the said period of two years or five years, as the case may be, lapse : Provided that, if a dispute between the authority and parties, if G any, aggrieved by such scheme, is brought before a Court or Tribunal of competent jurisdiction, for consideration, the period for which such dispute pending before such Court or Tribunal shall not be reckoned for determination of the lapse of the scheme.] xxx xxx xxx H 108 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 56. Acquisition of land for Town and Country Development Authority. - The Town and Country Development Authority may at any time after the date of publication of the final town development scheme under Section 50 but not later than three years therefrom, proceed to acquire by agreement the land required for the implementation of the scheme and, on its failure B so to acquire, the State Government may, at the request of the Town and Country Development Authority, proceed to acquire such land under the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (No. 1 of 1894) and on the payment of compensation awarded under that Act and any other charges incurred by the State C Government in connection with the acquisition, the land shall vest in the Town and Country Development Authority subject to such terms and conditions as may be prescribed.” Thus, as per Section 54 of the Adhiniyam, if the Town and Country Development Authority fails to commence implementation of the Town D Development Scheme within the period stipulated in section 54 of the Adhiniyam, the Scheme shall lapse. Therefore, the words “commence implementation” are vital and important words which are required to be considered and interpreted. 7. It is the case on behalf of the Development Authority that the following steps were taken for implementation of Scheme No. 97 within E three years, i.e., 8.6.1984, which are as under: F G H INDORE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY v. BURHANI GRIH NIRMAN 109 SAHAKARI SANSTHA MARYADIT SNEH NAGAR [M. R. SHAH, J.] At this stage, it is required to be noted that as per section 56 of the A Adhiniyam, the Development Authority may at any time after the date of publication of the final town development scheme under section 50, but not later than three years therefrom, proceed to acquire by agreement the land required for the implementation of the scheme and, on its failure so to acquire, the State Government may, at the request of the B Development Authority, proceed to acquire such land under the provisions of the Act, 1894. Thus, under section 56 of the Adhiniyam, within three years the Development Authority was required to proceed to acquire by agreement the land required for the implementation of the scheme and only thereafter and on its failure so to acquire, the State Government may, at the request of the Development Authority, proceed to acquire C such land.