However, the learned Civil Judge had not referred to any reason as it had simpliciter permitted the respondents to withdraw the suit without permission to file afresh. The observation by the Division Bench that withdrawal of the suit was with consent of both parties that the respondents will be allotted C an alternative plot was neither here nor there. 9. On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondents submitted that the appeal was filed in the year 1990, raising the issue regarding wrongful preparation of record of rights. The same was disposed of on 1.3.1990 with the observation that the claim regarding the plot of D land belonging to the respondents which was allotted to the Reserve Bank of India for construction of staff quarters, representation could be made to the GAD. Ever since then, representations were being made. However, when nothing came out, the civil suit came to be filed. He further submitted that the civil suit was filed with three prayers, firstly that the plaintiffs therein be declared owners of the portion of the land in E their possession as they had become the owners thereof by way of adverse possession. Secondly, declaration was sought that they are the owners in possession of the land forming part of Schedule annexed with the suit and lastly, an injunction be issued against the defendants therein not to interfere in their possession of the suit land. As during the pendency F of the suit, the representations made by the petitioner therein for allotment of alternative land against the land of the respondents which was allotted to the Reserve Bank of India and other persons were being actively considered by the Government therefore, the suit was withdrawn. Official notings were recorded at different levels wherein positive notes were prepared and opined that the respondents are entitled to allotment of G land in lieu of the land belonging to the respondents which was allotted to the Reserve Bank of India. However, as there was no positive result, the respondents did not have any option but to file writ petition seeking direction to the concerned authorities to decide their claim. The learned Single Judge had failed to consider this issue in right spirit. However, in H appeal, the High Court had considered the genuine claim of the STATE OF ORISSA & ANR. v. LAXMI NARAYAN DAS (DEAD) 1059 THR. LRS & ORS. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] respondents and granted the relief. Learned counsel for the respondents A was fair enough to state that the land in dispute is same even though the identification numbers have changed with the passage of time in the revenue records. DISCUSSION B 10. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the relevant records. 11. The case in hand is a classic case in which a litigant had been able to mislead the courts and authorities at different levels to put life into his stale claim. C 12. The facts of the case having chequered history are being summed up in the following table, for better understanding, when elaborated in latter part of the .