The Circular dated 27-7-1987 issued by the Government of Madhya Pradesh that provides for imposition of 10% supervision charges on the amounts calculated towards the cost of the Sal seeds in the expenditure incurred, was also ignored. Pertinently, the respondent Company G has not denied the fact that supervision charges were being levied by the appellant State and being paid by it without any demur as a part of the advance payment made on an annual basis, right from the date the parties had entered into the first agreement i.e. from 30-8-1979. This fact is also borne out from the specimen copies of the s filed by the appellant State with the appeal that H RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 435 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] amply demonstrate that the cost of the Sal seeds required to be A paid by the respondent Company included “supervision charges” described as “Paryavekshan vyay” in vernacular language. It was only after the appellant State had terminated the second contract on 21-12-1998, that the respondent Company raised a dispute and for the first time, claimed refund of the excess amount B purportedly paid by it to the appellant State towards supervision charges incurred for supply of Sal seeds. In our opinion, this is the patent illegality that is manifest on the face of the arbitral award inasmuch as the express terms and conditions of the agreement governing the parties as also the Circular dated 27-7-1987 issued by the Government of Madhya Pradesh have been completely C ignored.” 19.2. In view of such an error apparent on the face of the record, this Court found the matter to be of patent illegality which was going to the root of the matter and the impugned award, insofar permitting deduction of the supervision charges recovered from the respondent, D was quashed and set aside being in direct conflict with the terms of the contract and the relevant circular. This Court held thus: “26. To sum up, existence of Clause 6(b) in the agreement governing the parties, has not been disputed, nor has the application of the Circular dated 27-7-1987 issued by the Government of E Madhya Pradesh regarding imposition of 10% supervision charges and adding the same to cost of the Sal seeds, after deducting the actual expenditure been questioned by the respondent Company. We are, therefore, of the view that failure on the part of the learned sole arbitrator to decide in accordance with the terms of the F contract governing the parties, would certainly attract the “patent illegality ground”, as the said oversight amounts to gross contravention of Section 28(3) of the 1996 Act, that enjoins the Arbitral Tribunal to take into account the terms of the contract while making an award. The said “patent illegality” is not only apparent on the face of the award, it goes to the very root of the G matter and deserves interference. Accordingly, the present appeal is partly allowed and the impugned award, insofar as it has permitted deduction of “supervision charges” recovered from the respondent Company by the appellant State as a part of the expenditure incurred by it while calculating the price of the Sal H 436 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R.