A Section 26 of the Act is becausea plain reading of the provision as well as a contextual understanding, would suggest that it is only when the initiation of a proposal for demonetisation is by the Central Board of the Bank by making a recommendation to the Central Government that the provision would apply. B 15.20 This position, however, does not imply that the Central Government is bereft of any power or jurisdiction to declare any bank note of any denomination to have ceased to be a legal tender. As already observed while accepting the contention of learned Attorney General, the Central C Government in its wisdom may also initiate the process of demonetisation as has been done in the instant case.But what is importantand to be noted is that the said power cannot be exercised by the mere issuance of an executive notification in the Gazette of India. In other words, when D the proposal to demonetise any currency note is initiated by the Central Government with or without the concurrence of the Central Board of the Bank, it is not an exercise of the executive power of the Central Government under sub- section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. In such a situation, as already held, the Central Government would have to resort E to the legislative process by initiating a plenary legislation in the Parliament. 15.21 What is being emphasised is that the Central Government cannot act in isolation in such matters. The Central Government has to firstly, take the opinion of the Central F Board of the Bank for the proposed demonetisation. The Central Board of the Bank may not accept the proposal of the Central Government or may partially concur with the proposal on specific aspects. In fact, in 1978, when the then Governor of the Bank did not accept the proposal of the Central Government to demonetise Rs.5,000/-and G Rs.10,000/- bank notes, the Central Government initiated the said process through the Parliament and this culminated in the passing of the Act of 1978. In drafting the said legislation, the expert assistance of two officers of the Bank was taken so as to fortify the legislation.The said legislation H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 203 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] was also challenged before this Court in the case of A Jayantilal Ratanchand Shah, Devkumar Gopaldas Aggarwal vs. Reserve Bank of India (1996) 9 SCC 650 whereby the vires of the 1978 Act was ultimately, upheld by this Court vide judgement dated 9th August, 1996, after eighteen years of its enactment. B 15.22 The reasons as to why the Central Government cannot unilaterally issue a gazette notification but has to resort to a legislation when it initiates the proposal for demonetisation have already been discussed. The Central Government may have very valid objectives to do so, as in the instant case, C i.e., in to eradicate black money, fake currency and prevent currency from being utilized for terror funding. But, those objects would not be the objects with which the Central Board of the Bank may make a recommendation under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act.