A B C D 19. The scope and ambit of Section 155 of the 1956 Act, as it then existed, fell for consideration in a decision of this Court in Ammonia E Supplies (supra). The application for rectification in Ammonia’s case was filed under Section 155, and it was submitted that the scope for rectification under Section 155 is enlarged in comparison with the position as it were under Section 38 of the 1913 Act. Rejecting the argument, this Court in Ammonia held that the jurisdiction exercised by the court F for rectification of the register of members is essentially limited. The comparative analysis in Ammonia assumes importance as a similar submission is made before us by Mr. Chidambaram that the scope and jurisdiction of the Tribunal under Section 59 of the 2013 Act is wide when compared with Section 111A of the 1956 Act as amended in 1996. The relevant portion of the in Ammonia is as under: - G “26. …. There could be no doubt any question raised within the peripheral field of rectification, it is the court under Section 155 alone which would have exclusive jurisdiction. However, the question raised does not rest here. In case any claim is based on some seriously disputed civil rights or title, denial H IFB AGRO INDUSTRIES LTD. v. SICGIL INDIA LTD. AND 543 OTHERS [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] of any transaction or any other basic facts which may be the A foundation to claim a right to be a member and if the court feels such claim does not constitute to be a rectification but instead seeking adjudication of basic pillar some such facts falling outside the rectification, its discretion to send a party to seek his relief before the civil court first for the adjudication B of such facts, it cannot be said such right of the court to have been taken away merely on account of the deletion of the aforesaid proviso. Otherwise under the garb of rectification one may lay claim of many such contentious issues for adjudication not falling under it. Thus in other words, the court under it has discretion to find whether the dispute raised C is really for rectification or is of such a nature that unless decided first it would not come within the purview of rectification. The word “rectification” itself connotes some error which has crept in requiring correction. Error would only mean everything as required under the law has been D done yet by some mistake the name is either omitted or wrongly recorded in the Register of the company. 27. In other words, in to qualify for rectification, every procedure as prescribed under the Companies Act before recording the name in the register of the company has to be E stated to have been complied with by the applicant…. The Court has to examine on the facts of each case whether an application is for rectification orsomething else. So field or peripheral jurisdiction of the court under it would be what comes under rectification, not projected claims under the garb of rectification.