A C request was, accordingly, made to the addressees including the RBI to note the instructions for appropriate action. 29.Heavily relying thereon, Mr. Mohan argued that the refusal of the RBI to treat persons with disabilities at par with SC/ST category of candidates and to award grace marks as are made available to the latter, D despite the existence of the circular dated 5th July, 2000, the Master Circular and the communication dated 18th October, 2006, amounts not only to deprivation of the rights of “Equal Opportunity, Protection and Full Participation” guaranteed by the provisions of the PwD Act, 1995 but also to invidious discrimination hit by Article 14 of the Constitution. E 30. Inviting our pointed attention to the decision in Leesamma Joseph (supra), Mr. Mohan contended that this Court declined to interfere with the of the Kerala High Court under challenge which reversed the decision of the Kerala Administrative Tribunal and upheld not only the respondent’s claim for promotion, though the initial entry of the respondent was on compassionate ground and not on a post reserved F for persons with disabilities, but did not disturb the financial benefits received by the respondent. He also contended that this Court even after not interfering with the impugned examined the issue as to whether persons with disabilities could claim a right of promotion under the PwD Act, 1995, as such issue were likely to arise in other matters of G similar nature, and answered it in the affirmative. 31. Mr. Mohan also invited our attention to an dated 20th February, 2020 recorded on these appeals. Such noticed the submission advanced by him on behalf of Mr. Nair that “the rights in H 9 W.P. (C) No.115/1998 RESERVE BANK OF INDIA & ORS. v. A.K. NAIR & ORS. 797 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] favour of disabled persons flow directly from the provisions of the A Act and the source of right is not the O.M. but the provisions of the Act themselves; and as such the O.M. in any case can not limit the applicability of the protection under the provisions of the Act”. Mr. Mohan reiterated such submission before us and submitted that the directions given by the High Court in the impugned and B do not call for any interference. PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THIS COURT: 32.Having heard the parties on 19th January, 2023, we had granted special leave to appeal and reserved . In course of hearing, Mr. Gupta had sought for leave to file a “Further Affidavit”, which we orally C permitted. Such an affidavit having been tendered on 30th January, 2023, we permitted Mr. Mohan to look into its contents and on a prayer made on behalf of Mr. Nair, we even permitted filing of a reply by an dated 31st January, 2023. Pursuant thereto, a “Common Affidavit-in- Reply” dated 7th February, 2023 has been filed by Mr. Nair and taken on D record. ADDITIONAL AFFIDAVITS OF THE RBI: 33. We have read the additional affidavits filed by the RBI and Mr. Nair after on these appeals was reserved.