A Central Government undertaking was given an exemption since the power produced by the said company was to be used for public benefit. One company was charged Rs.50,000 since the agreement was entered into on 22.09.2008, and as on that date, the prevalent rate was D Rs.50,000 per hectare. Further, one other power generator was given an exemption because there was no loss of irrigation potential due to diversion of water. Another company was charged Rs.50,000 per hectare since the water to be diverted in favor of the said company was minimal and more importantly, that particular area was not a water deficit area. In comparison, Respondent No.1 is drawing a high amount of water E from an area where water is a scarce resource. This is a reasonable and sufficient explanation. 20. We are not satisfied with the approach adopted by the High Court when Respondent No.1 itself has willfully and deliberately entered into an agreement knowing fully well the legal and business F consequences. In fact, the relief claimed in this Writ Petition is similar to the prayer in the Writ Petition which was disposed of on 22.11.2012. Even in that proceeding, Respondent No.1 had raised similar arguments. They were countered by the State by contending that there existed an agreement between the parties which stipulated a sum of Rs.1,00,000 G as irrigation restoration charges, and pursuant to this agreement, Respondent No.1 had even issued an undertaking. After taking note of the contentions, the High Court held as follows: “5. The record before the Court would indicate that even prior to the execution of the agreement the Petitioners had by a H 516 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A letter dated 12 May 2010 accepted the liability to pay an amount of Rs. 232.18 crores in five instalments. However, since a representation had been submitted to the Government for charging of irrigation restoration charges at the rate of 50,000/- per hectare instead of Rs.1 lakh per hectare, the Petitioners stated as follows: B “Without prejudice to IPL’s right made in the representation which is pending with the State Government, it is confirmed that IPL will be willing to execute the agreement before 31st May 2012 on the conditions mentioned at 2 a) & 2 b) C above. However, we will like to clarify that in the event of our representation at 1 is decided in our favour, the amount payable towards irrigation restoration charges will stand reduced accordingly and the instalments paid/payable by us will be suitably adjusted/modified.” D 6. The agreement which was executed thereafter contemplates that the Petitioners would pay irrigation restoration charges at the rate of Rs. 1 lakh per hectare to Government together with interest and that the decision of the Government on the representation dated 25 January 2011 submitted for the E reduction of the irrigation restoration charges would bind the parties. The Petitioners have besides the representation dated 25 January 2011, followed up with subsequent representations which are still pending one of which is the representation dated 30 June 2011 (Exhibit “I”).