The higher the profi ts and gains, the higher would be the quantum of deduction. Conversely, if the profi ts and gains of the eligible business of the assessee is determined at a lower fi gure, the deduction under Section 80-IA would be on the lower side. Assessee had computed the profi ts and gains by taking Rs. 3.72 as the price of electricity per unit supplied by its captive power plants to its industrial units. The basis for taking this fi gure was that it was the rate at which the State Electricity Board was supplying electricity to its industrial consumers. Assessing offi cer repudiated such claim. According to him, the rate at which the assessee had supplied the surplus electricity to the State Electricity Board i.e., Rs. 2.32 per unit, should be the market value of electricity. Assessee cannot claim two rates for the same good i.e., electricity. When it supplies electricity to the State Electricity Board at the rate of Rs. 2.32 per unit, it cannot claim Rs. 3.72 per unit for supplying the same electricity to its sister concern i.e., the industrial units. This view of the assessing offi cer was confi rmed by the CIT (A). 21. We have noticed that the Tribunal had rejected such contention of the revenue which has been affi rmed by the High Court. In this proceeding, we are called upon to decide as to which of the two views is the correct one. 22. Reverting back to sub-section (8) of Section 80-IA, it is seen that if the assessing offi cer disputes the consideration for supply of any goods by the assessee as recorded in the accounts of the eligible business on the ground that it does not correspond to the market value of such goods as on the date of the transfer, then for the purpose of deduction under Section 80-IA, the profi ts and gains of such eligible business shall be computed by adopting arm’s length pricing. In other words, if the assessing offi cer 512 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. rejects the price as not corresponding to the market value of such good, then he has to compute the sale price of the good at the market value as per his determination. The explanation below the proviso defi nes market value in relation to any goods to mean the price that such goods would ordinarily fetch on sale in the open market. Thus, as per this defi nition, the market value of any goods would mean the price that such goods would ordinarily fetch on sale in the open market. 23. This brings to the foreas to what do we mean by the expression “open market” which is not a defi ned expression. 24. Black’s Law Dictionary, 10th Edition, defi nes the expression “open market” to mean a market in which any buyer or seller may trade and in which prices and product availability are determined by free competition. P. Ramanatha Aiyer’s Advanced Law Lexicon has also defi ned the expression “open market” to mean a market in which goods are available to be bought and sold by anyone who cares to.