The trial court found that the plaintiff was entitled to specific relief and declared the sale unit as null and void. The second defendant appealed against the said of the trial court. The appeal of the second defendant was dismissed by the Appellate Court. The Appellate Court H 13 1993 SCC OnLine P&H 1179 RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 647 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] also allowed the cross-appeal filed by the plaintiff and directed the second A defendant to handover possession to the plaintiff. However, the High Court allowed the second appeal, and the civil suit filed by the plaintiff was dismissed. The matter thereafter reached this Court. 85. This Court considered the arguments advanced on behalf of the plaintiff that the same would result in contravention of the 1960 B Rules made under the 1952 Act. This Court, further considering certain provisions of the 1952 Act, observed thus: “59. From a perusal of the aforesaid provisions, it becomes clear that the word “site” means any land which is transferred under Section 3 of the 1952 Act. When it comes to the terms of Section C 3, it contemplates power with the Central Government to transfer by auction, allotment or otherwise any land or building belonging to the Government in Chandigarh on such terms and conditions as may subject to any Rules that can be made under the Act, the Government thinks fit to impose. Thus, though it is open to the D Central Government to transfer either land or building belonging to the Government in Chandigarh under Section 3 of the 1952 Act, the word “site” is confined to only the land which is transferred by the Central Government under Section 3. In fact, the word “building”, as defined in the Act, points to any construction or part of construction which is transferred under Section 3. It includes E outhouse, stable, cattle shed and garage and also includes any building erected on any land transferred by the Central Government. The construction must be intended to be used for residential, commercial, industrial or any other purposes. A clear distinction is maintained between “site” and “building”. The Chandigarh (Sale F of Sites and Buildings) Rules, 1960 came to be made. Section 22 of the 1952 Act confers power upon the Central Government to make the rules for various purposes, which are mentioned in sub-section (2). It includes Sections 2(a), 2(d), 2(e) and 2(h) of the 1952 Act, which read as follows: “22. (2)(a) the terms and conditions on which any land or building G may be transferred by the Central Government under this Act; *** (d) the terms and conditions under which the transfer of any right in any site or building may be permitted; H 648 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A (e) erection of any building or the use of any site; *** (h) the conditions with regard to the buildings to be erected on sites transferred under this Act;”” 86. After reproducing Rule 16 of the 2007 Rules, this Court B observed thus: “61.