Held: The confi rmation of sale by the Bank under Rule 9(2) of the Rules of 2002 invests the successful auction purchaser with a vested right to obtain a certifi cate of sale of the immovable property in form given in appendix (V) to the Rules i.e., in accordance with Rule 9(6) of the SARFAESI. [Para 105] Securitization and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Securities Interest Act, 2002 (SARFAESI Act) – ss.13(8) and 35 – Transfer of Property Act, 1882 – s.60 – Impact of amended s.13(8) of SARFAESI Act on the Borrowers’ right of redemption in an auction conducted under the SARFAESI Act – Eff ect of amendment to s.13(8) of SARFAESI Act r/w s.60 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882. Mortgage – Right of redemption of mortgage. CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 55 LTD. & ORS. Held: 1. In accordance with the unamended Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act, the right of the borrower to redeem the secured asset was available till the sale or transfer of such secured asset – The borrower’s right of redemption did not stand terminated on the date of the auction sale of the secured asset itself and remained alive till the transfer was completed in favour of the auction purchaser, by registration of the sale certifi cate and delivery of possession of the secured asset – However, the amended provisions of Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act, make it clear that the right of the borrower to redeem the secured asset stands extinguished thereunder on the very date of publication of the notice for public auction under Rule 9(1) of the Rules of 2002 – In eff ect, the right of redemption available to the borrower under the present statutory regime is drastically curtailed and would be available only till the date of publication of the notice under Rule 9(1) of the Rules of 2002 and not till the completion of the sale or transfer of the secured asset in favour of the auction purchaser. [Para 105] 2. The SARFAESI Act is a special law containing an overriding clause in comparison to any other law in force – Section 60 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, is a general law vis-a-vis the amended Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act which is special law – The right of redemption is clearly restricted till the date of publication of the sale notice under the SARFAESI Act, whereas the said right continues under Section 60 of the Act 1882 till the execution of conveyance of the mortgaged property – The SARFAESI Act is a special law of recovery with a paradigm shift that permits expeditious recovery for the banks and the fi nancial institutions without intervention of Courts – Similarly, Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act is a departure from the general right of redemption under the general law i.e. the Act 1882 – Further, the legislature has in the objects and reasons while passing the amending Act specifi cally stated “to facilitate expeditious disposal of recovery applications, it has been decided to amend the said Acts….” – Thus, while interpreting Section 13(8) vis-à-vis Section 60 of the Act 1882, an interpretation which furthers the said object and reasons should be preferred and adopted – If the general law is allowed to govern in the manner as sought to be argued by the borrowers, it will defeat the very object and purpose as well as the clear language of the amended Section 13(8) – In the light of clear inconsistency between Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act and Section 60 of the Act 1882 the former special enactment overrides the latter general enactment in light of Section 35 of the SARFAESI Act – Thus, the right of redemption of mortgage is available to the borrower under the SARFAESI 56 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R.