namely, in the present case, twenty five years and that too on payment A of a meagre rent per annum is nothing but arbitrary, unreasonable and violative of right to hold property guaranteed under Article 300A of the Constitution of India. 4.1 It is submitted that even in the year 2016, an assurance was given to the High Court that to acquire the land permanently, proceedings B shall be initiated and on that assurance the High Court disposed of the earlier writ petition. It is submitted that thereafter also, after a period of six years, no further concrete steps are taken to acquire the land permanently and the appellants are being paid meagre rent at present at the rate of Rs. 30/- per square meter per annum. C 4.2 It is further submitted that the area in question in which the land under temporary acquisition is situated is now forming part of the city area and is a fully developed area and the prices have gone very high. It is submitted that therefore to offer/pay rent at the rate of Rs. 30/ - per square meter per annum and that too for the entire area of the land D in the developed area is absolutely unreasonable, arbitrary and violative of Article 300A of the Constitution of India. It is submitted that because of the temporary acquisition for 25 years, the appellants are not in a position to use the land in question. They are not in a position to fetch the market price. They are also not getting the adequate compensation/rent. It is submitted that if the land would have been acquired permanently E earlier, the appellants would have got sufficient compensation and the appellants would have utilised that money for purchase of other land, which the appellants could not because of non-payment of compensation due to non-acquisition of the land permanently. 5. Shri Vikramjit Banerjee, learned Additional Solicitor General of F India has submitted that the land in question has been acquired by the ONGC for its oil exploration and production activities on temporary basis. It is submitted that for the aforesaid the landowners are being paid the annual rent revised from time to time by the Committee comprising Collector, Town Planning Officer, Deputy Collector, Assistant Collector, G Special Land Acquisition Officer and the representative of the ONGC with respect to the land situated in Gujarat. It is submitted that the appellants are accepting the periodically revised upward rent voluntarily. 5.1 It is further submitted that after the High Court passed an in Special Civil Application No.3992/2016, which was disposed of on the statement made by the respondents that they would initiate the H 1026 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A process of permanent acquisition, on 23.5.2018, Revenue Department, Government of Gujarat published a notification stating that the land in question is required by the ONGC for public purpose declaring its intention to acquire the land for development of its infrastructure. It is submitted that after the notification dated 23.5.2018, again on 22.07.2019, Revenue Department of Government of Gujarat published a notification relating B to land in question required by the ONGC for public purpose, the same was issued under Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition , Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘2013 Act’).