942 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 3P SO.RCT.RS. 942 [2023] 3 S.C.R. A VAHITHA v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU (Criminal Appeal No. 762 of 2012) B FEBRUARY 22, 2023 [DINESH MAHESHWARI AND BELA M. TRIVEDI, JJ.] Penal Code, 1860 – s.302 – Conviction under – Strangulation of child – Prosecution case that appellant strangulated her five year old child to death while PW-1 (mother-in-law of appellant) C had gone out of the house – As per the FIR, when PW-1 came back to the house, she saw the appellant tie the outer end of her saree tightly around the neck of the child – During her testimony PW-1 stated that she found the appellant sitting silently next to the deceased child when she came back to the house – Upon hearing D PW-1 shout; daughters of PW-1 i.e. PW-2 and PW-3 also arrived at the scene of occurrence – Two independent witnesses PW-4 and PW-5 (landlord and neighbour of PW-1) also testified that they saw the appellant next to the body of the deceased child – According to post-mortem report, cause of death of child was asphyxia due to strangulation – However, PW-6- father of appellant deposed that E appellant was with him at his village and that he accompanied her back to in-laws place after receiving information about death of child – Trial Court convicted appellant u/s. 302 and rejected plea of alibi – High Court affirmed findings of trial Court and held that appellant was last person to be seen with child, hence onus was on F appellant to explain how death occurred – On appeal, held: Plea of alibi rejected – No evidence adduced to prove that appellant was not present at time and place of incident; two independent witnesses testified that they saw the appellant near the body of the deceased child; appellant arrested on the same day of the incident at bus stand – Although, there were discrepancies in versions of G PW-2 between the complaint and her assertions before the Court such discrepancies are normal and natural or the result of her want of proper comprehension – Trial Court rightly analysed matter and observed that PW-1 was deposing from memory one year from incident hence discrepancies would not result in rejection of her H testimony – Further, saree recovered from appellant had blood stains 942 VAHITHA v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU 943 – Motive of appellant to not live in matrimonial house and thus A committing offence cannot be ruled out looking to fact that she was living with her parents and was only forced to come to in-laws place for the upbringing of the child – Further, the appellant has not given any explanation in her statement u/s. 313 CrPC apart from denying the circumstances put to her – Burden u/s. 106 of the B Evidence Act operates heavily against appellant – Alternative submission that case would be of culpable homicide not amounting to murder rejected. Dismissing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.