In the case of Gujrat Mazdoor Sabha (Supra) during covid- 19, the Central Government had passed a notification severely affecting the pay of unskilled workers, on the grounds of national emergency. This notification was challenged on grounds of violation of Article 14, specifically in violation of the principle of proportionality. The Court held D that, in to determine the validity of state action that could infringe on fundamental rights, it must pass the following conditions, namely, (i) The interfering with the fundamental rights must have a state purpose, (ii) the said rights infringing measure must be based on a rational nexus between the interference and the state aim,(iii) the measures bust be E necessary to achieve the state aim,(iv) the restrictions must be necessary to protect the legitimate objective and (v) The state should provide sufficient safeguards for the possibility of an abuse of such rights infringing interference. On the basis of these conditions of proportionality, this Court struck down the notification. F 51. Although the fifth prong, as mentioned in the Gujarat Mazdoor Sabha (Supra) has not been expressly mentioned in Puttaswamy, Chandrachud J (as His Lordship then was), in our view, rightly has read that in in the Gujarat Mazdoor Sabha case (supra) to complete the test. State action that leaves sufficient room for abuse, thereby acting as G a threat against free exercise of fundamental rights, ought to necessarily be factored in in the delicate balancing act that the judiciary is called upon to do in determining the constitutionality of such state action - whether legislative, executive, administrative or otherwise. The relevant paragraph of the has been mentioned herein: H 464 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A “The principle of proportionality has been recognized in a slew of cases by this Court, most notably in the seven-judge bench decision in K S Puttaswamy vs. Union of India. The principle of proportionality envisages an analysis of the following conditions in to determine the validity of state action that could impinge on fundamental rights: B (i) A law interfering with fundamental rights must be in pursuance of a legitimate state aim; (ii) The justification for rights-infringing measures that interfere with or limit the exercise of fundamental rights and C liberties must be based on the existence of a rational connection between those measures, the situation in fact and the object sought to be achieved; (iii) The measures must be necessary to achieve the object D and must not infringe rights to an extent greater than is necessary to fulfil the aim; (iv) Restrictions must not only serve legitimate purposes; they must also be necessary to protect them; and (v) The State should provide sufficient safeguards against the E abuse of such interference. We are unable to find force in the arguments of the learned counsel for the Respondent. The impugned notifications do not serve any purpose, apart from reducing the overhead costs F of all factories in the State, without regard to the nature of their manufactured products.