The appellants have given no explanation as to what they did after they took away the body. Krishnanand Chaudhary has not been since seen alive. In the absence of an explanation, and considering the fact that the appellants were suspecting the boy to have kidnapped and killed the child of the family of the appellants, it was for the appellants to have explained what they did with him after they took him away. When the abductors withheld that information from the court, there is every justifi cation for drawing the inference that they had murdered the boy. Even though Section 106 of the Evidence Act may not be intended to relieve the prosecution of its burden to prove the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt, but the section would apply to cases like the present, where the prosecution has succeeded in proving facts from which a reasonable inference can be drawn regarding death. The appellants by virtue of their special knowledge must off er an explanation which might lead the Court to draw a diff erent inference. We, therefore, see no substance in this submission of Mr Mishra.” (Emphasis supplied) 52. In the case on hand it has been established or rather proved to the satisfaction of the court that the deceased was in company of her husband i.e., the appellant-convict at a point of time when something went wrong with her health and therefore, in such circumstances the appellant-convict alone knew what happened to her until she was with him. FAILURE ON THE PART OF THE APPELLANT-CONVICT IN OFFERING ANY PLAUSIBLE EXPLANATION IN HIS FURTHER STATEMENT RECORDED UNDER SECTION 313 OF THE CRPC 53. We take notice of the fact that the appellant-convict (husband) has not explained in any manner as to what had actually happened to his wife more particularly when it is not in dispute that the appellant-convict was in company of his wife i.e., deceased. It is important to bear in mind that the deceased died on account of poisoning. The poison which was detected in the viscera was found to be “aluminium phosphide”. Although, the appellant- convict tried to project a picture that no sooner the deceased fell sick than 848 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. he immediately took her to the Sanjay Gandhi Hospital at Delhi, yet, there is no evidence worth the name in this regard. The appellant-convict was expected to lead some evidence as to what had transpired at the Sanjay Gandhi Hospital. He has maintained a complete silence. It is only the appellant-convict who could have explained in what circumstances and in what manner he had taken his wife to the Sanjay Gandhi Hospital and who attended his wife at the hospital. If it is his case, that his wife was declared dead on being brought at the hospital then it is diffi cult to believe that the hospital authorities allowed the appellant to carry the dead body back home without completing the legal formalities. 54. In the aforesaid context, we must look into the decision of this Court in the case of Deonandan Mishra v. The State of Bihar reported in AIR 1955 SC 801.