But even such criticism should not be hastily expressed. What is best is not always discernible; the wisdom of any choice may be disputed or condemned. Mere errors of G government are not subject to our judicial review. It is only its palpably arbitrary exercises which can be declared void under the 14 Amendment; and such cannot be pronounced of the ordinance in controversy. Quong Wing v. Kirkendall, 223 U. S. 59, 56 L. ed. 350, 32 Sup. Ct. Rep. 192.” H [emphasis supplied] VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 123 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 249. It has been held that if the action of the government has a A basis with the objectives to be achieved, it cannot be declared as palpably arbitrary. It has been held that, to be able to find fault with a law is not to demonstrate its invalidity. It has been held that the result of the act may seem unjust and oppressive, yet be free from judicial interference. The problems of government are practical ones and may justify, if they do B not require, rough accommodations, illogical, it may be, and unscientific. But even such criticism should not be hastily expressed. It has been held that what is best is not always discernible, and the wisdom of any choice may be disputed or condemned. It has been held that mere errors of government are not subject to judicial review. It is only the palpably arbitrary exercises which can be declared void. C 250. We may gainfully refer to the following observations of this Court in the case of R.K. Garg (supra), wherein this Court observed that it should constantly remind itself of what the Supreme Court of the United States said in the case of Metropolis Theater Company (supra): D “19. ……The Court would not have the necessary competence and expertise to adjudicate upon such an economic issue. The Court cannot possibly assess or evaluate what would be the impact of a particular immunity or exemption and whether it would serve the purpose in view or not. There are so many imponderables that would enter into the determination that it would E be wise for the Court not to hazard an opinion where even economists may differ. The Court must while examining the constitutional validity of a legislation of this kind, “be resilient, not rigid, forward looking, not static, liberal, not verbal” and the Court must always bear in mind the constitutional proposition F enunciated by the Supreme Court of the United States in Munn v. Illinois [94 US 13], namely, “that courts do not substitute their social and economic beliefs for the of legislative bodies”. The Court must defer to legislative in matters relating to social and economic policies and must not interfere, unless the exercise of legislative G appears to be palpably arbitrary……” [emphasis supplied] 251. The Constitution Bench holds that the Court would not have the necessary competence and expertise to adjudicate upon such an H 124 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R.