This is my statement which I heard and understood after reading them I found the above statements correct and I am putting my signature by my own will in the presence of my sister’s son, Bablu Sah s/o Satish Sah r/o Jamunia, Toana Parvata (Navaghchiya) Bhagalpur.” (Emphasis supplied) 36. The further statement of Kiran Devi recorded by the police under Section 161 CrPC reads thus:- “Further investigation of this case, the police re-recorded the statement of complainant of this case - Kiran Devi, aged about 40 years, W/o - Arvind Sah, R/o - Thatheri Tola, PS - Sabour, District - Bhagalpur. Concurring with the FIR, she stated in her statement that in the neighborhood in front of her house lived two brothers - Munna Pandey 1038 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. and Naval Kishore Ojha @ Fucchan Pandey. They both have share in one room each. Frequent quarrels used to take place between the two brothers, due to which Naval Kishore Ojha @ Fucchan Pandey used to live at his in-law’s place (sasuraal) and Munna Pandey, Sabour used to live near Kali Sthan in a rented house. Fucchan Pandey had handed over his room to his brother-in-law (wife’s brother) for its maintenance. Pritam Tiwary worked in a cloth shop. People from the cloth shop also used to visit the house of Fucchan Pandey occasionally. There was a TV in the house of Fucchan Pandey. Children from the neighborhood also used to visit his house to watch the TV. On date 31.05.15, I (Kiran Devi) had gone to the house of my late sister, Shakila Devi in Jamunia Parvatta. On date 31.05.15 at about 12:00, her elder daughter Priya Kumari informed her on telephone that her younger daughter X was nowhere to be found. She immediately left from there. After her arrival at Sabour in her house, her elder daughter informed that her younger daughter X had stated that she was going to the house of Pritam Tiwary to watch TV. Pritam Tiwary had called X to watch TV at his home at around 9 o’clock. When X did not come home till eleven o’clock, her elder daughter Priya went to the house of Pritam Tiwary to search for her. At that time Pritam Tiwary was locking the door. When she asked the whereabouts of X from Pritam Tiwary, he told that she was not there. After that she went to a mango orchard to look for her. She was not found there also. Then Priya called all her relatives and went to search her, but could not fi nd her anywhere. Even after such a hectic search, X was nowhere to be found. So we all collectively decided to fi nd Pritam Tiwary who was also not to be found. The villagers became suspicious so they all called Munna Pandey and asked him to open the gate. But Munna Pandey declined to open the gates and said that he did not have the keys to the lock. The local villagers then telephoned Naval Pandey @ Fucchan Pandey.