The meetings of the Corporation would include all meetings, including the first meeting which is held after the holding of the general election. Section 73 of the Act provides for the first meeting to be convened by the Administrator as early as possible after the C publication of the results, while Section 35 provides for the election of the Mayor and Deputy Mayor at the first meeting of the Corporation. The prohibition on nominated members exercising the right to vote in terms of Section 3(3)(b)(i) shall, therefore, also apply to the first meeting of the Corporation at which the Mayor and, thereafter, the Deputy Mayor are to be elected. D 12. Apart from the above issue, it needs to be emphasized that Regulation 7 of the Delhi Municipal Corporation (Procedure and Conduct of Business) Regulations 1958 stipulates that as soon as the Mayor is elected, “he shall preside over the meeting for the transaction of the rest of the business thereof”. Regulation 8 provides for the election of the E Deputy Mayor and stipulates that the provisions of Regulation 6 shall apply, as far as may be, to the election of the Deputy Mayor, subject to the modification that any reference to the presiding authority shall be construed as a reference to the Mayor. These provisions make it abundantly clear that the election of the Mayor has to be held first. The F elected Mayor is then required to preside over the election of the Deputy Mayor as the presiding authority. Consequently, with this clarification, it must be noted that the election of the Mayor shall be conducted first in the first meeting of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi. Once the Mayor is elected, the elected Mayor shall be the presiding authority for the purpose of the election of the Deputy Mayor. G 13. The interpretation which we have placed on the provisions of the statute is in accord with the of a three-Judge Bench of this Court in Ramesh Mehta v Sanwal Chand Singh2. 2 (2004) 5 SCC 409 H 588 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 14. We may also note, at this stage, that on 2 February 2023, the Urban Development Department of the Government of NCT of Delhi has issued a notification clarifying that the election of the Mayor, as required by Section 35 of the Act, shall first be held and the Mayor so elected will then assume the Chair and proceed to conduct the election of the Deputy Mayor and six members of the Standing Committee. The B aforesaid notification was issued in the context of a meeting which was to be held on 6 February 2023, which could not be held on that day due to intervening circumstances. 15. Mr Sanjay Jain has indicated that the same process would be followed at the ensuing meeting for the election of the Mayor, the Deputy C Mayor and the members of the Standing Committee. 16. Hence, we issue the following directions: (i) At the first meeting of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi, the election shall be held first for the post of Mayor and at that election, the members who are nominated in terms of D Section 3(3)(b)(i) of the Act shall not have the right to vote; (ii) Upon the election of the Mayor, the Mayor shall act as the presiding authority for conducting the election of the Deputy Mayor and the members of the Standing Committee at which also the prohibition on the exercise of vote by the nominated E members in terms of Section 3(3)(b)(i) shall continue to operate; and (iii) The notice convening the first meeting of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi shall be issued within a period of twenty four hours.