[Paras 8, 9, 16, 17, 31] Maxim – Nemo dat quod non habet – Whether plaintiff ’s vendor having been denied the right of title in the land by the Commissioner’s , could have conveyed the same to her vendee: 798 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. Held: It is settled law that a vendor cannot transfer a title to the vendee better than he himself possesses, the principle arising from the maxim nemo dat quod non habet, i.e., “no one can confer a better title than what he himself has” – In the instant case, the plaintiff ’s vendor having been denied the right of title in the land by the Commissioner’s , could not have conveyed the same to her vendee. [Para 18] Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – s.100 – Mysore (Personal & Miscellaneous) Inam Abolition Act, 1954 – The High Court framed the following question of law for decision “Whether the lower appellate court had erred in law in not considering Ex P-1 to Ex P-29 and the admissions made by defendant (DW-1)?” – The High Court interpreted the Commissioner’s to be in favour of the plaintiff ’s vendor – Propriety: Held: The question framed by the High Court did not merit the label of a substantial question of law so as to warrant interference with the fi rst appellate decree u/s. 100 of the CPC – That apart, the High Court was remiss in reversing the fi ndings of facts rightly arrived at by the fi rst Appellate Court – The fi rst Appellate Court had overturned the fi ndings of the Trial Court, on the premise that revenue records alone could not aid the plaintiff in establishing his title, especially in the glaring absence of any Inam grant in favour of the plaintiff ’s vendor – The decision to adopt the Trial Court’s approach of interpreting the Commissioner’s within the framework of the revenue records that were exhibited was yet another aspect in which the High Court fell in error – An attempt ought to have been made by the High Court to harmoniously read the Commissioner’s with the provisions of the Act and to interpret the same so as to render it in consonance with the law, the failure of which leads to the inescapable conclusion that the same is indefensible – The High Court while rendering the and under challenge proceeded on an erroneous approach and contrary to settled law – The plaintiff having failed to meet the burden of proof imposed on him by law, his suit against the defendant must fail. [Paras 28, 29,30] Title – Documents of title – Revenue records: Held: It is trite law that revenue records are not documents of title. [Para 11] P. KISHORE KUMAR v. VITTAL K. PATKAR 799 LIST OF CITATIONS AND OTHER REFERENCES Nazir Mohamed vs. J. Kamala (2020) 19 SCC 57; Jitendra Singh vs. State of Madhya Pradesh and Ors. 2021 SCC OnLine SC 802; Union of India and Ors. vs. Vasavi Co-operative Housing Society Limited and Ors.