x 1 cm. red in colour A and bleeding.” X-ray of the neck and jaws was also conducted on the same day and a report to that effect was submitted by Dr.Rajeshwar Yadav, Radiologist (PW-3). B 7. Post-mortem was conducted in the afternoon on the same day by Dr K.N.Tiwari (PW-4) and the following ante- mortem injuries were reported on the four deceased: “Smt. Rajesh Antemortem Injuries (Exhibit Ka-3) C (1) Incised wound over neck lower part anteriorly and on Rt.side 8 cm. x 4 cm., bone deep, 3 cm. above supractenal notch, soft tissues of neck including blood vessels and trachea are cut in the wound. (2) Incised wound on Lt. side neck lower part 8 cm. below ear D 7 cm. x 3 cm. wound in muscle deep, soft tissue and muscle cut. Post-mortem wound Three clean cut wounds on right hand dorsum are present. Sixe 8 E cm. x 5 cm., 7 cm. x 4 cm., 3 cm. x 2 cm., 2.3 cm. apart. Vijay Pal Antemortem Injuries (Exhibit Ka-4) (1) Incised wound in upper part of neck on anterior and sides size 10 cm. x 3 cm. bone deep, wound is 8 cm. below ear lobule laryux, F hyoid soft tissues and blood vessels are cut in the wound. Post mortem wound Post mortem wounds (1) clean cut 7 cm x 3 cm. on dorsum of Rt. Hand, (2) Abrasion 7 cm. x 3 cm. on dorsum of Rt. Hand and 1 G cm. x 1 cm. clean cut over Lt. angle of mouth noted. Mangal Antemortem Injuries (Exhibit Ka-5) (1) Incised wound 25 cm. x 9 cm. on upper part of neck and H lower jaw on anterior and Rt. Side, wound is reactive upto 936 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Vertebrae, Mandible, soft tissues of neck muscles, Larix, hyoid and blood vessels are cut in the wound. (2) Upper part of wound in at level of ear lobule and oblique, oblique Incised wound on Rt.side face, from upper lip to ear 11 cm. x 1 cm. muscle deep. B Nishant Antemortem Injuries (Exhibit Ka-6) (1) Incised wound 9 cm. x 2 cm, oblique, Rt. Side neck reaching upto mid line 6cm. Below ear muscle deep. C (2) Incised wound 5 m.m. Below injury no.1 on Rt. Side neck reaching up to midline size 10cm x 8 cm., muscles, Larynx, (thyroid cartilage and hyoid) vessels are cut in the wound.” 8. After having recorded the statements of the two daughters of Vijay Pal Singh, namely Smt Pinky and Ms Rashmi, the Investigating D Officer Sub-Inspector Ram Babu Saxena (PW-9) also noted that mobile number of the deceased Nishant bearing No.9336780542 was also not traceable. Later on, the Investigating Officer arrested Mukesh and Braj Pal Singh. Mukesh after his confessional statement also got recoveries made on his pointing out of blood-stained pant, Khukri from his house which were taken into custody, sealed and memo prepared. Motor cycle E belonging to Abrar, co-accused was also recovered and taken into custody.