Further, the said witness PW-1 seems to have obviously lost the track of F facts when she asserted in her deposition that the appellant was taken to the police station after the incident. It has clearly been established on record that the appellant was arrested in the late afternoon at the bus stand and it has nowhere been shown if she was taken to the police station immediately after the incident. A suggestion made in that regard G to the official witness PW-10 Subbulakshmi has also been specifically denied by her. The said discrepancy in the version of PW-1 is also of no relevance and the concurrent findings of the two Courts cannot be displaced on that count. Even the version given in the complaint as if PW-1 saw the appellant strangling her child seems to be an overt assertion immediately after the incident. The other witnesses who had reached H VAHITHA v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU 983 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] the scene of crime including the independent witnesses PW-4 and PW- A 5 have consistently maintained that the appellant was available with the dead body of the child at the place of, and immediately after, the incident. 16.3. Taking an overall view of the matter, we do not find any reason that entire prosecution case be disbelieved and discarded because PW-1 has not projected the case in a consistent manner. Apart from the B private witnesses, all the relevant facts have been duly established in the testimonies of the official witnesses too. The discrepancies as noticed in the present case, at the most, could be said to be of minor contradictions or inconsistencies or embellishments of trivial nature; and are reasonably referable to the reasons recounted by this Court in Bharwada C Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai (supra) for which, the minor discrepancies do occur in evidence and excessive importance cannot be attached to them. 17. The submission that the assertion about the appellant having strangled the victim, by pressing her saree around the neck, does not correlate with the post-mortem examination is also untenable. As noticed, D the medical officers have clearly established that the child suffered strangulation with a wound measuring 20 cm in length and 2 cm in breadth around the neck and with thyroid cartilage bone having been fractured. PW-8 also opined that if outer end of the saree was twisted and put around the neck and the person was strangled, there was a chance of such a wound. The saree in question had been duly recovered from the E appellant and was said to be carrying blood stains. 18. In the given set of facts and circumstances, the motive as suggested by the prosecution, i.e., the desire of the appellant not to live in her matrimonial house and, on being forced to do so only because of the child, she being not interested in the existence of the child, though F presents a somewhat difficult proposition but, at the same time, cannot be ruled out altogether, particularly looking to the fact that, until 18.06.2007, the appellant was living with her parents and she was forced to come to Perambalur for the purpose of upbringing of the child with the family of her husband.