E 33. Power-of-attorney recognisable for purposes of section 32.— (1) For the purposes of section 32, the following powers-of- attorney shall alone be recognized, namely:— F (a) xxx xxx xxx; (b) xxx xxx xxx; (c) if the principal at the time aforesaid does not reside in 1[India], a power-of-attorney executed before and authenticated by a Notary Public, or any Court, Judge, Magistrate, 2[Indian] G Consul or Vice-Consul, or representative 3[***] of the Central Government: 1 Subs. by Act 3 of 1951, Sec.3 and Sch., for “the States” (w.e.f. 1-4-1951). 2 Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “British”. 3 The words “of His Majesty or” omitted by the A.O. 1950. H 172 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 34. Enquiry before registration by registering officer.— (l) Subject to the provisions contained in this Part and in sections 41, 43, 45, 69, 75, 77, 88 and 89, no document shall be registered under this Act, unless the persons executing such document, or their representatives, assigns or agents authorized as B aforesaid, appear before the registering officer within the time allowed for presentation under sections 23, 24, 25 and 26: Provided that, if owing to urgent necessity or unavoidable accident all such persons do not so appear, the Registrar, in cases where the delay in appearing does not exceed four C months, may direct that on payment of a fine not exceeding ten times the amount of the proper registration fee, in addition to the fine, if any, payable under section 25, the document may be registered. (2) Appearances under sub-section (1) may be simultaneous D or at different times. (3) The registering officer shall thereupon— (a) enquire whether or not such document was executed by the persons by whom it purports to have been executed; E (b) satisfy himself as to the identity of the persons appearing before him and alleging that they have executed the document; and (c) in the case of any person appearing as a representative, assign or agent, satisfy himself of the right of such person F so to appear. (4) Any application for a direction under the proviso to sub- section (1) may be lodged with a Sub-Registrar, who shall forthwith forward it to the Registrar to whom he is subordinate. (5) Nothing in this section applies to copies of decrees or G s. 58. Particulars to be endorsed on documents admitted to registration.— (1) On every document admitted to registration, other than a copy of a decree or , or a copy sent to a registering officer H MANIK MAJUMDER AND OTHERS v. DIPAK KUMAR SAHA 173 (DEAD) THROUGH LRS. & OTHERS [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] under section 89, there shall be endorsed from time to time the A following particulars, namely:— (a)the signature and addition of every person admitting the execution of the document, and, if such execution has been admitted by the representative, assign or agent of any person, the signature and addition of such representative, assign or B agent; (b)the signature and addition of every person examined in reference to such document under any of the provisions of this Act; and (c) any payment of money or delivery of goods made in the C presence of the registering officer in reference to the execution of the document, and any admission of receipt of consideration, in whole or in part, made in his presence in reference to such execution.