(C) No. 712/2015 B in the case of Centre for Public Interest Litigation Vs. Registrar General of Delhi High Court relied upon by learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents shall not be applicable to the facts of the case on hand. 3.15 Making the above submissions it is prayed to allow the present C appeals. 4. Shri Maninder Singh, learned Senior Advocate, appearing on behalf of the appellants in C.A. No. 2886/2023 – 5 appellants, who as such were already appointed in the first select list dated 30.01.2017 but who applied for re-evaluation as such made the same submissions which are made by Shri C.U. Singh, learned Senior Advocate. D 4.1 It is submitted that the respective appellants were prompt in applying for re-evaluation of the answers though they were selected in the first merit list dated 30.01.2017 and their marks came to be increased on re-evaluation. It is submitted that therefore, the respective appellants shall be entitled to the benefit of the revised marks and they are to be E placed appropriately at appropriate place in the selection list/merit list. It is submitted that not to grant such a relief would tantamount to not granting any benefit of increase of marks on re-evaluation. 4.2 Making the above submissions it is prayed to allow the present appeal – C.A. No. 2886/2023. F 5. Shri C.A. Sundaram and Shri P.S. Patwalia, learned Senior Advocates have appeared on behalf of the contesting respondents – original writ petitioners. It is submitted by learned Senior Advocates appearing on behalf of the respective respondents that it will be highly inequitable and grossly unjust, apart from being ex-facie illegal, to sustain G revision of merit list to the detriment of the respondents due to following reasons: - 5.1 Respondents never got an opportunity for re-evaluation of their answer-sheets as has been given to the appellants herein. They had no occasion to seek re-evaluation earlier as they were selected and H SUNIL & ORS. v. HIGH COURT OF DELHI & ORS. ETC. 97 [M. R. SHAH, J.] appointed on 30.01.2017 itself as per the merit list published at first. Re- A evaluation of the appellants herein was due to court s and decision of Special Committee even in absence of provision of re-evaluation in the relevant rules. It was a special concession. Assuming that there was a provision of re-evaluation, then the same process ought to have been extended to every candidate who was going to be affected; B 5.2 After an independent & different examiner re-evaluated the answer-sheets of candidates, marks of all 13 increased and had that the same opportunity been extended to the present respondents, their marks could have also increased. Partial re-evaluation has resulted in an anomaly. For example, Dinesh Kumar’s (R2) answer to Question 3(a)(vi) C in written test was ‘Slavery’ and he had been awarded 0 marks for it. However, upon re-evaluation, the appellants were awarded 2 marks for the same answer. Thus, despite being eligible for 2 additional marks, Dinesh Kumar was demoted in the 2nd and 3rd Merit List.As a result, the answering respondents were placed below less meritorious candidates despite being more meritorious than them and an absurd situation had D arisen.