Actual possession implies a right to retain it until the contrary is proved, and to that extent a possessor is presumed to be owner.’ “Again, at p. 404, the learned author says: ‘Special attention should also be drawn to the distinction between G “legal” ownership recognised at common law and “equitable” ownership recognised at equity. This occurs principally when there is a trust, which is purely the result of the peculiar historical development of English law. A trust implies the existence of two kinds of concurrent ownerships, that of the trustee at law and that H of the beneficiary at equity.’ M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 571 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] We are not concerned in this case with any case of trust either A under the equitable principles or under the law as engrafted in the Indian Trusts Act. Because, the ‘beneficiary might himself be a trustee of his interest for a third person, in which case his equitable ownership is as devoid of advantage to him as the legal ownership is to the trustee. So, when described in terms of ownership, the B distinction between legal and equitable ownership lies in the historical factors that govern their creation and function; in terms of advantage, the distinction is between the bare right, whether legal or equitable, and the beneficial right’ (vide pp. 404-405 of Dias on Jurisprudence, 4th Edn.). C We, therefore, need not go into the questions involving trusts where a person holds the property and receives the income in trust for others who are the legal beneficiaries. The crux of the matter is as to whether, as already stated above, the actual possession in a given particular case gives a right to retain such a possession until the contrary is proved and so long as that is not D done, to that extent a possessor is presumed to be the owner. Incidentally, although the Supreme Court in the case of Jodha Mal [(1971) 3 SCC 369 : (1971) 82 ITR 570] merely mentioned that Stroud’s Judicial Dictionary had given several definitions and illustrations of ownership, it refrained from going into the details E on account of the practical approach that was made in that case, to which we shall hereinafter refer and dilate upon. We think it worthwhile, the matter having been canvassed at length at the Bar, to give a full illustration of the definitions of ‘ownership’ as Stroud puts it. One such definition is that the ‘owner’ or ‘proprietor’ F of a property is the person in whom (with his or her assent) it is for the time being beneficially vested, and who has the occupation, or control, or usufruct, of it, e.g., a lessee is, during the term, the owner of the property demised. Yet another definition that has been given by Stroud is that: G ‘“Owner” applies to every person in possession or receipt either of the whole, or of any part, of the rents or profits of any land or tenement; or in the occupation of such land or tenement, other than as a tenant from year to year or for any less term or as a tenant at will.’ (Stroud’s Judicial Dictionary, 3rd Edn., Vol.