The appellant had unauthorized association with foreign institution on a subject, which is a strategic research and development subject in the respondent organization and based on which B the nation’s rocketry and ambitious launch vehicle programs were advancing and a doubtful circumstance of disclosure of vital data to unauthorized foreign agencies is created it is a matter of concern for the security of the State. Taking up all such contentions, it was submitted by the learned counsel appearing for respondent Nos.1 to 4 that the invocation of the power under Rule 16 (iii) of the CCA Rules in dismissing the C appellant from service was subjected to judicial review, initially by the Tribunal and then by the High Court and, therefore, no case, whatsoever was made out by the appellant so as to compel invocation of the power under Article 136 of the Constitution of India to conduct a further judicial review. It is therefore, submitted that the appeal is liable to be dismissed. D 20. Before delving into the matter further, it is only apposite to refer to the appellant’s own estimation about himself. According to the appellant, he is a high-profile scientist with specialisation in rocket propulsion with proven credentials at par with NASA scientist. He would further state that he is second to none in space program and is having all E potential to become the Chairman of ISRO and is the best suitable candidate for the post of Chairman ISRO with immediate effect. 21. Thus, it is obvious that the appellant himself knew that he is a high-profile scientist in ISRO, which is a highly sensitive and strategic research and development organisation under the Department of Space, F Government of India. We are of the considered view that the Court cannot be an island and feign oblivion of the pivotal role of a scientist/ engineer attached to ISRO and also the role of ISRO as the space agency of India. Obviously, it is involved in science, engineering and technology to harvest the benefits of outer space for India. Now, we will cull out the G relevant indisputable and undisputed facts, obtained in this case. The appellant is a scientist/engineer in the VSSC, Thiruvananthapuram of ISRO. After applying for sabbatical leave for one year and when the competent authority decided not to recommend the leave in exigency of service, he applied for nine days’ earned leave from 21.08.2003 to 29.08.2003 on personal grounds and then went to South Korea. On H 794 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A reaching South Korea, through e-mail dated 01.09.2003, the appellant intimated his Divisional Head in VSSC regarding his arrival in South Korea to carry out his post-doctoral research and to assist Prof. H.D. Kim, Head of School of Mechanical Engineering, Andong National University, South Korea. Though his application dated 18.07.2003 was not sanctioned, through another e-mail, he applied for 89 days’ leave B from 01.09.2003 to 28.11.2003 and continued to stay in South Korea despite being informed that his leave was not sanctioned and was required to report for duty not later than 11.09.2003.