A9 Adoption Deed, Venkubayamma’s signature reads thus: “Moturu bayammma’ and, thereafter, the word ‘Venku” was interjected above. Underneath that signature, the signature ‘Moturu Venkubayamma’ is again affi xed. It has come on record that Venkubayamma was in the habit of signing in English as well as in Telugu. If so, it is strange that she would not have signed her own name correctly on the second page and would have left out ‘Venku’ altogether. Further, the misspelling of ‘bayamma’ as ‘bayammma’ is also strange and signifi cant. 53. Ex. A9 Adoption Deed records the age of Venkubayamma as 70 years and states that she was desirous of taking a male child in adoption as she had no male issues. The document also records that the adoptive child would perform the annual shraddha ceremonies and off ering of Pinda and water, as her natural son, to her ancestors. Nalini Kanth was aged less than a year when this adoption deed was executed whereas the adoptive mother, going by the document itself, was aged 70 years. Being of that age, it is strange that Venkubayamma would have expected this toddler to perform her obsequies after her death and such other ceremonies for her and her ancestors. Further, it is diffi cult to believe that a woman of such advanced years would willingly take on the responsibility of caring for an infant at that age. 54. Last but not the least, Ex. A9 Adoption Deed mentions that the adoption took place at Sri Sri Raghunadha Swamy Temple but Ex. A10 Will records that Venkubayamma adopted the child with the consent of his parents in the presence of relations at the house of his parents at Chandramanipeta, Berhampur. Therefore, as per this document, the adoption took place, not at a temple, but at the house of the natural parents, i.e., PW 2’s house. There is, thus, a contradiction between Ex. A9 Adoption Deed and Ex. A10 Will as to the place where the adoption took place. An attempt was made to discredit the scribe (PW 6) in this regard, but this disparity in the two documents which were drawn up within a short span of time speaks for itself. 55. On the above analysis, we are of the opinion that the adoption of Nalini Kanth by Venkubayamma on 18.04.1982 is not proved in accordance with law despite the registration of Ex. A9 Adoption Deed dated 20.04.1982. The very adoption, itself, is not believable, given the multitude of suspicious MOTURU NALINI KANTH v. GAINEDI KALIPRASAD (DEAD, 671 THROUGH LRS.) [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] circumstances surrounding it. Nalini Kanth cannot, therefore, be treated as her heir by adoption. Further, as Ex. A10 Will dated 03.05.1982 was also not proved in accordance with law, it does not create any right in his favour. In consequence, Nalini Kant h is not entitled to claim any right or share in Venkubayamma’s properties. The fi ndings of the High Court to that eff ect, albeit for reasons altogether diff erent, therefore, do not warrant interference.