However, “bride” and “bridegroom” are used in Section 4 (relating to the age of the parties at time of solemnization), the Third and Fourth Schedule (which prescribe the declarations by both parties and certifi cation of marriage). In our view, the conditions for such marriages, under Section 4(1)(c) of FMA specifi cally require the parties to be a ‘bride’ and a ‘bridegroom’, i.e., it is gendered in nature. Furthermore, the terms “husband” and “wife” are used in Section 13 and 18 in relation to the solemnisation of marriage and provisions where matrimonial reliefs (as under the SMA) are available under the FMA. The Petitioners’ prayer therefore, that this Court read the references to “husband” or “wife” or “spouse” with “or spouse” in the same manner as discussed in relation to the SMA above, is unsustainable. 107 4. Conditions relating to solemnization of foreign marriages. ―A marriage between parties one of whom at least is a citizen of India may be solemnized under this Act by or before a Marriage Offi cer in a foreign country, if, at the time of the marriage, the following conditions are fulfi lled, namely: - (a) neither party has a spouse living; (b) neither party is an idiot or a lunatic; (c) the bridegroom has completed the age of twenty-one years and the bride the age of eighteen years; (d) the parties are not within the degrees of prohibited relationship: Provided that where a custom governing at least one of the parties permits of a marriage between them, such marriage may be solemnized, notwithstanding that they are within the degrees of prohibited relationship. 148 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 106. As far as the petitioners’ reliance on Ghaidan108; Fourie109; and precedents from other foreign jurisdictions are concerned, we agree with the reasoning given by Chief Justice that our courts should exercise caution when relying on the law in other jurisdictions. We should be mindful of distinct contextual framework within which those decisions have been given. 107. As discussed earlier, the words of the statutes have to be read, taking into account the fabric of concepts, rights, obligations and remedies which it creates. Removing or decontextualizing provisions, from their setting and “purposively” construing some of them cannot be resorted to, even in the case of SMA as well as FMA. VI. Discriminatory impact on queer couples 108. I do not wish to revisit the history of how this court evolved the test of considering the eff ect or impact of laws on Fundamental Rights; it would be appropriate to say that the object-based test favored and applied in A.K. Gopalan110 was discarded decisively by the 11 judge Bench in R.C. Cooper (supra). The true test was spelt out in the following manner: “it is not the object of the authority making the law impairing the right of a citizen, nor the form of action that determines the protection he can claim; it is the eff ect of the law and of the action upon the right which attract the jurisdiction of the Court to grant relief.