37. Further, the record of the proceedings of SSFC dated 23.07.2005 does not bear the signature of the accused. No doubt, the requirement of UNION OF INDIA & OTHERS v. JOGESHWAR SWAIN 135 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] having the signature of the accused on the minutes recording plea of guilty was fi rst introduced by insertion of the proviso to sub-rule (2) of Rule 142 with eff ect from 25.11.2011. But there existed no embargo in obtaining signature of the accused to lend credence to the making of the plea of guilty. Absence of signature of the accused in this case assumes importance because here the accused denies taking such a plea and looking at the available evidence, pleading guilty appears to be an unnatural conduct. At the cost of repetition, it be observed that the case against the petitioner was in respect of clicking photographs of a lady doctor while she was taking her bath. There was no eye-witness of the incident; the camera was recovered from some other person’s house; PW-9, a witness to the keeping of the camera by the accused (i.e., the original petitioner), in her previous statement made no such disclosure; there was no cogent evidence with regard to ownership of that camera; and, above all, even the reel was not developed to confi rm the allegations. In these circumstances, when there was a challenge to the making of such confession before the High Court, a very heavy burden lay on the non-petitioners (appellants herein) to satisfy the conscience of the Court that the plea of guilty was recorded after due compliance of the procedure prescribed by the BSF Rules, 1969. As we have already noticed that there was no proper compliance of the procedure prescribed by sub-rule (2) of Rule 142 of the BSF Rules, 1969, absence of signature of the accused in the minutes further dents the credibility of the SSFC proceeding. The High Court was therefore justifi ed in looking at the evidence to fi nd out whether punishment solely on the basis of confession (i.e., plea of guilty) was justifi ed. 38. In this context, the High Court meticulously examined the record of evidence prepared under the direction of the Commander to come to the conclusion that except for the statement of PW-9 that the camera was hidden by the original petitioner, there was no worthwhile evidence in respect of his culpability. The High Court also noticed that even PW-9 was not consistent, as during investigation PW-9 had not made any such disclosure that the original petitioner had hidden the camera in the house from where it was recovered. What is important is that the house from where the camera was recovered was not the house of the original petitioner but of another constable who had his house adjoining the quarter where the lady doctor had taken her bath. Interestingly, there was no evidence 136 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. led to indicate that the said camera was of the original petitioner.