There are various restrictions therein. Certain activities were shown as permitted activities in the NDZ. They included in Clause (e) facilities for receipt and storage of petroleum products and liquified gas as specified in E Annexure-II. Interestingly, in regard to the area between 200 meters to 500 meters falling in CRZ-III, paragraph-8 permitted storage of non- hazardous cargo such as edible oil, fertilizers, foodgrains ‘in’ notified ports. 32. Having set out the relevant provisions of the 2011 notification, F we may proceed to examine the contentions of the parties. 33. The appellants would contend that CRZ-I provides for the harshest regime having regard to the fact that the areas are ecologically sensitive and the geomorphological features play a role in the maintaining the integrity of the coast. They included mangroves.In case, the area of G mangroves was more than 1000 sq.mts, a buffer of 50 mts. along the mangroves was to be provided. Sand dunes came under CRZ-I, as did corals and coral reefs and associated biodiversity. 34. It may be true that the appellant had secured permission of the local authority. Shri Ranjit Kumar may be correct in contending also H 270 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A that the laying of the pipeline ensured that additional vehicle load was not thrust on the Chennai port. There may be merit also in the contention of the appellants that the no objection certificate may indicate that the pipeline would lead to increased evacuation of edible oil through the pipeline, leading to increased port efficiency. As found by the NGT and not disputed by the fifth respondent also the power to grant post facto B approval flowed from paragraph-4.3 inserted in the 2011 Notification, though in the year 2018. The case of the appellant that the storage facility is located in CRZ II is beyond dispute. The storage facility being located on the landward side may be correct. The appellants assertion that between the storage facility and the Bay of Bengal there exists the C Ennore Express Highway appears to be correct. We proceed on the basis further that the distance between the entrance of the storage facility and the sea shore is ‘160 feet’.Laying of pipeline is permissible in CRZ I. Appellant’s contention that there is no space at the Chennai port is sought to be buttressed with reference to certificate dated 24.08.2016. We may notice its contents: D “The cargo through put and number of vehicles moving in and out of Chennai Port has increased manifold over the past years. In to reduce the road traffic and resultant congestion, the port has been encouraging alternate modes of cargo evacuation like Rail evacuation and evacuation through pipeline. E Accordingly Chennai Port has permitted M/s. KTV Health Food Private Limited to lay pipeline from BD2 berth where the firm is laying a 10 inch pipeline for evacuation of the cargo. This will result in increased evacuation of edible oil through pipeline thus avoiding inter carting using tanker lorries. F This will in turn result in better turnaround of the vessels thereby enabling the port to handle more and more volume of edible oil cargo and vessels thus increasing the port efficiency.