This argument has been termed “hardly any argument,” and therefore, in view of the High Court, DD-IV also stood proven. 6. An additional ground taken before the High Court was that a person with 25 % burn injuries could not have given detailed statements. This was disregarded by the court, considering that a doctor had specifi cally deposed to her fi t mental condition. Additionally, the submission in respect of Chapter 13 of Punjab and Haryana High Court Rules, which prescribe the procedure for recording of dying declarations, was held not to be of any aid to the convict-appellant as it was observed that simply because the rules were not complied with, the dying declarations could not be discarded if they had withstood strict scrutiny after applying all cautions. 7. For the aforesaid reasons, the of the Additional Sessions Judge, Tis Hazari, West Delhi, was affi rmed. OUR VIEW 8. Before proceeding to the merits of this matter, it would be appropriate to appreciate the various principles of law laid down by this court in regard to cases involving multiple dying declarations. ABHISHEK SHARMA v. STATE (GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI) 899 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] 8.1 This Court in Kamla v. State of Punjab9 has held: “5. It is well settled that dying declaration can form the sole basis of conviction provided that it is free from infi rmities and satisfi es various tests (vide Khushal Rao v. State of Bombay [AIR 1958 SC 22 : 1958 SCR 552 : 1958 Cri LJ 106] ). The ratio laid down in this case has been referred to in a number of subsequent cases with approval. It is also settled in all those cases that the statement should be consistent throughout if the deceased had several opportunities of making such dying declarations, that is to say, if there are more than one dying declaration, they should be consistent. If a dying declaration is found to be voluntary, reliable and made in fi t mental condition, it can be relied upon without even any corroboration. In a case where there are more than one dying declaration if some inconsistencies are noticed between one and the other, the court has to examine the nature of the inconsistencies namely whether they are material or not. In scrutinising the contents of various dying declarations, in such a situation, the court has to examine the same in the light of the various surrounding facts and circumstances.” 8.2. In State of Punjab v. Parveen Kumar10, this court further observed: “10. …. The court must be satisfied that the dying declaration is truthful. If there are two dying declarations giving two diff erent versions, a serious doubt is created about the truthfulness of the dying declarations. It may be that if there was any other reliable evidence on record, this court could have considered such corroborative evidence to test the truthfulness of the dying declarations...” 9 (1993) 1 SCC 1(2-Judge Bench) 10 (2005) 9 SCC 769 (2-Judge Bench) 900 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R.