The exclusion contemplated in the decision of this Court in Tulsiram Patel (supra) would not be applicable because giving an opportunity of a hearing to the borrowers will not obstruct the taking of prompt action under the Master Directions on Frauds. D 61. The RBI and lender banks have further submitted that the requirement of natural justice is already fulfilled under the Master Directions on Frauds as the borrower is allowed to participate during the preparation of the forensic audit report. On the other hand, the borrowers have submitted that the Master Directions do not expressly provide for E participation of the borrowers during forensic audit report. It was also submitted that merely seeking inputs of borrowers during the preparation of the forensic audit report does not satisfy the requirements of the principles of natural justice as the borrowers should also be heard before classifying them as fraud. F 62. In Keshav Mills Co. Ltd. v. Union of India46, this Court was dealing with the issue of a takeover of a company by the government under the IDR Act, 1951 after completion of a full investigation into the affairs of the company. The issue was whether the report of an investigating body appointed by an administrative authority should be G made available to the person concerned before the authority takes a decision upon that report. While deciding to lay down a general principle, this Court observed that there may be certain situations where an investigation report is required to be furnished to the concerned party to make an effective representation about the proposed action: H 46 (1973) 1 SCC 380 STATE BANK OF INDIA & ORS v. RAJESH AGARWAL & ORS 519 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 21.In our opinion it is not possible to lay down any general principle A on the question as to whether the report of an investigating body or of an inspector appointed by an administrative authority should be made available to the persons concerned in any given case before the authority takes a decision upon that report. The answer to this question also must always depend on the facts and B circumstances of the case. It is not at all unlikely that there may be certain cases where unless the report is given the party concerned cannot make any effective representation about the action that Government takes or proposes to take on the basis of that report. Whether the report should be furnished or not must therefore depend in every individual C case on the merits of that case. We have no doubt that in the instant case non-disclosure of the report of the Investigating Committee has not caused any prejudice whatsoever to the appellants. (emphasis supplied) D 63. In Swadeshi Cotton Mills (supra), this Court held that a company is entitled to an opportunity to explain the evidence collected against it and represent why the proposed action should not be taken: 85. The contention does not appear to be well founded. Firstly, E this documentary evidence, at best, shows that the Company was in debt and the assets of some of its “units” had been hypothecated or mortgaged as security for those debts.