22. On the above two issues, Justice G.N. Ray concurred with the of Justice SC Agarwal. However, on the interpretation of Article 105(2), Justice G.N. Ray concurred with the of Justice S.P Bharucha speaking for two judges. Hence, the of Justice S.P. Bharucha, on the interpretation of Article 105(2) represents the view of the majority of three learned judges. 23. We may note, at this stage, that besides Mr. Raju Ramachandran, senior counsel and Mr. R Venkataramani, Attorney General for India, we have also heard Mr. P.S. Patwalia, senior counsel who has been appointed as Amicus Curiae to assist the Court, Mr. Gopal Sankarnarayanam, senior counsel, appearing on behalf of the intervener and Dr. Vivek Sharma, counsel appearing on behalf of the intervener. 24. We are inclined to agree with the submission of the Amicus Curiae and Mr Gopal Sankarnarayan, senior counsel that the view which has been 764 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. expressed in the decision of the majority in P V Narasmiha Rao requires to be reconsidered by a larger Bench. Our reasons prima facie for doing so are formulated below: (i) Firstly, the interpretation of Article 105(2) and the corresponding provisions of Article 194(2) of the Constitution must be guided by the text, context and the object and purpose underlying the provision. The fundamental purpose and object underlying Article 105(2) of the Constitution is that Members of Parliament, or as the case may be of the State Legislatures must be free to express their views on the floor of the House or to cast their votes either in the House or as members of the Committees of the House without fear of consequences. While Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution recognises the individual right to the freedom of speech and expression, Article 105(2) institutionalises that right by recognising the importance of the Members of the Legislature having the freedom to express themselves and to cast their ballots without fear of reprisal or consequences. In other words, the object of Article 105(2) or Article 194(2) does not prima facie appear to be to render immunity from the launch of criminal proceedings for a violation of the criminal law which may arise independently of the exercise of the rights and duties as a Member of Parliament or of the legislature of a state; (ii) Secondly, in the course of in PV Narasmiha Rao, Justice S.C. Agarwal noted a serious anomaly if the construction in support of the immunity under Article 105(2) for a bribe taker were to be accepted: a member would enjoy immunity from prosecution for such a charge, if the member accepts the bribe for speaking or giving their vote in Parliament in a particular manner and in fact speaks or gives a vote in Parliament in that manner. On the other hand, no immunity would attach, and the member of the legislature would be liable to be prosecuted on a charge of bribery, if they accept the bribe for not speaking or for not giving SITA SOREN v. UNION OF INDIA 765 their vote on a matter under consideration before the House but they act to the contrary.