Referring to the impugned s, the allegations made in the FIR and the statements of the witnesses recorded during investigation under Section 161 CrPC, learned senior counsel pointed out that as per the highest case of prosecution, the accused Vinod Upadhyay fi red a gun shot at Rinku Thakur which hit him in the left thigh. The only projection made in the prosecution case regarding the off ence under SC/ST Act was that the witness Virender Kumar being a member of SC community was subjected to casteist abuses by the accused appellants after the gunshot had been fi red at Rinku Thakur. He urged that the entire thrust of the prosecution case regarding the off ences committed under the provisions of the IPC is focussed qua Rinku Thakur and thus,there is no factual or legal basis for the charge framed against the accused appellants for the off ence punishable under Sections 3(2)(v) of the SC/ST Act. 6. Without prejudice to the above, learned senior counsel urged that the entire prosecution case is false and fabricated and lodged as a counterblast on account of political vendetta. He urged that the theory set up by the prosecution in the FIR and in the statement of the prosecution witnesses that Rinku Thakur was caused a fi re arm injury is patently falsifi ed from the medicolegal report prepared by the Medical Jurist who examined Rinku Thakur opining that a boil/abscess was noticed on his thigh and no evidence of gun shot was found. 7. He submitted thatit is the members of the complainant party who killed Pushpendra from the side of the accused appellants and, thereafter, in to create defence, apatently false criminal case was registered against the accused appellants on fabricated allegations. On these grounds, learned senior counsel implored the Court to accept the appeal and reverse the impugned s to the extent of the charge framed against the accused appellants for the off ence punishable under Sections 3(2)(v) of the SC/ST Act. 8. Per contra, learned AAG representing the State of Uttar Pradesh and learned counsel representing the complainant respondent no. 2 vehemently and fervently controverted the submissions of learned counsel for the SHASHIKANT SHARMA & ORS. v. STATE OF UTTAR 1071 PRADESH & ANR. [SANDEEP MEHTA, J.] appellants. It was submitted that the accused appellants launched a concerted attack upon the members of the complainant party simply because they were canvassing for the other political party. 9. The Court was taken through the passed by the learned Special Judge with particular reference to the allegation that the investigating offi cers were pressurised to give negative report under Section 173 CrPC. Using their political clout, the accused persons even managed to obstruct the lodging of FIR and with great diffi culty and after intervention of the Court, the FIR was got registered. The investigation was manipulated at the instance of a former Cabinet Minister in the Government of Uttar Pradesh. They urged that from the statement of Virender Kumar recorded under Section 161 CrPC, it is clearly borne out that after the accused persons had fi red the gun shot at Rinku Thakur, they turned their attention towards the witness and hurled caste-based abuses towards him and threatened him with dire consequences.