6-6-2018) 52 Subs. by Act 26 of 2019, sec. 6(a), for clause (b) [w.e.f. 16-8-2019, vide S.O. H 2953(E), dated 16th August, 2019]. M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 869 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] in accordance with sub-section (1) of section 53 in the event of a A liquidation of the corporate debtor. Explanation 1.—For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that a distribution in accordance with the provisions of this clause shall be fair and equitable to such creditors. B Explanation 2.— For the purposes of this clause, it is hereby declared that on and from the date of commencement of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Act, 2019, the provisions of this clause shall also apply to the corporate insolvency resolution process of a corporate debtor— C (i) where a resolution plan has not been approved or rejected by the Adjudicating Authority; (ii) where an appeal has been preferred under section 61 or section 62 or such an appeal is not time barred under any provision of law for the time being in force; or D (iii) where a legal proceeding has been initiated in any court against the decision of the Adjudicating Authority in respect of a resolution plan;] (c) provides for the management of the affairs of the Corporate debtor after approval of the resolution plan; E (d) the implementation and supervision of the resolution plan; (e) does not contravene any of the provisions of the law for the time being in force; (f) conforms to such other requirements as may be specified by F the Board. 53[Explanation.— For the purposes of clause (e), if any approval of shareholders is required under the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) or any other law for the time being in force for the implementation of actions under the resolution plan, such approval G shall be deemed to have been given and it shall not be a contravention of that Act or law.] (3) The resolution professional shall present to the committee of creditors for its approval such resolution plans which confirm the conditions referred to in sub-section (2). H 53 Ins. by Act 26 of 2018, sec. 23(ii)(B) (w.r.e.f. 6-6-2018) 870 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 54[(4) The committee of creditors may approve a resolution plan by a vote of not less than 55[sixty-six] per cent. of voting share of the financial creditors, after considering its feasibility and viability, 56[the manner of distribution proposed, which may take into account the of priority amongst creditors as laid down in sub-section (1) of section 53, including the priority and value of B the security interest of a secured creditor] and such other requirements as may be specified by the Board: Provided that the committee of creditors shall not approve a resolution plan, submitted before the commencement of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance, C 2017(Ord. 7 of 2017), where the resolution applicant is ineligible under section 29A and may require the resolution professional to invite a fresh resolution plan where no other resolution plan is available with it: Provided further that where the resolution applicant referred to in D the first proviso is ineligible under clause (c) of section 29A, the resolution applicant shall be allowed by the committee of creditors such period, not exceeding thirty days, to make payment of overdue amounts in accordance with the proviso to clause (c) of section 29A: E Provided also that nothing in the second proviso shall be construed as extension of period for the purposes of the proviso to sub- section (3) of section 12, and the corporate insolvency resolution process shall be completed within the period specified in that sub- section.]