5. Per contra, learned Senior Counsel, Sri Raghenth Basant, appearing on behalf of Respondent No. 1 submitted that the impugned of the High Court is based on an unimpeachable understanding E of the law and facts of the present case and therefore, does not call for interference by this Court. 5.1. It was further submitted that a conjoint reading of Clauses 6.16, 6.18 and 6.19 would reveal that a Lecturer with a Ph.D. degree at the time of recruitment as a Lecturer would be eligible for six advance F increments, i.e., four advance increments at the time of recruitment and two additional increments at the time of being placed in the selection grade. Further, a Lecturer who does not possess a Ph.D. degree at the time of his recruitment, but subsequently obtains one while serving as a Lecturer before placement in the selection grade, would be eligible for four advance increments, i.e., two advance increments on obtaining a G Ph.D. degree and two more increments on being placed in the selection grade. 5.2. It was further submitted that merely because increments granted at the time of recruitment as well as those that could be availed at the time of placement in the selection grade, were all based on the H SREE SANKARACHARYA UNIVERSITY OF SANSKRIT & 375 ORS. v. DR. MANU & ANR. [NAGARATHNA, J.] Ph.D. qualification, the former tranche of increments was not to be A granted to the exclusion of the latter. That though granted on the basis of a Ph.D. qualification, the increments were made effective at different phases of a Lecturer’s career. Hence, Clauses 6.16, 6.18 and 6.19 could not be construed to imply that a Lecturer who had already got the benefit of four advance increments at the time of recruitment, would not be B eligible for two more advance increments on being placed in the selection grade. 5.3. It was contended that a reading of Clauses 6.16, 6.18 and 6.19 would not suggest that a Lecturer who had already got the benefit of four advance increments at the time of recruitment, would not be C eligible for two more advance increments on being placed in the selection grade. Therefore, the Government dated 29th March, 2001 which significantly modified/amended the meaning of Clauses 6.16, 6.18 and 6.19, could not be stated to be a clarification and therefore made applicable retrospectively. D 5.4. Reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in K.C. Arora to contend that an amendment cannot be stated to have retrospective effect unless it is expressly provided that it shall operate retrospectively (or by necessary implication). That the Government dated 29th March, 2001 did not indicate that the same was to operate retrospectively and hence, cannot be stated to have retrospective effect. E 5.5. It was submitted that the High Court rightly held that simply because the dated 29th March, 2001 had been passed when a clarification was sought as to whether teachers who had already got the benefit of advance increments for having a Ph.D. degree, would be eligible for advance increments at the time of their placement in the F selection grade, the said cannot be termed as a clarificatory and be made effective retrospectively.