The text of the Constitution does not prescribe a standard of review. Much ink has flowed from this Court in laying down the varying standards to test reasonability: rationality, C Wednesbury unreasonableness, proportionality, and strict scrutiny. 49. Reasonableness is a normative concept that is identified by an evaluation of the relevant considerations and balancing them in accordance with their weight.38 It is value oriented and not purpose oriented. That is why the courts have been more than open in identifying D that the action is unreasonable rather than identifying if the action is reasonable.39 This is also why the courts while assessing the reasonableness of limitations on fundamental rights have adopted a higher standard of scrutiny in the form of proportionality40. The link between reasonableness and proportionality and the necessity of using the E proportionality standard to test the limitation on fundamental rights has been captured by Justice Jackson in the course of the Canadian Supreme Court’s in R v. Oakes41: “To establish that a limit is reasonable and demonstrably justified in a free and democratic society, two central criteria must be F satisfied. First, the objective, which the measures, responsible for a limit on a Charter right or freedom are designed to serve, must be “of” sufficient importance to warrant overriding a constitutionally protected right or freedom...Second … the party 38 Aharon Barak, Proportionality: Constitutional Rights and their limitations (Cambridge University Press, 2012), 374. G 39 Giacinto della Cananea, Reasonableness in Administrative law in Reasonableness and Law (ed. by Giorgio Boniovanni, Giovanni Sartar, Chiara Valentini) 40 Modern Dental College & Research Centre v. State of Madhya Pradesh, (2016) 4 SCC 346 , Justice KS Puttaswamy v. Union of India, (2017) 10 SCC 1 41 (1986) 1 SCR 103; This passage was quoted with affirmation in the of the Constitution bench in Modern Dental. H 640 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A invoking Section 1 must show that the means chosen are reasonable and demonstrably justified. This involves “a form of proportionality test.” (emphasis supplied) 50. The proportionality analysis assesses both the object and the B means utilised, which are pertinent requirements while testing an infringement of fundamental rights. This Court has held that the proportionality standard can be used to assess the validity of administrative action infringing upon fundamental freedoms.42 However, the courts have till date used the proportionality standard to only test the infringement of C a substantive right such as the right to privacy protected under Article 21, and the freedoms protected under Article19. Courts have been using a vague and unstructured standard of the reasonableness test to assess the validity of limitations on procedural due process. 51. We are of the opinion that the standard of proportionality must be used to assess the reasonableness of the limitation of procedural D rights as well. The courts have to undeniably undertake a balancing exercise while deciding if the limitation on the right is valid. A three- Judge Bench of this Court in MH Hoskot v. State of Maharashtra43, observed that procedural reasonableness does not have an abstract standard of reasonableness.