Thus, the letter seeking approval of the State Government by the Deputy Commissioner is not the approval granted by him, which could be enforced by the plaintiff in the court of law.” C 16. The basis of the claim of the writ petitioner is a letter written by the Secretary of the Soldier Welfare Department to the District Collector, Udaipur on 19.03.1971 for allotment of land. The Rules contemplate that if the possession is not taken within 6 months, the allotment shall be deemed to have been cancelled. Firstly, the D inter-departmental communication dated 19.03.1971 cannot be treated to be a letter of allotment. Alternatively, even if it is considered to be a letter of allotment, the writ petitioner could not claim possession on the basis of such communication after more than 30 years in terms of the Rules applicable for allotment of E land to the disabled ex-servicemen.” (emphasis supplied) 52. Reference can also be made to an another of this Court in Municipal Committee, Barwala, District Hisar, Haryana through its Secretary/President v. Jai Narayan and Company and F another, 2022 SCC OnLine SC 376, wherein the Court took a similar view. 53. Admittedly, in the case in hand there is no passed by the Government and conveyed to the respondents for allotment of any land, hence, no relief was admissible to them only relying on the official notings. G CONCLUSION : 54. Considering the factual circumstances and the law laid down by this Court, the answer to the three issues framed in para no.22 is as under: H 1082 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A (i) There is a huge delay on the part of the respondents to avail of their appropriate remedy against the final publication of record of rights. Hence, the respondents are not entitled to any relief. (ii) On the application of principle of constructive res judicata, B the writ petition filed by the respondents after withdrawal of the civil suit was not maintainable as no liberty was granted. In case still filing of writ petition was to be justified, at least complete facts need to be disclosed for the purpose, which were missing. In the writ petition there was no mention regarding filing of civil suit earlier for the same C relief and withdrawal thereof. A litigant can be non-suited in case he is found guilty of concealing material facts from the court or mis-stating the same. Hence, the respondents are not entitled to any relief. (iii) There was no passed by the Government and D conveyed to the respondents for allotment of any land in their favour. Hence, the respondents are not entitled to any relief solely based on the official notings. RELIEF 55. For the reasons mentioned above, we find merit in the appeal. E The same is allowed. The passed by the High Court in Writ Appeal No.108/2009 is set aside. Consequently, the writ petition filed by the respondents is dismissed. There shall be no as to costs. F Nidhi Jain Appeal allowed.