The conduct of any party, or of any agent to any party, to any suit or proceeding, in reference to such suit or proceeding, or in reference to any fact in issue therein or relevant thereto, and the conduct of any person an off ence against whom is the 446 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. subject of any proceeding, is relevant, if such conduct infl uences or is infl uenced by any fact in issue or relevant fact, and whether it was previous or subsequent thereto.” The illustration (e) of Section 8 throws some light on the casein hand and is signifi cant in the present matter, which is being reproduced hereinafter: “Illustration (e) -A is accused of a crime. The facts that, either before or at the time of, or after the alleged crime, A provided evidence which would tend to give to the facts of the case an appearance favourable to himself, or that he destroyed or concealed evidence, or prevented the presence or procured the absence of persons who might have been witnesses, or suborned persons to give false evidence respecting it, are relevant.” 71. In a very interesting case of Anant Chintaman Lagu v State of Bombay7, this Court, while holding the accused of that case guilty of murder, has touched on the aspects of relevancy of conduct of the accused subsequent to the incident in question, and its inference by the Court to decide the guilt and innocence of the accused. Relevant extracts from the aforesaid judgement are quoted herein below: “…A criminal trial, of course, is not an enquiry into the conduct of an accused for any purpose other than to determine whether he is guilty of the off ence charged. In this connection, that piece of conduct can be held to be incriminatory which has no reasonable explanation except on the hypothesis that he is guilty. Conduct which destroys the presumption of innocence can alone be considered as material… *** What inference can be drawn from his conduct after the death of Laxmibai is a matter to be considered by us. And in this connection, we can only say at this stage that if some prior conduct is connected intrinsically, with conduct after death, then motive of the appellant would be very clear indeed... *** 7 AIR 1960 SC 500 HARENDRA RAI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. 447 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] These arguments, however, are of no avail, in view of the appellant’s entire conduct now laid bare, which conduct has been proved to our satisfaction to have begun not after the death of Laxmibai but much, earlier. This conduct is so knit together as to make a network of circumstances pointing only to his guilt…” 72. In the case with which we are dealing, there is no iota of doubt that the accused-Respondent No.2 was instrumental in making all possible eff orts to wipe out the evidence against him and the Prosecution machinery as also the Presiding Offi cer of the Trial Court, if we may say so, was used as a tool of his high-handedness.