Learned Additional Advocate General informs that till date, only one witness has been examined. It is the solemn duty of the E Court to ensure that while extending the protection of liberty to an accused within the meaning of Article 21 of the Constitution, the interest of the prosecution is equally protected and the concession of bail should not be allowed to be misused to the prejudice of the prosecution of the victim. 14. Mr. Basant, the learned Senior counsel appearing for one of the accused vehemently submitted that very cogent and overwhelming F circumstances are necessary for cancellation of bail. Bail once granted should only be cancelled if it comes to the notice of the Court that the accused has misused the liberty granted to him by the Court. According to Mr. Basant, there are no supervening circumstances warranting cancellation of bail granted by the High Court. G 15. We are not at all impressed by the aforesaid submission of Mr. Basant as it is well settled position of law that cancellation of bail is not limited to the occurrence of any supervening circumstances. In Ash Mohammad vs. Shivraj Singh @ Lalla Babu and Another,reported in (2012) 9 SCC 446,this Court has observed that there is no defined H ANSAR AHMAD v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH AND ANR. 583 universal rule that applies in every single case. Hence, it is not the law A that once bail is granted to the accused, it can only be cancelled on the ground of likelihood of an abuse of bail. The Court before whom the of grant of bail is challenged is empowered to critically analyse the soundness of the bail . The Court must be wary of a plea for cancellation of bail vs. a plea challenging the for grant of B bail. Although on the face of it, both situations seem to be the same yet, the grounds of contention for both are completely different. Let’s understand the different conditions in both the situations. 16. In an application for cancellation of bail, the court ordinarily looks for supervening circumstances as discussed above. Whereas in C an application challenging the for grant of bail, the ground of contention is with the very of the Court. The illegality of due process is questioned on account of improper or arbitrary exercise of discretion by the court while granting bail. So, the crux of the matter is that once bail is granted, the person aggrieved with such can approach the competent court to quash the decision of grant of bail if there is any D illegality in the , or can apply for cancellation of bail if there is no illegality in the but a question of misuse of bail by the accused. In Puran v. Rambilas and another, reported in 2001 (6) SCC 338, this Court has observed, “The concept of setting aside as unjustified, illegal or perverse is totally different from the cancelling an of bail E on the ground that the accused had misconducted himself, are because of some supervening circumstances warranting such cancellation” 17.