In Kuldeep Bishnoi (supra), five MLAs from Haryana Janhit Congress wrote to the Speaker of their intention to merge with the INC which formed the Government in Haryana. The Speaker accepted the merger. Disqualification petitions under Paragraph 2(1)(a) of the Tenth Schedule were instituted. The Speaker incessantly adjourned the proceedings and did not decide on the disqualification petitions for more F than seven months. One of the s of adjournment was challenged before the High Court. The High Court directed the Speaker to decide the petitions within four months, stayed the recognizing the merger, and declared the five MLAs to be unattached members. The High Court directed that the five MLAs would neither be treated as a part of the G INC nor the Haryana Janhit Congress, and they would only have a right to attend the session. On appeal, a two-Judge Bench of this Court set aside the direction declaring the five MLAs as unattached members. In Kuldeep Bishnoi (supra), the issue before this Court was whether the High Court could have passed an interim declaring members of the House as unattached members when disqualification petitions were H SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 919 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] pending against them. This Court answered in the negative. It observed A that the MLAs were entitled to function without any restrictions. This Court in Kuldeep Bishnoi (supra) did not address the argument of whether the outcome of the proceedings of the House in the period intervening the prohibitory act and decision in the disqualification petition, would be subject to the decision. Thus, the contention that has been B raised by the petitioners needs to be considered afresh by this Court. 91. Article 191(2) provides that a person shall be disqualified for being a member of the Legislative Assembly if they are so disqualified under the Tenth Schedule. Article 190(3) stipulates that if an MLA incursa disqualification under the provisions of Article 191(2) read with Tenth C Schedule, their seat shall thereupon become vacant: “190. […] (3) If a member of a House of the Legislature of a State – (a) becomes subject to any of the disqualifications mentioned in clause (1) or clause (2) of Article 191; or D (b) resigns his seat by writing under his hand addressed to the Speaker or the Chairman, as the case may be, and his resignation is accepted by the Speaker or the Chairman, as the case may be, his seat shall thereupon become vacant” The term ‘thereupon’ denotes that the seat becomes vacant only E from such date when the Speaker decides the disqualification petition. An MLA has the right to participate in the proceedings of the House until they are disqualified.28 92. Articles 189(2) and 100(2) (the corresponding provisions for Parliament) stipulate that the validity of any proceedings of the F legislature shall not be questioned on the ground that it was discovered subsequently that a legislator who was not entitled to vote or sit, took part in the proceedings.