We opine that this passage of time beyond the period of five years would wash away the initial impediment against the suit. We cannot lose sight of the fact that we stare at a factual scenario 10 1995 (2) SCC 630. 11 (supra). H 12 (supra). RAVI KHANDELWAL v. M/S. TALUKA STORES 593 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] where the vagaries of litigation have prolonged the suit proceedings for A a period of 38 years. The plea of the respondent is that the appellant should be asked to file a fresh suit – perhaps their confidence stems from the fact that if the tenant has already been able to prolong the proceedings for 38 years, a similar scenario would again follow. We are not able to countenance such an interpretation which would defeat the B very purpose of creating an initial restriction on the filing of the suit. To say that the landlord should now, once again, restart the proceedings because the initial period of five years had not elapsed, even as now 38 years have elapsed, would be a travesty of justice. 17. Whether the expression used is ‘shall lie’ or ‘be entertained’ C would really make no difference. The objective is to create an impediment in the institution and trial of the suit for a period specified under the said Act. We are in agreement with the view adopted in B. Banerjee’s13 case that the spirit of protection is fulfilled with the passage of the prescribed time period, and the filing of a fresh suit would lead to unnecessary multiplicity of litigation. No doubt B. Banerjee’s14 case D dealt with the constitutional validity of a retrospective amendment and whether the bar could be applied to pending litigation, but that itself would not dilute its ratio. 18. We are thus of the view that the objective of Section 14(3) of the said Act, being the safeguarding of the tenant for five years, was E subserved by the proceedings going on for the requisite period of time and beyond it within which the tenant could not have been evicted. As noticed, in fact the proceedings have gone on for 38 years, which itself is extraordinary. 19. We may also take note of a subsequent development which is F that the said Act itself has been abrogated in the year 2001, with a new statute coming into force, i.e. The Rajasthan Rent Control Act, 2001, which does not create any similar bar. 20. We thus unhesitatingly allow the appeal and set aside the of the High Court. G 21. In view of the divergence of opinion; a preliminary question of law had been raised in the second appeal before the High Court. This has now been answered in favour of the appellant. We are now faced 13 (supra). 14 (supra). H 594 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A with the dilemma where the preliminary issue has been answered, and the matter is required to be remitted to the learned single Judge to be considered on merits.