The many causes include genetic factors, environmental stress, and possibly illicit drug use.” H 838 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A • American Psychiatric Association 2013, Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Diss : DSM-5, 5th Edn, American Psychiatric Association, Washington DC. pg. 87 “Schizophrenia spectrum and other psychotic diss B include schizophrenia, other psychotic diss, and schizotypal (personality) dis. They are defined by abnormalities in one or more of the following five domains: delusions, hallucinations, disorganized thinking (speech), grossly disorganized or abnormal motor behavior (including catatonia), and negative symptoms.” C 20. We thus, appreciate that Schizophrenia is certainly an over- powering mental illness. FACTS AND ANALYSIS 21. The case of the prosecution is that the appellant attacked the D deceased at a store in which he was working, which belonged to the brother of his grandfather, who did not have any issue. There was no motive and the overt act attributed is that he assaulted the deceased with an iron locking plate without any provocation and premeditation. The occurrence took place on 14.05.2004 at 6:00 a.m. It was seen by PW2. He took the material object and came out of the shop and went to E the bus stand. Thereafter, he came back to the shop and left it there. He once again walked to the bus stand and was sitting on a chair. He neither moved away from the said place nor made any attempt to leave. 22. A treatment was indeed given to him at the GMC Hospital, Bhiwani in the State of Haryana prior to the occurrence. He was taken F as an in-patient for a period from 17.11.2003 till 26.11.2003. He was suffering from anxiety neurosis with reactive depression and had symptoms of acid peptic diseaseand mild hypertension. The treatment given to him was akin to one meant for schizophrenia. Accordingly, he was prescribed the medicine ‘Thioril’. G 23. Before the Court of Sessions, an application under Section 329 of Cr.P.C. was filed on behalf of the appellant. Even while considering the application for bail, the Court noticed the inability of the appellant to understand the ongoing proceedings. Two doctors were examined as AWs 1 and 2, for the fact that he was indeed suffering from schizophrenia. H AW2 was examined to show that he was taking the treatment earlier at PRAKASH NAYI @ SEN v. STATE OF GOA 839 [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] GMC Hospital at Bhiwani. AW1 is the doctor who examined him after A the occurrence on the s of the trial court. She had deposed that he was indeed suffering from chronic schizophrenia. She was further examined as DW1. She once again made a clear deposition in tune with the certificate issued by her earlier that he was suffering from schizophrenia, and it must have been from the age of 14 or 15 years. B The fact that he was unable to understand the act committed, and his subsequent incarceration was taken note of. While issuing the first certificate, this Government doctor in clear terms had stated that the appellant was not fit enough to stand the trial.