D 18.2. It has further been argued that the General Council is the supreme authority in the party as is evident from Rules 5, 5(vii), 19(i), 19(viii) and 43. The General Council, therefore, has unfettered powers to amend, add or delete the byelaws; including the powers that are not specifically placed in the byelaws; and it is for this supremacy that as a E condition of membership into the party, one has to abide by the decision of the General Council. Relying on the decision of this Court in K. Rajendran and Ors. v. State of Tamil Nadu and Ors. :(1982) 2 SCC 273 it has been submitted that the General Council has the power even to create, abolish and replace the post. F 18.3. It has been contended, particularly with reference to Rule 19(vii) of the byelaws, that the notice sent on 01.07.2022 would qualify to be a proper notice for, the byelaws only speak about notice of the meeting and not notice to the members; the byelaws do not require service of written notice for convening of meeting; the dictionary meaning of G the word ‘notice’ is intimation and does not necessarily mean notice in writing; and 15 days’ notice is to be given only for the regular meeting of the General Council and not for the special meeting. Further, it has been submitted that in the Tamil version of byelaws, the expression ‘aforesaid’ in the first part of Rule 19(vii) has been clearly used to denote that 15 days’ notice is required to be given for the regular meeting and not for H THIRU K. PALANISWAMY v. M. SHANMUGAM & ORS. 1163 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] the special or requisitioned meeting.It has also been submitted that the A formality of notice cannot vitiate the action when parties had intimation of the event, as announced by Presidium Chairman on 23.06.2022. These contentions have been supported by relying on a decision of this Court in Nilkantha Sidramappa Ningashetti v. Kashinath Somanna Ningashetti and Ors. : AIR 1962 SC 666. B 18.4. As to the functional deadlock, due to the divergent and discordant views of the Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator leading to non-functioning of party, the learned counsel for the respondents have relied on the decision in the case of B.N. Viswanathan and Anr. v. Tiffin’s Barytes, Asbestos and Paints Ltd.: (1953) 66 LW 124, wherein C it was held that the General Body of shareholders had the power to carry out the functions of the board, when it was impossible for the board to perform its functions. It has been submitted that if there is a vacuum and something is done within the framework, such an action is valid unless it is impermissible within the framework. It has also been submitted that having regard to the position obtaining in the present case, D the said decision in S. Thirunavukkarasu (supra) is of no application because therein an expelled member of AIADMK attempted to convene a General Council meeting, parallel to the meeting called by the then General Secretary whereas, in the present case no parallel meeting of General Council has been convened by anyone.