Most of the Directive Principles in the Constitution of India, fi nd place in the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir.253 352. The provisions on the scope of powers of the executive and the legislature were also similar to the provisions in the Constitution of India. Section 35 provided for a Council of Ministers with a Chief Minister at the head to aid and advice the Governor in the exercise of his functions. Sub-section (2) of Section 35 provided that all functions of the Governor except those under Sections 36, 38 and 92 shall be exercised by him only on the advice of the 253 The duty to secure a social , organization of village Panchayats, Right to work, to education and to public assistance, promotion of co-operative societies, early childhood care, promotion of educational, material, and cultural interests of socially and economically backward sections. 214 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Council of Ministers. Under Section 36(1), the Chief Minister would be appointed by the Governor and all other Ministers would be appointed by the Governor on the advice of the Chief Minister. Section 53(2) entrusts the power to the Governor to prorogue the legislature and dissolve the legislative assembly. The Legislature of the State shall consist of both the Legislative Assembly and the Legislative Council254 and the Legislative Assembly of the State shall consist of members chosen by direct election.255 353. The Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir dealt with the residuary space which was available after the application of the Constitution of India. This is not only true for the legislative and executive competence of the State but also for the provisions which are necessary for the establishment of a system of governance. Thus, when an is issued under Article 370(1)(d) applying a provision of the Constitution to the State of Jammu and Kashmir, corresponding amendments may have to be made to the Constitution of the State to either enlarge or limit the executive and legislative power. Collaboration between the Union and State units is necessary to ensure that the provisions of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Constitution of India as applicable to the State. 354. A collaborative exercise between the Union and the State was imperative for the smooth functioning of governance in the State. The power under Article 370(3) by which the President decides if special circumstances still exist in the State is an independent inquiry unrelated to the power under Article 370(1). When the nature of power and the repercussions of the exercise of such power vary under both the provisions, the argument that the interpretation of one provision contradicts with the principle in another loses force. vi. The Challenge to CO 272 355. CO 272 was issued under Article 370(1)(d) and sought to amend clause (3) of Article 370. The petitioners challenge CO 272 as being ultra vires Article 370(1)(d) on the grounds that: 254 Section 46 of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir 255 Section 47 of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 215 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] a.