PW-2 is the wife of PW-1, PW-3 is the widow of the deceased, PW-4 is daughter of PW-1, are the other witnesses who reached the place of occurrence. None of them stated that they had seen the appellant assaulting the deceased. Thus, the D only evidence is of PW-1 stating that the appellant was running away from the place of occurrence when he reached there. He himself stated that the deceased was already unconscious as such was not in a condition to speak. There is one more aspect to be considered as to whether the cry given by the deceased could have been made as stated. Normally in villages nobody takes the E name of elders and especially their uncles. PW 1 is the uncle (father’s brother) of the deceased. Under normal course the deceased would have called kaka only and would not take his name. In the First Information Report it is stated that when PW 1 came out he saw the appellant running towards his house on a F cycle along with tabbal but in the deposition before the trial court it is stated that when he reached the place of occurrence the appellant was running and the tabbal was lying there and then he stated that the deceased had only shouted that the appellant is assaulting him. Another aspect to be considered is whether after receiving the said injury the deceased could have shouted and if G he had shouted before being assaulted then the situation would have been different. It would have been a one to one and he could have resisted the assault. The fact is there is only one injury on the neck. [Para 32][770-G; 771-A-H; 772-A-B] H 760 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 1.3 The prosecution story as set out does not appear to be a probable story and the supporting evidence led during trial of the witnesses of fact also does not inspire confidence. Rather there are material contradictions. [Para 33][772-C-D] 1.4 The defence has been successful in making a serious B dent in the prosecution case. The first point is that no motive has been set up by the prosecution as to why the appellant would assault the deceased. All the witnesses of fact who are family members stated that there was no enmity between the appellant and the deceased. Once there is no eye-witness of the incident C the prosecution will have to establish a motive for the commission of the crime inasmuch as in a case of direct evidence, motive may not have a major role. If there is no motive setup or proved and there are direct eye- witnesses, motive may loose its importance but in the instant case as admittedly no one has seen the occurrence, the motive has an important role to play. The D defence during the cross-examination elicited that the Sarpanch had grouse against the appellant for the reason that the appellant had made a complaint regarding misappropriation of government funds and also of committing major illegality in distribution of essential commodities.