Various reports have recommended that the protection against removal available to the Chief Election D Commissioner should be made available to the other Election Commissioners to ensure the independence of the Election Commission – Keeping in view the importance of maintaining the neutrality and independence of the office of the Election Commission to hold free and fair election which is a sine qua non for upholding the democracy as enshrined in our Constitution, it becomes E imperative to shield the appointment of Election Commissioners and to be insulated from the executive interference – It is the need of the hour and advisable, to extend the protection available to the Chief Election Commissioner under the first proviso to Article 324(5) to other Election Commissioners as well until any law is being framed F by the Parliament – The conditions of service of the Election Commissioners shall not be varied to his disadvantage after appointment – Election Commission (Conditions of Service of Election Commissioners and Transaction of Business) Act, 1991. Election Laws: Independent Permanent Secretariat for G Election Commission – Expenditure on the Consolidated Fund of India – Held (per K. M. Joseph, J.) (for himself, Aniruddha Bose, Hrishikesh Roy and C. T. Ravikumar): It is a matter of policy – The Election Commission of India is to perform the arduous and unenviable task of remaining aloof from all forms of subjugation by and interference from the Executive – The Executive can bring H an otherwise independent Body to its knees, by starving it off or ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 3 cutting off the requisite financial wherewithal and resources required A for its efficient and independent functioning – One cannot be oblivious to the need for articulation of details in regard to the expenditure, which is a matter of policy - Urgent need to provide for a permanent Secretariat and also to provide that the expenditure be charged on the Consolidated Fund of India – It is for the Union B of India to seriously consider bringing in the much-needed change – Union of India /Parliament may consider bringing in the necessary changes so that the Election Commission of India becomes truly independent. Constitution of India – Art. 326 – Representation of the People C Act, 1951 – s.62 – Right to Vote – Nature of Right – Whether Statutory Right or Constitutional Right – Held (per K. M. Joseph, J.) (for himself, Aniruddha Bose, Hrishikesh Roy and C.T. Ravikumar, JJ. ): The right to vote is not a civil right – The Right to Vote inevitably follows from the inclusion of a person in the electoral roll – According to Art. 326, where the citizen is not less than eighteen years and does not D have the disqualifications, he becomes entitled to be entered in the electoral roll – Such person, as is indicated in Article 326, indeed, has a right, which can be said to be a Constitutional Right, which may be right subject to the restriction – Held (Ajay Rastogi, J.)