First, it changes the recommending body from the Constituent Assembly to the Legislative Assembly; and second, it makes a new arrangement at variance with that specifi c Constituent Assembly. 384. Both these changes are not insignifi cant because they modify the essential character of the proviso by substituting a particular type or kind of body with another type or kind entirely. There are myriad diff erences between a Constituent Assembly and Legislative Assembly. A Constituent Assembly is tasked with framing a Constitution in exercise of constituent power. The power to amend a Constitution is a derived constituent power – ‘derived’ because it originates in the Constitution. Not having been entrusted with the responsibility to do this, the Legislative Assembly cannot be equated to the Constituent Assembly. Statutes and other laws (which fall within the domain of the Legislative Assembly) are not comparable to a Constitution because they are framed and enacted in IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 227 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] exercise of legislative power. The Constitution is the grundnorm or the basic law, from which all other laws derive their validity and legitimacy. Indeed, the Legislative Assembly is itself constituted and constrained to operate in terms of the Constitution and is bound by it. This is not true of a Constituent Assembly, which has a free reign to frame a Constitution. As the scholar Martin Loughlin writes, “…constituent power is not the expression of the nation operating in accordance with some law of nature; it is a modern concept expressing the evolving precepts of political conduct which breathe life into the constitution.”267 385. This remains true despite the Legislative Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir having the power to amend the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir under Section 147. The diff erence between the plenary power to frame a Constitution and the power to amend a Constitution was recognized by this Court in I.R. Coelho v. State of T.N. :268 “54. … No provision of the Constitution framed in exercise of plenary law- making power can be ultra vires because there is no touchstone outside the Constitution by which the validity of provision of the Constitution can be adjudged. The power for amendment cannot be equated with such power of framing the Constitution. The amending power has to be within the Constitution and not outside it.” 386. In Indira Nehru Gandhi v. Raj Narain,269 this Court expounded the meaning of constituent power: “48. When the constituent power exercises powers the constituent power comprises legislative, executive and judicial powers. All powers fl ow from the constituent power through the Constitution to the various departments or heads. In the hands of the constituent authority there is no demarcation of powers. It is only when the constituent authority defi nes the authorities or demarcates the areas that separation of power is discussed. The constituent power is independent of the doctrine of 267 Martin Loughlin, ‘On constituent power’ in Michael W. Dowdle and Michael A. Wilkinson (eds.) Constitutionalism Beyond Liberalism, Cambridge University Press, 2017 268 (2007) 2 SCC 1 269 1975 Supp SCC 1 228 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.