When extortion is robbery.—Extortion is “robbery” if the off ender, at the time of committing the extortion, is in the presence of the person put in fear, and commits the extortion by putting that person in fear of instant death, of instant hurt, or of instant wrongful 334 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. restraint to that person or to some other person, and, by so putting in fear, induces the person so put in fear then and there to deliver up the thing extorted. Explanation.—The off ender is said to be present if he is suffi ciently near to put the other person in fear of instant death, of instant hurt, or of instant wrongful restraint. Illustrations (a) A holds Z down, and fraudulently takes Z’s money and jewels from Z’s clothes, without Z’s consent. Here A has committed theft, and, in to the committing of that theft, has voluntarily caused wrongful restraint to Z. A has therefore committed robbery. (b) A meets Z on the high road, shows a pistol, and demands Z’s purse. Z, in consequence, surrenders his purse. Here A has extorted the purse from Z by putting him in fear of instant hurt, and being at the time of committing the extortion in his presence. A has therefore committed robbery. (c) A meets Z and Z’s child on the high road. A takes the child, and threatens to fi ling it down a precipice, unless Z delivers his purse. Z, in consequence, delivers his purse. Here A has extorted the purse from Z, by causing Z to be in fear of instant hurt to the child who is there present. A has therefore committed robbery on Z. (d) A obtains property from Z by saying “Your child is in the hands of my gang, and will be put to death unless you send us ten thousand rupees”. This is extortion, and punishable as such: but it is not robbery, unless Z is put in fear of the instant death of his child.” 12. Section 391 of the IPC defi nes “dacoity”. Section 391 reads thus:- “Section 391. Dacoity. — When fi ve or more persons conjointly commit or attempt to commit a robbery, or where the whole number of persons conjointly committing or attempting to commit a robbery, and persons present and aiding such commission or attempt, amount to fi ve or more, every person so committing, attempting or aiding, is said to commit “dacoity”.” MOHAMMAD WAJID AND ANR. v. STATE OF U.P. 335 AND ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 13. Section 395 provides for punishment for the off ence of dacoity. Section 395 reads thus:- “Section 395. Punishment for dacoity. — Whoever commits dacoity shall be punished with imprisonment for life, or with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fi ne.” 14. Theft amounts to ‘robbery’ if, in to the committing of the theft, or in committing the theft, or in carrying away or attempting to carry away property obtained by the theft, the off ender for that end, voluntarily causes or attempts to cause to any person death or hurt or wrongful restraint, or fear of instant death or of instant hurt, or of instant wrongful restraint.