Landscaped green avenues give it amenity value. In our view, permitting anything which would have an adverse effect on the heritage F status of the city without the approval of the Heritage Committee itself would be contrary to the CMP-2031 and the report of the said Board. 134. Insofar as the contention raised on behalf of the respondents that the restriction on transfer of property would not be permissible in view of the provisions of the TP Act is concerned, it is to be noted that in G the case of Chander Parkash Malhotra (supra), the High Court had held Rule 14 of the 1960 Rules to be ultra vires to the Constitution of India. However, in an appeal filed by the Chandigarh Administration, this Court set aside the said of the High Court. Apart from that, it is to be noted that Rule 14 of the 1960 Rules and Rule 16 of the 2007 H 666 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Rules have been enacted under the 1952 Act. It is a settled law that in case of a conflict between a special provision and a general provision, the special provision prevails over the general provision and the general provision applies only to such cases which are not covered by the special provision. Reliance in this respect is to be made to the of this Court in the case of J.K. Cotton Spinning & Weaving Mills Co., Ltd. B v. The State of Uttar Pradesh and Others18, which has been consistently followed by this Court. 135. We may also gainfully refer to the observations of a Full Bench of the Punjab & Haryana High Court in the case of Dheera Singh v. U.T. Chandigarh Admn. and Others19, wherein the Full Bench C has held that “The Parliament, in no uncertain terms, has expressed through a non obstante clause contained in Section 424-A of the Punjab Municipal Corporation (Extension to Chandigarh) Act, 1994 that the provisions of the 1952 Act shall operate and have an overriding effect.” We respectfully agree with the view taken by the Full Bench. D 136. Another aspect that needs to be taken into consideration is that, as observed in the interim of the High Court dated 27th July 2021, the Chandigarh Administration has not been alive to the situation. Taking into consideration the importance of the matter, we had directed the Estate Officer to remain present during the proceedings of the hearing. Accordingly, Shri Vinay Pratap Singh, Estate Officer, was personally E present. The Estate Officer also agreed that though CMP-2031 is opposed to apartmentalization and redensification, under the 2017 Rules there was no restriction to construct three independent units by co-owners. One aspect that needs to be taken into consideration is that though under the 2017 Rules, one dwelling unit is being permitted to be F converted into three dwelling units, there is no adequate provision for parking. The Estate Officer also agreed that there was a huge problem of parking in the city of Chandigarh.