In United States v. Caltex (Philippines) [344 US 149 : 97 LEd 157] the Court held that no compensation was payable by the United States for the destruction by its retreating C army of private property to prevent its falling into enemy hands. But the Court recognised that compensation would be payable for the army’s requisitioning of private property for its subsequent use. The Court said that in times of imminent peril such as when fire threatened a whole community — the sovereign could, with immunity, destroy the property of a few D that the property of many and the lives of many more could be saved. Indeed, it would be folly not to destroy some building so that an entire town may be saved from the conflagration, as will appear from the following historic incident referred to in Respublica v. Sparhawk [1 Dall 357, 363 : 1 LEd 174] : E “We find, indeed, a memorable instance of folly recorded in the 3rd Vol. of Clarendon’s History, where it is mentioned, that the Lord Mayor of London in 1666, when the city was on fire, would not give directions for, or consent to, the pulling down forty wooden houses or to removing the furniture etc. F belonging to the lawyers of the temple, then on the circuit, for fear he should be answerable for a trespass; and in consequence of this conduct, half that great city was burnt.” If Article 31(5)(b)(ii) is regarded as a saving clause with regard to the police power of the State, it is clear that under a law designed G to promote public health or to prevent danger to life or property the State may in cases of imminent peril destroy or impair the value of private property without any obligation to pay compensation, but it cannot arrogate to itself the power to acquire and appropriate to its own use private property without payment of compensation. H ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1099 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] 82. We may also notice that in Tukaram Kana Joshi v. MIDC38, A while dealing with a case of acquisition of land, this Court held as follows: “11. …The appellants had asked repeatedly for grant of the benefit of compensation. The State must either comply with the procedure laid down for acquisition, or requisition, or any other permissible statutory mode. There is a distinction, a true and concrete B distinction, between the principle of “eminent domain” and “police power” of the State. Under certain circumstances, the police power of the State may be used temporarily, to take possession of property but the present case clearly shows that neither of the said powers have been exercised. A question then arises with C respect to the authority or power under which the State entered upon the land. It is evident that the act of the State amounts to encroachment, in exercise of “absolute power” which in common parlance is also called abuse of power or use of muscle power.