Litigation cannot be permitted to be a productive industry. Litigation cannot be reduced to gaming where there is an element of chance in every case. If the concept of restitution is excluded from application to interim s, then the litigant would stand to gain by swallowing the benefi ts yielding out of the interim . This Court observed in South Eastern Coalfi elds Ltd. v. State of M.P., (2003) 8 SCC 648 thus : (SCC pp. 662-64, paras 26-28) “26. In our opinion, the principle of restitution takes care of this submission. The word “restitution” in its etymological sense means restoring to a party on the modifi cation, variation or reversal of a decree or , what has been lost to him in execution of decree or of the court or in direct consequence of a decree or (see Zafar Khan v. Board of Revenue, U.P., 1984 Supp SCC 505). In law, the term “restitution” is used in V. SENTHIL BALAJI v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY 903 DEPUTY DIRECTOR AND ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] three senses : (i) return or restoration of some specifi c thing to its rightful owner or status; (ii) compensation for benefi ts derived from a wrong done to another; and (iii) compensation or reparation for the loss caused to another. (See Black’s Law Dictionary, 7th Edn., p. 1315). The Law of Contracts by John D. Calamari & Joseph M. Perillo has been quoted by Black to say that “restitution” is an ambiguous term, sometimes referring to the disgorging of something which has been taken and at times referring to compensation for the injury done: ‘Often, the result under either meaning of the term would be the same. … Unjust impoverishment, as well as unjust enrichment, is a ground for restitution. If the defendant is guilty of a non-tortious misrepresentation, the measure of recovery is not rigid but, as in other cases of restitution, such factors as relative fault, the agreed-upon risks, and the fairness of alternative risk allocations not agreed upon and not attributable to the fault of either party need to be weighed.’ The principle of restitution has been statutorily recognised in Section 144 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. Section 144 CPC speaks not only of a decree being varied, reversed, set aside or modifi ed but also includes an on a par with a decree. The scope of the provision is wide enough so as to include therein almost all the kinds of variation, reversal, setting aside or modifi cation of a decree or . The interim passed by the court merges into a fi nal decision. The validity of an interim , passed in favour of a party, stands reversed in the event of a fi nal decision going against the party successful at the interim stage. … 27. … This is also on the principle that a wrong should not be perpetuated by keeping it alive and respecting it (A. Arunagiri Nadar v. S.P. Rathinasami, 1970 SCC OnLine Mad 63).