53 United Steelworkers of America v. Warrior and Gulf Navigation, (1960) 363 US 574, 582 670 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. agreement.54 Therefore, the term “non-signatories”, instead of the traditional “third parties”, seems the most suitable to describe situations where consent to arbitration is expressed through means other than signature. A non- signatory is a person or entity that is implicated in a dispute which is the subject matter of an arbitration, although it has not formally entered into an arbitration agreement.55 The important determination is whether such a non-signatory intended to eff ect legal relations with the signatory parties and be bound by the arbitration agreement. There may arise situations where persons or entities who have not formally signed the arbitration agreement or the underlying contract containing the arbitration agreement may intend to be bound by the terms of the agreement. In other words, the issue of who is a “party” to an arbitration agreement is primarily an issue of consent. 67. Section 2 of the Contract Act provides that when a person signifi es their willingness to do or to abstain from doing anything, with a view to obtaining the assent of that other to such act or abstinence, is said to make a proposal. The proposal is said to be accepted when the person to whom the proposal is made signifi es their assent. A proposal becomes promise upon acceptance. Every promise and every set of promises, forming the consideration for each other, is an agreement. Importantly, Section 9 provides that a promise is said to be express if the proposal or acceptance of any promise is made in words, while a promise is said to be implied if such proposal or acceptance is “made otherwise than in words.” Thus, a contract may either be express or implied. 68. Chitty on Contracts explains the diff erence between express and implied contracts as follows: “Contracts may either be express or implied. The diff erence is not one of legal eff ect but simply of the way in which the consent of the parties is manifested. Contracts are express when their terms are stated in words by the parties. They are often said to be implied when their terms are not so stated, as, for example, when a passenger 54 Pollock and Mulla, The Indian Contract and Specifi c Reliefs Act (14th edn, 2016) 235. 55 Stavros Brekoulakis, ‘Rethinking Consent in International Commercial Arbitration: A General Theory for Non-signatories’ (2017) 8 Journal of International Dispute Settlement 610. COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 671 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] is permitted to board a bus: from the conduct of the parties the law implies a promise by the passenger to pay the fare, and a promise by the operator of the bus to carry him safely to his destination. […] Express and implied contracts are both contracts in the true sense of the term, for they both arise from the agreement of the parties, though in one case the agreement is manifested in words and in the other case by conduct.