The said notifi cation did not specify the goods falling under CET SH 2403 9930, i.e., ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’, but it covers the goods falling under CET SH 2403 9910 i.e., ‘chewing tobacco’. Thus zarda/jarda scented tobacco not having been specifi ed under MRP-based assessment under Section 4A of the CE Act, the goods had to be necessarily assessed under Section 4 of the CE Act. The assessee being aware that there being no change in the nature of the products, its ingredients and also the manufacturing process had changed and misclassifi ed the product as ‘chewing tobacco’ from ‘zarda/jarda scented’ tobacco. Had the assessee continued its classifi cation as ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’, the duty payable as per transaction value under Section 4 of the CE Act would have been much more than the determination under Section 4A of CE Act after 50 % abatement. It is for this precise reason for avoiding and evading payment of the higher duty, the classifi cation was deliberately changed from ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’ to ‘chewing tobacco’. 48.The reliance placed by the assessee on Board’s letter dated 23.06.1987, trade notice dated 15.07.1997 and Notifi cation dated 16.03.1995, would have no impact or bearing on the facts of the present case/group, since 606 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. they were issued during the era of 6-digit tariff classifi cation being imposed. As noticed by us above, the tariff entry having been realigned to 8 digits and there being a specifi c sub-heading being provided and two competing products namely – ‘chewing tobacco’ and ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’ having been separately classifi ed, the aforesaid circular/notifi cations relied upon by the assessee would not come to rescue of the assessee. 49. It is trite law that when specifi c entry is found in a fi scal statute, the same would prevail over any general entry. If there are two or more sub-headings, the heading which provides the most specifi c description will have to be preferred to a heading providing a more general description. In the light of the aforestated discussion we are of the considered view that classifi cation of the product as adjudicated by the authority deserves to be accepted and fi nding recorded by the tribunal deserves to be set aside and consequently allow these appeals. Thus, both the points formulated hereinabove in this group is answered in favour of the Revenue and against the asessee. II. COMMISSIONER OF CENTRAL EXCISE, CHANDIGARH V. M/S. FLAKES-N-FLAVOURZ [ C. A. 5146/2015] 50. In the instant group, the Revenue is in appeal assailing the passed by the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT), New Delhi dated 20.02.2014 by the jurisdictional tribunal. BRIEF FACTS 51. The respondent-assessee is the manufacturer of zarda, pan chatni and scented supari falling under the category of excisable goods under the CETA, and was clearing its product ‘Gopal Zarda’ under CET SH 2403 9910 as ‘chewing tobacco’ and paid excise duty based on retail sale price under section 4A of the CE Act, (hereinafter to referred as “CE Act”).