Objections to granting application. (1) An of the Court rejecting the application shall not be appealable; but an granting an application may be objected to at once by an appeal from the granting the F application or in an appeal from the decree or finally passed or made in the suit. (2) Where the application has been rejected in consequence of the failure of the applicant to appear, he may apply for an to have the rejected application restored to the file, G and, where it is proved to the satisfaction of the Court that he was prevented by any sufficient cause from appearing when such application was called on for hearing, the Court shall it to be restored to the file upon such terms as to costs 1 (2014) 7 SCC 701 H 1016 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A or otherwise as it thinks fit, and shall appoint a day for hearing the same. (3) No shall be made under sub-rule (2) unless notice of the application has been served on the opposite party. 29. The appellants however, to overcome such bar, in the present B appeals, have not only impugned the passed by the High Court in review, but has also impugned the original passed by the High Court in appeal. The limited question, therefore, posed before us for our consideration, is whether liberty granted by this Court to approach the High Court in review, automatically places the said matter matter in the C escalation matrix, and makes the remedy of Special Leave Petition available again. 30. In the case of Vinod Kapoor Vs. State Of Goa2, the petitioner therein had filed a Writ in the High Court and the same was dismissed. As against this, the petitioner therein, filed a review in the High Court and also filed Special Leave Petition in the Supreme Court. When the D Special Leave Petition came to be heard, the petitioner therein stated that he had already filed a review, and hence, sought liberty to withdraw the case, and on the same grounds, the Special Leave Petition was dismissed as withdrawn. 31. After the withdrawal of the Special Leave Petition, the review E petition was heard by the High Court, however, the same was dismissed. Aggrieved by the said dismissal of the review, the petitioner therein, filed another Special Leave Petition in the Supreme Court. 32. While dealing with a similar fact circumstance as in the present case, wherein a consecutive Special Leave Petition was filed and the F in the original Special Leave Petition only gave an explicit liberty to approach the High Court, this Court held that the subsequent Special Leave Petition was not maintainable. The relevant paragraphs of the said are being produced herein: “There is nothing in the decisions cited by the appellant to G show that this Court has taken a view different from the view taken in Abhishek Malviya v. Additional Welfare Commissioner and Another (supra) with regard to maintainability of an appeal by way of Special Leave under Article 136 of the H 2 (2012) 7 SCC 701 S. NARAHARI AND ORS.