E (emphasis supplied) 65. This requirement of a separate hearing was reiterated in Muniappan v State of Tamil Nadu20 where the Court noted the importance of complying with the provision for a separate hearing on sentencing not merely as a formality but in spirit and substance by making F a genuine effort to enquire into information that may have a bearing on the question of sentence. 66. In Allauddin Mian v State of Bihar21,a two judge Bench of this Court held that a sentencing hearing is required to satisfy the rules of natural justice; that it is mandatory and is not a mere formality. The Court noted: G 10. …The requirement of hearing the accused is intended to satisfy the rule of natural justice. It is a fundamental requirement of fair play that the accused who was hitherto 20 1981 (3) SCC 11 21 1989 (3) SCC 5 H 1054 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A concentrating on the prosecution evidence on the question of guilt should, on being found guilty, be asked if he has anything to say or any evidence to tender on the question of sentence. This is all the more necessary since the courts are generally required to make the choice from a wide range of discretion in the matter of sentencing. To assist the court in determining B the correct sentence to be imposed the legislature introduced sub-section (2) to Section 235. The said provision therefore satisfies a dual purpose; it satisfies the rule of natural justice by according to the accused an opportunity of being heard on the question of sentence and C at the same time helps the court to choose the sentence to be awarded. Since the provision is intended to give the accused an opportunity to place before the court all the relevant material having a bearing on the question of sentence there can be no doubt that the provision is salutary and must be strictly followed. It is clearly mandatory and D should not be treated as a mere formality. […] In a case of life or death as stated earlier, the presiding officer must show a high degree of concern for the statutory right of the accused and should not treat it as a mere formality to be crossed E before making the choice of sentence. If the choice is made, as in this case, without giving the accused an effective and real opportunity to place his antecedents, social and economic background, mitigating and extenuating circumstances, etc., before the court, the court’s decision on the sentence would be vulnerable. F We need hardly mention that in many cases a sentencing decision has far more serious consequences on the offender and his family members than in the case of a purely administrative decision; a fortiori, therefore, the principle of fair play must apply with greater vigour in the case of the former than the latter. An administrative decision having G civil consequences, if taken without giving a hearing is generally struck down as violative of the rule of natural justice.