(c) Can the court consider questions of fact: 56. This aspect, i.e., the court’s ability and jurisdiction to appreciate facts, really is uncontestable; even in writ proceedings, the so-called “hands off ” bogey of “disputed questions of fact” which ordinarily constrain the courts, under Articles 32 and 226 from exercising jurisdiction, are to be seen in the context of the facts of each case. No doubt, usually the courts would not primarily exercise jurisdiction to enter into the arena of disputed facts. Yet, on occasions, the court has underlined that such an approach is dictated by considerations of convenience, rather than a rigid rule calling for universal application. Therefore, in Gunwant Kaur v Municipal Committee Bhatinda (hereafter, “Gunwant Kaur”)47, this court held: “The High Court has jurisdiction to determine questions of fact, even if they are in dispute and the present, in our , is a case in which in the interests of both the parties the High Court should have entertained the petition and called for an affi davit-in-reply from the respondents, and should have proceeded to try the petition instead of relegating the appellants to a separate suit.” 47 1969 (3) SCC 769. CPL ASHISH KUMAR CHAUHAN (RETD.) v. COMMANDING 635 OFFICER & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 57. This court applied the ratio in Gunwant Kaur, in ABL International Ltd. & Anr. V Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Ltd. & Ors.48: “19. Therefore, it is clear from the above enunciation of law that merely because one of the parties to the litigation raises a dispute in regard to the facts of the case, the court entertaining such petition under Article 226 of the Constitution is not always bound to relegate the parties to a suit. In the above case of Gunwant Kaur [(1969) 3 SCC 769] this Court even went to the extent of holding that in a writ petition, if the facts require, even oral evidence can be taken. This clearly shows that in an appropriate case, the writ court has the jurisdiction to entertain a writ petition involving disputed questions of fact and there is no absolute bar for entertaining a writ petition even if the same arises out of a contractual obligation and/or involves some disputed questions of fact” The ratio of these decisions was also followed in Unitech v Telangana State Industrial and Infrastructural Development Corporation49. 58. In the light of these decisions, this court holds that even if, arguendo for some reason, appellate jurisdiction is contested, this court deems that it would be unfair to drive the appellant to a fresh civil proceeding, particularly having regard to his vulnerability, and would instead, combine its power, drawing the source of its jurisdiction under Articles 32 and 142 of the Constitution, especially since the respondents are the armed forces and its authorities. The exercise of jurisdiction is legitimate and warranted, since the court has before it, all the factual material, supported by the affi davit of the parties. (ii) Facts as appearing from the record 59.