The Madras High Court was of the opinion that the wording of the two enactments did not make any difference, even G though one had an inclusive definition and another includes the product,through explanation. The Madras High Court, therefore held that Nycil prickly heat powder “is a toilet powder”though the 8 Vide dated 19.02.2001 9 Vide dated 30.08.2001 in STA No 616/99 H 434 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A manufacturer held a license under the Drugs Act and that such a circumstance fell within the mischief of the Explanation to Entry I (iii) to Part F of the First Schedule. 8. The impugned of the Madras High Court relied on the decision of the Kerala High Court which had considered medicated B talcum powder after going through the various definitions of “drug”, “medicine”, “cosmetic” and “talc”, and ultimately holding that medicated talcum powder includes prickly heat powder. The Kerela High Court had observed that: “34. The ingredients of Nycil powder are chlorphenesin B.P. C one percent, zinc oxide I.P. 16 per cent, boric acid I.P. 16 per cent, starch I.P. 51 per cent, talc 100 per cent. Chlorphenesin is contained in Nycil powder to the extent of only one per cent and the other antiseptic medicinal agents are comprised to the extent of 32 per cent and the rest of the materials which go into the making of Nycil powder are composed of starch D and talc. Nycil prickly heat powder contains chlorphenesin, a product specifically meant for treatment of skin disease. The inclusion of this medicine in the composition makes all the difference. It is this addition of medicine which changes its basic character. Therefore, the product in question is not E merely talcum powder in view of the presence of chlorphenesin, though in a small quantity, though the base was purified talc. Relying upon the findings of the Kerela High Court, Madras High Court further observed that: 16. The Kerala High Court rejected the contention as to the F theory of medicine and also after considering the basic ingredients of prickly heat powder, came to the conclusion that the base product is only a purified talc. We are also of the view that after considering the explanation to the main entry, it is only a medicated talcum powder and it certainly includes prickly heat powder also. We agree with the reasoning G of the Kerala High Court and hold that the nycil prickly heat powder is not a “drug” and it is only a medicated talcum powder. We are also informed that M/s Heinz India Limited, the petitioner-assessee before the Kerala High Court, had purchased the manufacturing unit of the respondent- assessee H HEINZ INDIA LIMITED v. THE STATE OF KERALA 435 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] before us in respect of prickly heat powder. Accordingly, we A answer the issue in favor of the Revenue and against the assessee. Even though number of s were cited by both the counsel in support of their contentions, it is seen that the Kerala High Court has considered all those s in detail under the various enactments like Central Excise B Act and the various State Sales Tax Act enactments.