Gopalan v. State of Madras47, this Court went C on to hold in Maneka Gandhi’s case(supra) that the procedure required to be prescribed under Article 21 must include four essentials namely, notice, opportunity to be heard, impartial tribunal and ordinary course of procedure. It was observed that even on principle, having regard to the impact of Article 14 on Article 21, the concept of reasonableness must be projected in the procedure contemplated by Article 21. D 39. In Delhi Transport Corporation v. D.T.C. Mazdoor Congress and Others48, a five-Judge Bench of this Court highlighted how essential it is to afford a reasonable opportunity to an employee to put forth his case in a domestic inquiry and the requirement of an employer to comply with the principles of natural justice and fair play, in the E following words : “202. ……It is now well settled that the ‘audi alteram partem’ rule which in essence, enforces the equality clause in Article 14 of the Constitution is applicable not only to quasi-judicial s but to administrative s affecting prejudicially the party-in- F question unless the application of the rule has been expressly excluded by the Act or Regulation or Rule which is not the case here. Rules of natural justice do not supplant but supplement the Rules and Regulations. Moreover, the Rule of Law which permeates our Constitution demands that it has to G be observed both substantially and procedurally.…... Rule of law posits that the power is to be exercised in a manner which is just, fair and reasonable and not in an unreasonable, 47 1950 SCC 228 48 (1991) Supp (1) SCC 600 H 800 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A capricious or arbitrary manner leaving room for discrimination…... [emphasis added] xxx xxx xxx 316. Thus it could be held that Article 14 read with Article 16(1) B accords right to an equality or an equal treatment consistent with the principles of natural justice. Any law made or action taken by the employer, corporate statutory or instrumentality under Article 12 must act fairly, justly and reasonably. Right to fair treatment is an essential inbuilt of natural justice. Exercise of unbridled and C uncanalised discretionary power impinges upon the right of the citizen; vesting of discretion is no wrong provided it is exercised purposively judiciously and without prejudice. Wider the discretion, the greater the chances of abuse. Absolute discretion is destructive of freedom than of man’s other inventions. Absolute discretion marks the beginning of the end of the liberty. The conferment of D absolute power to dismiss a permanent employee is antithesis to justness or fair treatment. The exercise of discretionary power wide off the mark would breed arbitrary, unreasonable or unfair actions and would not be consistent with reason and justice. The provisions of a statute, regulations or rules that empower an employer or the E management to dismiss, remove or reduce in rank of an employee, must be consistent with just, reasonable and fair procedure. It would, further, be held that right to public employment which includes right to continued public employment till the employee is superannuated as per rules F or compulsorily retired or duly terminated in accordance with the procedure established by law is an integral part of right to livelihood which in turn is an integral facet of right to life assured by Article 21 of the Constitution.