Mr. Sanjay Kapur, learned counsel appearing for the appellant has stated that in terms of the said directions of CPCB dated 04.06.2021, Vapor Recovery Devises have already been installed H 226 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A in 50% retail outlets by December, 2021 in the specified category and the remaining timeline shall also be complied with.” 21. As the principal argument of all the learned counsel appearing for the respective oil marketing companies in the present litigation is in regard to the jurisdiction of the NGT to issue the impugned directions, it B is necessary to first understand the entire scheme of the NGT Act. Scheme of the NGT Act, 2010: 22. The preamble to the NGT Act reads as follows:- “An Act to provide for the establishment of a National Green Tribunal for the effective and expeditious disposal of cases relating C to environmental protection and conservation of forests and other natural resources including enforcement of any legal right relating to environment and giving relief and compensation for damages to persons and property and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. D AND WHEREAS India is a party to the decisions taken at the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment held at Stockholm in June, 1992, in which India participated, calling upon the States to provide effective access to judicial and administrative proceedings, including redress and remedy and to develop national E laws regarding liability and compensation for the victims of population and other environmental damage; AND WHEREAS in the judicial pronouncement in India, the right to healthy environment has been construed as a part of the right to life under article 21 of the Constitution. F AND WHEREAS it is considered expedient to implement the decisions taken at the aforesaid conference and to have a National Green Tribunal in view of the involvement of multi-disciplinary issues relating to the environment.” 23. The jurisdiction and powers of the NGT are to be found in G Sections 14 to 20 resply. A close look at these provisions would show that the NGT has both original as well as appellate jurisdiction. The range of powers that the NGT has include:- (i) the power to adjudicate upon civil cases where a substantial question relating to environment is involved (Section 14(1)); H M/S INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED v. V. B. R. MENON 227 & OTHERS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] (ii) the power to grant relief and compensation to the victims of A pollution (Section 15(1)(a); and (iii) the power to restitution of either property damaged or of the environment (Section 15(1)(b). 24. A person in whose favour the NGT passes an award or , B is entitled to two types of remedies, if the award or or the decision of the NGT is not complied with. The first is a right to seek execution of the award under Section 25 and the second is to seek the prosecution of the offenders before a criminal court under Section 26. 25. Apart from the bar of jurisdiction of civil courts under Section C 29, the NGT Act is also conferred the overriding effect upon any other law under Section 33, which reads as follows: “Section 33.