Further, four tests in deciding the question, whether, a particular expenditure is allowable or not were also quoted from the same treatise. The said extract is as under: “In general, however, in to decide whether some particular expenditure of a trader should be brought into account, four tests, similar to those considered in relation to receipts, should be applied. First, is the expenditure wholly and exclusively laid out for the purposes of the trade? If not, it will be excluded. Secondly, is the expenditure of a revenue, and not of a capital nature ? Unless it is of a revenue nature it will be excluded. Thirdly, may tax be deducted and retained on payment ? If so, it will be excluded. Finally, is there some other special provision of the Income-tax Act which permits, or requires, the payment to be brought in, or left out of account ?” Therefore, in the said case, the Madras High Court held that the payments were of revenue character and that there were no elements present which would justify the court in attributing to the payments a capital character. The payments were fi xed with reference to the profi ts which were indirectly related to the turnover. The payments were not related to any specifi ed sum which was agreed upon by the parties as purchase price of the business. The decision of the Madras High Court was upheld by this Court. (d) Sri Datar has also referred to the decision of this Court in Mewar Sugar Mills Ltd. In the said case, a licence was granted by the then C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 433 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] ruler of Udaipur State for the manufacture of sugar which was to be a monopoly enduring to the assessee’s benefi t for thirty two years. One of the conditions was that no permission would be granted to any other person for starting a sugar factory for a period of thirty-two years from the date of the said . Another condition was that royalty must be charged on the sugar manufactured in the factory. No other tax was to be charged. After the grant of the monopoly, a limited company was fl oated called the Mewar Industries Ltd. and the company took steps to set up a factory, obtained requisite machinery and installed it. After completion of the factory, production could not be started on account of fi nancial diffi culties. As a result, an agreement was entered into with two other persons to acquire from the company all the rights and assets held by it for the unexpired period of twenty-eight years and to run the business in consideration of the payment of 10% of the net profi ts. Before this Court, two controversies arose, namely, i) relating to the deduction of the payments made by the appellant therein for monopoly rights and ii) concerning the payment to the State of the royalty of the price of sugar manufactured by the company. The challenge to the question as to the disallowance of the payments made by the assessee in respect of the monopoly rights was given up.