regulation; notifi cation, custom or usage having the force of law in the territory of India, or any other instrument, treaty or agreement as envisaged under article 363 or otherwise.” b. Simultaneously, the Rajya Sabha expressed its views on the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill 20193 which was sent to the House under the proviso to Article 3, in the following terms : “That the President of India has referred the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill, 2019 to this House under the proviso to article 3 of the Constitution of India for its views as this House is vested with the powers of the State Legislature of Jammu and Kashmir, as per proclamation of the President of India dated 19 December, 2018. This House resolves to express the view to accept the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill, 2019.” c. Simultaneously, the Lok Sabha also accepted the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill 2019 in terms of the following resolution: “That the President of India has referred the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill, 2019 to this House under the proviso to article 3 of the Constitution of India for its views as this House is vested with the powers of the State Legislature of Jammu and Kashmir, as per proclamation of the President of India dated 19 December, 2018. This House resolves to express the view to accept the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill 2019” d. The Rajya Sabha passed the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act 20194. 9. On 6 August 2019, Parliament discharged its functions as the legislature of the State of Jammu and Kashmir and proceeded with the following legislative business: 3 “Reorganisation Bill” 4 “Reorganisation Act” IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 25 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] a. The Lok Sabha recommended to the President under Article 370 (3) that the special provision in Article 370 shall cease to be operative and the provision would instead apply all the provisions of the Constitution to the State of Jammu and Kashmir without any modifi cations and exceptions: “That this House recommends the following public notifi cation to be issued by the President of India under Article 370(3): Declaration under Article 370(3) of the Constitution. In exercise of the powers conferred by Clause (3) of article 370 read with clause (1) of article 370 of the Constitution of India, the President, on the recommendation of the Parliament, is pleased to declare that, as from the date on which the President of India signs the Declaration and published in the offi cial Gazette, all clauses of the said article 370 shall cease to be operative except clause (1) thereof which shall read as under; namely:- “All provisions of this Constitution; as amended from time to time, without any modifi cations or exceptions, shall apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir notwithstanding anything contrary contained in article 152 or article 308 or any other article of this Constitution or any other provision of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir or any law, document, judgement, ordinance, , bye-law, rule, regulation; notifi cation, custom or usage having the force of law in the territory of India, or any other instrument, treaty or agreement as envisaged under article 363 or otherwise.” b.