Hence, the Adjudicating Authority’s observations about want of specification regarding the dosage to be used and the duration for which it is to be used carry their own shortcomings. The product in question is essentially meant for dealing with the conditions arising in and on the scalp with hair being the integral part thereof. The product consists of H 284 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Homeopathic medicines. Its manner of use is to put the same on the scalp and to leave it overnight. Looking to the nature of the product and its uses, the observations about want of specification regarding the dosage do not take the product out of its pharmaceutical value. Further, the Adjudicating Authority’s observations of dissatisfaction because of there being no contra- B indications have gone miles away from the reasonableness of approach. If the respondent has stated in clear terms on the label that the product carried nil contra- indications, looking to its nature, purpose and the manner of use, it does not cease to be a medicament. [Para 22.1][345-C-G; 346-A-B] C 2.5 The perversity and unreasonableness of approach of the Adjudicating Authority is also noticed from the observations that, if the intention was to identify the product as medicament, there was no need to label it as “Hair Oil”. While the expression “Hair Oil” does appear on the label, the other integral D expressions “Homeo” and “Arnica” preceding the expression “Hair Oil” could not have been ignored and could not have been left aside. The Adjudicating Authority had gone to the extent of observing that hair growth was at best a cosmetic necessity rather than a disease requiring immediate attention or treatment. The tribunal rightly observed that when hair fall or baldness is E recognised as a medical condition, the Adjudicating Authority could not have taken a different view, which was not recognized by any branch of medicine. The tribunal rightly pointed out that the product clearly mentioned that it could be used for other ailments like headache and that it induces good sleep. Moreover, F the Adjudicating Authority seems not to have given adequate attention to the contents of Chapter 30 and the fact that for being accepted as medicament, the product is not invariably required to carry only therapeutic use. A product having prophylactic use is also envisaged under the Headings 3003 and 3004. If the product claims to improve blood circulation to the hair roots and G thereby controlling hair fall, its prophylactic use cannot be gainsaid. [Para 22.2-22.3][346-C-F] 2.6 The product in question, being undoubtedly covered by Serial No. 35 of Schedule K to the Rules of 1945 and being H COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 285 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY manufactured in terms of the license issued under the Act of 1940, A clearly satisfies the ingredients test. In other words, on its ingredients, the product is indeed a medicament carrying the combination of Homeopathic medicines. [Para 22.4][346-G] 2.7 It is also apparent in the present case that the stand of the Department to classify the product in question as ‘cosmetic’ B under Chapter 33 is essentially based on the distinct entry “Hair Oil” occurring therein; and it appears that the expression “Hair Oil” occurring on the label of the product has been taken as decisive by them.