33. After the execution of the Development Agreement, two memorandums (titled as Memorandums Recording Possession) were also executed respectively on 02.03.2010 and 24.06.2010, the first one by the shareholders of Energy Properties and the second by Energy E Properties themselves. Under these two memorandums, the shareholders of Energy Properties, as well as the Company Energy Properties, handed over possession of the property to the Corporate Debtor. These two memorandums contained specific clauses to the effect that the Corporate Debtor shall be in exclusive possession of the property. 34. After more than a year of such handing over of possession, F Energy Properties as well as the Corporate Debtor jointly executed a Leave and License Agreement on 19.08.2011 in favour of Victory. As a matter of fact, the Corporate Debtor was defined in the said Agreement as the Licensor and Energy Properties were described only as a confirming party. Admittedly, this Agreement was confined to land of G the extent of 10000 sq. ft. out of the total extent of acres 10.19. The Agreement was to be for a period of 11 months and the license fee agreed therein was Rs.5,000/- per month. Clause 7 of the said Leave and License Agreement is important to be taken note of and hence it is reproduced as follows: H VICTORY IRON WORKS LTD. v. JITENDRA LOHIA & ANR. 1041 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] “7. GENERAL A This Agreement is personal to AVANI Nothing contained herein intended to be nor be construed nor VICTORY shall ever claim any right or exclusive possession or tenancy in respect to the licensed area.” B 35. From the sequence of events narrated above and the terms and conditions contained in the Agreements entered into by the parties, it is more clear than a crystal that a bundle of rights and interests were created in favour of the Corporate Debtor, over the immovable property in question. The creation of these bundle of rights and interests was C actually for a valid consideration. But for the payment of such consideration, Energy Properties would not even have become the owner of the property in dispute. Therefore, the development rights created in favour of the Corporate Debtor constitute “property” within the meaning of the expression under Section 3(27) of IBC. At the cost of repetition, it must be recapitulated that the definition of the expression D “property” under Section 3(27) includes “every description of interest, including present or future or vested or contingent interest arising out of or incidental to property”. Since the expression “asset” in common parlance denotes “property of any kind”, the bundle of rights that the Corporate Debtor has over the property in question would E constitute “asset” within the meaning of Section 18(f) and Section 25(2)(a) of IBC. 36. In Sushil Kumar Agarwal(supra), this Court brought out the distinction between different types of Development Agreements, with particular reference to Section 14(3)(c) of the Specific Relief Act, 1963. After summarizing the different types of Development Agreements in F paragraph 17 of the decision, this Court held in paragraph 19 as follows:- “19.