14. The reliance on Kalsi Construction Company (supra) by the respondent-state, is inapt, given that this court had exercised its Article 142 jurisdiction in light of three pertinent factors – the award had been passed 20 years prior, related to construction of a Paediatrics Centre in a medical institute, and that the parties in that case had left the matter to the discretion of the court. Similarly, in Oriental Structural Engineers (supra) this court held that since the contract stipulated interest entitlement on delayed payments, but contained no mention of the rate of interest applicable – the Tribunal ought to have applied the principles laid down in G.C. Roy (supra), and therefore, in exercise of Article 142, this court reduced the rate of interest awarded by the tribunal on the sum left unpaid. The in Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (supra) no doubt discusses the inherent powers of the High Court as a superior court of record, but relates specifi cally to the jurisdiction to recall its own s, and off ers little assistance in the present dispute. 15. The limited and extremely circumscribed jurisdiction of the court under Section 34 of the Act, permits the court to interfere with an award, sans the grounds of patent illegality, i.e., that “illegality must go to the root of the matter and cannot be of a trivial nature”; and that the tribunal “must decide in accordance with the terms of the contract, but if an arbitrator construes a term of the contract in a reasonable manner, it will not mean that the award can be set aside on this ground” [ref: Associate Builders (supra)]. The other ground would be denial of natural justice. In appeal, Section 37 of the Act grants narrower scope to the appellate court to review the fi ndings in an award, if it has been upheld, or substantially upheld under Section 34. It is important to notice that the old Act contained a provision14 which enabled the court to modify an award. However, that power has been consciously omitted by Parliament, while enacting the Act of 1996. This means that the Parliamentary intent was to exclude power to modify an award, in any manner, to the court. 14 “15. Power of court to modify award — The court may by modify or correct an award — (a) where it appears that a part of the award is upon a matter not referred to arbi- tration and such part can be separated from the other part and does not aff ect the decision on the matter referred; or (b) where the award is imperfect in form, or contains any obvious error which can be amended without aff ecting such decision; or (c) where the award contains a clerical mistake or an error arising from an accidental slip or omission.” 94 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. This position has been iterated decisively by this court in Project Director, National Highways No. 45E and 220 National Highways Authority of India v M. Hakeem15: “42.