[M. R. SHAH, J.] 4.2 It is further submitted that therefore, once the respondents A became the employees of the Dairy Federations, even as per Rule 18(2) of the Rajasthan Service Rules, 1951, they ceased to have a lien on the post on which they were earlier working with the State Government. 4.3 It is submitted that in the case of State of Rajasthan and B Anr. Vs. S.N. Tiwari and Ors., (2009) 4 SCC 700, it has been clearly held that when a person with a lien against the post is appointed substantively to another post, then he acquires a lien with the later post. A person cannot be substantively appointed on two substantive posts simultaneously. It is submitted that this is the basis of entire service C jurisprudence. It is submitted that keeping in mind the above, Rule 18(2) of the Rajasthan Service Rules, 1951 provides that “a Government servant’s lien to a post stands terminated on his acquiring a lien on a permanent post, which is outside the cadre post.” 4.4 Making above submissions, it is submitted that the respondents D shall not be entitled to any pensionary benefits as Government employees, after they ceased to have the lien in the State Government on the post on which they were working earlier. 5. All these appeals are vehemently opposed by Shri Uday Gupta, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective respondents. E 5.1 Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents has vehemently submitted that as such the respective respondents were sent on deputation to the Dairy Federations and, therefore, they continued to have the lien in the Government. It is submitted that none of the respondents had lost their lien in the Government before their F date of absorption / no absorption with the new employer, i.e., Dairy Federations. 5.2 It is submitted that it is established from the records that in each of the cases they were all initially appointed by the Rajasthan Government and were confirmed as such in the Government service, G they were then relieved to join the posting at respective places in the Dairy Federations. 5.3 It is submitted that the Government of Rajasthan has referred to the Guidelines contained in the letter / G.O. dated 30.01.1976 issued by the Deputy Secretary, Government of Rajasthan, Agriculture H 122 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Department, Jaipur. It is submitted that the said document is a letter containing guidelines issued by an officer of the Department and these guidelines could not override / supersede the position of the Rules and, therefore, no reliance can be placed upon the same. 5.4 It is submitted that so far as the position of the Rules is B concerned, the question of lien has to be decided with reference to Rules 15 and 18 of the Rajasthan Service Rules, 1951. It is submitted that the lien acquired by a Government servant cannot be terminated even with his consent if he is left without lien.