15. In view of the aforesaid facts and circumstances, it can be noticed that initially 14 general category vacancies within the direct quota were advertised, out of which, 5 were fi lled up by absorption of the Fast Track Court judges in terms of the directions contained in the Brij Mohan Lal (1) & (2) (supra). Adding 4 general category posts which in the meantime fell vacant, all 13 vacancies were duly fi lled up from the selected candidates. The appellant could not be appointed as he was at serial No.14 of the merit and the posts available were only 13. 16. The absorption of Fast Track Court judges was done after following the prescribed procedure for the selection. The appointment/absorption of the aforesaid Fast Track Court judges was in accordance with the directions contained in Brij Mohan Lal (1) & (2) (supra) and has been affi rmed by the High Court under the impugned which part of the is not being assailed specifi cally. 420 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 17. In view of the reasoning given by the respondents for appointing only 13 selected candidates leaving the appellant who was at Sl. No.14, we are of the opinion that the respondents have justifi ed the appointments and have not acted in an arbitrary manner. The respondents have acted fairly and logically without any malice against the appellant. Thus, on the touchstone of the decision cited on behalf of the appellant himself, we do not fi nd any arbitrariness on the part of the respondents. Therefore, the decision of the Division Bench of the High Court is not liable to be disturbed on the above count, more particularly when the appellant has not acquired any indefeasible right to be appointed because he qualifi ed in the selection process. 18. This takes us to the second argument that the appellant could have been easily adjusted against the vacancy caused due to resignation of one of the selected candidates. The argument per se is bereft of merit inasmuch as all the vacancies notifi ed stood fi lled up initially. However, if one of the selected candidates joins and then resigns, it gives rise to a fresh vacancy which could not have been fi lled up without issuing a proper advertisement and following the fresh selection process. The Division Bench has rightly dealt with the above contention in the light of the precedent of the various decisions of this Court and we do not feel that any error has been committed in this context. 19. This apart, as may be noticed that the procedure for selection of superior/higher judicial service offi cers by direct recruitment from the Bar was initiated by the Punjab and Haryana High Court way back in the year 2007 and now we are in the year 2023 meaning thereby that 16 years have passed by in between. It would be a travesty of justice to keep open the selection process for such a long time and to direct at this stage to make any appointment on the basis of a selection process initiated so far back.