790 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. been passed by the State Legislature is presented for assent. The Governor “shall declare” (i) either that he assents to the Bill; or (ii) that he withholds assents therefrom; or (iii) that he reserves the Bill for the consideration of the President. The term “shall declare” implies that the Governor is required to declare the exercise of his powers. The fi st proviso to Article 200 stipulates that the Governor may “as soon as possible” return the Bill. The proviso to Article 200 envisages that, as soon as possible, after the presentation to the Governor of the Bill for assent he may return a Bill, which is not a Money Bill, together with a message requesting that the House or Houses would reconsider the Bill or any specifi c provisions of the Bill and in particular consider the desirability of introducing such amendments which he may recommend. When a Bill is returned by the Governor, the legislature of the State is duty bound to reconsider the Bill. After the Bill is again passed by the legislature either with or without amendment and is presented to the Governor for assent, the Governor shall not withhold assent therefrom. Apart from the fi rst proviso in the above terms, the second proviso envisages a situation where “the Governor shall not assent to, but shall reserve for the consideration of the President” those Bills that “so derogate from the powers of the High Court as to endanger the position” which the High Court is designed to fi ll by the Constitution. 20. The present case turns upon how the fi rst proviso is to be construed. In construing the fi rst proviso, it needs to be noted that the substantive part of Article 200 provides the Governor with three options: an option to assent; an option to withhold assent; and an option to reserve the Bill for the consideration of the President. The fi rst proviso opens with the expression “the Governor may” in contrast to the second proviso which begins with the expression “the Governor shall not assent”. The “may” in the fi rst proviso is because the fi rst proviso follows the substantive part which contains three options for the Governor. The fi rst proviso does not qualify the fi rst option (where the Governor assents to the Bill) nor the third option reserving the Bill for consideration of the President. The fi rst proviso attaches to the second option (withholding of assent) and hence begins with an enabling expression, “may”. By the mandate of the second proviso, there is an embargo on the Governor assenting to a Bill which derogates from the powers of the High Court under the Constitution. The Governor is by the mandate of the Constitution required to reserve such a Bill for consideration of the President. STATE OF PUNJAB v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY TO THE GOVERNOR OF 791 PUNJAB AND ANOTHER [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 21. The second proviso impacts upon the option which is provided by the substantive part of Article 200 to the Governor to reserve a Bill for the consideration of the President by making it mandatory in the situation envisaged there.