G 124. In Reg v. Chief Constable, W.Midlands, Ex p. Wiley96, Lord Woolf speaking for the House of Lords observed that while determining the balance on the scale, the Court should also enquire if the interest in disclosure could be effectuated through ‘other alternate means’: 95 [1968] AC 910 H 96 [1994] WLR 433 686 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A “[…] It may be possible to provide any necessary information without producing the actual document. It may be possible to disclose a part of the document of a document on a restricted basis. […] There is usually a spectrum of action which can be taken if the parties are sensible which will mean that any prejudice due to non-disclosure is reduced to the B minimum.” (emphasis supplied) 125. The Queen’s Bench Division in R (Mohamed) v. Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs97 applied a four- C pronged test to determine the validity of a public interest claim. In this case, an Ethiopian national who was a former resident of the United Kingdom was held by the authorities of the United States in a detention facility in Cuba where he was alleged to have been treated inhumanly. He sought the disclosure of the information in the possession of the United Kingdom Government which may have supported his defence D that the confessions he made while in detention were inadmissible. The Court held that the Security Service of the United Kingdom had facilitated the wrongdoing. In the course of the , the reports by the United States Government to the United Kingdom security and intelligence services were summarised in seven paragraphs. These seven paragraphs E were sought to be redacted by the Court by claiming public interest immunity. It was contended that the United States Government would re-evaluate its intelligence sharing relationship with the United Kingdom if the paragraphs were published, which would in turn prejudice the national security of the United Kingdom. The Court applied a four-pronged test to decide the claim of whether the paragraphs had to be redacted: F (i) Is there a public interest in bringing the redacted paragraphs into the public domain? (ii) Will the disclosure cause serious harm to an important public interest, and if so which interest? G (iii) Can the injury to the public interest in disclosure be prevented by other methods of limited disclosure? (iv) If the alternatives are insufficient, where does the balance of public interest lie? H 97 [2009] EWHC 152 (Admins) MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 687 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 126. While answering the first test, the Court identified the impact A of disclosure on public confidence in the judiciary to the principles of public hearing and reasoned judgement; and the role of information in furthering public debate which promotes a healthy democracy. In the specific context of the case, it was observed that the disclosure would further public discourse on torture and inhuman treatment. Due B weightage was given to the affidavit filed.