citizens. They require the State to restrain its exercise of power and create conducive conditions for the exercise of rights. If such a positive obligation is not read into the State’s power, then the rights which are guaranteed by the Constitution would become a dead letter. This is because the question of whether the State is curtailing the rights of citizens would only arise if the citizens have the capacity and capability to exercise such rights in the fi rst place. 159. Thus, if the Constitution guarantees a fundamental right to marry then a corresponding positive obligation is placed on the State to establish the institution of marriage if the legal regime does not provide for it. This warrants us to inquire if the institution of marriage is in itself so crucial that it must be elevated to the status of a fundamental right. As elucidated in the previous section of this , marriage as an institution has attained social and legal signifi cance because of its expressive and material benefi ts. This Court while determining if the Constitution guarantees the right to marry must account for these considerations as well. vi. Approaches to identifying unenumerated rights 160. The courts identify unenumerated rights by tracing them either to specifi c provisions of Part III of the Constitution or to the chief values which the Constitution espouses. The premise of this exercise undertaken by courts is that the rights guaranteed in Part III of the Constitution can only be eff ectively secured if certain other entitlements are safeguarded. That is, the rights guaranteed expressly by the Constitution would remain parchment rights, if conditions for the eff ective exercise of them are not created. To put it diff erently, rights will only be secured if citizens possess capabilities to exercise the right.150 In fact, the positive and negative postulations of fundamental rights arise from this broad understanding of the purpose served by fundamental rights. In this method of deriving rights, the court traces unenumerated rights to specifi c provisions of the Constitution such as liberty (Article 21) or freedom of expression (Article 19) or equality (Article 14). 161. In the second method used by courts to derive unenumerated rights, rights are not traced to specifi c fundamental rights but to the values 150 Martha C Nussbaum, Capabilities as fundamental entitlements: Sen and Social Justice, (2003) Feminist Economics 9 (203) 33 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1329 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] or the identity of the Constitution. This method of deriving unenumerated rights attained prominence after the of this Court in RC Cooper v. Union of India151 which held that fundamental rights are not water-tight compartments and that the thread of reasonableness contemplated in Article 14 runs through Article 21 aswell. The aspirational values of the Indian Constitution refl ected in the preamble is to secure justice, liberty, equality, and fraternity to all its citizens. However, constitutional identity is not readily borrowed from preambular values. Constitutional identity is secured by a gradual process which is characterized by a dialogue between the institutions of governance (such as the legislature, the executive, the courts, and the statutory commissions) and the public over internal and external dissonances.152 There is external dissonance when there is an apparent confl ict between a Constitution’s aspirational ideals and the socio-political reality.153 It is characterized by internal dissonance when there is a confl ict between the provisions of the Constitution.