E Defendants nos. 9 to 11 had questioned the genuineness of the Will (Exhibit-4). 19. The aforesaid narration reveals that there are essentially two interconnected issues which arise for consideration. The first aspect relates to the demarcation of land given on lease vide the Deed of Patta F (Exhibit-12) and the Ekrarnama (Exhibit-5), on the basis of which the title suit was filed by Smriti Debbarma as the attorney and on behalf of Maharani Chandratara Devi. The second issue relates to the burden of proof and whether the plaintiff has succeeded in discharging the burden by establishing her title for a declaratory decree of ownership and her G right to possession of the Schedule ‘A’ property. 20. The impugned in our opinion has rightly examined the aspect of demarcation and identification of Schedule ‘A’ property viz. the identity of the land mentioned in the Deed of Patta (Exhibit- 12) and the Ekrarnama (Exhibit-5), and upon consideration of the evidence and material on record held that the plaintiff has not been able to establish H SMRITI DEBBARMA (DEAD) THROUGH LEGAL REPRESENTATIVE 365 v. PRABHA RANJAN DEBBARMA [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] her title and ownership over the Schedule ‘A’ property. We would refer A to the reasoning given by the High Court in this regard and add some reasons of our own. 21. First, the Deed of Patta (Exhibit-12) dated 31.10.1951 and the Ekrarnama (Exhibit-5) dated 25.06.1952, demarcate and refer to the property as under: B “ Deed of Patta xx xx xx (Schedule boundaries) Land measuring one kani five ganda two kara two kranta ten C dhur with tashkishi taluki title included in Touji No. 178 in my name having an annual revenue of Rs. 30/- (Rupees thirty) within sheet no. 3, situated within Nutan Haveli Town, Pg, Agartala Bounded on the north by Mogra Road D West South on the/and/by khas ‘pati’ on the east by the passage for going to Maharajganj bazar Within this boundary lies 2461 X 90 ft land measuring one kani E five ganda two kara two kranta ten dhur, appertaining to the portion marked (gha) of Dag no. 3412.” xx xx xx Ekrarnama xx xx xx F (Schedule Property) I, in the name of Sri Bikramendra Kishore Deb Barma have been given ‘bandobasta’ with tashkhishi dar taluki title at an annual revenue of Rs. 100/- (One Hundred Rupees) of land measuring 1 G kani 5 ganda 2 kara 2 kranta 10 dhur, in total having tashkhishi dar taluki title no. 178 of Sadar Collectorate, in the name of Maharaj Kumar Srilo Srijuto Durjoy Kishore Deb Barma, at an annual deposit of Rs. 30, within Nutan Haveli Town sheet no. 3 under Sub-Registry Agartala Pg. and P.S. Agartala. H 366 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Bounded on north Mogra Road On the West and south by Khas Patit, On the east by the passage of Maharajganj Bazar. Within this boundary lies 1 kani 5 ganda 2 kara 2 kranta 10 dhur of B land measuring 2061 X 90 ft, in the portion marked (kha) of dag no.