He submitted that Clause 9.2 of the said CSA specifically provides for other charges which are permissible. Relying on Clause 9.4 of the CSA, he submitted G that in all cases, the entire freight charges, irrespective of the mode of transportation of coal supplied, shall be borne by the purchaser. The learned ASG submitted that the EFC does not partake the character of a statutory levy. However, he submitted that, in any case, it does not have the force of law. He, therefore, submitted that APTEL has grossly H GMR WARORA ENERGY LTD. v. CENTRAL ELECTRICITY 217 REGULATORY COMMISSION (CERC) [B. R. GAVAI, J.] erred in holding the circular of CIL dated 19th December 2017 to qualify A as ‘Change in Law’. 89. Shri Singh further submitted that the direction to pay the carrying cost at the rate provided for Late Payment Surcharge (for short, “LPS”) is also not permissible in law. He submitted that this Court, in Adani Rajasthan case (supra), has directed the carrying cost to be B paid at the rate of 9% and as such, in the present case, it ought to have been directed to be paid at the same rate. 90. Shri Singh also relies on the of this Court in the case of Ashoka Smokeless Coal India (P) Limited and Others v. Union of India and Others5 in support of the proposition that CIL is free to fix C the price of coal and that the Union of India has no control over it. 91. Shri Poovayya, on the contrary, submitted that the levy is mandatory in nature. Unless the said levies are paid, the coal would not be supplied. He further submitted that since the CIL is an instrumentality of the Government, the issued by it would amount to a law within D the definition of “Law” as defined in the PPA. He further submitted that insofar as the carrying cost is concerned, there is a specific provision in the PPA in Article 11.8.3, which is binding on the parties. He submitted that on account of non-payment of the dues of the generating companies by DISCOMS, the generating companies are required to borrow the E funds at the market rate and as such, applying the restitutionary principle, it is entitled to carrying cost as provided under the agreement. III. ADDITIONAL ISSUES 92. After hearing the learned counsel for the parties at length, we find that, apart from the three issues that were already decided by this F Court in the case of MSEDCL v. APML & Ors. (supra), the issues as to whether the following components could be considered as ‘Change in Law’ events fall for consideration herein: (i) Busy Season Surcharge & Development Surcharge and Port Congestion Surcharge; G (ii) MoEF Notification on coal quality; (iii) Shortfall in linkage coal due to Change in NCDP; (iv) Forest Tax; 5 (2007) 2 SCC 640 H 218 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (v) Add on Premium price. (vi) Evacuation Facility Charges (EFC).