IPCL challenged the aforesaid clauses primarily on the ground that they were contrary to the Government pricing s dated 30.01.1987, 31.12.1991, 18.09.1997, 30.09.1997 and 20.06.2005, whereby the price of natural gas was fixed. Further, the allocation letter by the MoPNG mandated that transportation of gas to IPCL’s plant had to be G through IPCL’s own pipelines from the ONGC Metering Station. Thus, it was contended that recovery of ‘loss of transportation charges’ by GAIL was arbitrary and unfair. IPCL did not have the option to transport gas through GAIL’s pipelines due to the mandate of the contract and the allocation letter. IPCL also challenged the aforesaid clauses on the ground of unequal bargaining power. It was contended that GAIL occupied a H M/S. GAIL (INDIA) LTD. v. M/S. INDIAN PETROCHEMICALS 333 CORP. LTD. [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] monopolistic position in respect of supply of gas at the time of entering A into the contract. Additionally, IPCL had a limited time frame to enter into the contract, particularly as a hefty investment had been made in setting up the gas cracker plant. As a consequence, IPCL claimed refund of the ‘loss of transportation charges’ paid by them. The Single Judge quashed these clauses vide dated 19.09.2006 as being contrary to B the pricing s, and thus unfair and unconscionable. 9. GAIL, being aggrieved by the said , preferred a Letters Patent Appeal. In the meantime, IPCL also preferred an application for clarification/modification, seeking directions to GAIL to refund loss of transportation charges, as apparently no such specific direction had been passed by the learned Single Judge. IPCL’s application was allowed by C an dated 11.04.2007, predicated on the reasoning that while upholding the claim of IPCL, inadvertently the direction of refund had not been specifically passed. This latter also came to be assailed before the Division Bench by GAIL. 10. The Division Bench affirmed the Single Judge’s observations D vide dated 17.06.2008, thereby leading to the present appeal by GAIL. GAIL’s Plea: 11. At the outset, Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General, appearing for GAIL, contested the very maintainability of the writ petition E filed by IPCL. He contended that the parties had provided for arbitration before the Permanent Machinery of Arbitrators in the Bureau of Public Enterprises under Clause 13.1 of the contract. Further, the matter was stated to be purely contractual in nature, involving the enforceability and validity of the terms of the contract, and no case was made out for F violation of Fundamental Rights. The presence of a public law element was a sine qua non for the exercise of writ jurisdiction, as elucidated in Joshi Technologies International Inc. v. Union of India & Ors.1. The endeavour of IPCL, by invoking such writ jurisdiction, was alleged to be an attempt to bypass the law of limitation, as the contract had been signed way back in 09.11.2001. In any case, the writ petition was also G barred by limitation, having been filed on 09.03.2006, i.e. after a period of five years.