Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) F Act, 2004. * Substituted vide H.P. Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 1999. 6 vehicles which are to be registered in the State of Himachal Pradesh for the first time, used or kept for use in Himachal Pradesh, at the rates as may be specified by the State Government, by notification, subject to the maximum of ten percent of the price of such motor vehicles G to be determined by the taxation authority after deducting eight percent depreciation per annum from the original price of the motor vehicle provided that:- (a) in the case of motor vehicles having original price upto two lacs fifty thousand rupees, the floor price shall not be less than fifty thousand rupees, or (b) in H 902 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A the case of motor vehicles having original price more than two lacs fifty thousand rupees but not exceeding five lacs fifty thousand rupees, the floor price shall not be less than one lac rupees, or (c) in the case of motor vehicles having original price more than five lacs fifty thousand rupees but not exceeding ten lacs rupees, the floor price shall not be less than B two lacs rupees, or (d) in the case of motor vehicles having original price more than ten lacs rupees, the floor price shall not be less than four lac rupees, or (e) in the case of two wheelers, the floor price shall not be less than five thousand rupees.” C 21. By the Amending Act of 1999, Section 3A was introduced which carries a heading: Levy of Special Road Tax. This special road tax was in addition to the tax levied under Section 3. The special road tax was also levied and charged on all transport vehicles used or kept for use in Himachal Pradesh specified in column 2 of Schedule D 3 and the rate of tax was to be not exceeding the rates specified in column 3 of Schedule 3 of the Act. Section 3A is reproduced hereunder: “3-A. Levy of special road tax.- (1) In addition to the tax levied under section 3, on and from E the commencement of the Himachal Pradesh Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 1999, there shall be levied, charged and paid to the State Government, a special road tax on all transport vehicles specified in column (2) of Schedule-III, used or kept for use, in Himachal Pradesh, and, at such rates as may be specified by the State Government, by notification, but F not exceeding the rates specified in column (3) of Schedule- III of this Act. 2 [(2) The rates of special road tax, as may be specified under subsection (1), in respect of stage carriages shall be applicable to and charged on the entire distance covered as per time table G fixed by the Regional Transport Authority and shall be payable monthly by such date as may be notified by the State Government from time to time.] (3) Where a transport vehicle is plied without a valid permit or in any manner not authorised by the permit to be plied, there H THE STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH v. GOEL BUS SERVICE 903 KULLU ETC.