2.3 The learned trial Court vide its and decree dated 11.09.1995 dismissed the suit and held that the plaintiffs were not entitled to relief sought as no right, title or interest was established in favour of plaintiff No.2, inter alia, for want of PoA for proper execution of the D sale deed in his favour. At this stage, it is required to be noted that issue No.6 was, “have the plaintiffs proved their alleged right, title and interest in the suit land?”. The learned trial Court also held that the sale deeds in favour of plaintiff No.2 and plaintiff No.1 respectively did not have the endorsements of the Sub-Registrar that it was executed by the PoA of E Braja Mohan Dey (original owner) and further that even in an earlier suit between plaintiff No.2 and Sarat Chandra Majumdar, the said PoA was not produced. The learned trial Judge also came to the conclusion that the provisions of Section 33(1)(c) of the Registration Act, 1908 have not been complied with, when according to the plaintiffs the alleged PoA was executed at Kumilla, East Pakistan, now Bangladesh, which is F a foreign country. 2.4 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the and decree passed by the learned trial Court dismissing the suit, the original plaintiffs preferred an appeal before the first appellate Court. In the appeal before the first appellate Court, the plaintiffs filed an application under 6 G Rule 17 CPC for amendment of the plaint in T.S. No. 201/1985. The amendment sought for was to the effect that the missing PoA, i.e., the fulcrum of the case was allegedly handed over by the plaintiffs to original defendant No.1 and that despite demands, he never returned the same. Vide dated 31.01.1998, the first appellate Court rejected the prayer for amendment of the plaint by observing that allowing the amendment H MANIK MAJUMDER AND OTHERS v. DIPAK KUMAR SAHA 151 (DEAD) THROUGH LRS. & OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] at that stage would mean a remand of the suit for fresh trial. That after A framing the points for consideration, the first appellate Court dismissed the appeal and confirmed the and decree passed by the learned trial Court dismissing the suit. The first appellate Court also found that though plaintiff No.2 had acquired title over the suit land on the basis of the sale deed executed by him in his favour on the basis of the PoA B alleged to have been executed by its true owner Braja Mohan Dey, but failed to produce the same before the Court and as such in the absence of PoA, genuinity of the sale deed dated 3.9.1968 cannot be presumed to be correct and on the basis of that sale deed, subsequent sale deed dated 29.09.1968 in favour of plaintiff No.1 by plaintiff No.2 also cannot be treated as genuine. C 2.5 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the and passed by the first appellate Court dismissing the appeal and confirming the and decree passed by the learned trial Court dismissing the suit, the plaintiffs preferred the second appeal before the High Court under Section 100 CPC.