H RAVIKUMAR DHANSUKHLAL MAHETA & ANR. v. HIGH 423 COURT OF GUJARAT AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] 4.6 It is submitted that in any case, in the present case, the A appointment in the cadre of District Judge is governed by the Rules, 2005 as amended in the year 2011, which specifically provides for promotion to the post of District Judge on the basis of principle of merit- cum-seniority and passing a suitability test. 4.7 It is submitted that the High Court of Jharkhand at Ranchi B in 2019 while making appointment to the Superior Judicial Services has followed the principle of merit-cum-seniority, by the same method, which the petitioners are praying before this Hon’ble Court to direct High Court of Gujarat to follow. Reliance is placed on the decision of the High Court of Jharkhand in the case of Writ Petition (S) No. C 3771 of 2019 dated 29.06.2022. It is further submitted that the High Court of Calcutta has also followed the principle of merit-cum-seniority, by the same method, as petitioners are praying for. Merit-wise result of normal promotion-2020 to the cadre of District Judge issued by Calcutta High Court would go to show that the first 17 officers, who are in the merit, are selected and recommended for appointment to the D post of District Judge. 4.8 It is submitted that from the Merit List produced by the High Court in the Counter Affidavit, it will satisfy that the petitioners ought to have been included in the first 68 candidates. It is submitted that if the High Court would have followed the principle of “merit-cum-seniority”, E in that case, the petitioners would have been promoted to the post of District Judge being more meritorious and having more marks than the promoted candidates. 4.9 It is further submitted that even otherwise once the criteria for eligibility have been mentioned in the recruitment notice, namely, F “merit-cum-seniority” and “suitability test”, thereafter, it was not open for the High Court and the State to include the additional requirement / qualification of seniority either during the process or after the selection process. Reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in the case of Hemani Malhotra Vs. High Court of Delhi, (2008) 7 SCC 11. G 4.10 Making above submissions and relying upon the above decisions, it is prayed to allow the present writ petition. 5. A counter affidavit is filed on behalf of the State. The learned Advocate appearing on behalf of the High Court has submitted as under:- H 424 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A (i) That the present writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India may not be entertained and the petitioners may be relegatedto first approach the High Court. ; (ii) That in the present case, the Select List was published on B 10.03.2023 and the State Government was moved on the very day to issue necessary appointment s.; (iii) That in the present case, a Selection Committee was constituted for the purpose of 2022 selection.