To be more specific, the contention goes that the appellants would have to follow the policy of the Government of India in regard to coal, be it in the matter of pricing or any other matter. There may be necessity to resort to differential pricing so as to encourage captive coal production. If this is to be treated as being discriminatory or unfair within the meaning of Section 4(2)(a), the question that is posed is how can the G appellant company which is the product of the Nationalisation Act, a monopoly under the same and obliged to observe the mandate of Article 39(b) achieve its undoubted goal or perform its unquestionable duty under law. The answer of the respondents is that questions are being raised in the abstract. The Act overrides all laws to the extent of their inconsistency H with the Act. It is also contended that as far as the question relating to COAL INDIA LIMITED v. COMPETITION COMMISSION 875 OF INDIA [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] compliance with Presidential Directives is concerned, if there is a bona A fide adherence to Presidential Directives, it may pass muster. In fact, Shri Matrugupta Mishra, learned Counsel, would point out that it is his complaint that the appellant is not even following the Presidential Directives. The respondents would point out that questions are being raised in the air without there being foundation on facts. Next, coming to B the placing of restrictions or limits on the production of a mineral like coal, there may be Doctrines like Public Trust and Intergenerational Equity. 94. The State and its agencies may have to put a cap on production of vital resources if they are not inexhaustible. A question may be raised C if a bona fide decision is taken by the appellants that ‘slaughter mining’ which leaves little for the future must be avoided, would it fall foul of Section 4(2)(b) of the Act? Appellants also contended that as State, the dictate of common good contained in Article 39(b) may require of it to promote the interest of backward areas. The question posed is would it be brushed with the paint of unfairness or discrimination which is D anathema to the Act. 95. We have already noticed the report of the Raghavan Committee. We have also perused the scheme of the Act. We have culled out the consequences,which flow from the Nationalisation Act. The economic condition of the country at the time of its independence in E 1947 stands in stark contrast to its condition at varying points of time thereafter.In the initial stages, for understandable reasons, particularly, bearing in mind the need for the State to be the prime mover of the economy, huge investments by the State had to be made. Public sector units became the arm for the State to realize its economic goal, which, at F the earlier point of time, was to consist of building up the requisite infrastructure. The public sector units fulfilled more roles than one.