It denies LGBTQIA+ persons equal protection of the laws. Non-recognition of same-sex and gender-non conforming marriage causes prejudice to LGBTQIA+ persons and denies them rights under social welfare and benefi cial legislations; ii. It is manifestly arbitrary to exclude LGBTQIA+ persons from the SMA. There is no fair or reasonable justifi cation to exclude LGBTQIA+ couples from the institution of marriage; iii. There is no constitutionally valid, intelligible diff erentia between LGBTQIA+ and non-LGBTQIA+ persons. The classifi cation in the present case is based only on the sexual orientation and gender identity of the parties to a marriage, which is constitutionally impermissible. Further, there is no rational nexus with the object sought to be achieved by the SMA. The object of the SMA is to provide a civil form of marriage for couples who cannot or choose not to marry under their personal law. The exclusion of LGBTQ couples from the SMA has no rational nexus with this object; f. There is no ‘legitimate state interest’ promoted or safeguarded by denying LGBTQ+ individuals the fundamental right of marriage; g. Recognizing the right of LGBTQIA+ couples to marry upholds constitutional morality. Constitutional morality urges the organs of the state, including the judiciary, to preserve the heterogeneous 32 Reliance was placed on Shakti Vahini v. Union of India (2018) 7 SCC 192 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1249 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] nature of our society and encourage it to be pluralistic and inclusive; h. Every person is entitled to marry someone of their choice. Queer people are equally entitled to the exercise of this right33. ; i. Denying LGBTQ+ individuals the right to marry infl icts personal harm on them and also infl icts a signifi cant economic cost on the country; j. Denial of the right to marry amounts to a deprivation of the entitlement to full citizenship as well as a denial of the right to intimacy; k. The Constitution is a living document and ought to adapt to changing social realities. Notions of marriage equality are not necessarily opposed to social morality. ; l. If a statute appears to violate the Constitution, then this Court may either declare it unconstitutional, or read it expansively to save its constitutionality. Matrimonial as well as other statutes can be read in a gender-neutral manner to include LGBTQIA+ couples within their ambit; m. There is growing international consensus (including judicial consensus) which recognizes same-sex and gender non- conforming marriages, and this is in line with India’s international obligations; n. Article 32 of the Constitution vests in persons or citizens a fundamental right to approach this Court for the enforcement of the rights guaranteed in Part III of the Constitution. It is therefore incorrect to argue that queer people must wait for Parliament to enact a law granting marriage equality; o. Consequential reliefs must necessarily follow a declaration that the right to marry is vested equally in all persons including LGBTQIA+ persons; 33 Reliance was placed on Shafi n Jahan v. Asokan K.M.