M. HEMALATHA DEVI & ORS. v. B. UDAYASRI 275 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] thirty days from receipt of a request thirty days from receipt of a request by one party from the other party to by one party from the other party to so agree the appointment shall be so agree the appointment shall be made, upon request of a party, by made, upon request of a party, by the the Chief Justice or any person or Supreme Court or, as the case may institution designated by him. be, the High Court or any person or institution designated by such Court. (6) Where, under an appointment (6) Where, under an appointment procedure agreed upon by the procedure agreed upon by the parties,— parties,— (a) ….. (a) ….. (b) …. (b) ….. (c) a person, including an institution, (c) a person, including an institution, fails to perform any function fails to perform any function entrusted to him or it under that entrusted to him or it under that procedure, a party may request procedure, a party may request the the Chief Justice or any person or Supreme Court or, as the case may institution designated by him to be, the High Court or any person or take the necessary measure, unless institution designated by such Court the agreement on the appointment to take the necessary measure, unless procedure provides other means for the agreement on the appointment securing the appointment. procedure provides other means for securing the appointment (6A) The Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court, while considering any application under sub-section (4) or sub- section (5) or sub-section (6), shall, notwithstanding any , decree or of any Court, confi ne to the examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement. 276 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. (6B) The designation of any person or institution by the Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court, for the purposes of this section shall not be regarded as a delegation of judicial power by the Supreme Court or the High Court. Now post amendment, the newly incorporated sub-section (1) to Section 8 has the words “notwithstanding any , decree or of the Supreme Court or any court, refer the parties to arbitration unless it fi nds that prima facie no valid arbitration agreement exists”. When complaints were fi led before the consumer forum, such matters were referred to a larger three-member bench of NCDRC. The question referred was whether the judicial authority i.e., the consumer forum had any option (post amendment), but to refer the dispute to arbitration when an application under Section 8 is moved before it. The answer which was given by the NCDRC in a well- considered , holds that there is no change in the law on the arbitrability of a dispute before a consumer forum, and the Consumer Court is hence not liable to refer the matter for arbitration. This decision of NCDRC dated 13.07.2017 was challenged by the builder in his statutory appeal before this court, which was summarily dismissed, vide dated 13.02.2018 in Emaar MGF Land Limited v. Aftab Singh, 2018 SCC OnLine SC 2378 (“Emaar II”).