However, the said argument was rejected on the ground that where a law purports to authorise the imposition of restrictions on a fundamental right, in language wide enough to cover restrictions, both within or without the limits of Constitutionally permissible legislative action affecting such right, it is not possible to uphold it even so far as it may be applied within the F Constitutional limits, as it is not severable. 17. On the same date on which the decision in Romesh Thappar was delivered, the Constitution Bench of this Court also delivered another in Brij Bhushan vs. The State of Delhi46. It also arose out of a writ petition under Article 32 challenging an passed by the Chief G Commissioner of Delhi in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 7(1)(c) of the East Punjab Public Safety Act, 1949, requiring the Printer and the Publisher as well as the Editor of an English weekly by name 44 1949 Act 45 AIR 1950 SC 124 H 46 AIR 1950 SC 129 KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 629 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] ‘Organizer’, to submit for scrutiny, before publication, all communal A matters and news and views about Pakistan including photographs and cartoons, other than those derived from the official sources. Following the decision in Romesh Thappar, the Constitution Bench held that the imposition of pre-censorship on a journal is a restriction on the liberty of the Press, which is an essential part of the right to freedom of speech B and expression. The Bench went on to hold that Section 7(1)(c) of the East Punjab Public Safety Act, 1949 does not fall within the reservation of clause (2) of Article 19. 18. After aforesaid two decisions, the Parliament sought to amend the Constitution through the Constitution (First Amendment) Bill, 1951. C In the Statement of Objects and Reasons to the First Amendment, it was indicated that the citizen’s right to freedom of speech and expression guaranteed by Article 19(1)(a) has been held by some Courts to be so comprehensive as not to render a person culpable, even if he advocates murder and other crimes of violence. Incidentally, the First Amendment also dealt with other issues, about which we are not concerned in this D discussion. Clause (2) of Article 19 was substituted by a new clause under the Constitution (First Amendment) Act, 1951. For easy appreciation of the metamorphosis that clause (2) of Article 19 underwent after the first amendment, we present in a tabular column, Article 19(2) pre-first amendment and post-first amendment as under: - E F 19. It is significant to note that Section 3(1)(a) of the Constitution (First Amendment) Act, 1951, declared that the newly substituted clause (2) of Article 19 shall be deemed always to have been enacted in the G amended form, meaning thereby that the amended clause (2) was given retrospective effect. 20. Another important feature to be noted in the amended clause (2) of Article 19 is the inclusion of the words ‘reasonable restrictions’.