The report then concludes, inter alia, about her age as under: “At the time of medical examination of the patient, no force seems to have been used against her. I cannot opine about the age of the patient on the basis of development of her pubic hairs and genitalia etc. The patient was habitual to sexual intercourse because her labia minora was hypertrophied and hymen admitted two fi ngers.” The doctor has refrained from giving an opinion herself as to the age, but in the same report the age is recorded as sixteen years. Under the facts and circumstances of the case, what was required to be done was a bone ossifi cation test in to come to some reliable conclusion as to the age of the prosecutrix. This has evidently not been done. Moreover, it has also come in evidence that the mother of the prosecutrix too had said that her daughter was sixteen years of age. 10. We must also keep another relevant factor into consideration. This would be the relative age of the prosecutrix and the accused. The accused at the relevant time was less than 20 years of age, or about 20 years of age, as his age is mentioned as 20 years at the time of recording of his statement under Section 313, which is months later to the alleged incident. The fact that the prosecution has a case that initially the proposal of the marriage of prosecutrix with the appellant was accepted by the family of the appellant and only when the appellant refused the off er of marriage that the FIR was fi nally lodged. All these factors point out towards the fact that what was alleged as rape was not rape but could be a consensual act. The only factor which could have made the consensual aspect immaterial and made it a case of ‘rape’ was the age of the prosecutrix. The medical evidence, however, 84 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. points out that she is more than 16 years of age. The only evidence placed by the prosecution for establishing the DOB as 04.04.1987 i.e., the school register has not been conclusively proved. 11. Under these facts, and on the weight of the evidence placed before the Trial Court, we are of the considered opinion that as regarding the age of the prosecutrix, no defi nite conclusion could have been made. The prosecution has not successfully proved that the prosecutrix was less than sixteen years of age at the time of the alleged commission of the crime, and therefore the benefi t ought to have been given to the appellant. Secondly, as to the factum of rape itself, we are not convinced that an off ence of rape is made out in this case as it does not meet the ingredients of Rape as defi ned under Section 375 of the IPC, as we do not fi nd any evidence which may suggest that the appellant, even though had sexual intercourse with the prosecutrix, it was against her will or without her consent.