Medical and General Stores and could be bought across the counter. A This feature of availability of the product in question has absolutely no relevance. In Sharma Chemical (supra), this Court clearly held that merely for a product being sold across the counter and not on doctor’s prescription, does not by itself lead to a conclusion that it is not a ‘medicament’. Similarly, in Meghdoot (supra), this Court made it clear B that a product may be medicinal without having been prescribed by a medical practitioner. In Meghdoot, this Court has also made it clear with reference to other decided cases that the items which may be sold under names bearing a cosmetic connotation would nevertheless remain medicines based on the composition. Viewed from any angle, merely for being available across the counter, the product in question, AHAHO, C does not cease to be a medicament. 26. Another essential feature while examining the question as to whether a particular product is classifiable as medicament under Chapter 30 or as cosmetic under Chapter 33 would be as to whether the preparation is essentially for cure or prevention of disease i.e., with D therapeutic or prophylactic properties or only for care. Tersely put, when the preparation is for cure or prevention, it would be medicament but, if only for care, it would be cosmetic. Of course, a cosmetic would not become medicament even if having subsidiary curative or prophylactic value, as held by this Court in Alpine Industries (supra). However, the E product in question, AHAHO, does not fail on this count for the reason that it is a preparation of Homeopathic medicine and when it is marketed as carrying those medicines, in commercial as also common parlance, with its name carrying the significant expressions “Homeo” and “Arnica”, the product could only be understood as the one carrying predominantly pharmaceutical value and not mere cosmetic value. F 27. The other suggestion on behalf of the Adjudicating Authority and the appellant, relating to the common parlance test with reference to the depiction of a lady with long black flowing hair on its label and thereby treating it as cosmetic, is also stretching the matter to the brink of absurdity. When the product in question is intended to control hair fall G as also to prevent dandruff and to induce good sleep, which all carry their own therapeutic and prophylactic connotations, the picture of a lady with long black flowing hair cannot be said to be unrelated to the indications related with the product. In any case, such a picture, by itself, cannot make the product in question a cosmetic. Interestingly, right at the top of the said picture and below the name of the product, it proclaims H 350 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A “Controls hair fall. Prevents dandruff”. The Adjudicating Authority has taken his process of analysis to further illogical heights by proclaiming that hair growth was at the best a cosmetic necessity rather than a disease requiring immediate attention or treatment.