The stage of the work and the impact, if any, it should have on the outcome of these proceedings would be considered subsequently. 19. Besides this appeal which has been fi led by the successful party to whom the contract was awarded by BHEL, a companion Special Leave Petition has been fi led before this Court by BHEL and by the Telangana State Power Generation Company Limited. The latter had awarded the contract for the construction of a 5x800 MW Thermal Power Station to BHEL and in its submission, the project is likely to get aff ected by the s which have been passed by the High Court in relation to the setting up of the Ash Handling Plant. 20. We have heard Mr Mukul Rohatgi, Mr Gaurab Banerjee and Mr V Giri, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in support of the appeals. Mr Harish N Salve and Mr Neeraj Kishan Kaul, senior counsel have appeared on behalf of the original petitioner before the High Court, namely, the fi rst respondent. For convenience of reference, 164 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. the parties as they appear in the lead appeal are referred to in these proceedings. 21. The controversy in the present case lies in a narrow frame. Clause 01.01.01 stipulates four requirements that each bidder has to fulfi ll. All the requirements are cumulative as is indicated by the use of the word “and” after sub-clauses (a), (b) and (c). Evidently, it is not in dispute that the appellant did not fulfi ll the technical requirements specifi ed in clause 01.01.01. However, this was not the end of the matter for the reason that clause 01.01.02 specifi cally contemplated such an eventuality. This clause stipulates that a bidder which is a supplier of bulk material handling systems, but does not meet the requirements under clause 01.01.01 in part or in full, could also participate provided such a bidder had executed at least the systems design, engineering, manufacture, supply, erection and commissioning of projects of the nature described in either (a) or (b). Apart from having experience of the projects that were specifi ed under clause 01.01.02, there was an additional condition which was that such a bidder must collaborate/associate with a party or parties who meet all the requirements of sub-clauses (a), (b), and (c) of clause 01.01.01. In other words, though the bidder itself was not able to meet the requirements of clause 01.01.01, such non-compliance would be obviated if the bidder collaborated or associated with an entity that met the requirements of sub-clauses (a), (b) and (c) either individually or in conjunction with the bidder himself. In that case, the bidder was required to furnish a consortium agreement jointly executed with the collaborator/ associate so as to accept joint and several responsibilities towards the tendering authority. Clause 01.01.03 contains certain stipulations in regard to the activity of design and engineering under clause 01.01.01. 22. Clause 7.2 of the pre-qualifi cation requirements contains specifi c stipulations in regard to the nature of the bidding consortium.