The said clause is as follows: “(iv) No Duty Free Import Authorisation shall be issued for an input which is subjected to pre-import condition.” D 51. By virtue of the trade notice, exporters were made aware of the fact that under the GST regime, no exemption from payment of IGST and compensation cess would be available for imports under AA. Importers had to pay IGST and take input tax credit as applicable under GST rules. E 52. It is a matter of law that FTPs are statutory and are framed by the Union, exercising its powers under Section 5 of the FTRA 29. On the other hand, the HBP does not have the status of rules or regulations. It merely contains guidelines. In Hindustan Granites v Union of India30 this court observed that: F “Handbook of Procedure merely implements the policy. It does not prevent the Central Government from changing the policy.” 53. The facts in Hindustan Granites were that on 01.04.2004, FTP 2004-2009 came into force. The said FTP permitted Domestic Tariff G Area (“DTA”) sales by units, “other than gems and jewellery units”, up to 50% of FOB value of exports subject to fulfilment of positive Net Foreign Exchange Earnings (“NFE”) on payment of concessional duties. Paragraph 6.8 (h) stated that: 29 Union of India v. Asian Food Industries, (2006) Supp (8) SCR 485. 30 2007 (4) SCR 743. H UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. v. COSMO FILMS LIMITED 217 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] “(h) EOU/EHTP/STP/BTP units may sell finished products, A which are freely importable under the Policy in the DTA under intimation to the Development Commissioner against payment of full duties provided they have achieved the positive NFE.” 54. By a notification paragraph 6.8(a) and paragraph 6.8(h) of the said FTP were amended, preventing EOUs from making DTA sales B of the finished marble made from imported rough marble, with immediate effect. The change was made a few months after renewal of letter of permission to the unit, authorizing it to manufacture and export marble tiles for 5 years, subject to a specified monetary limit. The contention that the FTP could not have been amended, was negatived, by this court. C 55. The impugned , in the present case, is premised broadly on the reasoning that the amendment by Notification 79/2017 dated 13.10.2017 to the extent it required payment of duty, and, in the case of advance authorizations, the fulfilment of ‘pre-import conditions’ was unreasonable and arbitrary. It was concluded that the amendment D is contrary to the objective of the FTP. Further, it has been held that ‘pre-import conditions’ are in respect of specific goods and, the notifications impugned, inasmuch as they apply ‘pre-import condition’ to all goods, is contrary to the provision. Further, the absence of ‘pre-import conditions’ in respect of basic customs duty, and other levies, where in anticipation of AAs, duty free imports can be made, in contradistinction E with the need to follow such ‘pre-import conditions’ in respect of IGST and compensation cess, rendered the AAs worthless.