D Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 – Scheme of – Discussed. Electricity Act, 2003 – Uttar Pradesh Electricity Supply Code, 2005 – Outstanding electricity dues, if a ‘charge’ on assets of E corporate debtor – Circumstances in which such a ‘charge’ could be constituted in law – Held: In K.C. Ninan v. Kerala State Electricity Board, Supreme Court examined such circumstances and held that the creation of a charge need not necessarily be based on an express provision of the 2003 Act or plenary legislation, but could be created by properly framed regulations authorized under the parent statute F – Thus, in the present case, PVVNL rightly argued that by virtue of Clause 4.3(f)(iv) of the Supply Code, read with the stipulations in the agreement between the parties, a charge was created on the assets of the corporate debtor – of the NCLT also reveals that this position was accepted – This is evident from the of G the NCLAT which clarified that PVVNL also came under the definition of ‘secured operational creditor’ as per law – This finding was affirmed by the impugned – Therefore, the conclusion that PVVNL is a secured creditor cannot be disputed – Electricity. Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 – ss.52, 53(1)(e), (f) – Government debts, operational debts vis-à-vis dues owed to H PASCHIMANCHAL VIDYUT VITRAN NIGAM LTD. v. RAMAN 1223 ISPAT PRIVATE LIMITED & ORS. unsecured financial creditors–Rationale for placing secured A creditors who relinquish their security, higher in priority– Held: The priority of claims, indicated in the hierarchy of preferences, under the waterfall mechanism accords government debts [clause (e)] and operational debts [clause (f)] lower priority than dues owed to unsecured financial creditors – Further, debts owed to a B secured creditor, whenever such secured creditor “has relinquished security in the manner set out in s. 52” receive a fairly high priority (immediately after insolvency resolution process costs) – When the secured creditor does not relinquish security, the priority of claim is lower [s.53(1)(e)(ii)] in respect of “any amount unpaid following the enforcement of security interest” – Amounts due to the C government (i.e., payable into the Consolidated Fund of India or Consolidated Fund of a State) are ranked in the same manner as those of secured creditors who do not relinquish their security interest [s.53(1)(e)(ii)]– Aforesaid rationale discussed. Electricity Act, 2003 – ss.50, 56, 181(2)(x) – Uttar Pradesh D Electricity Supply Code, 2005 – Clause 4.3 (f) (iv), Clause 6.15 – Recovery mechanism under– Discussed– Uttar Pradesh Government Electrical Undertakings (Dues Recovery) Act, 1958. Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 – s.53(1)(f) – Constitution of India – Article 265 – “government dues” – Held: E Dues payable or requiring to be credited to the Treasury, such as tax, tariffs, etc. which broadly fall within the ambit of Article 265 are ‘government dues’ and therefore covered by s.53(1)(f) – Whereas, dues payable to statutory corporations which do not fall within the description “amounts due to the central or state government” for F instance amounts payable to corporations created by statutes which have distinct juristic entity but whose dues do not constitute government dues payable or those payable into the respective Consolidated Funds stand on a different footing.