In human affairs, such situations can and do arise and the courts can E and should make an allowance for them to be accommodated for adjudication on the merits of such claims. Therefore, I find myself unable to subscribe to the reasoning adopted by the learned District Judge, Chandigarh in non-suiting the petitioner and shutting out his case for examination of the ‘further claims’ beyond those pressed in the original claim petition on the materials on record F and that too only by virtue of oppressive exclusion in Clause 65- A. Delay in payment of dues would itself give rise to an actionable claim for interest accruing by virtue of default in payment of final bills, keeping money beyond reasonable time in the pocket of the employer.” G 16. Thereafter, the High Court also proceeds to refer to the subsequent agreement, the by which the Arbitrator was appointed, the agreement which is entered into and finally, it is found as follows: “Mr. Manohar Lall, learned counsel appearing for the appellant points out that the Arbitrator in the present case was appointed H 822 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A under Section 11 of the Act by the Chief Justice of this Court exercising jurisdiction under the Act by dated 12.11.2007 after recognizing and identifying the dispute and difference which had arisen between the parties that demanded resolution through arbitration process in terms of the arbitration clause signed by the parties. This jurisdictional issue was pressed before the Arbitrator B by the employer itself and a preliminary issue was accordingly framed and answered in favour of the appellant and Clause 65-A was duly noticed and interpreted in a manner which appeals to this court as a correct exposition of the law. Besides, the Arbitrator in his award dated 4.3.2009 (Annexure A-3) found from the C agreement dated 22.11.2007 that dispute still exists between the parties, which is evident from the recitals in the agreement, which reads as follows: “The new arbitrator shall decide all the disputes between the parties” D The award ought not to have been tinkered with by the Learned District Judge, Chandigarh for the reason that jurisdiction stood denuded by operation of the offending part of Clause 65 and 65-A cannot be read as waiver or extinguishment of right of a contractor, much less by deeming E fiction as Clause 65-A does, to lay further claims after the presentation of the final bill if money or interest is demonstrably owed by the offer or of the contract to the contractor. Thus, these two clauses justly deserve to be read against the offer or of the works contract in the light of the well established doctrine of contra proferentum applicable to the law of contracts. F For the foregoing reason, this appeal is allowed and the impugned dated 10.7.2013 passed by the learned District Judge, Chandigarh is set aside.” 17. The clauses which have been relied upon by the appellants are clear and unambiguous. What they interdict is the submission of a G new claim after the submission of the final bill.