If the opportunity would have been given to the Union of India to put forward its case on the provisions of Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA, 1967, the Union of India would have made submissions in favour of Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA including the object and purpose H 536 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A for enactment of such a provision and even the object and purpose of UAPA. The submission made by Shri Parikh, learned Senior Counsel relying upon the decision of this Court in the case of Sanjeev Coke (supra) that it is ultimately for the Court to interpret and read down the provision to save any provision from declaring as unconstitutional is concerned, it is true that it is ultimately for the Court to interpret the law B and/or particular statute. However, the question is not the power of the Courts. The question is whether can it be done without hearing the Union of India? 11.3 Even otherwise in absence of any challenge to the constitutional validity of Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA there was no C question of reading down of the said provision by this Court. Therefore, in absence of any challenge to the constitutional validity of Section 10(a)(i) of UAPA, 1967 there was no occasion for this Court to read down the said provision. 11.4 Even otherwise as observed and held by this Court in the D case of Subramanian Swamy and others vs. Raju through Member, Juvenile Justice Board and Anr., (2014) 8 SCC 390 reading down the provision of a statute cannot be resorted to when the meaning of a provision is plain and unambiguous and the legislative intent is clear. This Court has thereafter laid down the fundamental principle of “reading E down doctrine” as under: “Courts must read the legislation literally in the first instance. If on such reading and understanding the vice of unconstitutionality is attracted, the courts must explore whether there has been an unintended legislative omission. If such an intendment can be F reasonably implied without undertaking what, unmistakably, would be a legislative exercise, the Act may be read down to save it from unconstitutionality. At the cost of repetition, it is observed that reading down a particular statute even to save it from unconstitutionality is not permissible unless and until the constitutional validity of such provision is under challenge and the G opportunity is given to the Union of India to defend a particular parliamentary statute”. 11.5 In view of the above in all the aforesaid three decisions, this Court ought not to have read down Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA, 1967 more particularly when neither the constitutional validity of Section 10(a)(i) H ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 537 [M. R. SHAH, J.] of the UAPA, 1967 was under challenge nor the Union of India was A heard. 12. As observed hereinabove and even it can be seen from the decisions of this Court in the case of Arup Bhuyan (Supra) and Raneef (supra) that while deciding the abovesaid cases this Court has followed the US Supreme Court decisions on freedom of speech and on mere B membership without any criminality and/or overt act and mere membership be said to have committed an offence or not.