This extension is in tune with the notification of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare dated 31.05.2016. 23. The doctors, both under AYUSH and CHS, render service to patients and on this core aspect, there is nothing to distinguish D them. Therefore, no rational justification is seen for having different dates for bestowing the benefit of extended age of superannuation to these two categories of doctors. Hence, the of AYUSH Ministry (F.No.D14019/4/2016-E-I(AYUSH)) dated 24.11.2017 must be retrospectively applied from 31.05.2016 to all concerned respondent-doctors, in the present appeals. All consequences must E follow from this conclusion.” 18. A cursory reading of the portion of the extracted supra, may give an impression as though the question arising for consideration is no longer res integra and that Allopathy doctors and Ayurved doctors should be treated on par insofar as all service conditions F are concerned. But a careful reading of the entire shows that the said decision was based upon an of the Ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy (AYUSH) dated 24.11.2017. As seen from paragraph 2 of the said decision, the age of retirement of Allopathy doctors was increased by an dated 31.05.2016 issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. This G was followed by consequential amendment of the Fundamental Rules and Supplementary Rules, 1922. Since Ayurved doctors were not covered by the Ministry’s dated 31.05.2016, Ayurved doctors filed applications before the Administrative Tribunal. The Administrative Tribunal allowed the applications by an dated 24.08.2017. The H North Delhi Municipal Corporation (employer) filed writ petitions before STATE OF GUJARAT & ORS. ETC. v. DR. P. A. BHATT & ORS. 309 ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] the High Court of Delhi challenging the decision of the Tribunal. During A the pendency of the writ petitions, the Ministry of AYUSH issued an dated 24.11.2017 enhancing the age of retirement of AYUSH doctors also to 65 years, but with effect from 27.09.2017. It is in that context that this Court held as aforesaid in Dr. Ram Naresh Sharma. This Court did not go into the question whether AYUSH doctors and B Allopathy doctors were performing equal duties and responsibilities so as to be entitled to equal pay. 19. We must remember the fundamental distinction between, (i) the issue of law that equal work entails equal pay; and (ii) the issue of fact as to whether two categories of employees are performing equal C work or not? This Court did not go into the factual aspect in Dr. Ram Naresh Sharma as to whether AYUSH doctors were performing equal work as Allopathy doctors. This Court simply relied upon the of the Ministry of AYUSH itself enhancing the age of retirement of AYUSH doctors on par with Allopathy doctors. 20. In any case, the question of age of retirement stands on a D different footing from the service conditions relating to pay and allowances and revision of pay. Therefore, we do not think that the issue raised in these appeals can be said to be covered by the decision in Dr. Ram Naresh Sharma.