Reliance was placed on Lipton India Ltd. & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors2 to contend that communications between the 1(2015) 7 SCC 728. 2(1994) 6 SCC 524. H 334 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A parties about levy of transportation charges following the signing of the contract could not extend the period of limitation. 12. He stated that even if the petition was maintainable, the clauses could not have been invalidated by the High Court. It was pointed out that there were no differences in the bargaining positions of the two B organisations where one could be said to be more powerful. Both organisations were public sector enterprises at the relevant time. The contract was stated to be carefully negotiated and reflected the mutual consensus between the parties, as was evident from the inter se communications at the pre-contractual stages. Thus, the clauses could not thus be treated as arbitrary or unfair. IPCL’s and the High Court’s C reliance on Central Inland Water Transport Corporation Limited v. Brojonath Ganguly3was misplaced as a principle applied to a service contract between the employer and the employee could not be imported to a commercial contract, and that too between two public sector enterprises. The alternative plea was that even were the impugned D s to be sustained, the amount of refund could not be granted beyond the period of limitation, i.e. three years after the signing of the contract. 13. The basic defence and justification for levy of loss of transportation charges was that GAIL had made a huge investment in E constructing its own infrastructure, i.e. the HBJ pipeline (Hazira - Bijaipur - Jagdishpur). GAIL had a limited number of opportunities to supply gas to consumers and, thus, an equally limited number of opportunities to levy transportation charges to recover its legitimate maintenance costs. The allotment had pre-supposed the imposition of such transportation costs. F 14. Finally, it was emphasized that the learned Single Judge had become functus officio having pronounced the dated 19.09.2006. Thus, there was no question of directing a refund through a clarification/modification application. Such a refund raised questions of unjust enrichment, as IPCL would have passed on the ‘loss of G transportation charges’ paid by them to their own customers. As to what constituted unjust enrichment, the Solicitor General sought to refer to Rameshwar & Ors. v. State of Haryana and Ors4. 3(1986) 3 SCC 156. 4(2018) 6 SCC 215. H M/S. GAIL (INDIA) LTD. v. M/S. INDIAN PETROCHEMICALS 335 CORP. LTD. [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] IPCL’s Defence: A 15. Dr. A.M. Singhvi, learned Senior Counsel, sought to defend the impugned and the maintainability of writ proceedings with respect to a private contract. The transportation charges were alleged to have a discriminatory effect as IPCL was being treated on par with consumers who were using the HBJ pipeline, whereas IPCL was B transporting the gas through its own pipelines. That being the plea, it was urged that the writ jurisdiction was the appropriate remedy as there were questions of arbitrary state action violating the mandate of Article 14.