As far as the non-production of documents amounting to fraud, it may be true that the non-production of documents on which the parties place reliance, may hinder the progression of the suit- and in a given case, perhaps may amount to fraud- but we do not comment on those possibilities, if any. However, the intentional withholding of a document, in these two situations- is completely diff erent. One is the withholding of a document upon which the case depends, or is essential for the lis to be appropriately decided - and the other is solely for the purpose of eff ective cross-examination. The two cannot be held to be at the same pedestal, the latter most certainly not amounting to fraud. 21. A perusal of the CPC otherwise as well supports this view, as it does not, in any manner address a situation where a party to a suit is to enter the witness box, and what the procedure may be, to be followed for such an occurrence, setting this testimony apart from those rendered by other witnesses. 22. The argument that the literal interpretation of “the Plaintiff ’s witnesses” and “the Defendant’s witnesses” suggests a clear diff erence between the parties to the suit and the witness produced at their instance - has to be necessarily negated as a plaintiff or a defendant at their own behest may enter evidence in court- and so, to hold, as the judgement impugned before us does, that it is permissible as according to VIII Rule 1-A(3), to produce a document to confront or jog the memory of a witness, but the same would not be permissible as applied to a party to a suit, would create an artifi cial distinction, which otherwise does not serve any purpose of law. MOHAMMED ABDUL WAHID v. NILOFER & ANR. 889 23. We notice that the Madras High Court in Miss T.M. Mohana v. V. Kannan10 had in as far back as 1984, held that the production of documents for the purpose of cross-examinations can be availed only for a witness of a party and not the party themselves, is an untenable argument. Also, that the “Plaintiff ’s witnesses” would not only be witnesses for the plaintiff , but also the plaintiff himself. 24. This proposition was referred to and agreed upon by the Gujarat High Court in Amit M. Pathakji, Sr. Manager (Mech.) & Anr v. Bhavnaben Amitkumar Pathakji11 in the year 2007, which notably is after the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, 2002. This fact acquires signifi cance as the Division Bench in the Impugned diff erentiates the in T.M Mohana (supra) with the present-day Code as the provision it speaks of is not to be found in the Code. 25. In fact, if the literal interpretation as posited by the respondent is accepted, the distinction created would lay waste to the law as framed- giving rise to a diff erence not envisaged by the Code, while also indirectly obliterating other well-recognized concepts of law such as that of an interested witness (which is a recognized concept in civil suits as well12) for one of the diff erences culled out, between a party to a suit and a witness- is on the degree of interest in the outcome of the case, stating that a party is obviously interested, while a witness is not.13 26.