The non-obstante clause makes the application of this provision to pre-amendment agreements abundantly clear. 21. The Court noted that the eff ect of Section 12(5) of the Act is that the party cannot insist on the appointment of an arbitrator in terms of such an agreement. Reading Section 12(5) with the Seventh Schedule of the Act, it was held that the Chairman in that case, was disqualifi ed 5 2021 SCC OnLine SC 730, para 10. 6 (2017) 4 SCC 665. 472 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. and that the High Court was justifi ed in appointing an arbitrator other than the Chairman. “Disqualifi cation/ineligible under Sub-section (5) of Section 12 read with Seventh Schedule to the Act is to be read as a whole and considering the object and purpose for which Sub-section (5) of Section 12 read with Seventh Schedule to the Act came to be inserted. Sub-section (5) of Section 12 read with Seventh Schedule has been inserted bearing in mind the ‘impartiality and independence’ of the arbitrators. It has been inserted with the purpose of ‘neutrality of arbitrators’. Independence and impartiality of the arbitrators are the hallmarks of any arbitration proceedings as observed in the case of Voestalpine Schienen (Supra). Rule against bias is one of the fundamental principles of natural justice which apply to all judicial proceedings and quasi-judicial proceedings and it is for this reason that despite the contractually agreed upon, the persons mentioned in Sub-section (5) of Section 12 read with Seventh Schedule to the Act would render himself ineligible to conduct the arbitration.”7 22 . In the present case, the agreements do not postulate that the Chief Engineer would adjudicate upon the disputes between the parties nor is there any provision to the eff ect that the Chief Engineer would resolve the dispute after letting in evidence or allowing the parties an opportunity of presenting their respective cases before them. The forum comprising the Chief Engineer lacks the trappings of an arbitral forum. More importantly, the Chief Engineer is an employee of the Board. In view of the decision in Jaipur Jila Dugdh Utpadak Sahkari Sangh Limited (supra), which has been upheld in Ellora Paper Mills Ltd. v. State of M.P,8 arbitration proceedings must account for the rule against bias and due process. Clause (1) of the Seventh Schedule of the Act disqualifi es an employee of one of the parties from being appointed as an arbitrator. This prohibition applies notwithstanding an agreement to the contrary. Read conjointly with the requirements of a valid arbitration 7 2021 SCC OnLine SC 730, para 17. 8 (2022) 3 SCC 1. SOLARIS CHEM TECH INDUSTRIES LTD v. ASSISTANT 473 EXECUTIVE ENGINEER KARNATAKA URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE BOARD agreement stipulated in Jagdish Chander (supra), Section 12 (5) of the Act and the Seventh Schedule would indicate that such a person cannot be considered fi t to resolve the dispute between the parties independently and without bias. 23. Though the Single Judge was of the view that Clause 4 of the agreement empowered the Board to revise its rates, nonetheless, without dealing with the power and the manner of its exercise any further, the High Court relegated the appellant to the remedy under Clause 11 before the Chief Engineer.