Since grant of extension for intermittent periods so that the duration of such D periods taken together does not exceed ninety days would suggest some element of discretion being reserved unto the authorized officer of a secured creditor under sub–rule (5) of rule 9. However, there can be no gainsaying that such discretion has to be exercised reasonably and not on whims or caprice; at the E same time, no auction purchaser can claim extension as a matter of right and that too beyond the statutorily prescribed period. Whether or not a case for extension does exist would depend upon the peculiar facts of each case and no strait–jacket formula can ever be laid down therefor. If, however, circumstances are shown to exist where a bidder is faced with such a grave disability F that he has no other option but to seek extension of time on genuine grounds so as not to exceed the stipulated period of ninety days and the prayer is rejected without due consideration of all facts and circumstances, refusal of the prayer for extension could afford a ground for a judicial review of the decision-making G process on valid ground(s). [Para 13][1080-A-E] 1.2. Sub-rule (5) of rule 9 does envisage forfeiture, should there be a default in payment of the balance amount of purchase price within the period mentioned in sub–rule (4). The power of H AUTHORISED OFFICER STATE BANK OF INDIA v. 1069 C. NATARAJAN & ANR. forfeiture is, therefore, statutorily conferred. The express power A conferred on a secured creditor by sub-rule (5) of rule 9 to forfeit the initial deposit made by the bidder in case he commits any default in paying installments of the sale price to the secured creditor is an action which is part of the measures specified in section 13(4) of the SARFAESI Act and, therefore, amenable to B challenge on valid ground(s) in an application under section 17(1) thereof. [Para 14][1080-F-G] 1.3. Rule 9(5) legislatively lays down a penal consequence. ‘Forfeiture’ referred to in sub-rule (5) of rule 9, in the setting of the SARFAESI Act and the Rules, has to be construed as denoting C a penalty that the defaulting bidder must suffer should he fail to make payment of the entire sale price within the period allowed to him by the authorized officer of a secured creditor. Though it is true that the power conferred by sub-rule (5) of rule 9 of the Rules ought not to be exercised indiscriminately without having due regard to all relevant facts and circumstances, yet, the said D sub-rule ought also not be read in a manner so as to render its existence only on paper. Sub-rule (5) of rule 9 cannot but be interpreted pragmatically to serve twin purposes-first, to facilitate due enforcement of security interest by the secured creditor (one of the objects of the SARFAESI Act); and second, to prohibit E wrong doers from being benefitted by a liberal construction thereof. [Paras 18, 19][1081-G-H; 1082-A-C, F] 1.4As regards the question does sub-rule (5) of rule 9, which is part of a delegated legislation, i.e., the Rules, have the effect of diluting section 73 and section 74 of the Contract Act, F the answer must be in the negative.