Gender neutral 148 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. interpretation of existing laws, therefore, would complicate an already exhausting path to justice for women and leave room for the perpetrator to victimise them. A law is not merely meant to look good on paper; but is an eff ective tool to remedy a perceived injustice, addressed after due evaluation about its necessity. A law which was consciously created and fought for, by women cannot, therefore, by an interpretive sleight be diluted. 103. In fact, it would do well to remind ourselves what this court had stated, in Delhi Transport Corporation v. DTC Mazdoor Congress (hereafter, “Delhi Transport Corporation”)104: “when the provision is cast in a defi nite and unambiguous language and its intention is clear, it is not permissible either to mend or bend it even if such recasting is in accord with good reason and conscience. In such circumstances, it is not possible for the court to remake the statute. Its only duty is to strike it down and leave it to the legislature if it so desires, to amend it.” Similarly, in Cellular Operators Association of India v. Telecom Regulatory Authority of India105, the court applied the rule of Delhi Transport Corporation (supra) and held that the construction suggested would lead the court “to add something to the provision which does not exist, which would be nothing short of the court itself legislating” and therefore, impermissible.106 104. Lastly, there is no known rule by which a word or group of words, in one provision, can have two diff erent meanings. The eff ect of the petitioner’s argument would be to say that generally, provisions of SMA should be read in a gender neutral manner (spouse for wife and husband; persons instead of the male and female, etc). Whilst it could in theory be possible to read such provisions in the manner suggested, their impact on specifi c provisions such as the separate lists for wives and husbands 104 (1990) Supp. 1 SCR 142 105 2016 (9) SCR 1 106 Likewise, B.R. Kapur v. State of Tamil Nadu 2001 (3) Suppl. SCR 191 - a Constitution Bench ruling of this court, also held that interpretations which read in words, were impermissible. SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1485 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] for purposes of age, determining prohibited degrees of relationships, and remedies such as divorce and maintenance, leads to unworkable results. Most importantly, the court, in its anxiety to grant relief, would be ignoring provisions that deal with and refer to personal laws of succession that are, Sections 19, 20, 21 and 21A. This court cannot look at a text containing words with two optional meanings in the same provision. 105. Likewise, with regard to the FMA, the petitioners’ sought that certain conditions and provisions be read in gender neutral terms, to enable same-sex marriage. FMA too, is a secular legislation wherein Section 4107 states that a marriage between “parties” may be solemnized under this Act, provided that at least one of the two parties is a citizen of India.