This decree has attained fi nality. 8. In the course of execution, it was the stand of the respondent- Corporation, at various stages, that grave prejudice would be caused to the students studying in the school building constructed on the suit land, therefore, instead of delivering the possession, it is in the process of acquiring the decretal land, which stand it continued to take from 1994 till March, 1999, at which point the respondent-Corporation’s application not to execute warrant of possession was dismissed by the Executing Court on the ground that it has not made any serious eff ort to acquire the decretal land for about eight years. 9. Surprisingly, for the fi rst time, on 18.09.2009, the respondent- Corporation informed the Executing Court that the suit land is not in its possession and the same has been encroached upon. On this information of the /debtor, the Executing Court directed it to disclose whether the land, which the respondent-Corporation is stating to have been encroached upon, is the suit land and if so, then, to disclose as to when the suit land was vacated by the respondent-Corporation. Yet again, on 16.04.2010, the Executing Court observed that till date the respondent-Corporation has not disclosed the fact that as to with whom the suit land presently lies and the Deputy Commissioner of the respondent-Corporation was directed to reply to this query by way of fi ling an affi davit. When the affi davit was fi led, the Executing Court observed that the query has not been responded to properly. The Executing Court in its dated 21.05.2010 noted the stand of the respondent-Corporation, at the inception of the suit, that the suit land is in its possession but that in execution proceedings, the respondent-Corporation has taken altogether a diff erent stand that the school is running on a diff erent parcel of land. The Executing Court further expressed doubt as to how, at that stage, the respondent-Corporation could take altogether a diff erent stand and observed that it is liable to disclose as to how the possession of the suit land passed from it to a third party. SMT. VED KUMARI (DEAD THR. HER LEGAL REPRESENTATIVE) DR. VIJAY 609 AGARWAL v. MCD THR. ITS COMMISSIONER [PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, J.] 10. It is also important to notice that throughout the course of the execution proceedings, no resistance was off ered by any purported stranger/ encroacher to the decree. In the absence of such resistance, the Executing Court had no occasion to invoke XXI, Rules 97 to 101, at the instance of the decree-holder or otherwise. Unless, this procedure is adopted, the Executing Court could not have closed the execution proceedings by observing that the decree is inexecutable. 11. In “Brahmdeo Chaudhary vs. Rishikesh Prasad Jaiswal & Anr.” (1997) 3 SCC 694, this Court has observed that XXI of the CPC lays down a complete code for resolving all disputes pertaining to execution of the decree for possession obtained by a decree-holder and whose attempts at executing the said decree meet with rough weather.