III.A. Preliminary note submitted by learned Attorney General for India 9. The learned Attorney General for India submitted a preliminary note containing his submissions question-wise, which can be summed up D as follows:- Question No.1 (i) On question No.1 it is his submission that as a matter of constitutional principle, any addition, alteration or change in the norms or criteria for imposition of restrictions on any E fundamental right has to come up through a legislative process. The restrictions already enumerated in clauses (2) and (6) of Article 19 have to be taken to be exhaustive. Therefore, the Court cannot, under the guise of invoking any other fundamental right such as the one in Article 21, F impose restrictions not found in Article 19(2). Under the Constitutional scheme, there can be no conflict between two different fundamental rights or freedoms. Question No. 2 (ii) The Constitution itself sets out the scheme of claims of G fundamental rights against the State or its instrumentalities and it has also enacted in respect of breaches or violations of fundamental rights by persons other than State or its instrumentalities. Any proposition, to add or insert subjects or matters in respect of which claims can be made against H persons other than the State, would amount to Constitutional KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 613 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] change. The concept of State action propounded and applied A in US Constitutional Law and the enactment of 42 US Code ยง 1983 have to be seen in the context of peculiar state of affairs dealing with governmental and official immunities from legal proceedings. In view of specific provisions in Articles 15(2), 17, 23 and 24 of the Indian Constitution, B there may not be a strict need to take recourse to the law obtaining in the USA. Claims against persons other than the State, either through enacted law or otherwise must be confined to constitutionally enacted subjects or matters. Question No. 3 C (iii) There are sufficient Constitutional and legal remedies available for a citizen whose liberty is threatened by any person. Beyond the Constitutional and legal remedy and protection available, there may not be any other additional duty to affirmatively protect the right of a citizen under D Article 21. Cases of infringement of fundamental rights are taken care of under Articles 32 and 226. Question No. 4 (iv) Conduct of public servants like a Minister, if it is traceable to the discharge of public duty or the duties of the office, is E subject to scrutiny of the law. Sanction for prosecution can be granted if misconduct is committed under colour of office. Such misconduct including statements that may be made by a Minister cannot be linked to the principles of collective responsibility. The concept of vicarious liability is incapable of being applied to situations and no government can ever F be vicariously liable for malfeasance or misconduct of Minister not traceable to statutory duty or statutory violations for the purpose of legal remedies.