The Single Judge held that: B (i) Paragraph 10.4 of the Uplinking Guidelines and paragraph 9.4 of the Downlinking Guidelines stipulate that when the application for renewal of permission is considered, the eligibility criteria stipulating the net worth of the company and experience of the top management will not apply. C However, other terms and conditions that are applicable to permission for uplinking are applicable to renewal. Thus, a security clearance is a factor which must be considered at the time of renewal of the existing permission as well; (ii) The principles of natural justice are not applicable in matters concerning national security (relied on Ex-Armymen’s D protection Services Private Limited v. Union of India7 and Digi Cable Network (India) Private v. Union of India8); and (iii) The files submitted by MHA indicate that the Committee of Officers9 took note of the inputs provided by intelligence E agencies and “found that the inputs are of a serious nature and fall under the security rating parameters. In those circumstances, the Committee of Officers advised not to renew the licence”. The recommendations of the Committee of Officers were accepted by MHA and are fortified by F supporting material. 12. The Division Bench of the High Court directed that the files submitted by MHA shall be placed before it since the Single Judge dismissed the petition by ‘relying upon the files’. On perusing the files, the Division Bench held that: G (i) Though the nature and gravity of the issue is not discernible from the files, there are clear indications that the security of the state and public would be impacted if the 7 (2014) 5 SCC 409 8 AIR 2019 SC 455 H 9 “CoO” MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 621 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] permission granted to MBL to operate the channel is A renewed; (ii) While the State cannot ordinarily interfere with the freedom of the press, the scope of judicial review in matters involving national security is limited; B (iii) The Union of India may decline to provide information when “constitutional considerations exist, such as those pertaining to the security of the State, or when there is a specific immunity under a specific statute”. It is not sufficient for the State to plead immunity and it must be able to justify it on affidavit in Court (relied on ML Sharma v. Union of C India10); and (iv) The State has justified the plea of non-disclosure since the statement filed by the Union of India before the Single Judge, indicates that “the Ministry of Home Affairs has informed that denial of security clearance in the case on hand is based D on intelligence inputs, which are sensitive and secret in nature, therefore, as a matter of policy and in the interest of national security, MHA does not disclose reasons for denial.” 13. The appellants initiated proceedings under Article 136 of the E Constitution against the of the Division Bench of the High Court. By an dated 15 March 2022, this Court after perusing the relevant files that were submitted before the High Court in a sealed cover granted an interim stay on the of MIB dated 31 January 2022 by which the permission to operate the Media One channel was revoked.