Rather, the arrest of co-accused Santosh from court premises was put to him. However, what is surprising is that while F recording statement of the two accused under Section 313 of the Code, none of them was confronted with any incriminating circumstance suggestive of they having secreted themselves to evade arrest. Moreover, the only evidence led by the prosecution in that regard was that an effort was made to trace them out and in that connection, a visit to their native G place (i.e. at Etawah) was made on 20.09.2000 where they were not found. But, unfortunately, the statement that the police visited their native place on 20.09.2000 was not even put to any of the two accused while recording their statement under Section 313 of the Code. In these circumstances, it is difficult for us to hold with a degree of certainty that they were guilty, therefore they secreted themselves. As regards H SANTOSH @ BHURE v. STATE (G.N.C.T.) OF DELHI 763 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] inference from non-reporting of the crime by Santosh, what goes in his A favour is that there is no clear evidence to show that he was present in the apartment at the relevant time. Even if he had been a tenant of that apartment, he could always be present elsewhere for a few days. Here, it was just a matter of few hours, inasmuch as, murder took place between afternoon of 11.09.2000 and morning of 12.09.2000. Body was found at B about 10.40 a.m. on 12.09.2000. Once the body was found and police entered the scene, after the first information report, even if Santosh had been away and innocent, his instinct of self-preservation would have got the better of him to evade arrest till better counsel prevailed upon him to surrender. Such conduct by itself is not reflective of a guilty mind. In Matrualias Girish Chandra v. State of U.P.21, this Court observed: C “19. … mere absconding by itself does not necessarily lead to a firm conclusion of guilty mind. Even an innocent man may feel panicky and try to evade arrest when wrongly suspected of a grave crime such is the instinct of self-preservation. The act of absconding is no doubt relevant piece of evidence to be considered D along with other evidence but its value would always depend on the circumstances of each case. Normally the courts are disinclined to attach much importance to the act of absconding, treating it as a very small item in the evidence for sustaining conviction. It can scarcely be held as a determining link in completing the chain of E circumstantial evidence which must admit of no other reasonable hypothesis than that of the guilt of the accused.” In these circumstances and for all the reasons above, we do not find a good reason to draw an adverse inference against the two accused on account of few days delay in their act of surrender. F Circumstances (f), (g) (h) and (i) — Re: Disclosure statements, consequential discoveries and their connect with crime.