The complaint in the Writ F Petition was sexual harassment of working women at work places. An alleged brutal gangrape of a social worker provided, what may be described as, an immediate trigger. This Court went on to find that an incident of sexual harassment violated the Fundamental Rights of General Equality, under Articles 14 and 15, and a Right to Life and Liberty, under G Article 21. The Court drew support from the role of the Judiciary in the Beijing Statement of Principles of the Independence of Judiciary in Law Asia Region. We may set down the objectives, which the Court drew upon, inter alia: 72 (1997) 6 SCC 241 H 168 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A “Objectives of the Judiciary: 10. The objectives and functions of the Judiciary include the following: (a) to ensure that all persons are able to live securely under the rule of law; B (b) to promote, within the proper limits of the judicial function, the observance and the attainment of human rights; and (c) to administer the law impartially among persons and between persons and the State.” 207. The Court also drew on an International Convention providing C for elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. Finally, on the basis of the Principle that when there is no inconsistency between a Convention and a Domestic Law and there is a void in the Domestic Law, and bearing in mind the meaning and content of the Fundamental Rights, the Court went on to lay down elaborate guidelines and norms. D The norms included as to what constituted sexual harassment, inter alia. This Court went on to even provide for disciplinary action to be initiated and a complaint mechanism. The guidelines were, however, made binding and enforceable in law, until suitable legislation was enacted. The norms enunciated by this Court, which may have been legislative in nature, interestingly, held the field for more than fifteen years, when Parliament E came out with a law. 208. In Special Reference No. 1 of 1998, Re73 (The Third Judges case), which no doubt, was a Judgement rendered in a Reference made under Article 143(1) of the Constitution, one of the contentions was, whether the expression, both in Articles 217(1) and 222(1), viz., F (consultation with the Chief Justice of India required consultation with the plurality of Judges or the sole opinion of the Chief Justice sufficed), this Court went on to answer the question that the sole individual opinion of the Chief Justice would not constitute ‘consultation’. It was also laid down that the Chief Justice of India must consult four senior-most puisne G Judges before making appointment to the Supreme Court and High Courts. No doubt, it could be said that the decisions [the Judges cases] could be said to have sprouted from the construction of the words used in the relevant Articles and, in particular, the word ‘consult’. Also, it is true that Article 124(2) as it stood then, read as follows: H 73 (1998) 7 SCC 739 ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 169 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.]