It is submitted that in the present case all those components for a valid taxing statute are provided under the TST Act and the TST Rules. 4.12 It is further submitted that there is no change in chargeability E of the Tax by introduction of Rule 3A(2) nor is a new levy created and Rule 3A(2) only provides for the mechanism of tax deduction at source and therefore, Rule 3A(2) cannot be said to be ultra vires to TST Act and TST Rules as observed and held by the High Court. Making above submissions it is prayed to allow the present appeals. F 5. All these appeals are opposed by learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective respondent no.1 – original writ petitioners – suppliers. It is vehemently submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case, the Division Bench of the High Court has not committed any error in declaring Rule 3A(2) of the TST Rules as ultra vires to TST G Act and the TST Rules. 5.1 It is submitted that as such the learned Single Judge allowed the writ petitions and held sub-rule 2 of Section 3A providing for sales tax deduction @ 4% at source to be ultra vires to TST Act and set aside the memorandum issued by the State Government providing for deduction H 1142 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A of sales tax while making payment of bill amounts of the suppliers of the vehicles by the companies. However, the learned Single Judge held that the sales tax liability of the parties who had given vehicles on hire will continue because of Section 3AA of the TST Act. It is submitted that the Division Bench of the High Court has rightly confirmed the and passed by the learned Single Judge declaring Rule 3A(2) of B the TST Rules ultra vires, and has also rightly set aside the observations and the findings recorded by the learned Single Judge that still the sales tax liability of the parties who had given vehicles on hire will continue because of Section 3AA of the TST Act. It is submitted that the Division Bench of the High Court has rightly corrected the view taken by the C learned Single Judge on applicability of Section 3AA of the TST Act. 5.2 It is further submitted by learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents – suppliers that the Division Bench of the High Court in the impugned and has also rightly considered and held that the sales tax can be levied on sale of taxable goods and that the D liability to pay the sales tax is of a registered dealer under the Act and any person cannot be made liable to pay sales tax as was done by the State Government under sub-rule 2 of Rule 3A of the TST Rules. It is submitted that in sub-rule 2 the requirement is deduction of sales tax while making payment to any person who has done transfer of right to use any goods for any purpose but the provisions of the TST Act provide E for payment of sales tax by registered dealer of taxable goods and even in case of any transfer of the right of any goods for any purpose the sales tax can be levied/deducted if the transfer of right to use is of taxable goods and is done by a registered dealer under the Act.