For the heightened scrutiny requirement, as observed by this Court in Jagdish Vs. State of Haryana [(2019) 7 SCC 711] to be held as unsatisfied, the surrounding evidence would have to be called into credible question, which it was not. The admissions G made by PW-7 in his examination in chief have not been disputed and neither has, as already observed earlier, the presence of any of the accused been disputed. Keeping in view the principles noted in Mrinal Das (supra), Rohtash Kumar (supra), Karan Singh (supra) and Karunakaran (supra), the testimony of PW-1 can undoubtedly form the basis of conviction of the accused persons. H 980 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 24. We have also noticed the holding in the landmark Masalti (supra), where four learned judges have held that the prosecution need not prove specific acts to specific persons. With neither the number nor the presence of the accused being disputed, we cannot, within law, hold that the accused have been wrongly convicted by the courts below. B 25. PW-1 is an interested witness, being the brother of the deceased; as also he being the solitary witness upon which reliance is placed by the learned Trial Court is put forward as a ground before us to question the verdicts. The position of law as held in Harbans Kaur Vs. State of Haryana [(2005) 9 SCC 195] is clear in stating that there is no proposition of law which doubts the statement of a close relative C simply for that reason. There is a note of caution sounded in Bhaskarrao Vs. State of Maharashtra [(2018) 6 SCC 591] which is undoubtedly on point but we may also note the observation of this Court in Rajesh Yadav Vs. State of U.P. [2022 SCC OnLine 150] wherein it has been observed: D “30. Once again, we reiterate with a word of caution, the trial court is the best court to decide on the aforesaid aspect as no mathematical calculation or straightjacket formula can be made on the assessment of a witness, as the journey towards the truth can be seen better through the eyes of the trial judge. In fact, this E is the real objective behind the enactment itself which extends the maximum discretion to the court.” 26. The courts below, as we have already observed, have found no reason to disbelieve the testimony of PW-1. In fact, to the exact opposite it has relied on it. Keeping in view the holdings in Bhagwan Jagannath Markad (supra), State of Rajasthan Vs. Madan [(2019) F 13 SCC 653], we cannot find ourselves in agreement with the learned counsel for the appellant in this regard. 27. In view of the aforesaid background, submissions advanced, law appreciated and analysed we find the present appeals to be lacking in merit and therefore, the same are dismissed. Accused, if on bail, are G directed to immediately surrender before the Court concerned. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of accordingly. Ankit Gyan Appeals dismissed.