10. Mr. V. Krishnamurthy, Learned Additional Advocate General appearing for the State, supported the concurrent conviction and sentence C recorded by the Courts below; he submitted that even though the victim and the appellant knew each other, and even if it was accepted that they had feelings for each other, the fact remains that the victim was below the statutory age, and consent is irrelevant.He submitted that the findings of the courts below with respect to the age of the victim were supported D or corroborated only by the testimony of DW-2, the Head Mistress of the school where M had studied. She had deposed that according to the school records, M’s date of birth is 11.07.1997. Analysis and conclusions 11. Before discussing the merits of the contentions and evidence E in this case, it is necessary to extract Section 34 of the POCSO Act which reads as follows: “34. Procedure in case of commission of offence by child and determination of age by Special Court. – (1) Where any offence under this Act is committed by a child, such child shall be dealt with under the provisions of the Juvenile Justice (Care F and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (2 of 2016). (2) If any question arises in any proceeding before the Special Court whether a person is a child or not, such question shall be determined by the Special Court after satisfying itself about the age of such person and it shall record in writing its reasons G for such determination. (3) No made by the Special Court shall be deemed to be invalid merely by any subsequent proof that the age of a person as determined by it under sub-section (2) was not the correct age of that person.” H P. YUVAPRAKASH v. STATE REP. BY INSPECTOR OF POLICE 485 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 12. In view of Section 34(1) of the POCSO Act, Section 94 of the A JJ Act, 2015 becomes relevant, and applicable. That provision is extracted below: “94. Presumption and determination of age. – (1) Where, it is obvious to the Committee or the Board, based on the appearance of the person brought before it under any of the B provisions of this Act (other than for the purpose of giving evidence) that the said person is a child, the Committee or the Board shall record such observation stating the age of the child as nearly as may be and proceed with the inquiry under section 14 or section 36, as the case may be, without waiting C for further confirmation of the age. (2) In case, the Committee or the Board has reasonable grounds for doubt regarding whether the person brought before it is a child or not, the Committee or the Board, as the case may be, shall undertake the process of age determination, D by seeking evidence by obtaining – (i) the date of birth certificate from the school, or the matriculation or equivalent certificate from the concerned examination Board, if available; and in the absence thereof; (ii) the birth certificate given by a corporation or a municipal E authority or a panchayat; (iii) and only in the absence of (i) and (ii) above, age shall be determined by an ossification test or any other latest medical age determination test conducted on the s of the Committee or the Board: F Provided such age determination test conducted on the of the Committee or the Board shall be completed within fifteen days from the date of such .