All amendments of the pleadings should be allowed liberally which are necessary for determination of the real controversies in the suit provided that the proposed amendment does not alter or substitute a new cause of action on the basis of which the original lis was raised or defence taken. D Inconsistent and contradictory allegations in negation to the admitted position of facts or mutually destructive allegations of facts should not be allowed to be incorporated by means of amendment to the pleadings. [Paras 37, 38][918-E-F] 2. If the pleas sought to be introduced by plaintiff by way of E an amendment is also the plea, which the defendant has set up in his written statement and such a plea of the plaintiff is an alternative plea, even though it is inconsistent with the original plea, since there is no prejudice caused to the defendant, the Court is not precluded from allowing the amendment. [Para 47][922-A-B] F 3. IX Rule 9 bars fresh suit in respect of the same cause of action in case the earlier suit was dismissed as indicated in IX Rule 8 of the CPC. The term “same cause of action” assumes significance in as much as the bar under IX Rule 8 of the CPC applies to a later suit only in respect of the very G same cause of action. In case the cause of action in the later suit was altogether different, which has nothing to do with the cause of action in the earlier suit, the statutory bar has no application to such later suits. It was only with a view to curb the tendency of H GANESH PRASAD v. RAJESHWAR PRASAD AND ORS. 895 filing multiple suits, on the basis of the very same cause of action, A successively even after the dismissal of the earlier suit that such a provision has been introduced. It was not the intention of the Legislature to bar the subsequent suits between the parties and the same was evident by the qualifying words, “same cause of action”. Therefore, everything depends upon the cause of action B and in case the subsequent cause of action arose from a totally different bunch of facts, such suit cannot be axed by taking shelter to the provision of IX Rule 9 of CPC. [Para 52][923-C-E] 4. IX Rule 9 of the CPC provides that when the suit is wholly or partially dismissed under Rule 8 (dismissed for C default) the Plaintiffs shall be precluded from bringing in a fresh suit, in respect of the same cause of action. The present suit i.e., Suit No. 154 of 2009 filed in the Court of Civil Judge (J.D.) Eastern, District Ballia is not filed on the same cause of action. In the present suit, the case of the Plaintiffs as put up in the alternative is that the Defendant is in possession of the suit D property as a mortgagee and they are ready to redeem the mortgage by making the necessary payment of the mortgaged amount and take back the possession.