Through the impugned portion of the notification, the parity which existed with Non-Resident Indians including in the field of education has been modified H ANUSHKA RENGUNTHWAR & ORS. v. UNION OF INDIA & 269 ORS. to indicate their eligibility for admission only against any “Non-Resident A Indian seat” or any supernumerary seat. It is relevant to take note herein that the Non-Resident Indians apart from the seats reserved only for Non-Resident Indians, are also entitled to participate in the selection process for allotment of seats along with the Indian citizens for the remaining seats as well, which benefit was hitherto available to OCI B Cardholders by virtue of their parity with NRIs. However, by presently specifying that the OCI Cardholders would be eligible for only the Non- Resident Indian seat or any supernumerary seat, the right available to the OCI Cardholders is only for the seats which are reserved as NRI quota seats, for which they would have to compete with the NRI candidates for the limited number of seats, for which higher fee structure C is also fixed. The proviso thereto makes it clear that the OCI Cardholders shall not be eligible for admission against any seat reserved exclusively for Indian citizens. The provision contained in the impugned portion of the notification dated 04.03.2021 would indicate that the OCI Cardholders even if they have settled down in India and have undergone their entire D educational course in India but not having renounced the citizenship of a foreign country and not having acquired the citizenship of India will now be denied the opportunity of securing a medical seat in the general pool of Indian citizens including NRIs and will have to compete only for the limited seats available under the NRI quota, which would be a denial of an opportunity of education to such OCI Cardholders which was hitherto E available. It is in that view contended that a legitimate expectation of the petitioners herein is being defeated and they are also being discriminated upon due to which there is a violation of Article 14 of the Constitution. 23. In the above backdrop it would be appropriate to refer to the precedents cited and relied upon by the learned counsel for all the parties F including the respondents. 24. In support of the case of the petitioners, Shri P. Chidambaram, learned Senior Counsel placed reliance on the decision in (1978) 1 SCC 248 Maneka Gandhi vs.Union of India,to contend that unreasonable classificationis not permissible, wherein, inter alia, it is held as hereunder; G “7. Now, the question immediately arises as to what is the requirement of Article 14 : what is the content and reach of the great equalising principle enunciated in this article? There can be no doubt that it is a founding faith of the Constitution. It is indeed the pillar on which rests securely the foundation of our democratic H 270 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A republic. And, therefore, it must not be subjected to a narrow, pedantic or lexicographic approach.