34.4 The ultimate test when concerned with the compliance of the Section is to enquire and ensure whether the accused got the opportunity to say his piece. 34.5 In such a statement, the accused may or may not admit involvement or any incriminating circumstance or may even off er an alternative version of events or interpretation. The accused may not be put to prejudice by any omission or inadequate questioning. 34.6 The right to remain silent or any answer to a question which may be false shall not be used to his detriment, being the sole reason. 34.7 This statement cannot form the sole basis of conviction and is neither a substantive nora substitute piece of evidence. It does not discharge but reduces the prosecution’s burden of leading evidence to prove its case. They are to be used to examine the veracity of the prosecution’s case. 34.8 This statement is to be read as a whole. One part cannot be read in isolation. 34.9 Such a statement, as not on oath, does not qualify as a piece of evidence under Section 3 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872; however, the inculpatory aspect as may be borne from the statement may be used to lend credence to the case of the prosecution. 34.10 The circumstances not put to the accused while rendering his statement under the Section are to be excluded from consideration as no opportunity has been aff orded to him to explain them. 34.11 The Court is obligated to put, in the form of questions, all incriminating circumstances to the accused so as to give him an opportunity to articulate his defence. The defence so articulated must be carefully scrutinized and considered. 34.12 Non-compliance with the Section may cause prejudice to the accused and may impede the process of arriving at a fair decision. ANSWERS TO THE QUESTIONS 35. In light of the principles listed above, what we must consider is whether, in explaining the purported incriminating circumstance against 974 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. her, the convict-appellant ought to have disclosed, over and above denial of any relationship with the deceased child, the specifi cs of her miscarriage and its aftermath; particularly when the prosecution has failed to discharge its burden of establishing such relationship between the deceased and the convict -appellant. 36. It is established that negative inferences cannot be drawn for a question or incriminating circumstance not put to an accused while making a statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. Her statement, nowhere refl ects an answer to a question concerning the particulars of the child that she was admittedly carrying but denied that the deceased was not the one recovered from the dabri. Although there is a requirement by law to disclose the aspects required to adjudicate in a criminal matter, such duty cannot unreasonably and unwarrantedly step over the fundamental right of privacy. 37. Before examining this case from the lens of circumstantial evidence, it would be apposite to refer to the position in law.