In a way, this is a step forward from the decriminalisation of private consensual sexual activities by the LGBTQ+ community in Navtej Singh Johar & Ors. vs. Union of India, Through Secretary, Ministry of Law & Justice.1 3. The penned down by the Hon’ble Chief Justice considers all aspects of the challenge. However, the subject matter itself persuades me to pen down a few words while broadly agreeing with his . Historical prevalence of non-heterosexual unions 4. In their submissions, the Respondents raised doubts about the social acceptability of non-heterosexual relationships. Before we address the same, it is no longer res integra that the duty of a constitutional Court is to uphold the rights enshrined in the Constitution and to not be swayed by majoritarian tendencies or popular perceptions. This Court has always been guided by constitutional morality and not by social morality.2 5. A pluralistic social fabric has been an integral part of Indian culture and the cornerstone of our constitutional democracy.3 Non-heterosexual unions are well-known to ancient Indian civilisation as attested by various texts, practices, and depictions of art. These markers of discourse refl ect that such unions are an inevitable presence across human experience. Hindu deities were multi-dimensional and multi-faceted and could appear in diff erent forms. One of the earliest illustrations is from the Rig Veda itself. Agni, one of the most important deities, has been repeatedly described as 1 2018 (1) SCC 791. 2 Navtej (Supra). 3 Maqbool Fida Husain v. Rajkumar Pandey, 2008 Cri LJ 4107. 142 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. the “child of two births” (dvijanman), “child of two mothers” (dvimatri), and occasionally, “child of three mothers” (the three worlds).4 6. In Somdatta’s Kathasaritsagara, same-sex love is justifi ed in the context of rebirth. Somaprabha falls in love with Princess Kalingasena and claims that she loved her in her previous birth as well.5 Hindu mythology is replete with several such examples. We need not be detained in an eff ort to capture each of them. The signifi cant aspect is that same-sex unions were recognised in antiquity, not simply as unions that facilitate sexual activity, but as relationships that foster love, emotional support, and mutual care.6 7. Even in the Sufi tradition, devotion is often constructed around the idea of love as expressed through music and poetry. In several instances, the human relationship with the divine was expressed by mystics through the metaphor of same-sex love.7 Love across genders is also refl ected in the Rekhti tradition of Lucknow. This tradition is centred around the practice of male poets writing in a female voice and is characterised by its homoeroticism. Signifi cantly, the depictions of same-sex relationships are charged with aff ects such as love, friendship, and companionship.8 8. Marriage as an institution developed historically and served various social functions. It was only later in its long history that it came to be legally recognized and codifi ed.9 However, these laws regulated only one type of socio-historical union, i.e., the heterosexual union.