The last digit in the IMEI number is the ‘Luhn check digit’ based on a function of the other digits using an algorithm. Technically, the last digit, which is the only digit that is different C in the seizure memo and the call detail record, can be calculated through the algorithm on the basis of the first 14 digits which are the same in both the documents. As the last digit of an IMEI number is a function of the first 14 digits, as long as the first 14 digits are a match, it can only lead to one unique device. Accordingly, it can be conclusively said that a D difference in only the last digit of the IMEI number cannot imply that it represents the IMEI number of a separate device. Therefore, the difference in the last digit of the IMEI number can reasonably be assumed to be a typographical error and does not raise a doubt in the prosecution’s case. E 25. The arguments regarding non-verification of PW1’s number, non-confirmation with PW1 regarding a call received on the subsequent day as claimed by PW16 have been raised at a belated stage. 26. PW8 has stated in her testimony that the petitioner called her to enquire regarding the phone number of PW1 and she told him to cut the phone and call again so she can retrieve the number and provide the F same, as she did on the second call. PW1 has also testified that she received the call for ransom at about 9:30PM. It was upon the petitioner, at the stage of cross-examination of PW1 to raise questions regarding the number ending with XXX847 belonging to her or regarding the call alleged to have been made by the petitioner on 28 July 2009 mentioned G by PW16. 27. Finally, the petitioner has argued that the CDRs cannot be relied upon due to the lack of production of the Section 65B certificate. 7 GSMA TAC Allocation and IMEI Programming Rules for Device Brand Owners and H Manufacturers, Training Guide (February 2018 v1.0). SUNDAR @ SUNDARRAJAN v. STATE BY INSPECTOR OF 1033 POLICE [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] The call detail records were verified in the testimony of the Legal Officer A of Vodafone, PW11, who himself produced the documents from the computer. He has in his cross-examination specifically corroborated the details of the calls made between the petitioner and PW1 and PW8 (from whom the number of PW1 was received after enquiring about it during the call by petitioner). The call detail records of the mobile number B ending with XXX5961 confirm that two calls were made to PW8 at 9:22PM and 9:25PM on 27 July 2009. Immediately after this he called on the number ending with XXX847 at 9:39PM. However, admittedly the certificate mentioned under Section 65B of the IEA was not produced. 28. Section 65B was inserted in the IEA along with various other C amendments by the Information Technology Act 20008 which took into account digital evidence.