The assertions of the petitioner and the submissions made in that behalf carry their own shortcomings. 17.1. Whatsoever had been the composition of the Committee, it could have only made recommendation for final decision by the competent C authority. Merely for presence of the Principal Secretaries of the Departments concerned in the Committee, it cannot be held that its recommendation itself would become a binding decision. Moreover, a close look at the said communication dated 16.09.2016 makes it evident that even the recommendation had only been to approve the proposal ‘as a theme-based mall.’ It is too far-stretched to read this communication D as if the Committee had recommended for grant of freehold rights. As noticed, providing freehold land for the purpose of setting up a theme- based mall had entirely different requirements and had been of entirely different connotations under the amendment Memo dated 03.05.2016. 17.2. It is also noticed that in composition of the said Committee, E there was no representative of the agency/instrumentality directly concerned with the subject land i.e., UPSIDC. Any suggestion or recommendation in relation to the subject land as also the lease deeds already executed between the petitioner-company and UPSIDC could not have been made without taking into account the stand of UPSIDC. F Noteworthy it is that after passing of s dated 20.10.2021 and 13.12.2021 by this Court in W.P. (Crl.) 242 of 2019, the matter was indeed examined by the Industrial Development Section-4 of the Government of Uttar Pradesh where the director of the petitioner- company was afforded the opportunity of personal hearing on 19.01.2022 through video conferencing and his further representation sent through G email on 21.01.2022 was also taken into consideration while passing the impugned dated 24.01.2022. 18. For what has been discussed hereinabove, we are satisfied that the policy in question cannot be applied in relation to the subject land. Therefore, we find no necessity to delve further into the other H 1094 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A issues raised on behalf of the respondent No. 2 that it has no policy to grant freehold rights in its allotments. Suffice it would be to say for the present purpose that the claim of the petitioner for freehold rights in relation to the subject land cannot be accepted. 19. In an overall comprehension of the matter, we are satisfied B that the impugned dated 24.01.2022, insofar as it relates to the prayer of the petitioner for grant of freehold rights on the subject land, does not suffer from any infirmity and calls for no interference for the basic reason that the policy in question cannot be applied in relation to the subject land and, in any case, prayer of the petitioner for grant of freehold rights cannot be granted contrary to the terms of allotment and C covenants of lease deeds. 20. In view of the above and subject to the observations foregoing, writ petition filed by the petitioner-company [Writ Petition No. 3790 of 2022 in the High Court - T. C. (C) No.