A power of attorney has a special authority to present a document on behalf of the principal at the H 176 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A registration office vide Chottey Lal vs. The Collector of MoradabadA.I.R. 1922 PC 279. (ii) Under Section 33 (1) (c), if a power of attorney has been executed before and authenticated by Magistrate, 1st Class of Komilla (Bangladesh) authorising the attorney to execute B a sale deed for a house in India, it is sufficient to prove its execution vide Atal Chakravarty vs. Sudhi Gopal Pandey (1969) 73 CWN 947. On the other hand, if a power of attorney is not executed and authenticated in compliance with Section 33(1)(c), the same is invalid. Thus, if a principal does not reside in India and power of attorney executed C before and authenticated by a Notary Public or any court Judge, Magistrate, Indian Consul or Vice-Consul, or representative of the Central Government, the same is valid. (iii) Section 34 speaks about the enquiry to be made before registration of a document by registering officer. Section D 35 casts a duty on the registering authority to enquire about the identity of the executant and the factum of execution and registration of a document is to be treated as presumption of execution by the person indicated as the executant of the document. Such a presumption is, however, E rebuttable. Sections 34 and 35 state what a registering officer has to see before registering a document. Once satisfied as to such particulars as are stated under Sections 34 and 35, he cannot refuse to register a document except mentioned under grounds in Section 35(3). F (iv) Section 58 speaks about particulars to be endorsed on documents admitted for registration, namely: a) the signature and addition of every person admitting the execution of the document, and, if such execution has been admitted by the representative, assign or G agent of any person, the signature and addition of such representative, assign or agent; b) the signature and addition of every person examined in reference to such document under any of the provisions of this Act; and H MANIK MAJUMDER AND OTHERS v. DIPAK KUMAR SAHA 177 (DEAD) THROUGH LRS. & OTHERS [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] c) any payment of money or delivery of goods made in A the presence of the registering officer in reference to the execution of the document, and any admission of receipt of consideration, in whole or in part, made in his presence in reference to such execution. Thus, the registering officer shall endorse the signature of every B person admitting the execution of document. Such document is prima facie evidence against the executant. The presumption of correctness attached to endorsement made by the Sub-Registrar is in view of the provisions of Sections 58, 59 and 60 of the Registration Act. This presumption can be rebutted only by strong evidence to the contrary. C On compliance of Sections 34, 35, 58 and 59 as they apply to a given document, the registering officer shall endorse a certificate containing word “Registered” on the document itself and indicate the number and page of the book in which the document has been copied.