It is submitted that therefore in the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case and taking note of the aforesaid facts, no error has been committed by the High Court in G directing the appellants to grant the benefit of death-cum-retirement gratuity to the heirs of the deceased – respondent herein. It is submitted that in the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, the grant of benevolent scheme of gratuity by the learned Single Judge of the High Court, confirmed by the Division Bench, may not be interfered with. H 388 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 5. We have heard learned counsel for the respective parties at length. At the outset, it is required to be noted that the date of birth of the deceased was 1.7.1951. He was appointed as a Lecturer on 2.7.2001. He would have completed 60 years of his age on 30.06.2011. As per B Government dated 16.09.2009, he would have exercised his option to retire at the age of 60 years on or before 1.7.2010, However, before he could exercise the option, unfortunately he died. In fact, he had died even prior to the Government . He had died on 11.08.2009 whereas the Government is dated 16.9.2009. Therefore, there was no chance for him to exercise any option at all. There is hence no merit in this C appeal. The High Court has rightly observed that the respondent would be entitled to the benefit of the Government dated 16.9.2009 and would be entitled to the benefit of death-cum-retirement gratuity being the heirs of the deceased employee. D At this stage, it is required to be noted that it is not the case on behalf of the appellants that if the deceased employee would have exercised the option, even then he would not have been entitled to the benefit of death-cum-retirement gratuity under the scheme. The death- cum-retirement gratuity is the benevolent scheme and the same is E extended to the respondent being heirs/dependent of the deceased employee by the learned Single Judge, confirmed by the Division Bench. In the facts and circumstances of the case, no interference of this Court is called for. 6. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the F present appeal fails and deserves to be dismissed and is accordingly dismissed. We deprecate the practice of a State filing such cases before the Apex Court. Hence the appeal is dismissed with cost of Rs. 50,000/- payable by the appellant to the respondent within a period of four weeks G from today. Bibhuti Bhushan Bose Appeals dismissed. (Assisted by : Abhishek Partap Singh, LCRA) H