Provided that in case of criminal liability of an audit firm, in respect of liability other than fine, the concerned F partner or partners, who acted in a fraudulent manner or abetted or, as the case may be, colluded in any fraud shall only be liable. 3.18 Now so far as the submission on behalf of the respondents that once an auditor resigns, the provisions of Section 140(5) of the Act G would cease to apply. Instead, the auditor concerned can be proceeded against under Section 241(3) of the Act and the proceedings pursuant to Section 241(3) of the Act would lead to the same result and the auditor would be held not to be ‘fit and proper person’ to be appointed in any other office connected with the conduct and management of any H company. It is submitted that: UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER V. DELOITTE HASKINS 979 AND SELLS LLP [M. R. SHAH, J.] a. Section 241(3) and its consequential provisions were introduced A with effect from 14.8.2019, which authorized the Central Government to apply to the Tribunal with a request to declare that the persons mentioned in Section 241(3) of the Act are ‘not fit and proper persons to hold the office of director or any other office connected with conduct and management of any company”. B b. Constructing “any other office connected with the conduct and management of any company”, it would be necessary to consider the consequential provisions that were enacted along with Section 241(3) of the Act. Particularly, Section 243(1A) and Section 243(2) of the Act. C (1A) The person who is not a fit and proper person pursuant to sub-section (4A) of section 242 shall not hold the office of a director or any other office connected with the conduct and management of the affairs of any company for a period of five years from the date of the said decision D (2) Any person who knowingly acts as a managing director or other director or manager of a company in contravention of clause (b) of sub-section (1) or sub-section (1A), and every other director of the company who is knowingly a party to such contravention, shall be punishable with fine E which may extend to five lakh rupees Clearly, from the words of the consequential provision, it is clear that the reference in specifically Section 241(3) of the Act to “any other office connected with the conduct and management of any company” means those akin to manager, managing director or other director such as key managerial personnel and not an F auditor. c. Moreover, in Section 241(3) of the Act specifically, the words used are “conduct and management of the company”. The auditor as the Act sets forth is an independent examiner of accounts and cannot be said to be holding an office in the conduct and G management of the company. This would militate against the very fibre of the Companies Act, 2013. 3.19 Making above submissions, it is submitted that, (i) Section 140(5) of the Act, 2013 operates to enable a quasi-judicial tribunal equipped with powers of a civil court to examine the role of auditors and adjudicate H 980 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R.