Answering the Reference, the Court HELD: 1.1 The law of binding precedent provides that the rule of per incuriam is an exception to the doctrine of judicial D precedent. Quite literally, it provides that when a is passed in ignorance of a relevant precedent or any other binding authority, the same is said to be postulating incorrect law. It becomes pertinent to resolve the conflict arising from diverging opinions by taking recourse to the ratio decidendi of the earliest E opinion. [Para 30][938-D-E] 1.2 In Chaganti’s case, it was held that the 90/60 days precribed in proviso (a) to Section 167 (2) can be reckoned only from the date of remand and it is made clear through the amendment that the legislature had intended to provide a 90/60 F day remand period, for the purpose of investigation. It was also expressly opined that the proviso (a) in reference to the total period of detention can be interpreted on the plain language of the proviso itself, being a complete code on its own and it being wholly unnecessary to invoke provisions of the General Clauses Act or Limitation Act. In State of M.P. vs. Rustam’s case, it was G held that the period specified in proviso (a) to Section 167 (2) should exclude the date of remand. On reading Rustam’s case, it comes to light that the Court while counting the period has considered Sections 9 and 10 of the General Clauses Act. But in doing so, the Court in Rustam’s case failed to appreciate the ratio H 920 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A in Chaganti’s case where it was categorically observed, that for the purpose of computing the period under Section 167(2), the provisions of General Clauses Act will have no application. Considering the legislative intent behind Section 167 (2), and the proviso (a) being a complete code in itself, as also elucidated in Chaganti’s case the computation method laid down in Rustam’s B case may not be the correct way. Further, since Rustam’s case ignored the binding precedent in Chaganti’s case on computing the prescribed 60/90 day period under proviso (a) of Section 167(2), from the date a Magistrate ed remand, it is a per incuriam decision. Thus, the operative part in Rustam’s case with C respect to the 60/90 day period of computation, arrived at after, invoking Sections 9 and 10 of the General Clauses Act, where the court excluded the date of remand and ignored the contrary opinion in Chaganti’s case, cannot be a binding judicial precedent as the same is rendered per incuriam. [Para 26, 28, 29, 31][937- D-F, G-H; 938-A-C; 939-B-C] D 1.3 In application Section 167, there is no starting or ending point for completion of the investigation. In the scheme of the CrPC, the provisions contained in sub–section (1) of Section 167 runs in continuation of sub–section (2). The production of the accused before the Magistrate is a sequel to his arrest by the E police and at the same time, the accused too has a right to be produced before the Magistrate, within 24 hours of his arrest.