43.8 As a rule of prudence, the court would, generally speaking, look for corroboration of the witness’ identifi cation of the accused in court, in the form of earlier identifi cation proceedings. The rule of prudence is subject to the exception when the court considers it safe to rely upon the evidence of a particular witness without such, or other corroboration. 43.9 Since a TIP does not constitute substantive evidence, the failure to hold it does not ipso facto make the evidence of identifi cation inadmissible. 43.10 The weight that is attached to such identifi cation is a matter to be determined by the court in the circumstances of that particular case. 43.11 Identifi cation of the accused in a TIP or in court is not essential in every case where guilt is established on the basis of circumstances which lend assurance to the nature and the quality of the evidence. 43.12 The court of fact may, in the context and circumstances of each case, determine whether an adverse inference should be drawn against the accused for refusing to participate in a TIP. However, the court would look for corroborating material of a substantial nature before it enters a fi nding in regard to the guilt of the accused.” 44. In the very same referred to above, this Court observed as under:- “46. … In this backdrop, the contention of the appellants that the refusal to undergo a TIP is borne out by the fact that Sandeep and Rajesh were known to each other prior to the occurrence and that PW 4, who is a prime eyewitness, had seen Rajesh when he would attend the court during the course of the hearings, cannot be brushed aside. Consequently, in a case, such as the present, the Court would be circumspect about drawing an adverse inference from the facts, as they have emerged. In any event, as we have noticed, the identifi cation in the course of a TIP is intended to lend assurance to the identity of the accused. The fi nding of guilt cannot be based purely on the refusal of the accused to undergo an identifi cation parade. In the present case, MUKESH SINGH v. THE STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 917 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] we have already indicated that the presence of the alleged eyewitnesses PW 4 and PW 5 at the scene of the occurrence is seriously in doubt. The ballistics evidence connecting the empty cartridges and the bullets recovered from the body of the deceased with an alleged weapon of off ence is contradictory and suff ers from serious infi rmities. Hence, in this backdrop, a refusal to undergo a TIP assumes secondary importance, if at all, and cannot survive independently in the absence of it being a substantive piece of evidence.” [Emphasis supplied] 45. In Munshi Singh Gautam (D) & Ors. v. State of M.P., reported in (2005) 9 SCC 631, this Court observed as under:- “16. … The whole idea of a test identifi cation parade is that witnesses who claim to have seen the culprits at the time of occurrence are to identify them from the midst of other persons without any aid or any other source.