Ltd. to hold that there is a distinction between a payment of royalty or rent and where the entire amount of lease premium was paid either at one time or in instalments. Royalty or rent is a revenue expenditure whereas the payment of a lease premium either at one time or in instalments would be a capital expenditure. 14.2. Having referred to the aforesaid decisions, three other s were noticed by the Delhi High Court which, according to learned ASG appearing for the appellant-Revenue were erroneously applied to the case at hand. They could be alluded to as under: (a) In Jonas Woodhead and Sons, the question was whether 25% of the gross revenue paid as royalty to the foreign company for technical C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 425 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] information/know-how relating to setting up of a plant for manufacture of products, was capital expenditure. The issue depended upon several factors including whether the assessee had set up an entirely new business, or whether the technical knowhow was for the betterment of the product which was already being produced; whether it was a part and parcel of the existing business or a new business? ; whether on expiry of the period of agreement, the assessee was required to give back the plans, drawings etc., which were obtained from the foreign company or could continue to manufacture the products? The assessing offi cer in the said case had treated 25% of the amount paid as royalty as capital and the balance amount was treated as revenue expenditure. The question that came up for consideration before this Court was, whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the said case, the Tribunal was right in holding that 25% of the amount paid by the assessees therein as royalty to Jonas Woodhead and Sons was capital expenditure and therefore not allowable as revenue expenditure under the provisions of the Act for the Assessment years 1961-1968 and 1968-1969. It was observed that this question would depend upon several factors stated above and the cumulative eff ect of a construction of the various terms and conditions of the agreement; whether the assessee derived benefi ts coming to its capital for which the payment was made or not so. Considering the diff erent clauses of the agreement in the said case, it was concluded that the agreement with the foreign fi rm was to set up a new business by the assessee and the foreign fi rm had not only furnished information and technical know-how but had also rendered valuable services in setting up of the factory itself and even after the expiry of the agreement, there was no embargo on the assessee to continue to manufacture the product in question. Therefore, it was diffi cult to hold that the entire payment made was a revenue expenditure merely because the payment was required to be made on a certain percentage of the rates of the gross turnover of the products of the income as royalty.