Article 254 of the Constitution of India provides for the effect in case of inconsistency between laws made by the Parliament and the laws made by the Legislature of States. The same is E reproduced hereunder: “(1) If any provision of a law made by the Legislature of a State is repugnant to any provision of a law made by Parliament which Parliament is competent to enact, or to any provision of an existing law with respect to one of the matters enumerated F in the Concurrent List, then, subject to the provisions of clause ( 2 ), the law made by Parliament, whether passed before or after the law made by the Legislature of such State, or, as the case may be, the existing law, shall prevail and the law made by the Legislature of the State shall, to the extent of the G repugnancy, be void (2) Where a law made by the Legislature of a State with respect to one of the matters enumerated in the concurrent List contains any provision repugnant to the provisions of an earlier law made by Parliament or an existing law with respect to that matter, then, the law so made by the Legislature of such State shall, if H THE STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH v. GOEL BUS SERVICE 897 KULLU ETC. ETC. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] it has been reserved for the consideration of the President and A has received his assent, prevail in that State: Provided that nothing in this clause shall prevent Parliament from enacting at any time any law with respect to the same matter including a law adding to, amending, varying or repealing the law so made by the Legislature of the State.” B 13. As already noted above, the Seventh Schedule flowing out from Article 246 has three lists, which gives power to the Parliament and the State Legislatures to make laws on the subjects enumerated therein. It would be relevant to mention that List I (the Union List) does not cover any subject relating to motor vehicles or taxation relating to it. List II (the State List) has two entries viz. 56 and 57 which C refer to subjects relating to taxes on goods and passengers and taxes on vehicles. Both the above entries of List II are reproduced below: “56. Taxes on goods and passengers carried by road or on inland waterways. 57. Taxes on vehicles, whether mechanically propelled or not, D suitable for use on roads, including tramcars subject to the provisions of entry 35 of List III.” The above subjects fall within the domain of Legislature of the State to make laws. 14. Under List III (the Concurrent List), Entry 35 spells out E the subject as mechanically propelled vehicles and also the principles on which taxes on such vehicles can be levied. Under this entry both the Parliament and the Legislatures of State could frame laws. The said Entry 35 of List III is reproduced hereunder: “35. Mechanically propelled vehicles including the principles F on which taxes on such vehicles are to be levied.” 15.