However, for the purposes of this allotment the tentative price of the land per acre has been fi xed at Rs.1 Crore per acre. ……. …….. …….. 9. KEONICS reserves its right to increase the tentative price of the land indicated in this letter of intent after completion of all development works and fi nalization of Court Awards, if any.” (f) The Lease cum Sale Agreement (Annexure -P2) dated 30.10.2006 executed between the parties also contains similar clauses which are briefl y referred to hereunder. (g) Paragraph 6 of the said agreement states that the parties have agreed to the price of land being tentatively fi xed at Rs.25 Lakhs. The said paragraph is reproduced hereunder: “6. And whereas the LESSOR and the LESSEE having agreed that the price of the land tentatively to be Rs. 25,00,000/- (Rupees Twenty Five Lakhs Only) and the LESSOR having received Rs.25,00,000/- (Rupees Twenty Five Lakhs Only) from the Lessee towards the fi nal consideration, the receipt of which the LESSOR hereby acknowledges.” (h) Under the terms and conditions of the agreement, clause (3) lays down several conditions. Relevant for our purposes are clauses 3r(i) and (ii). Clause r(i) provides that lessee (respondent) would not change the constitution status of its fi rm/company without previous written consent of the lessor and clause r(ii) thereof provides that the lessee (respondent) would not change the name/ product as mentioned in the application again without the previous written consent of the lessor (appellant). For such change the lessee would have to pay prevailing rate of the plot. The said two clauses are reproduced hereunder: “r(i) The lessee shall not change the constitution/status of its fi rm/ company (proprietary or partnership (registered or un-registered) or private limited company or unlimited Company) without 786 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. the previous written consent of the lessor or any other offi cer authorized by the lessor and such consent shall be granted by the lessor subject to the condition that the original applicant/ partners/ promoters/Directors/shareholders should continue to hold a minimum 51% of the interest/shares in the newly constituted fi rm/company. And in the event of the lessee’s death, the person to whom the title shall be transferred as heir or otherwise shall cause notice thereof to be given to the lessor within three months from such death. ii) The lessee shall not change the name/product (as mentioned in the application) without the previous written consent of the lessor or any offi cer authorized by the lessor and such consent shall be granted by the lessor subject to the condition that the lessee has to pay prevailing rate of the plot.” (i) The next relevant clause is clause 13(b) which provides that the lessor (appellant) would fi x the price as soon as it is convenient and the same would be communicated to the lessee so that the sale could be aff ected. It further records that the decision of the lessor would be fi nal and binding on the lessee.