Under the 1986 Rules, the Whip is not the G designated authority to file disqualification petitions. Rule 6 provides that a petition for disqualification can be filed by any member of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly. The argument of the respondents that the legislature party appoints the Whip fails, so far as it is based on the provisions of the 1986 Rules discussed in this paragraph. H 932 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 110. In Mayawati (supra), the appellant issued a direction to all the MLAs of the BSP directing them to vote against the motion of no confidence moved by the BJP. Twelve MLAs belonging to the BSP voted in favour of the no confidence motion. The appellant filed petitions for disqualification against these twelve MLAs for the violation of Paragraphs 2(1)(a) and 2(1)(b). The Speaker dismissed the B disqualification petitions. One of the findings of the Speaker was that it was not proved that the appellant was authorised to issue the direction on behalf of the political party. The of the Speaker was challenged before this Court. It was submitted that ‘political party’ in Paragraph 2(1)(b) must be read as ‘political party in the House’, meaning the C legislature party. Srinivasan, J. in his separate opinion rejected this argument and upheld the of the Speaker by observing that there was no material to indicate that the appellant was authorised by the BSP to issue the direction. In this context, Srinivasan, J. held that ‘political party’ cannot be read as ‘legislature party’ for the following reasons: D a. The phrase ‘political party’ in Paragraph 2(1)(b) cannot be interpreted to mean legislative party while the same phrase in Paragraph 2(1)(a) retains its original meaning; b. Such an interpretation would render explanation(a) to Paragraph 2(1) otiose because a legislature party cannot E set up a person as a candidate for election; c. Disqualification from membership of the assembly is a serious consequence. Such a consequence can only ensue from voting contrary to the direction of the political party; and F d. In Kihoto Hollohan (supra), it was held that to balance the competing considerations of the anti-defection law and intra-party dissent, a direction to vote (or abstain from voting) can only be given if the vote would alter the status of the government formed or if it is on a policy on which the political party that set up the candidate went to polls on. G Only the political party and not the legislature party can issue directions concerning issues of this nature. 111. Hence, the plain meaning of the provisions of the Tenth Schedule, 1986 Rules, and Act of 1956 indicate that the Whip and the Leader must be appointed by the political party. H SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 933 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] 112. The Tenth Schedule was introduced to thwart the growing A tendency of legislators to shift allegiance to another political party after being elected on the ticket of a certain political party.