Such an approach is not only skewed from a commercial perspective but also jurisprudentially or in the legal sense. There need not be a reiteration of the significance of a warranty in a transaction of a sale of goods already discussed above. H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1327 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 31. Thus, as a sequel to the aforesaid discussion, the following A situations may be adumbrated by way of illustration. When a dealer– assessee sells an automobile to a customer containing a warranty for the replacement of a defective part of the automobile in terms of the warranty and when the customer during the period of warranty approaches the dealer for the replacement of a defective part, the dealer B could resort to the following: - (a) request the manufacturer to supply the defective part of the automobile for replacement. In such a situation, the manufacturer of the automobile could do any of the following: - C (i) send the spare part from his factory either as a manufacturer of the same to the dealer for replacement and seek return of the defective part, or (ii) purchase the spare part from the manufacturer of D the particular part by paying the requisite taxes and send it to the dealer and seek return of the defective part, or (iii) purchase the spare part from the open market after paying the requisite taxes and send it to the dealer E for replacement of the defective part in the automobile and seek return of the defective part. or (b) may purchase the spare part from the open market by F paying the requisite taxes and replace the defective part and return the same to the manufacturer, or (c) may replace the defective part from his stock maintained in his showroom and return the defective part to the G manufacturer. 32. In situation (a), since the manufacturer himself has dispatched the spare part to the dealer for the purpose of replacement, there is no investment made by the dealer on the said part. The dealer merely acts on behalf of the manufacturer, pursuant to the warranty. H 1328 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 33. In situations (b) and (c), the dealer would have invested on the spare part either by buying it from the open market or earlier would have purchased the same from the manufacturer of the automobile or from the manufacturer of the particular part by paying the requisite price and taxes. The dealer has every right to sell such a part and seek a return on his investment and possibly a profit also. But when the same is B used for the purpose of replacement of a defective part pursuant to a warranty, the dealer does not “sell” the part to the customer who has approached the dealer with the defective part. The dealer does not receive any consideration in the form of a price from the customer but on the basis of the warranty, the dealer is obliged to replace the defective C part with a new part.