The principle has been succinctly stated in Naina Mohd., Re. [AIR 1960 Mad 218 : 1960 Cri LJ 620]’ ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 13. Having bestowed thoughtful consideration to the rival submissions and taking into account the totality of the circumstances, this Court fi nds that the Impugned cannot be sustained. The fact that there is major discrepancy in the charge framed by the Court and the statement of the witnesses - the specifi c allegation that A2 was the one who had taken away the deceased from his house, whereas during deposition the deceased’s wife and his brother have stated that it was the appellant who had taken away the deceased is enough to raise doubts with regard to the veracity and authenticity of such statements. Furthermore, the fact that the deceased, late at night, agreed to go to the house of the appellant, when seen in the backdrop of the allegation that there was strong animosity between the two, appears to be highly improbable. These circumstances creating a doubt as to the appellant’s involvement in the crime attain more credence when gauged apropos the factum of the deceased being missing for more than two days, yet neither his wife nor his brother re-ported the deceased as missing. It does not appear that the deceased’s family took any steps to fi nd out as to where the deceased had gone. The deceased’s wife has testifi ed that relations between the parties were cordial, and has not hinted at animosity. 14. The decision relied upon by learned counsel for the State [Kashi Ram (supra)] is not relevant in the instant facts and circumstances for the simple reason that in the said case, the fact of ‘last seen’ had been established and thus, it was held that the accused therein, in whose company the victim was last seen had to explain as to what happened. Whereas in the present case, the very fact whether the deceased had in fact gone with the 64 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. appellant, after which his dead body was found had not been proved, as is the requirement in law. In Kashi Ram (supra) itself, this is evincible from the subsequent paragraph: ‘24. There is considerable force in the argument of counsel for the State that in the facts of this case as well it should be held that the respondent having been seen last with the deceased, the burden was upon him to prove what happened thereafter, since those facts were within his special knowledge. Since, the respondent failed to do so, it must be held that he failed to discharge the burden cast upon him by Section 106 of the Evidence Act. This circumstance, therefore, provides the missing link in the chain of circumstances which prove his guilt beyond reasonable doubt.’ (emphasis supplied) 15. The burden on the accused would, therefore, kick in, only when the last seen theory is established. In the instant case, at the cost of repetition, that itself is in doubt.