Power to direct further inquiry to be made or additional evidence to be taken. (1) If, when such proceedings are submitted, the High Court thinks that a further inquiry should be made into, or additional evidence taken upon, any point bearing upon the guilt or innocence of the convicted person, it may make such inquiry or take such evidence itself, or direct it to be made or taken by the Court of Session. (2) Unless the High Court otherwise directs, the presence of the convicted person may be dispensed with when such inquiry is made or such evidence is taken. (3) When the inquiry or evidence (if any) is not made or taken by the High Court, the result of such inquiry or evidence shall be certifi ed to such Court.” “Section 391 in The Code Of Criminal Procedure, 1973 391. Appellate Court may take further evidence or direct it to be taken. (1) In dealing with any appeal under this Chapter, the Appellate Court, if it thinks additional evidence to be necessary, shall record its reasons 466 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. and may either take such evidence itself, or direct it to be taken by a Magistrate, or when the Appellate Court is a High Court, by a Court of Session or a Magistrate. (2) When the additional evidence is taken by the Court of Session or the Magistrate, it or he shall certify such evidence to the Appellate Court, and such Court shall thereupon proceed to dispose of the appeal. (3) The accused or his pleader shall have the right to be present when the additional evidence is taken. (4) The taking of evidence under this section shall be subject to the provisions of Chapter XXIII, as if it were an inquiry.” Even otherwise under general principles of law and procedure appellate Courts can exercise all powers vested in the Trial Court in an attempt to arrive at a just and fair decision. 113. In the present case, unfortunately the Trial Court as well as the High Court failed to exercise their powers under the aforesaid provisions to summon the witnesses of the charge-sheet to prove the police papers. Despite applications being fi led to summon persons who were not shown as witnesses to the charge-sheet, the Trial Court repeatedly rejected the said applications in 2006 and again in 2008 on the fl imsy grounds that were not named in the charge-sheet or that the Public Prosecutor had not fi led such application in gross violation of Section 311 CrPC. 114. In the above backdrop of facts and the legal position, the conclusions based on analysis of the evidence in the light of the legal position is as follows: a) Fard Bayan of Rajendra Rai, which was later converted into an FIR, is admissible in evidence and is to be read as a dying declaration or his last statement. b) The tainted investigation shows the high-handedness of the accused-Respondent no.2, who was a powerful person, being a sitting M.P.