In Balbir Singh case after referring to a number of s, the Bench opined that failure to comply with the provisions of CrPC in respect of search and seizure and particularly those of Sections 100, 102, 103 and 165 per se does not vitiate the prosecution case. If there is such a violation, what the courts have to see is whether any prejudice was caused to the accused. While appreciating the evidence and other relevant factors, the courts should bear in mind that there was such a violation and evaluate the evidence on record keeping that in view.” 45. This Court in Baldev Singh (supra) further observed that the conditions prescribed in Section 50 are an obligation imposed upon the empowered offi cer and the same must be duly complied with before conducting any search of a person. The relevant observations are reproduced hereunder:- “24. … There is, thus, unanimity of judicial pronouncements to the eff ect that it is an obligation of the empowered offi cer and his duty before conducting the search of the person of a suspect, on the basis of prior information, to inform the suspect that he has a right to require his search being conducted in the presence of a gazetted offi cer or a Magistrate and that the failure to inform the suspect of his right, would render the search illegal because the suspect would not be able to avail of the protection which is inbuilt in Section 50. Similarly, if the person concerned requires, on being so informed by the empowered offi cer or otherwise, that his search be conducted in the presence of a gazetted offi cer or a Magistrate, the empowered offi cer is obliged to do so and failure on his part to do so would also render the search illegal and the conviction and sentence of the accused bad.” (Emphasis supplied) 46. This Court in Baldev Singh (supra) also explained the purpose behind the safeguards engraved under Section 50 and the reason as to why the right of the suspect to have his search conducted before a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate ought to be zealously guarded by the courts. It was held as under:- 318 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. “25. To be searched before a gazetted offi cer or a Magistrate, if the suspect so requires, is an extremely valuable right which the legislature has given to the person concerned having regard to the grave consequences that may entail the possession of illicit articles under the NDPS Act. It appears to have been incorporated in the Act keeping in view the severity of the punishment. The rationale behind the provision is even otherwise manifest. The search before a gazetted offi cer or a Magistrate would impart much more authenticity and creditworthiness to the search and seizure proceeding. It would also verily strengthen the prosecution case. There is, thus, no justifi cation for the empowered offi cer, who goes to search the person, on prior information, to eff ect the search, of not informing the person concerned of the existence of his right to have his search conducted before a gazetted offi cer or a Magistrate, so as to enable him to avail of that right.