The change in regulations, unless made specifically operable for a prior period, cannot be construed to be retrospective. Thus, contracts concluded prior to the entered into prior to the amendment [in 2013] cannot be governed by amended provisions. Doing so would not only be contrary to the express terms of the amended F regulations but would also be contrary to the terms of the PPA which do not accommodate or provide for such change in regulations. 19. The appellants further urged that the PPA was consciously entered into by the respondents on 29.03.2012, which was before the G 18 APPC as clause 1.1 of the PPA is defined as: “Average Power Purchase Cost” means the weighted average pooled price at which the distribution licensee has. Purchased the electricity including cost of self- generation, if any, in the previous year from all the energy suppliers long-term and short-term; but excluding those based on renewable energy sources, as the case may be. Further, for this agreement, Average Power Purchase Cost for the term of the agreement shall be as per Article No. 5.2 H GUJARAT URJA VIKAS NIGAM LIMITED v. RENEW WIND 687 ENERGY (RAJKOT) PVT. LTD. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] state commission’s tariff dated 08.08.2012. The PPAs were A signed by the respondents before 11.07.2013, (when the amendment was made to the REC regulations) voluntarily without any reservation. The terms of the PPA were binding and enforceable, unaffected by the Second Amendment, which applied prospectively. Learned counsel relied on the clarification by the CERC in the Statement of Reasons published B in this regard.19 20. It is argued that the National Action Plan on Climate Change and the Union Ministry of Power resolution dated 28-01-2016 and Tariff Policy underline the necessity of the co-generation of renewable sources of energy, progressively, so that it reaches a greater proportion. The C policy aims at increasing investment, and ensuring that viable units generating renewable energy are set up. 21. It was argued that the PPA was a commercial transaction, freely entered into between the parties. Neither the appellants nor the first Respondent was obliged to enter into the PPA nor agree to any D specific terms or conditions. In case the terms were not acceptable, both parties had the freedom to reject the transaction and seek to sell or buy power through other alternative available options as provided under the REC Regulations 2010. Further at the time of signing the PPA, and even thereafter till the filing of the Petition before the State Commission in the month of December 2013 (i.e. more than one and half years after E the execution of the PPA), the first respondent did not raise any objections or protest on being allegedly coerced or placed under duress to agree to the terms and conditions of the PPA. The terms of the PPA were fully in compliance with the provisions of the REC Regulations 2010 as the restriction in those regulations was for the price not to exceed the Pooled F Power Purchase Cost.