On the same E day, i.e. 21st at 6.00 A.M. my son Abdul Raheem had called my daughter Mumtaz from abroad. The said information was given to me by my daughter Mumtaz on the way to home after getting the idli, as the house of my daughter Mumtaz is situated on the way….. I bought the idli and went to my house. The tea which F was kept by me in a glass was there as it is. That tea was kept by me for my grand daughter. It was there as it is. By that time the accused Vahida was sitting near my grand daughter who was lying there. I told the details given by Mumtaz to me and asked her to wake up grand daughter and give her the tea. For that the accused was sitting quiet. When I was telling the accused about G the admission of my granddaughter into school and she has to talk to my son Abdul Raheem over phone, the accused asked me where is the police station. I asked the accused, “What I am telling you. What you are asking me.” For that the margin accused said that she had killed her daughter. I told her, “none of the mother H 954 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A who gave birth to a child will kill the child. You are telling lie”. For that the margin accused said that really she had killed her child. When I was telling the accused that she is telling lie once again, my daughter Mumtaz and my middle daughter-in-law Asha Begum both of them came into my house. Again I told the accused “You are telling lie.” And asked her to wake up the child. But again the B accused said that she had killed the child, I shook the head of my grand daughter. There was blood out of my grand daughter’s nose. My grand daughter Farhana was dead. When I saw that my grand daughter was dead and came out shouting, as said by me earlier, my daughter Mumtaz, my middle daughter-in-law Asha begum C came there. The people also gathered. I had giddiness. They took me to the neighbouring house and made me to sit there. Anwar Basha had made phone call. Police authorities came to our house. They called me to the police station and asked me. I told them all that had transpired. The police authorities recorded the same. I had affixed my left thumb impression in the same. That was shown D to me. When the witness was shown the complaint dated 21.6.2007 and asked about the same, as the witness had accepted the same the above said complaint had been marked as Ex.P1. ….. The accused told me that she had put the saree outer end of a saree (mundanai) around her neck and murdered her. When the police E authorities examined me I deposed what had happened. Cross Examination: On the date of the death of my grand daughter, at about 8.30 A.M. the police authorities came to our house.