It is submitted that the facts of the case in Assam Urban (Supra) are identical to the facts of the present case. It is submitted that decision of this Court in the case of Assam Urban (Supra) has been affirmed by Three Judges’ Bench of this Court in the case of Sagufa F Ahmed (Supra) (Paras 20 – 22). 5.5 It is further submitted by Shri Dhruv Mehta, learned Senior Counsel that the correct application of Section 4 of the Limitation Act will result in a petition being entertained as a matter of right, without a party having to seek condonation of delay, since it applies only to petitions G that would otherwise be within the “prescribed period” but its presentation within this period has been prevented due to closure of the Court. However, on the other hand, this cannot apply to a delayed petition where, in any event, the right to present the petition is subject sufficient cause being shown and condonation of delay being sought. H BHIMASHANKAR SAHAKARI SAKKARE KARKHANE NIYAMITA v. 373 WALCHANDNAGAR INDUSTRIES LTD. (WIL) [M. R. SHAH, J.] 5.6 Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the appellant that A the in the case of Sagufa Ahmed (Supra) is not a good law or is distinguishable is concerned, it is submitted that as such the decision in the case of Sagufa Ahmed (Supra) lays down the correct law and shall be applicable with full force on interpretation of “to condone delay within further period”. B 5.7 It is submitted that the in the case of Sagufa Ahmed (Supra), in the context of Section 421(3) of the Companies Act, 2013, which provides a prescribed period of 45 days for filing an appeal, and empowers the appellate Tribunal to condone the delay within “further period” not exceeding 45 days. A Three-Judges Bench of this Court C rejected the contention of the appellants therein that the benefit of of this Court dated 23.03.2020 in Cognizance for Extension of Limitation, In re, (2020) 19 SCC 10, is extendable to them, by holding that under the dated 23.03.2020, which was extended was only “the period of limitation” and not the period up to which delay can be condoned in exercise of discretion conferred by statute. D 5.8 It is submitted that thus, in the case of Sagufa Ahmed (Supra), this Court while affirming Assam Urban (Supra) has held that the expression “prescribed period” appearing in Section 4 of the Limitation Act cannot be construed to mean anything other than the period of limitation. Any period beyond the “prescribed period” during which the E Court or Tribunal has the discretion to allow a person to institute the proceedings cannot be taken to be “prescribed period”. 5.9 Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the appellant that the in the case of Assam Urban (Supra) has the effect of denying the parties to right to file their application for condonation in F situation where the discretionary period expires during vacation and that such interpretation was incorrect inasmuch as it leaves parties at the mercy of “fortuitous circumstance”, it is submitted that such a submission is not tenable.