The right to redemption could not be claimed in the abstract.” 49. Thus, prior to the amendment of Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act, this Court consistently held, that the borrower shall continue to have a right of redemption of mortgage until the execution of the conveyance of the secured asset by way of a registered instrument. Furthermore, this Court in Mathew Varghese (supra) found no inconsistency between the unamended Section 13(8) of SARFAESI Act and the general right of redemption under Section 60 of the Act 1882. 50. However, later on 1st September, 2016, the Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debt Laws and Miscellaneous Provisions (Amendment) Act, 2016 (“2016 Amendment”) was enacted which inter-alia amended sub-section 8 of Section 13 of the SARFAESI Act, and substituted the words “any time before the date fi xed for sale or transfer” of the original provision with “at any time before the date of publication of notice for public auction or inviting quotations or tender from public or private treaty for transfer by way of lease, assignment or sale of the secured assets”. The amended provision of Section 13 sub-section (8) of the SARFAESI Act, now reads as under: - 104 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. “13. Enforcement of security interest. – (8) Where the amount of dues of the secured creditor together with all costs, charges and expenses incurred by him is tendered to the secured creditor at any time before the date of publication of notice for public auction or inviting quotations or tender from public or private treaty for transfer by way of lease, assignment or sale of the secured assets,— (i) the secured assets shall not be transferred by way of lease, assignment or sale by the secured creditor; and (ii) in case, any step has been taken by the secured creditor for transfer by way of lease or assignment or sale of the assets before tendering of such amount under this sub-section, no further step shall be taken by such secured creditor for transfer by way of lease or assignment or sale of such secured assets.” 51. The true purport and scope of the amended Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act was looked into by the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Sri. Sai Annadhatha Polymers & Anr. v. Canara Bank rep. by its Branch Manager, Mandanapalle reported in 2018 SCC OnLine Hyd 178. The court took the view that in accordance with the unamended Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act, the right of the borrower to redeem the secured asset was available till the sale or transfer of such secured asset. The court went on to say that the amended provisions of Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act brought in a radical change inasmuch as the right of the borrower to redeem the secured asset would stand extinguished thereunder on the very date of publication of the notice for public auction under Rule 9(1) of the Rules of 2002. It is pertinent to note that the High Court has referred to and relied upon the decision of this Court in Mathew Varghese (supra).