It may again lead to becoming such a revived company again as a sick company. If such a thing is permitted, in that case, it will again frustrate the object and purpose of enactment of the SICA, 1985. H MODI RUBBER LIMITED v. CONTINENTAL CARBON INDIA 1067 LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] 14. Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the unsecured A creditors that to compel the unsecured creditors to accept the scaled down value of its dues would tantamount to and would be violative of Article 300A of the Constitution of India is concerned, the same has also no substance. Scaling down the value of the dues is under the rehabilitation scheme prepared under Section 18 of the SICA, which has a binding B effect on all the creditors. Therefore, the same cannot be said to be violative of Article 300A of the Constitution of India. The law permits framing of the scheme taking into consideration and to provide the measures contemplated under Section 18, therefore, the rehabilitation scheme which provides for scaling down the value of dues of the creditors /unsecured creditors and even that of the labourers cannot be said to be C violative of Article 300A of the Constitution of India as submitted on behalf of the unsecured creditors. 15. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the view taken by the High Court of Delhi in Continental Carbon India Ltd. (supra) that on approval of a scheme by the BIFR under the Sick D Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985, the unsecured creditors has an option not to accept the scaling down value of its dues and to wait till the rehabilitation scheme of the sick company has worked itself out with an option to recover the debt with interest post such rehabilitation is erroneous and contrary to the scheme of SICA, 1985 E and the same deserves to be quashed and set aside and is accordingly quashed and set aside. It is observed and held that the rehabilitation scheme under Section 18 of the SICA, 1985 shall bind all the creditors including the unsecured creditors and the unsecured creditors have to accept the scaled down F value of its dues provided under the rehabilitation scheme. Conclusion:- (i) Civil Appeal No. 375 of 2017 is accordingly allowed. No costs. (ii) The transfer petition being Transfer Petition (C) No. 543 G of 2016 is allowed and is ed to be transferred to this Court. (iii) Civil Appeal No. 1755 of 2023 (arising out of SLP (C) No. 4282 of 2020) is allowed and the impugned and H 1068 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A passed by the Madhya Pradesh High Court relying upon the decision of the Delhi High Court in the case of Continental Carbon India Ltd. (supra), which has been set aside by the present also deserves to be allowed and the impugned and passed by the High Court of Madhya Pradesh in Civil Revision No.