It is, however, not necessary to give the information to the person to be searched about his right in writing. It is suffi cient if such information is communicated to the person concerned orally and as far as possible in the presence of some independent and respectable persons witnessing the arrest and search. The prosecution must, however, at the trial, establish that the empowered offi cer had conveyed the information to the person concerned of his right of being searched in the presence of a Magistrate or a gazetted offi cer, at the time of the intended search. Courts have to be satisfi ed at the trial of the case about due compliance with the requirements provided in Section 50. No presumption under Section 54 of the Act can be raised against an accused, unless the prosecution establishes it to the satisfaction of the court, that the requirements of Section 50 were duly complied with. 26. The safeguard or protection to be searched in the presence of a gazetted offi cer or a Magistrate has been incorporated in Section 50 to ensure that persons are only searched with a good cause and also with a view to maintain the veracity of evidence derived from such search. We have already noticed that severe punishments have been provided under the Act for mere possession of illicit drugs and narcotic substances. Personal search, more particularly for off ences under the NDPS Act, are critical means of obtaining evidence of possession and it is, therefore, necessary that the safeguards provided in Section 50 RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 319 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] of the Act are observed scrupulously. The duty to inform the suspect of his right to be searched in the presence of a gazetted offi cer or a Magistrate is a necessary sequence for enabling the person concerned to exercise that right under Section 50 because after Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India it is no longer permissible to contend that the right to personal liberty can be curtailed even temporarily, by a procedure which is not “reasonable, fair and just” and when a statute itself provides for a “just” procedure, it must be honoured. Conducting a search under Section 50, without intimating to the suspect that he has a right to be searched before a gazetted offi cer or a Magistrate, would be violative of the “reasonable, fair and just procedure” and the safeguard contained in Section 50 would be rendered illusory, otiose and meaningless. Procedure based on systematic and unconscionable violation of law by the offi cials responsible for the enforcement of law, cannot be considered to be a “fair”, just or reasonable procedure. We are not persuaded to agree that reading into Section 50, the existence of a duty on the part of the empowered offi cer, to intimate to the suspect, about the existence of his right to be searched in the presence of a gazetted offi cer or a Magistrate, if he so requires, would place any premium on ignorance of the law.