On 29 March 2008, directions were issued under Section 33A by the State Board to the Commissioner to close down the operation of the slaughter house. On 17 September 2010, while hearing an interlocutory application fi led by the Panchayat Qureshian, this Court clarifi ed that the interim would not come in the way of either the Municipal Council or the Pollution Control Board taking action in accordance with law if there is a violation. 9. On 16 November 2011, an inspection was carried out by the State Board during the course of which the representative of the Municipal Council stated that the slaughter house had been closed on 13 March 2008 in compliance of the of the State Board under Section 33A dated 29 March 2008. 10. The narration of facts would indicate that the civil appeals arose from the of the Rajasthan High Court dismissing a writ petition which challenged the of the Permanent Lok Adalat directing closure of the slaughter house. The principal ground of challenge was that the Permanent Lok Adalat would have no jurisdiction to a closure. During the pendency of the appeals, the of the Rajasthan High Court was initially stayed. However, subsequently the of stay was modifi ed by permitting the statutory authority to take action in accordance with law. The issue as to whether the Permanent Lok Adalat had the jurisdiction to direct closure of the slaughter house has since been overtaken by subsequent events. The SPCB has exercised its statutory powers under Section 33A after 276 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. fi nding, upon inspection, that the waste generated from the slaughter house was being discharged without adequate treatment resulting in a violation of the applicable pollution parameters. As a consequence of the directions, the slaughter house was directed to be closed and upon inspection it was found to have been closed. 11. A writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution has been fi led in the above backdrop seeking a direction to the State of Rajasthan and the Municipal Board of Tonk, the State Pollution Control Board and other authorities to discharge their statutory duties under Schedule XII of the Constitution and Section 98 of the Rajasthan Municipality Act 1959. A direction has been sought to the respondents to provide water to the water treatment plant and to stop the illegal slaughter on the streets in the city of Tonk. 12. The writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution cannot obviate the fi ndings which have been arrived at by the statutory board in the exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 33A of the Act of 1974. The petitioners in the writ petition cannot be oblivious of the fact that the slaughter house was closed as a result of the failure to meet the prescribed pollution parameters and since the waste which was generated from its operation was being discharged without proper treatment. The basis of the appeals which question the jurisdiction of the Lok Adalat, directing a closure has since been overtaken by the subsequent developments in terms of which the slaughter house has been closed.