It is already noticed why the Revenue Court is not the appropriate forum for the reliefs claimed by the respondents. The facts here are clearly distinguishable and hence, the ratio laid down in Dhirendra Kumar(supra) can have no application here. Moreover, as per the fi ve-judge bench in Dhulabai (supra), an exception is carved out as per which if there is a violation of fundamental principles of judicial procedure and the provisions of a particular Act are not followed, a Civil suit is maintainable. 22 (1995) 4 SCC 229 23 (1996) 7 SCC 218 24 (2013) 3 SCC 66 URBAN IMPROVEMENT TRUST, BIKANER v. GORDHAN 545 DASS (D) THROUGH LRS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] iii) Non-impleadment of State cannot be considered fatal for maintainability 33. It was also pleaded by the Appellant that the suit was not maintainable on account of considerable delay and because the State was not impleaded as a party defendant in the suit proceeding. Such a contention upon consideration is only to be rejected. The legal position relating to necessary and proper parties was summarized in Mumbai International Airport Private Limited v. Regency Convention Centre and Hotels Private Limited25 as under: “15. A “necessary party” is a person who ought to have been joined as a party and in whose absence no eff ective decree could be passed at all by the court. If a “necessary party” is not impleaded, the suit itself is liable to be dismissed. A “proper party” is a party who, though not a necessary party, is a person whose presence would enable the court to completely, eff ectively and adequately adjudicate upon all matters in dispute in the suit, though he need not be a person in favour of or against whom the decree is to be made. If a person is not found to be a proper or necessary party, the court has no jurisdiction to implead him, against the wishes of the plaintiff . The fact that a person is likely to secure a right/interest in a suit property, after the suit is decided against the plaintiff , will not make such person a necessary party or a proper party to the suit for specifi c performance.” 34. It must be borne in mind that the Urban Improvement Trust, Bikaner is an instrumentality of the State and was a contesting party in the suit as it was the benefi ciary of the acquisition process. The observation of the seven-judge bench of this Court in Nagpur Improvement Trust v. Vithal Rao26, would be relevant in this context where, it was noted that “the acquisition is for the trust and may be at its instance, but nevertheless the acquisition is by the Government”. In the backdrop of diff erential compensation under diff erent land acquisition Acts, it was held that as far as the owner is concerned, it does not matter whether the land was acquired by Improvement Trust, Municipal Corporation or the Government. In the facts 25 (2010) 7 SCC 417 26 (1973) 1 SCC 500 546 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R.