No doubt, they placed this position in an attempt at salvaging the situation arising from no appeal have been filed by it challenging the finding relating to there being no change in law B in regard to the water intake system. (142) In the facts of this case, we also notice that the three non- filing parties are respondents in the appeals filed by the appellants. We also cannot be unmindful of the argument of Shri P. Chidambaram and others that if the first respondent had a case that they were entitled to an C exemption under the situation extant prior to the cut off date then proper remedy would be to seek refund on the basis that they have been illegally visited with customs duty. (143) In the facts of this case, we feel that the interest of justice do require that the impugned be set aside not only as against the D appellants but also as against the three non-appellants. In the nature of the litigation, we would think that the benefit of this should be vouchsafed to the three respondents also, viz., (1) respondent No. 12(BSES Rajdhani Power Limited); (2) respondent No. 13 (BSES Yamuna Power Limited); and (3) respondent No. 15(Uttarakhand Power Corporation Limited). Apparently, these respondents have not contested E the appeals. (144) As we have noticed in the beginning as a sequel to the impugned , the Commission has passed s allowing the claim relating to the water intake system whereas it has rejected the prayer relating to change in law flowing from OM dated 17.06.2011. The affected F parties have carried the matter to the Tribunal in appeals. It is brought to our notice that this Court passed an of stay dated 25.11.2019. Since the appellants have challenged the of the Tribunal, the subsequent by the Commission can only be treated as a consequential and therefore, it may not have any independent legs to stand on. The appellants must be given the fruits of the decision which G ultimately is rendered in their favour, as we are rendering this . (145) Accordingly, the appeals are allowed. The impugned is set aside. The will enure to the benefit also of the three respondents also, viz., (1) respondent No. 12(BSES Rajdhani Power H 84 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Limited); (2) respondent No. 13 (BSES Yamuna Power Limited); and (3) respondent No. 15(Uttrakhand Power Corporation Limited). Equally, the passed by the Commission consequent upon the remand under the impugned cannot survive. The appeals filed will also lose their force and it is for the appellants to do the needful to bring it to an end in the light of this . B The parties will suffer their own costs. Bibhuti Bhushan Bose Appeals allowed. (Assisted by : Rahul Rathi, LCRA) C D E F G H