Res judicata operates in personam i.e. the matter in issue between the same parties in the former litigation, while law of precedent operates in rem i.e. the law once settled is binding on all under the jurisdiction of the High Court and the Supreme Court. Res judicata binds the parties to the proceedings for the reason that there should be an end to the litigation and therefore, subsequent proceeding inter se parties to the litigation is barred. Therefore, law of res judicata concerns the same matter, while law of precedent concerns application of law in a similar issue. In res judicata, the correctness of the decision is normally immaterial and it does not matter whether the previous decision was right or wrong, unless the erroneous determination relates to the jurisdictional matter of that body.” This ratio was followed and approved by a three judges’ Bench in Malook Singh and Others v. State of Punjab and Others15. 34. In Makhija Construction & Engg. (P) Ltd. v. Indore Development Authority and Others16, after referring to several earlier decisions, this Court has observed that a precedent operates to bind in similar situations in a distinct case, whereas res judicata operates to bind parties to proceedings for no other reason, but that there should be end to litigation. Principle of 14 (2019) 14 SCC 179. 15 (2021) SCC OnLine SC 876. 16 (2005) 6 SCC 304. 1142 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. res judicata should apply where the lis was inter-parties and has attained fi nality on the issues involved. The principle of res judicata will have no application in cases where the or has been passed by the Court having no jurisdiction thereof or involving a pure question of law.17 Law of binding precedents, in terms of Article 141 of the Constitution of India, has a larger connotation as it settles the principles of law which emanates from the , which are then treated as binding precedents. 35. In the context of factual background of the present case, and on examining the in the case of Pawan Gupta (supra) passed by the National Commission, we are clearly of the view that the passed by this Court dismissing the appeal in the case of Pawan Gupta (supra) would operate as res judicata in the said case but does not lay down a binding precedent which would be applicable to other cases. As it transpires from the in the case of Pawan Gupta (supra), the National Commission itself had specifi cally observed inter alia that “there was no harm in communicating and charging for the extra area at the fi nal stage, but for the sake of transparency opposite party must share the actual reason for the increase in the super area based on comparison of the originally approved buildings and fi nally approved buildings. Basically, the idea is that the allottee must know the change in the fi nally approved layout and areas of common spaces and the originally approved layout and areas”.