The passed by the Division Bench of the High Court shows that matter was dealt with in a manner as if it was the first stage G of the case, namely, the inquiry was being conducted and inquiry report was being prepared, which is not the scope in judicial review. The views expressed by this Court on the scope of judicial review in Deputy General Manager (Appellate Authority) vs. Ajai Kumar Srivastava1, are extracted below: H 1 (2021) 2 SCC 612 THE INDIAN OIL CORPORATION & ORS. v. AJIT KUMAR 451 SINGH & ANR. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] “24. It is thus settled that the power of judicial review, of the A constitutional courts, is evaluation of the decision-making process and not the merits of the decision itself. It is to ensure fairness in treatment and not to ensure fairness of conclusion. The court/tribunal may interfere in the proceedings held against the delinquent if it is, in any manner, inconsistent with B the rules of natural justice or in violation of the statutory rules prescribing the mode of enquiry or where the conclusion or finding reached by the disciplinary authority is based on no evidence. If the conclusion or finding be such as no reasonable person would have ever reached or where the conclusions upon consideration of the evidence reached by C the disciplinary authority are perverse or suffer from patent error on the face of record or based on no evidence at all, a writ of certiorari could be issued. To sum up, the scope of judicial review cannot be extended to the examination of correctness or reasonableness of a decision of authority as a D matter of fact. 25-27 xx xx xx 28. The constitutional court while exercising its jurisdiction of judicial review under Article 226 or Article 136 of the Constitution would not interfere with the findings of fact E arrived at in the departmental enquiry proceedings except in a case of mala fides or perversity i.e. where there is no evidence to support a finding or where a finding is such that no man acting reasonably and with objectivity could have arrived at those findings and so long as there is some evidence F to support the conclusion arrived at by the departmental authority, the same has to be sustained.” (emphasis supplied) Similar view was expressed in the later of this Court in Ex-Const/Dvr Mukesh Kumar Raigar vs. Union of India and Ors.2 G 7. If the facts of the case are examined in the light of the settled principles of law in scope of judicial review, we find that the Division Bench of the High Court proceeded to reappreciate the entire evidence 2 (2023) SCC Online SC 27 H 452 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A as if conviction in a criminal trial was being re-examined by the next higher court. The stand taken by the respondent no.1 was that he was on leave and there was no question of his tampering with any document.