by Article 39(b) of the Constitution. It must be remembered that the A Court had occasion to hold so by way of dealing with the argument that nationalisation did not have a nexus with the word distribution. 116. The of this Court in Waman Rao and Others v. Union of India and Others29 holds that laws passed to give effect to Article 39(b) and 39(c) could not be found violative of Article 14. There B cannot be any quarrel. We are, in this case, called upon to deal with the case based on the actions taken by the appellant, which is a Government Company based on its powers under the Nationalisation Act, being challenged on the anvil of a later law made by Parliament, the validity of which,relevantly is not under challenge. C 117. Distribution of coal is intended to subserve common good holds this Court in Samatha v. State of A.P. and others30. The content of common good is itself not a static concept. It may take its hue from the context and the times in which the matter falls for consideration by the Court. If Parliament has intended that State monopolies even if it be D in the matter of distribution must come under the anvil of the new economic regime, it cannot be found flawed by the Court on the ground that subjecting the State monopoly would detract from the common good which the earlier Nationalisation Act when it was enacted, undoubtedly, succeeded in subserving. We see no reason to hold that a State Monopoly being run through the medium of a Government Company, even for E attaining the goals in the Directive Principles, will go outside the purview of the Act. 118. We have projected some of the concerns of the appellants in the matter of the appellants being disabled to put up a justifiable defense under Section 4 of the Act. F 119. It is true that the actions of the appellants can be challenged in proceedings in judicial review as contended by the appellants. Equally, the appellants are justified in pointing out as a matter of fact that there may be forums other than the CCI such as the Controller of Coal whereunder redress may be sought against action of the appellants.But G that by itself, cannot result in denial of access to a party complaining of contravention of a law which is otherwise applicable. It must also be remembered that action can also be taken by the CCI suo motu. Such is the width of the power vouchsafed for the authority under the Act. 29 (1981) 2 SCC 362 30 (1997) 8 SCC 191 H 884 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 120. We would only clarify that it will be open to the appellant as the State monopoly to take up all contentions to demonstrate that there is no abuse of the dominant position. Be it differential pricing or a decision to limit or restrict production, if it is part of national policy or based on Presidential Directives and the appellant raises such a contention after bonafidefollowing the Directives or policy themselves, it may be a matter, B which the CCI would have to consider in deciding whether there is abuse of dominant position.