The other writ appeals were filed by some people in the locality, who objected to the establishment of the Hot Mix Plant. 1 For short, “Kerala MSME Act” 2 For short, “Rules of 2019” H 416 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 5. By a common dated 09.12.2021, the Division Bench of the Kerala High Court dismissed the appeals. Therefore, people of the locality have come up with the first three appeals challenging the common passed by the Division Bench of the Kerala High Court in the three intra-court appeals. The writ petitioners have also come up with one appeal, which is the fourth one, as they are aggrieved by not getting B full relief from the High Court. 6. We have heard the learned counsel appearing for all the parties. 7. The controversy to be resolved in these appeals can be better understood if we take a glance at the brief facts leading to this litigation. C These brief facts are as follows: (i) George Elias and Associates, whom we shall describe as the writ petitioners, are engaged in undertaking road works in different parts of the State of Kerala. They purchased Hot Mix Plants for carrying out the road works for which they bagged contracts. D (ii) By an Agreement dated 06.03.2019, the writ petitioners were awarded the contract for road work in Cherthala Aroorkutty. Within a few months, the Kerala MSME Act came into force and hence the writ petitioners obtained what is known as an Acknowledgement Certificate under Section E 5 of the said Act. (iii) The writ petitioners also submitted an application to the Kalloorkad Panchayat for the grant of a license, for installation of the Hot Mix Plant. The application was made on 05.02.2020. F (iv) On 04.03.2020 the Kerala State Pollution Control Board granted “Consent to Establish”. (v) Since there was no response from the Panchayat, to the application for license, the writ petitioners claimed the benefit G of the deeming provision under Rule 12(3) of the Kerala Panchayat Raj (Issue of License to Factories, Trades, Entrepreneurship Activities and Other Services) Rules, 1996. Accordingly, the writ petitioners transported the equipments for installing the Hot Mix Plant, to the property from which they proposed to operate it. H JOLLY GEORGE AND ANR. v. GEORGE ELIAS AND 417 ASSOCIATES AND ORS. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] (vi) Objections were raised by some members of the locality A owing allegiance to some political parties which led to a meeting of conciliation. However, the Gram Panchayat rejected the application by an dated 12.05.2020. (vii) Therefore, challenging the said dated 12.05.2020 the writ petitioners filed the first writ petition bearing WP (C) B No.10381 of 2020. The writ petitions were admitted and an interim stay of operation of the of the Gram Panchayat was also granted. (viii) Subsequently, a few writ petitions came to be filed, the details of which may not be necessary to be recorded here. C Suffice it to say that in one of the writ petitions, the High Court granted police protection to the writ petitioners to set up the Plant, after getting consent from the Pollution Control Board.