A subsequent conviction under the same provision attracts a stiffer punishment: imprisonment of a month which may extend E to six months. 21. The impugned , as noticed earlier, is premised on the reasoning that any material brought on the record by the successful candidate who is a respondent in the election proceedings, ipso facto cannot be considered within the framework of VII Rule 11 CPC to reject the plea altogether. That understanding in this Court’s opinion is F correct. At the same time, there could be circumstances when there is material on the record, the consideration of which may not be considered by VII Rule 11 CPC but may fall within the ambit of XII Rule 6 CPC (decree on admission), which reads as follows: “Judgement on admissions-(1) Where admissions of fact have G been made either in the pleading or otherwise, whether orally or in writing, the Court may at any stage of the suit, either on the application of any party or of its own motion and without waiting for the determination of any other question between the parties, make such or give such as it may H think fit, having regard to such admissions. BHIM RAO BASWANTH RAO PATIL v. K. MADAN MOHAN 1235 RAO AND ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (2) Whenever a is pronounced under sub-rule (1), A a decree shall be drawn up in accordance with the and the decree shall bear the date on which the was pronounced.” 22. It has been held by this Court that the expression “otherwise” mentioned in sub-rule 1 of rule 6 of the XII, CPC is not confined B to pleadings but also includes documents filed along with the complaint or main pleading or other materials subsequently brought on the record which are admitted by the other party. In other words, the matter of record that is not denied and contains facts that can lead the court to draw a decree is sufficient for the court to do so and, by its , C direct decree of the suit (in this case, petition) wholly or partly. 23. The appellant’s argument with respect to using a document (i.e., a photocopy of the court related documents, and s) in the case relating to Forest Act offences, not being true copies, but containing interpolations, as the title involving the appellant’s name (i.e., “B.B. Patil) D is merited. The appellant has sought to initiate proceedings before the High Court under Section 340 read with Section 195 of the Cr. PC. This court is loath to express any opinion about whether annexing such photocopy amounts to an offence. The High Court indicated (in para 27 of the impugned ) that the “interpolation” alleged by the appellant appears to be borne out. The original trial court record, which this court E had the benefit of considering, bears out the appellant’s submission. To that extent, therefore, the condition in XII Rule 6 CPC (i.e., admission on the basis of pleadings “or otherwise”) is undeniably made out; which is that the appellant, BB Patil, was not indicted individually; the company of which he was a part, as director, was charged.