As regards the nature, amplitude and inalienability of the power that the Bank wields F in the field of currency management, it was observed that what the Bank can do in this regard, the executive acting de-hors the aid of the Bank, is not adequately equipped to do. Recognising the importance of the role played by the Bank in matters pertaining to currency management, this Court declared that any observations/recommendations G made by the Bank to the Central Government in this regard, have to be accorded due deference. The pertinent observations of the Court on this aspect have been usefully extracted hereinunder: H 178 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A “192. But as we have pointed out above, RBI is not just any other statutory authority. It is not like a stream which cannot be greater than the source. The RBI Act, 1934 is a pre-constitutional legislation, which survived the Constitution by virtue of Article 372(1) of the Constitution. The difference between other statutory B creatures and RBI is that what the statutory creatures can do, could as well be done by the executive. The power conferred upon the delegate in other statutes can be tinkered with, amended or even withdrawn. But the power conferred upon RBI under Section C 3(1) of the RBI Act, 1934 to take over the management of the currency from the Central Government, cannot be taken away. The sole right to issue Bank notes in India, conferred by Section 22(1) cannot also be taken away and conferred upon any other Bank or authority. RBI by virtue of its authority, is a member of the Bank D of International Settlements, which position cannot be taken over by the Central Government and conferred upon any other authority. Therefore, to say that it is just like any other statutory authority whose decisions cannot invite due deference, is to do violence to the scheme of E the Act. In fact, all countries have Central Banks/ authorities, which, technically have independence from the Government of the country. To ensure such independence, a fixed tenure is granted to the Board of Governors, so that they are not bogged down by political expediencies. In the United States of America, the F Chairman of the Federal Reserve is the second most powerful person next only to the President. Though the President appoints the seven-member Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the Senate, each of them is appointed for a fixed tenure G of fourteen years. Only one among those seven is appointed as Chairman for a period of four years. As a result of the fixed tenure of 14 years, all the members of Board of Governors survive in office more than three Governments. Even the European Central Bank headquartered in Frankfurt has a President, Vice- H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 179 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] President and four members, appointed for a period of A eight years in consultation with the European Parliament. Worldwide, central authorities/Banks are ensured an independence, but unfortunately Section 8(4) of the RBI Act, 1934 gives a tenure not exceeding five years, as the Central Government may fix at the time of B appointment.