The exercise of power under sub-clause (d) of clause (1) is subject to the conditions specifi ed in the two provisos while the exercise of the power under clause (3) is subject to the proviso of that clause. III. Inference 320. There are intrinsic reasons in Article 370 which support the view that the provision was not intended by the framers to be a permanent feature of the Constitution at the date of the adoption of the Constitution. Part XXI of which Article 370 is a part specifi es temporary and transitional provisions. In certain cases, the temporary provisions contained in Part XXI had a restriction with reference to the time over which they would operate. These include Articles 369 (specifying a fi ve year period for Parliament to enact laws); Article 371 (as originally enacted conferring a power on Parliament to make law for a period of ten years or a shorter or longer period governing the Part B States); Article 372 (3) (giving the President a period of two years initially and later by amendment three years to make adaptations and modifi cations to laws in force in the Territory of India); Article 372(a) (the power of the President to make adaptations to any law in force before the Seventh Amendment by an before 1 November 1957); Article 373 (the power of the President to make an in respect of the persons under preventive detention until Parliament enacted a law under Article 22(7) or until the expiration of one year from the commencement of the Constitution). In other cases, such as under Article 392, the President was conferred with the power to remove diffi culties particularly involving the transition from the Government of India Act 1935 to the Constitution in terms of which the President could direct that the Constitution itself would apply subject to such adaptations whether by way of modifi cation, addition or omission until the fi rst meeting of Parliament duly constituted took place. Part XXI also contained provisions for the continuation of the Federal Court and its Judges and the transfer of proceedings (Article 374), other courts, offi cers, and authorities (Article 375), the continuation of High Courts and the judges (Article 376), the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (Article 377), and Public Service Commissions (Article 378). Likewise, 196 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Articles 379 to 386 provided for a provisional Parliament, the election of the President by the Constituent Assembly, Council of Ministers of the President, provisional legislatures, Governors and Council of Ministers in the States. All these provisions whether defi ned with reference to time or otherwise were temporary or, as the case may be, transitional in nature. 321. Article 370 was couched amidst other temporary and transitional provisions with a marginal note which indicates that its provisions were temporary. Article 370 was adopted at a point of time when the Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir had acceded to the Dominion of India by executing an IoA. Textually, Article 370(1)(c) made it abundantly clear that Article 1 was to apply in its entirety to the State unlike other provisions of the Constitution, the application of which was to be governed by the requirement of consultation or, as the case may be, concurrence.