The ratio decidendi D of Dr. Monga is not leading to the enunciation in favour of awarding compensation and/or punitive damages by way of compound interest, the substratum of the s impugned is knocked to the ground. [Para 18][1142-F-H] 1.2 In certain eventualities, the legislature has indeed E specified the award of compound interest. Mostly, it has been provided so in relation to any monetary involvement having the trappings of public interests in it. The Consumer Protection Act, 1986, on the other hand, being a beneficial legislation, inter alia, empowers the Consumer Fora to direct payment of such amount as may be awarded as compensation to the consumer for any loss F or injury suffered due to the negligence of the opposite party. The proviso added to Clause (d) of Section 14(1) of the 1986 Act empowers the Forum to grant punitive damages in such circumstances as it deems fit. That being the position, it cannot be laid down in absolute terms that for no such stipulation regarding compound interest being available in the 1986 Act, G the same can never be granted by the Consumer Fora. When the matter is being considered for award of compensation and/or punitive damages, want of stipulation in the contract as regards award of compound or simple interest, cannot be decisive of the matter. [Para 20][1143-E-G] H 1094 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 1.3 In an action before the Consumer Fora under the Act of 1986, the forum would be entitled to provide for the amount of compensation as deemed fit, having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case and the gravity of the negligence of the opposite party and consequential injury suffered by the consumer. The forum could award even punitive damages but B that would depend on the relevant circumstances and for that matter, the relevant factors shall have to be specified. In regard to such awarding of compensation and/or punitive damages, the forum concerned could take all the relevant factors into account and award such amount as deemed fit and necessary but ordinarily, C in the matters of money refund, awarding of compound interest as a measure of punitive damages is not envisaged. As to what would be the quantum of compensation and for that matter, what would be the quantum of punitive damages, would depend on facts and circumstances of each case but while awarding so, the forum would be advised to specify all the relevant factors and D basis of its quantification. A shortcut of awarding compound interest is neither envisaged by the statute nor any such term of contract between the parties or any such usage is found. The attempt to seek compound interest in such real estate dealings did not meet with approval of this Court and such a claim was E declined for having no nexus with the commercial realities of the prevailing market. Going by the principles governing the nature of jurisdiction of the Consumer Fora as also the principles enunciated by this Court, the proposition of awarding compound interest in the cases of monetary refund in such dealings is disapproved.