(2) On receipt of a reference under sub section (1), the Collector shall after giving the parties an opportunity of making their representation and after holding an enquiry in such manner as may be prescribed by rules made under this Act, determine the F market value of the property which is the subject matter of such instrument and the duty as aforesaid: Provided that no appeal shall be preferred unless and until the difference, if any, in the amount of duty is paid by the person liable to pay the same, after deducting the amount already deposited G by him. Provided further that where after the determination of market value by the Collector, if the stamp duty borne by the instrument is found sufficient the amount deposited shall be returned to the person concerned without interest. H THE SUB REGISTRAR, AMUDALAVALASA & ANR. v. M/S 1125 DANKUNI STEELS LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] (3) the Collector may suo motu within two year from the date of A registration of such instrument, not already referred to him under sub section (1), call for an examine the instrument for the purpose of satisfying himself as to the correctness of the market value of the property which is the subject matter of such instrument and the duty payable thereon and if, after such examination, he has B reason to believe that market value of such property has not been truly set forth in the instrument, he may determine the market value of such property and the duty as aforesaid in accordance with the procedure provided for in subsection (2). The difference, if any in the amount of duty, shall be payable by the person liable to pay the duty: Provided that noting in this sub-section shall apply C to any instrument registered before the date of commencement of the India Stamp (Andhra Pradesh Amendment) act, 1971. (3-A) (i) The Inspector General may suo motu, call for and examine the record of any passed or proceeding recorded by the Collector under subSection (3), and if such or proceeding D recorded is found leading to loss of legitimate revenue due to disregard of market value by the Collector, based on mistake, omission, or failure to take any factual evidence effecting the market value of the property, may make such enquiry or cause such enquiry and inspection of the property to be made and subject E to the provisions of this Act, may initiate proceedings to revise, modify or set aside such or proceeding and may pass such in reference thereto as he thinks fit determining the market value and corresponding deficit stamp duty: Provided that the powers conferred under this clause shall be invoked within a period of six months from the date of the or proceeding issued by F the Collector under sub-section (3); (ii) The power under clause (I) shall not be exercised by the authority specified therein in respect of any issue or question which is the subject matter of an appeal before, or which was decided on appeal by the appellate authority under sub-section (5); G (iii) no shall be passed under Clause (I) enhancing any duty unless an opportunity has been given to the party to show cause against the proposed revision of market value and deficit stamp duty; H 1126 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R.