As proposed, the costs of IRP and Liquidation would F rank first. After that, secured creditors and workmen dues capped up to 3 months from the start of IRP will be given pari passu priority. This was to be followed by dues to employees capped up-to 3 months. As the next tier, workmen dues for 9 month period beginning 12 months G before liquidation commencement date and ending 3 months before liquidation commencement date were to rank along with dues to unsecured financial creditors. v. The Committee also notes that there was some debate on whether priority given to workmen in Companies Act, 2013 H should be retained in the new Code. MOSER BAER KARAMCHARI UNION THR. PRESIDENT MAHESH 99 CHAND SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA [M. R. SHAH, J.] 3.10 It is submitted that thus, the BLRC Report recommended a A waterfall mechanism that was different from the Companies Act, 1956 and the Companies Act, 2013, with due cognizance of the position of law as it existed then. It is submitted that having reviewed the position of law and in view of the objects sought to be achieved through the IBC, the BLRC Report recommended that workmen’s dues will be capped at B 3 months and will have pari passu priority with secured creditors and thereafter, the remaining dues will rank along with unsecured creditors. 3.11 It is submitted that the IBC was introduced as a Bill in 2015. It is submitted that Section 36, as introduced in the Bill, provided for formation of the liquidation estate. Section 36(4)(a)(iii), as introduced in C the Bill, stated that the contributions in respect of employee pensions alone would be excluded from the liquidation estate assets and would not be used for recovery in liquidation. Section 53, as introduced in the Bill, provided for the waterfall mechanism for payout in case of liquidation. Section 53(1)(b)(i) and (ii) ranked debts owed to secured creditors in the event of them relinquishing security and workmen’s dues for a period D of 12 months preceding liquidation commencement date, pari passu. It is submitted that in terms of the waterfall mechanism, this was therefore a step further than the path suggested by the BLRC Report since the workmen’s dues were to rank pari passu for a defined period of 12 months. It is submitted that however, thereafter, the IBC, when introduced E as a Bill, was then referred to a Joint Committee. The Joint Committee on Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2015 of the 16th Lok Sabha submitted its report in April, 2016. It is submitted that the Joint Committee Report made two important recommendations in regard to the provisions contained in the Bill. Firstly, after noting representations from the workmen and employees, it was recommended that the Provident Fund, F Pension Fund and Gratuity Fund are to be excluded from the liquidation estate assets under Section 36, since they provide the social safety net to the workmen and employees. Secondly, after consideration of the representations that workmen dues are to be paid as per the scheme contained in the Companies Act, 2013, the Joint Committee G recommended that since the dues owed to Governments are being paid in respect of two years preceding liquidation commencement date, the workmen’s dues must also be paid for a period of two years, instead of the existing period of 12 months, preceding liquidation commencement date.