Such examination is provided, therefore, to find out whether there is or not sufficient ground for proceeding further. 37. We do not intend to go into the question of the merits of the allegations, and what procedure the Magistrate should follow as this is E an aspect which the Magistrate must first consider and decide judiciously and as per the law. What is impermissible and contrary to law is an adjudication on merits of the allegations and determination of the facts as baseless, without further scrutiny and examination. Therefore, the High Court was correct in remitting the matter to the judicial magistrate F for further examination. 38. We were informed that the Magistrate, on remand, has passed an under Section 156(3) directing registration of the FIR. He has misread the and directions given by the High Court. In terms of the s of this Court, the Magistrate is required to examine, apply G his judicious mind and then exercise discretion whether or not to issue directions under Section 156(3) or whether he should take cognizance and follow the procedure under Section 202. He can also direct a preliminary inquiry by the Police in terms of the law laid down by this Court in Lalita Kumari (supra). H 174 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 39. We would refrain and not comment on the allegations made as this may affect the case put up by either side. The accused do not have any right to appear before the Magistrate before summons are issued. However, the law gives them a right to appear before the revisionary court in proceedings, when the complainant challenges the rejecting an application under Section 156(3) of the Code. The B appellants, therefore, had appeared before the High Court and contested the proceedings. They have filed several papers and documents before the High Court and this Court. To be fair to them, the copies of the papers and documents filed before the High Court and this Court would also be forwarded and kept on record of the Magistrate who would, C thereupon, examine and consider the matter. However, the complainant/ informant would be entitled to question the genuineness and the contents of the said documents. 40. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, while affirming the impugned and passed by the High Court D remanding the matter back to the learned Magistrate, we set aside the subsequent passed by the Magistrate on remand, pursuant to the impugned and passed by the High Court and remit the matter back to the learned Magistrate to examine and apply his judicial mind and then exercise discretion whether or not to issue directions under section 156(3) or whether he can take cognizance and follow the E procedure under section 202. He can also direct the preliminary enquiry by the police in terms of the law laid down by this Court in the case of Lalita Kumari (supra). Copies of the papers and documents filed before the High Court and this Court could also be forwarded and brought on record of the Magistrate, who would thereupon examine and consider F the matter.