In the third circumstance it would (sic not) be. 7. Since it is not in dispute that the medical treatment in the said hospital is given to employees like the appellant and his family members as part of the conditions of service of the appellant and that the hospital is run and subsidised by the appellant’s employer, namely, the Union of India, the appellant’s case would fall within the CPL ASHISH KUMAR CHAUHAN (RETD.) v. COMMANDING 629 OFFICER & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] parameters laid down in para 55(12) of the in V.P. Shantha case [(1995) 6 SCC 651] and not within the parameters of either para 55(6) or para 55(9) of the said case. 8. It is true that the decision in State of Orissa v. Divisional Manager, LIC [(1996) 8 SCC 655] relied upon by the learned counsel for the respondents appears to hold to the contrary. However, since the decision is that of a smaller Bench and the decision in V.P. Shantha [(1995) 6 SCC 651] case was rendered by a larger Bench, we are of the opinion that it is open to this Court to follow the larger Bench which we will accordingly do.” Even in the case of employees who had contributed in part, the other contributions being from employers, under the Employees State Insurance Corporation scheme, this court had held that the services rendered by ESI hospitals were not gratuitous and that the ESI doctors fell within the ambit of the CPA 1986, in Kishore Lal (supra): “13. On a plain reading of the aforesaid provisions of the ESI Act, it is apparent that the Corporation is required to maintain and establish the hospitals and dispensaries and to provide medical and surgical services. Service rendered in the hospital to the insured person or his family members for medical treatment is not free, in the sense that the expense incurred for the service rendered in the hospital would be borne from the contributions made to the insurance scheme by the employer and the employee and, therefore, the principle enunciated in Conclusion (11) in para 55 in Indian Medical Assn. [(1995) 6 SCC 651] will squarely apply to the facts of the present case, where the appellant has availed the services under the insurance policy which is compulsory under the statute. Wherever the charges for medical treatment are borne under the insurance policy, it would be a service rendered within the ambit of Section 2(1)(o) of the Consumer Protection Act. It cannot be said to be a free service rendered by the ESI hospital/dispensary. 14. The service rendered by the medical practitioners of hospitals/ nursing homes run by ESI Corporation cannot be regarded as a service rendered free of charge. The person availing of such service under an insurance scheme of medical care, whereunder the charges for 630 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. consultation, diagnosis and medical treatment are borne by the insurer, such service would fall within the ambit of “service” as defi ned in Section 2(1)(o) of the Consumer Protection Act.