H MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 703 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 154. The recommendations of the Law Commission of New A Zealand and the opinions of Lord Clarke and Lord Mance in Al Rawi (supra) introduce closed material proceedings as an additional step after the completion of public interest immunity proceedings. The court in a closed material procedure, similar to the sealed cover process, relies on the material that the claimant is not privy to while disposing the B proceedings. The closed material proceedings are sought to be introduced to counterbalance the injustice(s) caused on the conclusion of the public interest immunity proceedings. 155. The claimant would be jumping into a pit of fire with their eyes closed even if they consent to a sealed cover procedure. As Lord C Kerr remarked in Al Rawi (supra), the claim that closed material procedure would provide a fairer outcome is premised on the assumption that the adjudicator is impartial. However, beyond this assumption, it must be recognised that the court could be misled by the material that is not subject to inspection and examination. This would lead a situation where the court renders an unfair and such an unfair decision D would not be amenable to both judicial review and public criticism on merits. 156. While it cannot be denied that allowing a public interest immunity claim may cause some degree of injury to the procedural guarantees of the claimant and the defendant, a sealed cover procedure E will not ensure a fairer proceeding. The purpose of public interest immunity proceedings would become redundant if the defendant is provided the option of requesting a closed material procedure after the conclusion of public interest immunity proceedings, which the defendant makes, is allowed. Rather, we are of the opinion that the effect of public interest F immunity proceedings of removing the evidence completely from the proceedings would persuade the State in making restricted claims of public interest immunity. Further, as Lord Dyson remarked, the procedure would be inherently disadvantageous to the claimant because they are unaware of the contents of the document. 157. It may be argued that the removal of the documents from G the proceedings would render the proceedings non-justiciable if the documents that are sought to be protected are so closely intertwined with the cause of action. Though the argument holds merit on a cursory glance, it does not hold water when delved into deeper. As observed above, one of the relevant considerations for the court in the balancing H 704 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A stage of adjudicating the public interest immunity claim is whether the non-disclosure of the material would render the issue non-justiciable. The court while analysing the relevancy of the material and the potential non-justiciability of the issue due to non-disclosure may direct that the material should be disclosed. The purpose of the balancing prong is to weigh in the conflicting claims and effects of such claims. Even if the B disclosure would conceivably injure public interest, the courts may still dismiss the claim of public interest immunity if the non-disclosure would render the issue non-justiciable, and on the facts of the case it is decided that the injury due to non-disclosure overweighs the injury due to disclosure.