There are also variations in the availability of judges to decide the cases, the case load per judge, the speed at which the cases are decided, the state of physical and technological infrastructure, availability of prosecutors, etc. There is yet another aspect, and this may not be amenable to data collection, but has a direct bearing on our endeavor for an early disposal of these cases. The practice and procedure prevalent in every court is distinct and is sometimes deep-rooted. There are many factors, which may be historical, cultural, regional or linguistic, that infl uence the work ethic in a court. This is where the role of the Bar becomes important, and therefore, their participation becomes crucial. Once we recognize the inextricable connection and interdependence of the Bar and the Bench, the need to focus and address these issues comes to light. At this stage, we are merely attempting to identify factors that must be taken into account while making an accurate assessment for an eff ective and expeditious disposal of the subject cases. 17. Having analyzed the data and information available on record, two conclusions emerged - fi rst, there are multiple factors that have a direct bearing on the disposal of the subject cases, and second, there is substantial variation from state to state, and district to district, with respect to each of these factors. These conclusions – the plurality of considerations and their asymmetry between State to State and even district to district, have a direct bearing on the decision or a measure that we may adopt for early disposal of the subject cases. 18. We have monitored these proceedings from 2017 onwards and have examined the data and information brought to our notice by the High Courts. We have also gone through the affi davits fi led on behalf of the State Governments which have shown equal concern and earnestness in ensuring ASHWINI KUMAR UPADHYAY v. UNION OF INDIA 281 DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI early disposal of the subject cases. With the assistance of the learned Amicus, we have formulated certain guidelines that will enable the completion of investigation, smooth conduct of trial, removal of impediments and conclusion of the subject cases at the earliest. 19. Having considered the matter in detail, we are of the opinion that there exist multiple factors. Each of these infl uences early disposal of the subject cases. This, coupled with their dissimilarity from State to State, makes it diffi cult for this Court to form a uniform or standard guideline for trial courts across the length and breadth of this country to dispose of the subject cases. We have gone through the affi davits fi led by the High Courts explaining the situation that exists within their jurisdiction. The High Courts have been dealing with these issues on the judicial as well as on the administrative side, and they are alive to the position that exists in each of their district courts. Under Article 227, the High Courts are entrusted with the power of superintendence over the district judiciary8.