Thus, the recommendation is accepted. [Paras E 94-97][78-C-G] VII. Recommendations on Additional Quantum of Pension/ Family Pension On account of the additional assistance required on F increasing age, it has been the policy of the Central Government to grant additional quantum of pension. The Commission has recommended the payment of additional quantum of pension from the age of 75 years onwards. Given that many of the States granted this benefit from the age of 70 and the Commission recommended the grant of additional quantum of pension from the age of 75. G This reasoning of the Commission merits acceptance. If States have been granting more beneficial pension rates, it cannot be denied to the judicial officers. Judicial Officers cannot be left worse off than officers of the State. Therefore, this Court accepts this recommendation. The Commission has further recommended that H 34 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A this benefit be paid from 01.01.2016. As with the other similar recommendations for the aspects of pay and pension, this recommendation is accepted. If judicial officers have already been granted a more beneficial regime and are moved to the regime suggested by the Commission and accepted by the Court, no recovery ought to be made against them. Consequently, it is left B to the States to continue the benefits upto the age of 75 years as well. These recommendations are accordingly accepted. [Para 98, 100-102][78-H; 79-A, C-F] VIII. Recommendations on Gratuity C The first recommendation on Gratuity by the Commission is to bring the calculation of gratuity on par with Rule 50(1)(a) of the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972. There cannot be any dispute regarding this recommendation as it is to bring about uniformity in conditions of service. Therefore, this recommendation merits acceptance by this Court. The D Commission further recommended that the maximum limit for retirement gratuity/death gratuity shall be Rs. 20 lakhs which shall be increased by 25% whenever DA rises by 50%. This recommendation has also been made in accordance with the Report of the 7th CPC, and the purpose of the same is to ensure E that the cost of living does not make the gratuity without purpose. Therefore, this recommendation also merits acceptance by the Court. The third recommendation is to make the recommendations effective from 01.01.2016. The recommendations must come into force from 01.01.2016. Consequentially, those judicial officers who retired after F 01.01.2016 must also benefit from the acceptance of the Report. Thus, the Commission has suggested that the differential gratuity be paid to them subject to the revised maximum limit. This is merely consequential and is accepted by this Court. The final recommendation made by the Commission on the subject of G gratuity is that death gratuity be paid on the same lines as the 7th CPC. Accordingly, the recommendation is accepted as it is in line with the already accepted principles laid down by this Court. [Paras 103-106][79-G-H; 80-A-D] IX. Recommendations on Financial Assistance in Case of Death H ALL INDIA JUDGES ASSOCIATION v. UNION OF INDIA 35 The Commission has recommended that where a judicial A officer dies while in service, the family pension and death cum retirement gratuity as per the applicable rules is payable to the spouse/dependent, of the deceased officer.