In this connection it has to be remembered that under the Constitution we have established a welfare state, whose functions are not confined only to maintaining law and , but extend to engaging in all activities including industry, E public transport, state trading, to name only a few of them. …” 148. But despite the decisions in Abdul Majid (supra) and Vidhyawati, this Court fell into a slippery slope in Kasturi Lal. It was a case where the partner of a firm dealing in bullion and other goods was arrested and detained in police custody and the gold and silver that he F was carrying was seized by the police. When he was released later, the silver was returned but the Head Constable who effected the arrest misappropriated the gold and fled away to Pakistan in October, 1947. The suit filed by Kasturi Lal for recovery of the value of the gold, was resisted on the ground that this was not a case of negligence of the G servants of the State and that even if negligence was held proved against the police officers the State could not be held liable. While upholding the contention of the State, this Court said “if a tortious act is committed by a public servant and it gives rise to a claim for damages, the 113 AIR 1962 SC 933 H 712 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A question to ask is: was the tortious act committed by the public servant in discharge of statutory functions which are referable to, and ultimately based on, the delegation of the sovereign powers of the State to such public servant? If the answer is in the affirmative, the action for damages for loss caused by such tortious act will not lie. On the other hand, if the tortious act has been committed by a B public servant in discharge of duties assigned to him not by virtue of the delegation of any sovereign power, an action for damages would lie. The act of the public servant committed by him during the course of his employment is in this category of cases, an act of a servant who might have been employed by a private individual for C the same purpose.” 149. In fact, it was suggested by this Court in Kasturi Lal that the Legislatures in India should seriously consider making legislative enactments to regulate and control their claim for immunity. Before proceeding further with the journey in the chronological sequence, it D must be mentioned that the decision in Kasturi Lal was diluted to some extent after nearly 30 years which we shall take note of at the appropriate stage. 150. In Khatri (II) vs. State of Bihar.114, which came to be popularly known as Bhagalpur blinding case, this Court was dealing E with a brutal incident of Police atrocity which resulted in twenty-four prisoners being blinded. Though an opportunity was provided to this Court to signal the arrival of Constitutional tort in the said case and though the petitioners sought compensation for the violation of their Article 21 right, this Court simply postponed the decision to a future date by holding that they are issues of the gravest Constitutional importance, involving the F exploration of new dimension of the right to life and personal liberty.