He pointed out that, if the legislative intent was to qualify “goods” with the word “taxable”, it could have been said so by the Legislature in Section 13 of the UP VAT Act itself. It was argued that if the legislative intent in the 2010 amendment was to limit the scope and ambit of the word M/S MODI NATURALS LTD. v. THE COMMISSIONER OF 753 COMMERCIAL TAX UP [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] “goods” under Section 13(1)(f) of the UP VAT Act solely to “taxable goods”, there was nothing that prevented the concerned legislature from expressly utilising the phrase “taxable goods” in Section 13(1)(f) of the UP VAT Act. 17. In the last, Mr. Datar argued that in construing taxation statutes, the court should apply the strict rule of interpretation. When the competent legislature mandates taxing certain business/certain objects in certain circumstances, it cannot be expounded/interpreted to those which were not intended by the legislature. 18. In such circumstances referred to above, Mr. Datar the learned Senior Counsel prayed that there being merit in his appeals those may be allowed and the impugned passed by the High Court be set aside and that of the Tribunal be affi rmed. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE REVENUE 19. Mr. R.K. Raizada, the learned Additional Advocate General appearing for the State of UP on the other hand vehemently opposed both the appeals submitting that no error, not to speak of any error of law could be said to have been committed by the High Court in passing the impugned . 20. The principal contention canvassed on behalf of the revenue is that the use of the expression “except as by-product or waste product” in Section 13(3)(b) of the UP VAT Act is decisive and if the exempt goods or non-VAT goods are being produced as the main products only and not being produced as the “by-product or waste product” then in such circumstances, Section 13(3)(b) of the UP VAT Act would have no application. According to the learned counsel, Section 13(3)(b) would be applicable only to a situation wherein the manufacturing of the “VAT goods”, “exempt goods” and “non- VAT goods” are not being produced as the “by-product” or “waste product”. 21. It was argued that in the case on hand, the cumulative sale price of the RBO and DORB respectively is more than the cost price and in such circumstances, Section 13(3)(b) read with Explanation (iii) of the UP VAT Act would have no applicability. It was also argued that Section 13(1)(f) of the UP VAT Act starts with a non-obstante clause having an overriding eff ect on the provision of Section 13(1)(a) of the UP VAT Act. The words and expressions used in Section 13(1)(f) of the UP VAT Act require a textual 754 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. interpretation matching with the contextual interpretation that Section 13(1) (f) of the UP VAT Act seeks to remedy the mischief, caused by the words used in the Table of Section 13(1)(a) of the UP VAT Act.