– The period of separation should be sufficiently long, and anything above six years or more will be a relevant factor – Question of custody and welfare F of minor children are also to be considered – Some of the factors mentioned can be taken as illustrative, and worthy of consideration – The factors are not codified – The exercise of jurisdiction u/Art. 142(1) is situation specific. Constitution of India – Art.32 – Whether a party can directly G canvass before the Supreme Court on the ground of irretrievable breakdown, by filing a writ petition under Art. 32 of the Constitution – Held: The parties should not be permitted to circumvent the procedure by resorting to the writ jurisdiction u/Art. 32 or 226 – The remedy of a person aggrieved by the decision of the competent judicial forum is to approach the superior forum for redressal of H SHILPA SAILESH v. VARUN SREENIVASAN 167 his grievance – Relief u/Art. 32 can be sought to enforce the rights A conferred by Part III of the Constitution of India, and on the proof of infringement thereof – Judicial s passed by the court in, or in relation to, the proceedings pending before it, are not amenable to correction u/Art. 32 of the Constitution of India – The view regarding the same in Poonam v. Sumit Tanwar is accepted. B / – Clarification – Held: It is clarified that reference in Poonam v. Sumit Tanwar and the observation that it is questionable whether the period of six months for moving the second motion can be waived has not been approved. Answering the reference, the Court C HELD: The scope and ambit of power and jurisdiction of this Court under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India; 1. The plenary and conscientious power conferred on this Court under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, seemingly unhindered, is tempered or bounded by restraint, which must be D exercised based on fundamental considerations of general and specific public policy. Fundamental general conditions of public policy refer to the fundamental rights, secularism, federalism, and other basic features of the Constitution of India. Specific public policy should be understood as some express pre-eminent E prohibition in any substantive law, and not stipulations and requirements to a particular statutory scheme. It should not contravene a fundamental and non-derogable principle at the core of the statute. Even in the strictest sense, it was never doubted or debated that this Court is empowered under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India to do ‘complete justice’ without being F bound by the relevant provisions of procedure, if it is satisfied that the departure from the said procedure is necessary to do ‘complete justice’ between the parties. Difference between procedural and substantive law in jurisprudential terms is contentious, albeit not necessary to be examined in depth in the G present decision, as in terms of the dictum enunciated by this Court in Union Carbide Corporation and Supreme Court Bar Association, exercise of power under Article 142(1) of the H 168 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R.