10. As the case was triable by Sessions, the matter was committed by the Magistrate to the Sessions Court, Pune. Immediately thereafter C Respondent Nos. 1 and 2 filed revision application for discharge. The same was dismissed by the Trial Court vide dated 21.02.2012. The High Court vide impugned had set aside the passed by the Trial Court and discharged Respondent Nos. 1 and 2. The aforesaid is under challenge before this Court. D 11. The law on issue as to what is to be considered at the time of discharge of an accused is well settled. It is a case in which the Trial Court had not yet framed the charges. Immediately after filing of chargesheet, application for discharge was filed. The settled proposition of law is that at the stage of hearing on the charges entire evidence produced by the prosecution is to be believed. In case no offence is E made out then only an accused can be discharged. Truthfulness, sufficiency and acceptability of the material produced can be done only at the stage of trial. At the stage of charge, the Court has to satisfy that a prima facie case is made out against the accused persons. Interference of the Court at that stage is required only if there is strong reasons to F hold that in case the trial is allowed to proceed, the same would amount to abuse of process of the Court. 12. The law on the point has been summarised in a recent of this Court in State of Rajasthan v. Ashok Kumar Kashyap2. Relevant paras are extracted below: - G “11.1. In P. Vijayan v. State of Kerala, (2010) 2 SCC 398, this Court had an occasion to consider Section 227 CrPC What is required to be considered at the time of framing of the charge and/or considering the discharge application has been considered 2 (2021) 11 SCC 191 H 474 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A elaborately in the said decision. It is observed and held that at the stage of Section 227, the Judge has merely to sift the evidence in to find out whether or not there is sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused. It is observed that in other words, the sufficiency of grounds would take within its fold the nature of the evidence recorded by the police or the documents produced B before the court which ex facie disclose that there are suspicious circumstances against the accused so as to frame a charge against him. It is further observed that if the Judge comes to a conclusion that there is sufficient ground to proceed, he will frame a charge under Section 228 CrPC, if not, he will discharge the accused. It C is further observed that while exercising its judicial mind to the facts of the case in to determine whether a case for trial has been made out by the prosecution, it is not necessary for the court to enter into the pros and cons of the matter or into a weighing and balancing of evidence and probabilities which is really the function of the court, after the trial starts.