The charging section of the UP VAT Act, therefore, entitles the assessee to claim full amount of tax paid on the purchases as ITC. 48. Furthermore, Section 13(3)(b) of the UP VAT Act, introduces the concept of proportionality in the scheme of the enactment and by means of a deeming fi ction provides that where during the manufacture of VAT 768 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. goods, exempt and non-VAT goods (except as by-product or waste product) are produced, the amount of ITC credit may be claimed and may be allowed in proportion to the extent they are used or consumed in manufacture of taxable goods other than the non-VAT goods and exempt goods. 49. Section 13(3)(b), however, leaves a grey area with respect to cases where the process of manufacture (such as in the present case) results in the production of VAT goods and by-products or waste products. In such cases, the legislature has done well to take care of the grey area by providing for another legal fi ction in the form of Explanation (iii) to Section 13 wherein it is provided that during the manufacture of any taxable goods, any exempt goods are produced as by-product or waste product, it shall be deemed that the purchased goods have been used in the manufacture of taxable goods. 50. Explanation (iii) to Section 13, therefore, forbids the Assessing Authority as well as the assessee from raising any dispute in regard to the allowability of the ITC in cases where exempted goods are being produced as a by-product or waste product during the process of manufacture. WHETHER THE HIGH COURT WAS RIGHT IN PLACING RELIANCE ON THE DECISION OF THIS COURT IN THE CASE OF M.K. AGRO TECH PRIVATE LIMITED (SUPRA) 51. The revenue has relied upon the decision of this Court in M.K. Agro Tech (supra), as the basis for denying ITC to the assessee. 52. The decision in the case of M.K. Agro Tech (supra), was rendered by this Court, examining the claim of ITC by an assessee on the goods purchased under the Karnataka Value Added Tax Act, 2003 (for short “Karnataka VAT Act”). 53. In the case of M.K. Agro Tech (supra), the assessee was engaged in the manufacture of sunfl ower oil (taxable goods), which is extracted from sunfl ower cake, by employing solvent extraction process. Sunfl ower oil cake is the input/raw material on which VAT was payable. During the extraction process, a ‘by-product’ in the form of de-oiled sunfl ower oil is produced. The said by-product was also exempted under the Karnataka VAT Act. 54. Section 17 of the Karnataka VAT Act relates to partial rebate and deals with contingencies where the fi nal products are more than one and M/S MODI NATURALS LTD. v. THE COMMISSIONER OF 769 COMMERCIAL TAX UP [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] the output tax is payable only on some products with the other remaining products being exempted from the payment of tax. In the said case as no tax was payable on the ‘by-product’, the ITC was only partially admissible.