value of the goods declared before the customs authority was Hong Kong $19200 whereas the actual value was Hong Kong $211468.07 as per export declaration before the Hong Kong Customs and Excise Department. Thus, according to the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, M/s Ganpati Overseas had evaded customs duty to the tune of Rs. 8,67,762.00. The price of goods as shown in the import documents by M/s Ganpati Overseas was found to be much less than the real price of the goods, i.e., at the price at which those were supplied from Hong Kong. Therefore, the import valuation was rejected in terms of Section 14 of the Customs Act and the Customs Valuation (Determination of Price of Imported Goods) Rules, 1988 (briefl y, the ‘Customs Valuation Rules’ hereinafter). 4.8. The show cause notice proposed that the value of imported goods should be determined under Rule 8 of the Customs Valuation Rules on the basis of the value given in the export declarations obtained from the Hong Kong Customs and Excise Department. Alleging that respondents had wilfully misdeclared and suppressed the correct value of the imported goods with an intent to evade duties of customs, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence invoked the extended period of limitation as per the proviso to Section 28(1) of the Customs Act. It was mentioned that M/s Ganpati Overseas was liable to pay the diff erential customs duty of Rs. 1,07,41,419.00 leviable on the import of tuners, saw fi lters etc. as per chart-I and Rs. 8,67,762.00 as per chart-II, the total amount being Rs. 1,16,09,181.00. Respondents were therefore called upon to show cause as to why the aforesaid amount of customs duty should not be demanded and recovered from them and also as to why the imported goods should not be confi scated under Sections 111(d) and 111(m) of the Customs Act, besides appropriation of the amount of Rs. 30 lakhs already deposited. Respondents were further called upon to show cause as to why penalty under Section 112(a) of the Customs Act should not be imposed upon them and as to why interest should not be levied on the evaded customs duty. 4.9. The noticees were directed to submit their reply to the Commissioner of Customs, Air Cargo Complex, Sahar Airport, Mumbai within the stipulated time. It was mentioned that the show cause notice was issued under Section 124 of the Customs Act read with the proviso to Section 28(1) of the aforesaid Act. COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS (IMPORTS), MUMBAI v. M/S GANPATI 179 OVERSEAS THR. ITS PROP. SHRI YASHPAL SHARMA [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] 5. M/s Ganpati Overseas through its lawyer replied to the aforesaid show cause notice on 20.05.2000. While denying all the allegations in totality, it was mentioned that the Commissioner of Customs vide his letter dated 07.04.2000 had rejected the request of M/s Ganpati Overseas for supply of certain documents sought for, on the ground that those documents were not relied upon. It was submitted that those documents might have relevance while preparing the defence and that absence of those documents would handicap the noticees in putting forth a proper defence.