(xii) It is submitted that had there been no occurrence of Change in Law event, i.e. there was no shortfall in coal supply, the tariff payment to the Generating Companies would have been based on quoted energy charge. In such a situation, SHR and GCV of coal would not have come into the picture. H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 107 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] However, when there is an occurrence of Change in Law A event, the principle of ‘Restitution’ comes into play. It is submitted that ‘restitution’ can take place only with consideration of ‘actual’ parameters. (xiii) It is submitted that taking this into consideration, expert bodies like the CERC and APTEL have allowed the SHR B and GCV to be determined on ‘actual’ basis. (xiv) It is submitted that the SHR indicated in the bid as part of technical information does not conform to the mandate of restitution as it cannot put the Generator back to the same economic position had Change in Law event not occurred. C (xv) It is submitted as per the NCDP 2007, 100% normative requirement of coal was to be supplied by the CIL. However, due to shortfall of coal in the country, the responsibility of CIL to supply coal was reduced to 65%, 65%, 67% and 75% of the ACQ. The shortfall in coal was to be met either D by the CIL or by the Generating Companies/Generators by importing coal. It is submitted that the higher cost of such imported coal was allowed to be a pass-through. (xvi) It is submitted that a conjoint reading of CERC statutory advice dated 20th May 2013, CCEA decision dated 21st June E 2013, MoP letter dated 31st July 2013, and clause 6.1 of the Tariff Policy 2016 issued by the MoP would reveal that pass-through of the higher cost of quantity of shortfall in coal procured from alternate sources was to be allowed. It is submitted that this position has been upheld by the s of this Court in the case of Energy Watchdog F (supra) and Adani Rajasthan case (supra). (xvii) It is submitted that this pass-through is by way of restitution due to shortfall in 100% assured quantity of coal and it cannot be limited to the percentages/trigger levels specified in the NCDP 2013. It is submitted that the principle of restitution G would require the pass-through to the extent the supply from CIL was cut down. It is submitted that an argument to the contrary has already been rejected by this Court in the case of Adani Rajasthan case (supra). H 108 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (xviii) In addition to the s of this Court in the cases of Energy Watchdog (supra) and Adani Rajasthan case (supra), the Generating Companies also rely on the of this court in the case of Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (UHBVNL) and another v. Adani Power Limited and others5. B (xix) It is also submitted that the contention on the part of the DISCOMS that Adani Rajasthan case (supra) would not be applicable to the facts of the present case, inasmuch as there was no FSA scenario, is also factually incorrect.