2. The facts leading to the present appeal in a nutshell are as under: - F 2.1 Under Section 40 of the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972 (hereinafter referred to as the Act, 1972), every person having at the commencement of this Act the control, custody or possession of any captive animal specified in Schedule I or Part II of Schedule II or animal article… or the musk of a musk deer or the horn of a rhinoceros, shall, G within thirty days from the commencement of this Act, declare to the Chief Wild Life Warden or the authorised officer the number and description of the animal, or article of the foregoing description under his control, custody or possession and the place where such animal or article is kept. As per sub-section (2) of Section 40, no person shall, after the H commencement of this Act, 1972, acquire, receive, keep in his control, VISHALAKSHI AMMA v. STATE OF KERALA & ORS. 1083 [M. R. SHAH, J.] custody or possession, the animal specified in Schedule I or Part II of A Schedule II or any animal article including the deer horn, except with the previous permission in writing of the Chief Wild Life Warden or the authorised officer. However, Section 40A of the Act, 1972, is an exception and gives immunity in certain cases. As per Section 40A, notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (2) and (4) of Section 40 of this Act, B the Central Government may, by notification, require any person to declare to the Chief Wild Life Warden or the authorised officer, any captive animal, animal article….. in his control, custody or possession, in respect of which no declaration had been made under sub- section (1) or sub-section (4) of Section 40, in such form, in such manner and within such time as may be prescribed. Sub-section (2) of Section 40, provides C that any action taken or purported to be taken for violation of Section 40 of the Act, 1972 at any time before the commencement of the Wild Life (Protection) Amendment Act, 2002 shall not be proceeded with and all pending proceedings shall stand abated. 2.2 In exercise of the powers conferred under Section 40A read D with Section 63 of the Act, 1972, the Central Government had made “the Declaration of Wild Life Stock Rules, 2003.” Rule 3 to 14 read as under: - “3. Publicity of intent of notification and Assistance in making application.—(1) The Chief Wild Life Warden or the E officer authorised by the State Government in this regard shall cause to give wide publicity to the intent of this notification in the regional language through electronic or print media or such other means. (2) The Chief Wild Life Warden or the officer authorised F by the State Government in this regard shall take necessary action to assist the local communities and individuals especially the poor and illiterate in the declaration of their possession, filling up the specified form and any other matter connected therewith and shall make every attempt to ensure that no individual or community G associated with animals is deprived of this opportunity.