The court examined the history of airport regulation in India, including the legislation concerning it, and, after analysing the provisions of the AAI Act, including the amendment to it, in 2003, held that: B “12. The functions of the Airports Authority under clause (aa) of sub-section (3) of Section 12 also inserted by the Amendment Act of 2003 to establish airports, or assist in the establishment of private airports by rendering such technical, financial or other assistance which the Central Government may consider necessary for such purposes cannot be assigned C to the lessee under Section 12A Section 12A of the 1994 Act. The Amendment Act of 2003 which also inserted Section 12A therefore provides in sub-section (1) of Section 12A that the Airports Authority can make a lease of the premises of an airport (including buildings and structures thereon and D appertaining thereto) to carry out “some” of its functions under Section 12 as the Airports Authority may, in the public interest or in the interest of better management of airports, deem fit. Obviously, “a lease of premises of an airport” as contemplated in sub-section (1) of Section 12A cannot include establishing an airport or assisting in establishment of private E airports as contemplated in clause (aa) of sub-section (3) of Section 12 of the Act. 13. To enable the Airports Authority to perform its statutory function of establishing a new airport or to assist in the establishment of private airports, the legislature has thought F it fit to empower the Airports Authority to levy and collect development fees as will be clear from clauses (b) and (c) of Section 22A of the 1994 Act. Such development fees levied and collected under Section 22A can also be utilized for funding or financing the costs of up-gradation, expansion G and development of an existing airport at which the fees is collected as provided in clause (a) of Section 22A of the Act and in case the lease of the premises of an existing airport (including buildings and structures thereon and appertaining thereto) has been made to a lessee under Section 12A of the Act, the Airports Authority may meet the costs of up-gradation, H CENTRAL GST DELHI - III v. DELHI INTERNATIONAL 337 AIRPORT LTD [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] expansion and development of such leased out airport to a A lessee, but this can be done only if the rules provide for such payment to the lessee of an airport because Section 22A says that the development fees are to be regulated and utilized in the manner prescribed by the Rules. Since the lessee of an airport cannot be assigned the function of the Airports B Authority to establish airports or assist in establishing private airports in lieu of the existing airports at which the development fees is being collected, the lessee cannot under sub-section (4) of Section 12A have the power of the Airports Authority under Section 22A of the 1994 Act to levy and collect development fees. This is because sub-section (4) of Section C 12A provides that the lessee can have all those powers of the Airports Authority which are necessary for performance of such functions as assigned to it under sub-section (1) of Section 12A in terms of the lease.