Once the of detention itself had been revoked for whatever reasons there would be no of detention against such person under COFEPOSA and therefore, no applicability of SAFEMA. 17. On the other hand, Shri Vikramjit Banerji, learned Additional Solicitor General submitted that the arguments advanced by the appellant are misplaced. According to him, provisions of SAFEMA can be invoked against the person in respect of whom the of detention under COFEPOSA had been made subject to the exception given under the proviso to section 2(2)(b) of SAFEMA. Until and unless any of the four clauses under the proviso can be said to be attracted to the present appellant, the appellant cannot derive any benefi t out of the same. It is only where the revocation is for the reasons and situations given under four clauses of the proviso that SAFEMA would not be applicable to such a person against whom the detention had been passed under COFEPOSA. 18. Mr. Banerji also submitted that the proceedings under the Act 1962 and the Act 1968 and the complaint and the withdrawal of penalty under the said provisions also would not be of any help to the appellant in as much as the appellant would be liable to be proceeded with proceedings under SAFEMA as there was an of detention under COFEPOSA against which representation was rejected and writ petition before the High Court had been dismissed on merits. The said of the High Court had attained fi nality. Any subsequent withdrawal or revocation of the detention which was not covered by any of the four clauses under proviso to section 2(2) (b) of SAFEMA, cannot be of any help to the appellant to canvas that 784 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. once an of detention had been revoked, the provisions of SAFEMA would become inapplicable. 19. Primarily, the argument of the appellant is two- fold: fi rstly, benefi t is said to be derived from the revocation of the detention passed under COFEPOSA and secondly, the dismissal of the complaint and the withdrawal of the penalty under the Act 1962 and Act 1968. 20. In so far as the second argument is concerned, it has no relevance to the applicability or non-applicability of the impugned proceedings and forfeiture under SAFEMA. They were independent proceedings under the provisions of the Act 1962 and the Act 1968. 21. Now coming to the fi rst argument relating to revocation of the detention passed under COFEPOSA. SAFEMA was enacted to provide for the forfeiture of illegally acquired properties of smugglers and foreign exchange manipulators and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto as such activities were having a deleterious eff ect on the national economy. Section 2 provided for the application of the provisions of the Act only to the persons specifi ed in sub-section (2) thereof. According to sub-section (2)(b) every person in respect of whom an of detention has been made under COFEPOSA, the Act would be applicable subject to four clauses mentioned under the proviso thereto.