They were as follows :- (1) Jethnath having an ‘axe’ (2) Dhurnath having a ‘dang’ (3) Meghnath having a ‘farsi’ (4) Rughnath having Favda (Shovel) (5) Babunath having a ‘dang’ (6) Malanath having an ‘axe’ and (7) Devnath having a ‘dang’ All the above named accused, who were armed, started assaulting the aunt and uncle of the complainant-Birbalnath, in which both were grievously injured. Jethnath was the fi rst to assault Chandernath with his axe and the rest joined the attack. Rami was also attacked, by these assailants. This incident was also witnessed by Pratapnath, Ramunath, Dhurnath, their sister-in-law Rampyari, Cheni Devi and Ruparam as they had reached the spot in a few minutes, who tried to intervene in the matter and save their BIRBAL NATH v. THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ORS 89 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] relatives, but in vain. Chandernath died in the ambulance while being taken to the hospital at Jodhpur. Meanwhile the police started its investigation, and fi led its chargesheet against all the accused except Devnath in the case. The case was later committed to the Sessions Court where charges were framed under Sections 147, 148, 302, 323/149, 324/149, 325/149, 447, 307/149 of the Indian Penal Code against all the six accused, named in the chargesheet. 5. There were in all 24 witnesses who were examined by the prosecution. The star eye witness being Rami (PW-2) who is the wife of the deceased and was herself grievously hurt in the incident. Apart from her there were other eye witnesses as well such as PW-3, PW-6 and PW-7 i.e., Rampyari, Mohannath, Birbalnath respectively. There was also recovery of clothes and weapons which was made on the disclosure of the accused. 6. In their statement under Section 313 of CrPC, all the accused denied the charges and the evidence against them and also presented defence witnesses in the form of – Birmaram (DW-1), Hanutaram (DW-2), Khemaram (DW-3), Dr. Devkaran (DW-4) and Hukmaram (DW-5). 7. Out of all the prosecution witnesses which were examined by the prosecution, Rami (PW-2) is the most important witness, as she was the wife of the deceased and at the relevant point of time was working in the fi eld, along with her husband. In addition, this witness had sustained grievous injuries in the incident, including a near fatal injury on her head and therefore the testimony of this particular witness is the most credible evidence produced by the prosecution before the Trial Court. The examination-in- chief and cross examination of Rami was done before the Trial Court on 27.11.2001. She was cross examined at length by the defence, but nothing has come out in the cross examination, except minor discrepancies. These discrepancies as we shall be examining later do not discredit the witness as has been held by the High Court. The social background and the overall surrounding circumstances of the case are important considerations for the court while examining a witness, which has not been done. The High Court, as we shall see, has relied on these discrepancies, while acquitting the accused of the charges under Sections 302 & 307.