The subtle and nuanced distinction between the question as to whether the offence has been committed and if an offence has been committed, whether a sanction is required for prosecuting a public servant who is alleged to have committed the same, must not be lost sight of. The learned Magistrate and the High Court would appear to have overlooked this E distinction. We notice that, in fact, apparently being conscious of the legal requirement of sanction, the first respondent had sought sanction from the appropriate Government and a writ petition was also filed viz., 6238/2011 for directions to take appropriate steps in the matter. It is further noticed by us that on account of the pendency of the petition F under Section 482 that no action was taken on the same. (31) One ground which has found favour with the High Court against the appellant is that the appellant, according to the High Court, could raise the issue before the Magistrate. Here we may notice one aspect. When the question arises as to G whether an act or omission which constitutes an offence in law has been done in the discharge of official functions by a public servant and the matter is under a mist and it is not clear whether the act is traceable to the discharge of his official functions, the Court may in a given case tarry and allow the proceedings to go on. Materials will be placed before H 692 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A the Court which will make the position clear and a delayed decision on the question may be justified. However, in a case where the act or the omission is indisputably traceable to the discharge of the official duty by the public servant, then for the Court to not accept the objection against cognizance being taken would clearly defeat the salutary purpose which underlies Section 197 of the Cr.P.C. It all depends on the facts and B therefore, would have to be decided on a case to case basis. (32) We notice that Shri R. Basant, learned senior counsel, drew our attention to the of this Court in MCD v. Uphaar Tragedy Victims Assn. (2011) 14 SCC 481 to contend that this Court has exonerated the licensing authority of liablity: C “54. It is evident from the decisions of this Court as also the decisions of the English and Canadian Courts that it is not proper to award damages against public authorities merely because there has been some inaction in the performance of their statutory duties or because the action taken by them is ultimately found to be D without authority of law. In regard to performance of statutory functions and duties, the courts will not award damages unless there is malice or conscious abuse. The cases where damages have been awarded for direct negligence on the part of the statutory authority or cases involving doctrine of strict liability cannot be E relied upon in this case to fasten liability against MCD or the licensing authority.