However, the President can neither exercise the powers vested in the High Court nor suspend provisions related to the High Court. Three features of Article 356(1)(c) must be noted to understand the purport of the provision. First, unlike clauses (a) and (b) which deal with specifi c powers, clause (c) is worded broadly. It encapsulates the power to make “incidental and consequential provisions” to give eff ect to the object of the Proclamation. The phrase “incidental and consequential” qualifi es the latter part of Article 356(1)(c), that is, “for giving eff ect to the objects of the Proclamation”. Second, the power prescribed in Clause (c) encapsulates the power of the President to suspend a part of the Constitution related to a body but is not limited to it. Third, the President’s power to suspend or take over the powers of “any authority” does not extend to the powers of the High Court; and e. Clauses (a), (b), and (c) of Article 356(1) grant the President independent powers. However, the power provided under Clause (c) is broad enough to encapsulate the power of the President to assume functions under clause (a) and declare under (b) that the powers of the Legislature of the State shall be exercisable by Parliament. 204. The principle underlying Article 356(1)(c) is that the exercise of power by the President must be “desirable or necessary” to give eff ect to IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 127 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] the objects of the Proclamation. The phrases ‘necessary’ and ‘desirable’ in Article 356(1)(c) capture diff ering standards of relationship with the object. While ‘necessary’ encapsulates the meaning of that which is inevitable or unavoidable, thereby, introducing a stringent standard, the phrase ‘desirable’ encapsulates the meaning of possible or suitable, providing a broader standard. The commonality in both the “necessity” and “desirability” standards is that the exercise of power must have a reasonable nexus with the object of the Proclamation. Thus, the principle which runs through Article 356(1)(c) and which also guides the exercise of power under Article 356(1)(a) is that the exercise of power must have a reasonable nexus with the object of the Proclamation. 205. The Sarkaria Commission identifi ed four situations where the exercise of power under Article 356 might be justifi ed which include: (a) political crisis arising from the inability of any party or coalition of parties to form a workable majority; (b) internal subversion resulting from an eff ort of a State government to undermine responsible government; (c) physical breakdown following an inability to respond to internal disturbance; and (d) non-compliance with the Union, for example by refusing to follow the directions during war. Though the objective in each of the above situations is to restore the constitutional machinery in the State, the specifi c object of issuing the Proclamation diff ers. While applying the standard identifi ed in the preceding paragraph, this Court must consider the validity of the exercise of power against the specifi c object or purpose for which the Proclamation under Article 356 was issued.