He has argued that the challenge to the Maharashtra Amendment Act, if sustained, could hamper lives of farmers still associated with Bullock C Cart Race. It is also his argument that the Amendment Act of Maharashtra is also relatable to entry 15 of List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India which stipulates:- “Preservation, protection and improvement of stock and prevention of animal diseases; veterinary training and practice”. D 5. The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 2017,(“Tamil Nadu Amendment Act”), The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Maharashtra Amendment) Act, 2017 (“Maharashtra Amendment Act”) and The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Karnataka Second Amendment) Act, 2017 (“Karnataka Amendment Act”) were E enacted by the respective State Legislatures and had received Presidential assent. We shall refer to these Acts in greater details in this . These Amendment Acts in substance seek to legitimise various types of bovine sports including Jallikattu in Tamil Nadu, Bullock Cart Race in Maharashtra and Kambala in Karnataka. The term Jallikattu as defined in the Tamil Nadu Amendment Act is as follows:- F “(dd) “Jallikattu” means an event involving bulls conducted with a view to follow tradition and culture on such days from the months of January to May of a calendar year and in such places, as may be notified by the State Government, and includes “manjuviratu”, “vadamadu” and “erudhuvidumvizha”.” G In the Karnataka Amendment Act, the term Kambala has been defined, upon Amendment of the parent Statute as:- “(aa) “Bulls race or Bullock cart race” means any form of bulls race including race of Bullock cart as a traditional sports H involving Bulls whether tied to cart with the help of wooden THE ANIMAL WELFARE BOARD OF INDIA AND ORS. v. 443 UNION OF INDIA & ANR. [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] yoke or not (in whatever name called) normally held as a A part of tradition and culture in the state on such days and places, as may be notified by the State Government.”; and (ii) after clause (d), the following shall be inserted, namely:- (dd) “Kambala” means the traditional sports event involving B Buffalo’s (male) race normally held as a part of tradition and culture in the state on such days and places, as may be notified by the State Government.” Bullock Cart Race as held in Maharashtra has been defined under Section 2 of the Amendment Act as:- C “(bb) “bullock cart race” means an event involving bulls or bullocks to conduct a race, whether tied to cart with the help of wooden yoke or not (by whatever name called), with or without a cartman with a view to follow tradition and culture on such days and in any District where it is being traditionally held at such places, as may be previously approved by the D District Collector, and also known as “Bailgada Sharyat”, “Chhakadi” and “Shankarpat” in the State of Maharashtra.” 6. A Public Interest Litigation (“PIL”) was brought before the High Court of Judicature at Bombay, registered as PIL (stamp) number 23132 of 2017 (Ajay Marathe vs.