Hence a direction was issued to the appellants herein to fi x the members of the Respondent Association and other similarly placed Assistants working in Ordnance Factories and in OFB in the same pay scale as was given to Assistants similarly placed in CSS/CSSS, Army Headquarters, UPSC, CAT, MEA, Ministry of Parliamentary Aff airs etc. with eff ect from the same date as was fi rst given to them. The appellant therefore claiming to be aggrieved by the same are in this appeal. 4. Heard Mr. R. Bala Subramanian, learned senior counsel for the appellant, Ms. Kiran Suri, learned senior counsel for the respondents and perused the appeal papers. 5. The thrust of the contention on behalf of the appellants is that the power of judicial review in matters pertaining to pay scale is limited, unless arbitrariness can be demonstrated or there is palpable discrimination. Insofar as the provision contained in the recommendations of the VIth CPC the appellants seek to rely on para 3.1.14 which recommended replacement pay scale. The reliance placed by the respondents instead on para 3.1.9 is disputed to contend that it does not refer to employees of OFB and it is further contended that it does not extend any extra benefi ts. In that backdrop, it is seen that the High Court having noted the fact that the successive CPC recommendations had resulted in parity in pay scales and in view of such equal treatment historically had also considered the pay scale as provided in the VIth CPC as well as the intention as contained in para 3.1.9 which provided for parity. 6. In to appreciate the manner in which the High Court has analysed the issue to arrive at its conclusion, it would be apposite to 860 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. reproduce relevant portion of the consideration made by the High Court. The same reads as hereunder:- “16. In this background, it would be necessary to extract the relevant recommendations of the Sixth CPC, i.e. paras 3.1.9 and 3.1.14 which reads as follows: “3.1.9 Accordingly, the Commission recommends upgradation of the entry scale of Section Offi cers in all Secretariat Services (including CSS as well as non-participating ministries/departments/organizations) to Rs. 7500-12000 corresponding to the revised pay band PB 2 of Rs.8700-34800 along with grade pay of Rs.4800. Further, on par with the dispensation already available in CSS, the Section Offi cers in other Secretariat Offi ces, which have always had an established parity with CSS/CSSS, shall be extended the scale of Rs.8000-13500 in Group B corresponding to the revised pay band PB 2 of Rs.8700-34800 along with grade pay of Rs.4800 on completion of four years service in the lower grade. This will ensure full parity between all Secretariat Offi ces. It is clarifi ed that the pay band PB 2 of Rs.8700-34800 along with grade pay of Rs.4800 is being recommended for the post of Section Offi cer in these services solely to maintain the existing relativities which were disturbed when the scale was extended only to the Section Offi cers in CSS.