In Golla Rajamma & Ors. v. Divisional Manager & Anr.8 (2-Judge Bench) it was observed that “under the scheme of the Act, the Workmen’s Compensation Commissioner is the last authority on facts. Parliament has thought it fi t to restrict the scope of the appeal only to substantial questions of law, being a welfare legislation. Unfortunately, the High Court has missed this crucial question of limited jurisdiction and has ventured to reappreciate the evidence and recorded its own fi ndings on percentage of disability for which also there is no basis. The whole exercise made by the High Court is not within the competence of the High Court under Section 30 of the Act.” 24. Keeping in view the said principles, the impugned judgement, ex-facie, appears to be in contravention thereto. 25. On merits too, we fi nd that the conclusions arrived at by the Commissioner, were undoubtedly “a possible view”, therefore extinguishing the possibility of perversity in fi ndings. 26. A Bench of two learned Judges observed in C. Manjamma v. New India Assurance Co. Ltd.9 8 (2017) 1 SCC 45 9 (2022) 6 SCC 206 FULMATI DHRAMDEV YADAV & ANR. v. NEW INDIA 383 ASSURANCE CO. LTD. & ANR. [SANJAY KAROL J.] “15. That being the position, the view taken by the Commissioner had been a possible view of the matter in the given set of facts and circumstances; and there was no reason for the High Court to interfere with the same, particularly when the case did not involve any substantial question of law within the meaning of Section 30 of Employees Compensation Act, 1933.” 27. From the materials available on record before the Commissioner as described in the , it certainly will not be an improbable, much less an impossible, conclusion that the deceased was on the pay-roll of the employer. Prima facie, the question that arises and remains un-addressed throughout was, as to what the deceased was doing with the trolley as also the goods laden on it, which he was tying or untying at the time of his death. Second, the affi davit placed before the Commissioner categorically stated that deceased was an employee of the employer. It has been noted by the Commissioner, in his consideration of the second issue that, no written statement had been fi led nor had the version of the Applicants been challenged by the employer; and even though the Respondents herein had denied the facts as stated in the petition and cross examined the Applicants, “but no adverse facts proved” by and “no adverse document produced” by the Insurer to rebut the contents of the claim petition 28. Additionally, having gone through the record we fi nd that in the Panchnama of the place of occurrence10, it has been recorded that there was only one person present at the spot. He was Sunilbhai Ramjibhai Ahir and was serving as a supervisor in the company of the employer. The inquest panchnama form11 also names the employer company. The address mentioned, with which the deceased was associated as also the person who has identifi ed the corpse of the deceased, for both of them it corresponds to that of the employer company.