SURESH THIPMPPA SHETTY v. THE STATE OF 1141 MAHARASHTRA [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] 8. Another indicator concerning the testimony of PW7, as pointed out by the learned counsel for the appellants is that if the incident took place at 8:15 PM, and minute details are being disclosed by him when he was at a distance of 150 feet, the same is palpably diffi cult to believe. Moreover, the weapon having not been recovered nor there being collection of the clothes worn by PW1 showing that he has blood stains, when admittedly after being shot, the deceased’s neck had tilted on his shoulder, also points to the said witness not being at the spot and the whole story so far as the appellants are concerned is fabricated, per the learned counsel. 9. Learned counsel for A2 further took the stand that despite some money confi scated from the bank account and fi xed deposit of A2, there is nothing to connect the said money to A1 and A7 who are said to have been the masterminds in hatching the conspiracy with motive. 10. Learned counsel summed up stating that even the alleged rivalry between the deceased on the one hand, and A1 and A7 on the other, was not proved before the trial court, which resulted in the acquittals of A1 and A7. 11. Learned counsel for the appellants submitted that in cross- examination, PW2 (Vinayak Shivaji Sawant) has not identifi ed A4. PW2 also admits that he was shown photographs of A2 and A4 on many occasions. It was also contended that the assailant/actual shooter is still absconding and has not been apprehended and only to cover up lapses, the police after six months have set up PW7 to somehow implicate the appellants. In his deposition, PW7 has stated that he heard crackers being burst which means that there were multiple sounds whereas there is a categorical statement made by PW1, who was in the car that two shots were fi red by a small weapon and thus, there could not have been multiple sounds from the same fi ring, which indicates that it could not have been from a small weapon, which would not make repeated sound(s). SUBMISSIONS OF THE RESPONDENT: 12. Per contra, learned counsel appearing for the State (sole respondent) in both appeals supported the Impugned . He tried to persuade us not to interfere. He submitted that the Sessions Court has clearly discussed the role of the appellants based on the testimony of the witnesses and they have also been identifi ed by the prosecution witnesses. Thus, it was 1142 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. contended that the conspiracy was clearly established. Furthermore, it was submitted that the Impugned has also discussed the deposition of the prosecution witnesses, including the room service personnel/hotel staff of diff erent hotels who have recognised A2, which further proves that there was a criminal conspiracy between the appellants. It was contended that there was also discussion based on the testimony of the witnesses about the bank transaction of A2.