365. It is trite law that a power under a statute must be exercised in accordance with the provisions of that statute and in no other manner. In 218 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. J.N. Ganatra v. Morvi Municipality,259 this Court set aside the dismissal of an employee by the respondent municipality on the ground that it had failed to comply with the procedure for dismissal set out in the relevant rule: “4. It is no doubt correct that the General Board of the Municipality had the power under the Act to dismiss the appellant but the said power could only be exercised in the manner indicated by Rule 35 of the Rules. Admittedly the power of dismissal has not been exercised the way it was required to be done under the Act. It is a settled proposition of law that a power under a statute has to be exercised in accordance with the provisions of the statute and in no other manner. In view of the categoric fi nding given by the High Court to the eff ect that the of dismissal was on the face of it illegal and void, we have no hesitation in holding that the dismissal of the appellant was not an act done in pursuance or execution or intended execution of the Act.” (emphasis supplied) 366. The same rule of construction has been used in the context of various other statutes260 and is undoubtedly applicable to the Constitution. The principle underlying this rule is that the provision may as well have not been enacted if the procedure it provides is not followed.261 II. Paragraph 2 of CO 272 367. CO 272 was issued in exercise of the power under Article 370(1) (d). Paragraph 2 of CO 272 is extracted below: “2. All provisions of the Constitution, as amended from time to time, shall apply in relation to the State of Jammu and Kashmir and the exceptions and modifi cations subject to which they shall so apply shall be as follows: - To article 367, there shall be added the following clause, namely: - “(4) For the purposes of this Constitution as it applies in relation to the State of Jammu and Kashmir – 259 (1996) 9 SCC 495 260 Commissioner of Income Tax, Mumbai v. Anjum M.H. Ghaswala, (2002) 1 SCC 633; State of Uttar Pradesh v. Singhara Singh, 1963 AIR 358 261 State of Uttar Pradesh v. Singhara Singh, 1963 AIR 358 IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 219 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (a) references to this Constitution or to the provisions thereof shall be construed as references to the Constitution or the provisions thereof as applied in relation to the said State; (b) references to the person for the time being recognized by the President on the recommendation of the Legislative Assembly of the State as the Sadar-i-Riyasat of Jammu and Kashmir, acting on the advice of the Council of Ministers of the State for the time being in offi ce, shall be construed as references to the Governor of Jammu and Kashmir; (c) references to the Government of the said State shall be construed as including references to the Governor of Jammu and Kashmir acting on the aid and advice of his Council of Ministers; and (d) in proviso to clause (3) of article 370 of this Constitution, the expression “Constituent Assembly of the State referred to in clause (2)” shall read “Legislative Assembly of the State”.” (emphasis supplied) 368.