A mind of the court that it is neither possible to separate it nor to rely upon, it is for the said court to either accept or reject. 49. The said principle of law has been dealt with by this court in Anand Ramachandra Chougule v. Sidarai Laxman Chougala, (2019) 8 SCC 50,which states thus: B “9. We have considered the respective submissions and perused the materials on record. The relationship between parties and the existence of a land dispute regarding which a civil suit was also pending are undisputed facts. The fact that a verbal duel followed by scuffle took place between C the parties culminating in injuries is a concurrent finding of fact by two courts. The fact that the accused also lodged an FIR with regard to the same occurrence stands established by the evidence of PWs 19 and 22, the investigating officers, who have admitted that the respondent-accused had also lodged BRPS Cr. No. 79/02 D — marked Ext. D-10, which was not investigated by them. Similarly, PW 11, the police constable, deposed that two of the accused were admitted in the District Hospital, Belgaum and that he was posted on watch duty. The occurrence is of 7-6-2002 and respondent-Accused 1 and 2 were E discharged on 11-6-2002. Their injury report has not been brought on record by the prosecution and no explanation has been furnished in that regard. 10. The burden lies on the prosecution to prove the allegations beyond all reasonable doubt. In contradistinction to the same, the accused has only to create a doubt about F the prosecution case and the probability of its defence. An accused is not required to establish or prove his defence beyond all reasonable doubt, unlike the prosecution. If the accused takes a defence, which is not improbable and appears likely, there is material in support of such defence, G the accused is not required to prove anything further. The benefit of doubt must follow unless the prosecution is able to prove its case beyond all reasonable doubt.”” 31. P.W.20 is the one who recorded the statement. On the discussion made, it is highly doubtful as to whether the deceased would H be conscious enough to give the statement, particularly in light of the RANVIR SINGH ETC. ETC. v. THE STATE OF MADHYA 857 PRADESH [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] injuries suffered by him. There are not only incise wounds, but there A must have also been continuous bleeding, which would have naturally occurred, as the case was registered a day after the occurrence. The statement of witnesses contradicts each other on this aspect. Furthermore, as rightly submitted by the counsel for the appellants, on a perusal of the records, we do find that there were writings over the thumb impression B made under Ex. P-28. It is rather strange as a thumb impression would normally follow the statement; it has to find place at the conclusion of the statement. We find, on our scrutiny, that even after the thumb impression over which there were obviously writings found, there were some more sentences written.