Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 – s.20 – Interpretation given to s.20 by Bombay High Court in Dr. Anand D Teltumbde vs. National Investigation Agency and Another case for testing as to who would be a member of terrorist gang or terrorist organisation, affirmed – In the present case, on facts, s.20 cannot be made applicable against the appellants at this stage of the proceeding, on the basis of available materials. E Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 – s.2(k), 2(m), 15 – Held: “Terrorist act” as defined u/s.2(k) carries the meaning assigned to it in s.15 – This Section also stipulates that the expressions “terrorism” and “terrorist” shall be construed accordingly – This implies construction of these two expressions in the same way as has been done in s.15 – “terrorist organisation” F has been independently defined in s.2(m) – But so far as the word “terrorist” is concerned, in this Section also, the interpretation thereof would be relatable to the same expression as used in s.15 – An expression used in different parts of a statute shall ordinarily convey the same meaning unless contrary intention appears from G different parts of the same enactment itself – No such contrary intention is found in the 1967 Act – Interpretation of Statutes. Bail – Duty of the Court – Held: There is a duty of the Court to form an opinion on perusal of the case diary or the report made u/s.173, CrPC that there are reasonable grounds for believing that H VERNON v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA & ANR. 869 the accusations against such persons are prima facie true while A considering the prayer for bail, to reject prayers for bail of the appellants – Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.173 – Criminal Law. Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 – ss.38, 20 – Offence relating to membership of a terrorist organisation – Held: B To bring within the scope of s.38, it would not be sufficient to demonstrate that one is an associate or someone who professes to be associated with a terrorist organisation – But there must be intention to further the activities of such organisation on the part of the person implicated under such provision – The same line of C reasoning in respect of membership of a terrorist organisation u/s. 20, ought to apply in respect of an alleged offender implicated in s.38 – There must be evidence of there being intention to be involved in a terrorist act – So far as the appellants are concerned, at this stage there is no such evidence which can be relied on. D Bail – Prima facie “test” – Held: It would not satisfy the prima facie “test” unless there is at least surface-analysis of probative value of the evidence, at the stage of examining the question of granting bail and the quality or probative value satisfies the Court of its worth – Criminal Law. E Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 – ss.38, 39, 43D (5) – “intention to further activities” – Held: The interpretation given to the phrase “intention to further activities” of terrorist organisation could also apply in the same way in relation to s.39 – In the present case, there has been no credible evidence against the appellants of commission of any terrorist act or enter into conspiracy F to do so to invoke the provisions of s.43D (5).