According to Mr. Jain, there is no scope for the accused persons at this point of time to say that they be released on default bail. C FEW RELEVANT STATUTORY PROVISIONS 25. Before adverting to the rival submissions canvassed on either side, we must look into the few relevant statutory provisions of the CrPC, the UAPA, the 1908 Act and the NIA Act. D 26. In the earlier Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (for short, ‘the CrPC, 1898’), Section 167 laid down the procedure to be followed in the event the investigation of an offence was not completed within 24 hours. Section 167 in the CrPC, 1898, was premised on the conclusion of investigation within 24 hours or within 15 days on the outside, regardless of the nature of the offence or the punishment. E 27. The Law Commission of India, in its Forty-first Report, recommended increasing the time-limit for completion of investigation to 60 days. The new CrPC gave effect to the recommendation of the Law Commission. Section 167 as enacted provided for time-limit of 60 days regardless of the nature of offence or the punishment. In the year F 1978, Section 167 was amended. Section 167(2) which is relevant for the present case existing as of now is to the following effect: “167(2). The Magistrate to whom an accused person is forwarded under this section may, whether he has or has not jurisdiction to try the case, from time to time, authorise the G detention of the accused in such custody as such Magistrate thinks fit, for a term not exceeding fifteen days in the whole; and if he has no jurisdiction to try the case or commit it for trial, and considers further detention unnecessary, he may the accused to be forwarded to a Magistrate having H such jurisdiction: JUDGEBIR SINGH @ JASBIR SINGH SAMRA @ JASBIR 21 v. NATIONAL INVESTIGATION AGENCY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] Provided that,— A (a) the Magistrate may authorise the detention of the accused person, otherwise than in the custody of the police, beyond the period of fifteen days, if he is satisfied that adequate grounds exist for doing so, but no Magistrate shall authorise the detention of the accused person in custody under this B paragraph for a total period exceeding,— (i) ninety days, where the investigation relates to an offence punishable with death, imprisonment for life or imprisonment for a term of not less than ten years; C (ii) sixty days, where the investigation relates to any other offence, and, on the expiry of the said period of ninety days, or sixty days, as the case may be, the accused person shall be released on bail if he is prepared to and does furnish bail, and every person released on bail under this sub-section shall be deemed D to be so released under the provisions of Chapter XXXIII for the purposes of that Chapter; (b) no Magistrate shall authorise detention of the accused in custody of the police under this section unless the accused is produced before him in person for the first time and E subsequently every time till the accused remains in the custody of the police, but the Magistrate may extend further detention in judicial custody on production of the accused either in person or through the medium of electronic video linkage; (c) no Magistrate of the second class, not specially empowered F in this behalf by the High Court, shall authorise detention in the custody of the police.” 28.