Further fee/charges have also been levied under Section 307 of the Act which is for levy of fee for drainage and severage services. Thereafter, fee/charges have been levied under Section 435 of the Act where B premises are to be used for non-residential purposes. The next fee/charge is under Section 238(2) of the Act for use of water. 24. From the above, it is clear that trade license was issued for use of the premises by the licensees for purposes other than non- residential and necessary levy for fee under various heads including C water charges was also made. In such fact situation, it could not be alleged by the KMC that there was any violation of Section 271 or 238 of the Act where specific license has been issued for use of the premise for other than residential purpose and moreover where there was no supply of unfiltered water in the area/locality. The occupiers would, D therefore, be well within their rights to use water supply for domestic purpose for any other purpose in view of Section 272(4) of the Act. 25. KMC was fully conscious and aware of the occupiers of all the seven floors of the building in question i.e. the ground floor plus six floors. They were also aware that the appellant, who is the owner of the E building was occupying the ground floor and the 6th Floor. KMC had issued trade licenses to all the occupiers of the 1st to 5th Floor. The statute primarily lays down the liability on the occupier of the building to pay water charges. It was therefore mandatory for the Corporation to first give notice to the occupiers and make an attempt to recover the charges from them. It is only upon failure to recover dues, if any, from the occupiers F that the demand could be raised against the owner. In the present case, KMC having failed to initiate any proceedings against the occupiers committed serious error in initiating the proceedings only against the owner. 26. There is one more reason why notice to the occupier was G essential. The notice mentioned that in case water supply for domestic purpose was being used for any other purpose other than domestic, under Section 275(1)(c) of the Act, the water supply could be cut off or turned off. Section 275(1)(c) of the Act, which is already reproduced above clearly refers to occupier of the premises contravening Section 238 of the Act. Therefore, notice ought to have been addressed to the occupier H TRUST ESTATE KHIMJI KESHAWJI & ANR. v. THE KOLKATA 841 MUNICIPAL CORPORATION & ORS. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] in the first place before cutting off the connection or turning off the A supply. 27. Perusal of the counter affidavit filed by the Corporation before this Court and also from the specific stand taken by the Corporation before the High Court, it is apparent that KMC admits that there is no supply of unfiltered water in the area. Once that is the fact situation B coupled with demand of charges on water for purposes other than domestic as per the trade license, the impugned notice cannot be sustained.