The first proviso to Article 324(5) provides that the Chief Election Commissioner shall not be removed from his office except in like manner and on the like grounds as a Judge of the Supreme C Court and the conditions of service of the Chief Election Commissioner shall not be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment. Furthermore, any other Election Commissioner or a Regional Commissioner, according to the second proviso to Article 324(5), shall not be removed from office except on the recommendation of the Chief Election Commissioner. D 16. The facility of support staffs of the Election Commission has been covered under Article 324(6), which provides that the President, or the Governor of a State, shall, when so requested by the Election Commission, make available to the Election Commission or to a Regional Commissioner such staff as may be necessary for the discharge of the functions conferred on the Election Commission. E 17. The question that emerges for consideration is what interpretation needs to be afforded to the above-discussed provisions, so that the independence of the Election Commission is ensured. Before dealing with that, we shall deal with the necessity of the independence which is imperative of the Election Commission. F III. Why an independent Election Commission is Necessary A. “Working a Democratic Constitution”1 18. The basic perception of democracy is that it is a government by the people, of the people, and for the people. “People” is the central G axis on which the concept of democracy revolves. The establishment of democracy has been linked with the idea of welfare of the people. Dr BR Ambedkar had once noted that democracy means “a form and a method of government whereby revolutionary changes in the economic 1 Borrowed from the title of the classic book - Granville Austin, Working a Democratic Constitution: A History of the Indian Experience, Oxford University Press. H 188 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A and social life of the people are brought about without bloodshed.”2 Democracy is thus linked with the realization of the aspirations of the people. 19. According to the celebrated philosopher John Dewey, “Democracy is not simply and solely a form of government, but a social and personal ideal”, in other words, it is not only a property of political B institutions but of a wide range of social relationships.3 Democracy is thus about collective decision-making. The principles of democracy have been held as a part of the basic structure of the Constitution.4 20. The Indian Constitution establishes a constitutional democracy. The Preamble to the Constitution clearly lays down the vision and creates C an outline of the structure of democracy that India envisaged to be, right at the moment of independence. The Preamble to the Indian Constitution begins with the phrase “We, the People of India”. This clearly indicates that the foundations of the future of the Indian Constitution and democracy begin with the people of India at the core. The phrase also means that D the people of India would be in a deciding position to choose the governments they want.