1,16,09,181.00. To prove under valuation, the department had relied upon the price mentioned in the export declarations fi led by the supplier before the Hong Kong customs authority in respect of nineteen consignments. The price so declared was considered as the correct transaction value. In respect of one more consignment where export declaration was not available, department had proposed enhancement of the price of the goods on the basis of the other export declarations. Adjudicating authority did not accept the contention of the respondents that the price mentioned in the export declarations fi led before the Hong Kong customs authority could not be accepted. Distinguishing the facts of the two cases relied upon by the respondents, the adjudicating authority took the view that even if the copies of the export declarations available with the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence were not attested or were xerox copies, it would not make those copies unreliable or unauthentic. Therefore, taking into account the fact that the supplier M/s Arise Enterprises had acknowledged 182 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. that those declarations were fi led by them, which was not denied by the respondents, the adjudicating authority held that there was no reason to doubt the veracity of the export declarations even if those were unattested and were mainly xerox copies. Accordingly, the adjudicating authority held that the information obtained was correct and genuine. 6.2. On the contention that statements of Mr. Yashpal Sharma and Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma were not voluntary and therefore could not be relied upon, adjudicating authority held that both of them in their statements recorded under Section 108 of the Customs Act had admitted to having under-invoiced the price of the goods and had voluntarily paid Rs. 30 lakhs towards payment of evaded customs duty during the investigation. They had also explained in their statements the modus operandi adopted by them and the manner of transfer of the diff erential amount. Therefore, the adjudicating authority opined that he had no reason to accept the plea of the respondents that the statements of Mr. Yashpal Sharma and Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma were not voluntary and should not be relied upon. This plea was taken only as an afterthought. 6.3. Contention of the respondents that the declared price was correct when compared with contemporaneous imports was also not accepted by the adjudicating authority as the invoices of the contemporaneous imports did not reveal the specifi cation, quality etc., of the products. 6.4. Adjudicating authority also rejected the contention of the respondents that the supplier M/s Arise Enterprises had purchased the goods in question on stock clearance basis at a lower price and for this reason it could sell the goods to M/s Ganpati Overseas at a lower price. According to the adjudicating authority, this was again an afterthought and an invented argument as the noticees had not declared that the goods were purchased in stock lot. Neither invoices nor export declarations as well as the bills of entry or any other document on record suggested that the subject goods were purchased in stock lot at a price lower than the normal one.