(iii) Import of drugs from unregistered sources shall have pre- import condition.” 4.14 Details of Duties exempted D Imports under Advance Authorisation are exempted from payment of Basic Customs Duty, Additional Customs Duty, Education Cess, Anti-dumping Duty, Countervailing Duty, Safeguard Duty, Transition Product Specific Safeguard Duty, wherever applicable. Import against supplies covered under E paragraph 7.02 (c), (d) and (g) of FTP will not be exempted from payment of applicable Anti-dumping Duty, Countervailing Duty, Safeguard Duty and Transition Product Specific Safeguard Duty, if any. ************** F 4.16 Actual User Condition for Advance Authorisation (i) Advance Authorisation and/or material imported under Advance Authorisation shall be subject to ‘Actual User’ condition. The same shall not be transferable even after completion of export obligation. However, Authorisation G holder will have option to dispose of product manufactured out of duty free input once export obligation is completed. (ii) In case where CENVAT/input tax credit facility on input has been availed for the exported goods, even after completion H 28 Paragraph 4.03 of the FTP. UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. v. COSMO FILMS LIMITED 211 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] of export obligation, the goods imported against such Advance A Authorisation shall be utilized only in the manufacture of dutiable goods whether within the same factory or outside (by a supporting manufacturer). For this, the Authorisation holder shall produce a certificate from either the jurisdictional Customs Authority or Chartered Accountant, at the option of B the exporter, at the time of filing application for Export Obligation Discharge Certificate to Regional Authority concerned. (iii) Waste/Scrap arising out of manufacturing process, as allowed, can be disposed off on payment of applicable duty C even before fulfillment of export obligation.” 42. Exercising powers conferred under paragraph 1.03 of FTP, the DGFT notified the HBP by a Public Notice dated 01.04.2015. Paragraph 4.27 (a) provides for “Exports in Anticipation of Authorisation” which is extracted below: D “4.27 Exports in Anticipation of Authorisation Exports/supplies made from the date of EDI generated file number for an Advance Authorisation, may be accepted towards discharge of EO. Shipping/Supply document(s) should be endorsed with File Number or Authorisation Number E to establish co-relation of exports/supplies with Authorisation issued. (b) If application is approved, authorisation shall be issued based on input / output norms in force on the date of receipt of application by Regional Authority. If in the intervening period (i.e from date of filing of application and date of issue F of authorisation) the norms get changed, the authorization will be issued in proportion to provisional exports / supplies already made till any amendment in norms is notified. For remaining exports, Policy / Procedures in force on date of issue of authorisation shall be applicable. G (c) The export of SCOMET items shall not be permitted against an Authorisation until and unless the requisite SCOMET Authorisation is obtained by the applicant.” 43. The provision permitted exports in anticipation of authorisation and permits exports towards discharge of export obligation on the basis H 212 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R.