Recital thereof shows the source of power. Exercise of power was in terms of Section 17 of the Act, which appears to be the repository of the State Government’s power to exempt payment of tax. However, nothing really turns on it in view of the several Amendment Acts by which the Schedules were amended from time to C time. Decision on C.A. No.5731 of 2009 has to be rendered not based on the Exemption Notification but on the terms of the Act read with the Schedules thereto as it stood on 17th July, 1996, when Act No.37 of 1996, i.e., the Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1996 came into force. Indeed, the Act was amended further with effect from 27th March, 2002 by Act No.18 of 2002, i.e., the Tamil Nadu General D Sales Tax (Fourth Amendment) Act, 2002, but the same being a post- millennium event is admittedly beyond the period under consideration, i.e., 1998-99; hence, we need not be too concerned with the latter amendment. 16. It would appear from the conspectus of the statutory provisions E as delineated above that there were two entries in the field at or about the period of the relevant assessment year, i.e., “sago and starch of any kind” in Schedule I, referred by us as Taxation Entry No.61, and “products of millets (rice, flour, brokens and brans of cholam, cumbu, ragi, thinai, varagu, samai, kudiraivali, milo and maize)” in Schedule III which we F are referring to as Exemption Entry No.8. 17. When Act No.32 of 1994 amended Schedule III of the Act, Exemption Entry No.8 did not include the word ‘like’ which was hitherto there in the Exemption Notification [No. 88 of 1970 dated 14th March, 1970]. According to English grammar, the word “like” can be used as a verb, as a noun as well as a preposition depending upon its setting. It had G been used in the Exemption Notification as a ‘noun”. Once it becomes clear from Exemption Entry No.8, as introduced by Act No.32 of 1994, that (i) it does not include the noun “like” as the first word within brackets and (ii) that maize is only included along with rice, flour, etc. (and not maize starch), it is only those items within the brackets which, for the H 114 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A purposes of exemption, qualify as products of millets. It is, therefore, those products of millets specifically indicated, which are entitled to exemption under Section 8 of the Act read with Schedule III as per Exemption Entry No.8. 18. Can maize starch be considered a millet product, as in B Exemption Entry No.8, for the present purpose? We do not think so. Maize is the raw product, whereas maize starch is a processed product. While we are bound to hold that maize is entitled to exemption in terms of Exemption Entry No.8 as it stood prior to the relevant assessment year, maize starch being a product of maize derived through mechanical process, it cannot be read as “like maize”, the “like” having been excluded C by Act No.