D (2) Where the competent authority is satisfied that some of the properties referred to in the showcause notice are illegally acquired properties but is not able to identify specifically such properties then, it shall be lawful for the competent authority to specify the properties which, to the best of its , are illegally acquired properties and record a finding accordingly under sub-section (1). E (3) Where the competent authority records a finding under this section to the effect that any property is illegally acquired property, it shall declare that such property shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, stand forfeited to the Central Government free from all encumbrances. F (4) where any shares in a company stand forfeited to the Central Government under this Act, then, the company shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), or the articles of association of the company, forthwith register the Central Government as the transferee of such shares. G 8. Burden of proof. In any proceedings under this Act, the burden of proving that any property specified in the notice served under section 6 is not illegally acquired property shall be on the person affected. H PLATINUM THEATRE v. COMPETENT AUTHORITY SMUGGLERS & 1095 FOREIGN EXCHANGE MANIPULATORS ACT, 1976 [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] 9. Fine in lieu of forfeiture. A (1) Where the competent authority makes a declaration that any property stands forfeited to the Central Government under section 7 and it is a case where the source of only a part, being less than one-half of the income, earnings or assets with which such property was acquired has not been proved to the satisfaction of the B competent authority, it shall make an giving an option to the person affected to pay, in lieu of forfeiture, a fine equal to one and one-fifth times the value of such part. Explanation.-For the purposes of this sub-section, the value of any part of income, earnings or assets, with which any property C has been acquired, shall be,- (a) in the case of any part of income or earnings, the amount of such part of income or earnings; (b) in the case of any part of assets, the proportionate part of the full value of the consideration for the acquisition of such D assets. (2) Before making an imposing a fine under sub-section (1), the person affected shall be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard, E (3) Where the person affected pays the fine due under sub- section (1), within such time as may be allowed in that behalf, the competent authority may, by , revoke the declaration of forfeiture under section 7 and thereupon such property shall stand released.” F 12. Taking into consideration the scope and ambit of Act, 1976 of which a detailed reference has been made, forfeiture proceedings could be initiated under Section 6 in reference to such illegally acquired properties by such persons who are covered under Section 2 read with the explanation, appended thereto, by a show cause notice and after due compliance of principles of natural justice, the power vests in the G competent authority to pass an of forfeiture of the property in exercise of power under Section 7 of the Act 1976.