It is submitted that so far as the penalty leviable under section 271 of the Act is concerned, the same is discretionary, however D the interest is not discretionary. Therefore, for imposing penalty, principles of natural justice are required to be complied with, however in case of interest, the same being mandatory in nature and automatic there is no requirement of following principles of natural justice and/or even if in the assessment there is no specific to levy the interest but the interest charged is indicated in the ITNS 150 accompanying the E assessment and the same would be sufficient compliance for demanding interest. Heavy reliance is placed on the Constitution Bench decision of this Court in the case of Anjum M.H. Ghaswala (supra) as well as subsequent decision in the case of Karanvir Singh Gossal v. Commissioner of Income Tax, (2012) 13 SCC 802 and the decision F of this Court in the case of Bhagat Construction Company Private Limited (supra). 4.10 It is submitted that the ITAT has relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of Ranchi Club Ltd. (supra). However, the said decision has been subsequently overruled and/or held not to be good law G in view of the subsequent decisions in the cases of Anjum M.H. Ghaswala (supra) and Bhagat Construction Company Private Limited (supra). 4.11 Insofar as the submission regarding non-framing of the substantial question of law on levy of interest is concerned, heavy reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in the case of State Bank of India H MANSAROVAR COMMERCIAL PVT. LTD. v. COMMISSIONER 475 OF INCOME TAX, DELHI [M. R. SHAH, J.] v. S.N. Goyal, (2008) 8 SCC 92 (paragraph 13). It is submitted that A as observed and held by this Court in the aforesaid decision, when a question of law arises incidentally or collaterally, having no bearing on the final outcome, it will not be a substantial question of law. It is submitted that in the present case, the Constitution Bench in Anjum M.H. Ghaswala (supra) has held that the interest is both mandatory and automatic and B the decision of this Court and various High Courts had concluded that it does not require a separate notice, hearing and an independent . It is submitted that this Court in the case of Bhagat Construction Company Private Limited (supra) had in no uncertain terms made the legal position clear by holding that should the assessing authority enclose an ITNS 150 form computing the interest liability and annexed the same with the C assessment , the same would constitute adequate compliance for sustaining the interest and upholding it. That the aforesaid makes it evidently clear that when an issue is incidental or collateral then it does not give rise to a substantial question of law. Once the tax liability is upheld, interest become automatic, mandatory and collateral. D 4.12 It is next submitted that the final outcome of the tax liability or the final outcome of the substantial questions raised and decided by the High Court, had been decided without any sense of dependence on the issue of interest.