Payment of the amounts mentioned in Section 13(8) ties the hands of the mortgagee (secured creditor) from exercising any of the powers conferred under the SARFAESI Act. Redemption comes later. It has been held as follows: The danger of interpreting Section 13(8) as though it relates to the right of redemption, is that if payments are not made as per Section 13(8), the right of redemption may get lost even before the sale is complete in all respects. But in law it is not. 116 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 39. Thus this Court emphasised that the right of redemption is not lost immediately upon the highest bid made by the purchaser in an auction is accepted. 40. A three-Judge Bench of the Supreme Court in S.Karthik (supra) held that the right of redemption which is embodied in Section 60 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 is available to the mortgagor unless it has been extinguished by the act of the parties. Only on execution of the conveyance and registration of transfer of mortgagor’s interest by registered instrument that the mortgagor’s right of redemption will be extinguished. Referring to the previous decisions of the Supreme Court, it has been held that the right to redemption stands extinguished only on the sale certifi cate getting registered. 41. This position has been explained by the Punjab & Haryana High Court in Pal Alloys & Metal India Private Limited (supra), wherein it has been clarifi ed that the amended Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act merely prohibits the secured creditor from proceeding further with the transfer of the secured asset by way of lease, assignment or sale if the dues are paid before issuance of sale notice for public auction. A restriction on the right of the mortgagee to deal with the property is not exactly the same as the equity of redemption available to the mortgagor. 42. Let us now examine the decision of the Supreme Court in Shakeena (supra) relied upon by the petitioner. As opposed to S.Karthik (supra) which was rendered by a three-Judge Bench, Shakeena (supra) was delivered by a two-Judge Bench of the Supreme Court. That was a case which dealt with Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act prior to amendment. In this case, the appellants failed to exercise their right of redemption until registration of the sale certifi cate; therefore, relief was declined. While coming to the above conclusion, the Division Bench of the Supreme Court adverted to the amended Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act observing by way of obiter that tender of dues to the secured creditor with all costs, charges and expenses incurred by him shall be at any time before the date of publication of notice for public auction etc. CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 117 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 43. The decision in Shakeena (supra) was rendered by a two-Judge Bench of the Supreme Court on 20.08.2019. On the other hand, the decision in S.Karthik (supra) was rendered by a three-Judge Bench of the Supreme Court much later i.e., on 23.09.2021.