It is also submitted by the learned counsel appearing for the Bank that they are governed by the instructions issued by Reserve Bank of India in that regard. G 8. We find from the [Manjeet Kaur Monga v. K.L. Suneja, 2015 SCC OnLine Comp AT 593] of the Tribunal that both the issues have not been gone into, apparently because these aspects have not been canvassed and obviously because Citibank was not before the Tribunal. H 1138 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 9. To that limited extent we propose to send back the matters to the Tribunal. Therefore, these appeals are disposed of as follows: 9.1. Citibank N.A., represented by its Manager, Jeevan Bharti Building, 124, Connaught Circus, New Delhi will stand impleaded as additional respondent in the complaint before the Competition B Appellate Tribunal, New Delhi. 9.2. The builder shall pay the compensation worked @ 15% compound interest up to 30-4-2005. 9.3. Whether there should be any compensation and if so, what should be the amount payable after 30-4-2005 and whether Citibank C is liable to pay any interest to the account-holder by the Tribunal. 10. To the above limited extent, we remit the matters to the Competition Appellate Tribunal, New Delhi. 11. It will be open to the parties to take all available contentions in respect of the issues remitted to the Tribunal. D 12. With the above observations and directions, the appeals are disposed of. 13. Pending applications, if any, shall stand disposed of. There shall be no s as to costs.” E 15.1. The observations and directions in paragraphs 6 to 11 in the aforesaid decision led to another round of litigation that culminated in the other decision of this Court in K.L Suneja (supra) wherein, ultimately, this Court declined any interest to the complainant after tender of the amount by the developer. In the given context, this Court observed, inter F alia, as under: - “31. The provisions of XXI are applicable to decrees of civil court. However, they embody a sound policy principle, that if the amount is deposited, or paid to the decree holder or person entitled to it, the person entitled to the amount cannot later G seek interest on it. This is a rule of prudence, inasmuch as the debtor, or person required to pay or refund the amount, is under an obligation to ensure that the amount payable is placed at the disposal of the person entitled to receive it. Once that is complete (in the form of payment, through different modes, including tendering a Banker’s Cheque, or Pay or Demand Draft, all H M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR. v. ANITA 1139 MERCHANT [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] of which require the account holder/debtor to pay the bank, which A would then issue the instrument) the tender, or ‘payment’ is complete. 32. In the present case, the complainant was aware that the Pay had been tendered by the developer to her; nevertheless she filed the original Pay with her complaint, B and did not seek any from the MRTP Commission at the relevant time.