In Law of the Constitution, Dicey stated: “It should, however, be carefully noted that the term ‘sovereignty,’ as long as it is accurately employed in the sense in which Austin sometimes uses it, is a merely legal conception, and means simply the power of law-making unrestricted by any legal limit”154 The emphasis on the unlimited nature of the power available to a body has diminished with the development of international law and other modern limits on the exercise of power.155 While the expression ‘sovereignty’ was previously understood to mean that the sovereign could enact any type or form of law in exercise of sovereign power, modern legal systems limit the nature of the laws that can be enacted by constitutional or other interdicts. Hence, the aspect of sovereignty which requires no subordination to another body is of greater signifi cance as compared to the traditional aspect that requires power to be unlimited. 90. The meaning of sovereignty elucidated in the preceding paragraph is descriptive not of external sovereignty but internal sovereignty. The former is commonly understand to mean the independence of a nation in relation to other nations whereas the latter is the relationship of the “sovereign within the state to the individuals and associations within the state.”156 External and internal sovereignty are not entirely distinct concepts but are diff erent facets. They have gradually come to be regarded as two sides of the same coin.157 Dicey’s comment (extracted above) is evidently with reference to internal sovereignty because the unrestricted power to make laws concerns individuals and associations within a state, as opposed to the relationship between two nations. 91. Orfi eld undertook a study of the literature on the subject of sovereignty. The study listed fi ve leading characteristics of internal sovereignty: 154 Dicey, Law of the Constitution (8th ed. 1915) at 70 155 Union of India v. Sukumar Sengupta, 1990 Supp SCC 545 156 Lester B Orfi eld, The Amending of the Federal Constitution (2012) 157 Max Planck Encyclopedia of Public International Law, ‘Sovereignty’ Oxford Public International Law <https://opil.ouplaw.com/display/10.1093/law:epil/9780199231690/ law-9780199231690-e1472> 64 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. a. It exists as a matter of fact or as a matter of fact and law. Though the law of a state need not necessarily recognize, it may recognize the sovereign; b. Sovereign power is absolute in that a law may be passed on any subject; c. It is indivisible; d. The law passed by the sovereign need not be enforced in particular cases; and e. The legal sovereign is determinate. It may be a single person or a group of persons. 92. In India, sovereignty vests in the people of India.158 The Preamble to the Constitution of India states that “We, the people … hereby adopt, enact and give to ourselves this Constitution.” The Constitution was not adopted by an external authority such as a colonial power or its monarch. The Constitution does not owe its existence to an internal authority such as the rulers of the Princely States. 93.