Sub- section (4) to Section 52 of the Code states that the secured creditor may enforce, realise, settle, compromise or deal with F the secured asset in accordance with such law as applicable to the security interest being realised and to the secured creditor. The secured creditor is to accordingly apply the proceeds to recover the debts due to him. We need not refer to Sub-section (5) to Section 52 of the Code as it relates to the action which the secured creditor may take if he faces G resistance from the corporate debtor or any other person connected therewith in taking possession of, selling or otherwise disposing off the security. Sub-section (6) to Section 28Moser Baer Karamchari Union thr. President Mahesh Chand Sharma v. Union of India & Ors.,2023 SCC OnLine SC 547. H 1252 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 52 of the Code applies when an adjudicating authority is in receipt of an application Under Sub-section (5) to Section 52 of the Code. Sub-section (7) to Section 52 of the Code, however, is important as it states that where on enforcement of the security interest, an amount by way of proceeds is in excess of the debts due to the secured creditor, the secured B creditor shall account for and pay the excess/surplus amount to the liquidator from enforcement of such secured assets. The amount of insolvency resolution process costs, due from secured creditors who realise their security interests in the manner provided in the section, are to be deducted from the C proceeds of any realisation by such secured creditors. They are to be transferred and included in the liquidation estate. Sub-section (9) to Section 52 of the Code states that where proceeds for realisation of the secured assets are not adequate to repay the debts owed to the secured creditor, the unpaid debts of such secured creditor shall be paid by the liquidator D in the manner specified in Clause (e) to Sub-section (1) to Section 53 of the Code. 67. To protect the interest of the workmen where the secured creditor does not relinquish its security interest to fall Under Section 53 of the Code, Regulation 21A of the Insolvency E and Bankruptcy Board of India (Liquidation Process) Regulations, 2016 has been enacted, and it requires that the secured creditor, who opts to realise its security interest as per Section 52 of the Code, has to pay as much towards the amount payable under the Clause (a) and Sub-clause (i) to F Clause (b) of Sub-section (1) to Section 53 of the Code to the liquidator within the time and the manner stipulated therein. The workmen’s dues, even when the secured creditor opts to proceed Under Section 52 of the Code, are therefore protected in terms of Sub-clause (b) of Sub-section (1) to Section 53 of the Code. G ******* 69. We now turn our attention to Section 53 of the Code which begins with a non-obstante Clause and states that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any law enacted by the Parliament or any State Legislature for H PASCHIMANCHAL VIDYUT VITRAN NIGAM LTD. v. RAMAN 1253 ISPAT PRIVATE LIMITED & ORS.