He further submitted that the right of pre-emption under the Punjab Pre-emption Act, 1913 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Pre-emption Act’) is a weak kind of right, and as per the settled legal position, the C right of pre-emption should not only exist on the date of filing of the suits, but has to subsist on the date of passing of decree also. Mr. Hooda has placed reliance on the decisions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Har Devi vs. Ram Jas and Others (1974 PLJ 345); Lala Ram vs. The Financial Commissioner, Haryana (1991 SCC Online P&H 1105); Pritam Singh Vs. Jaskaur Singh (1992 SCC Online P&H D 676) and Munshi vs. The Financial Commissioner, Haryana, Chandigarh (1993 SCC Online P&H 1086) to buttress his submissions. 4. Per contra, the learned senior counsel, Mr. Rajiv Bhalla appearing for the respondent repelling the submissions made on behalf E of the appellants submitted that as per Section 121 of the Revenue Act, the partition comes into effect one date to be notified by the Assistant Collector in the instrument of partition and not on the date of preparation of “Naksha Be” or “Naksha Zeem”. According to him, the said date is significant for the purpose of determining the liability of the parties to F pay the revenue and also for recording the ownership rights in the record of rights. Mr. Bhalla relied upon the various proformas contained in the Haryana Land Records Manual, 2013 to submit that the partition and severance of status of the co-sharer could be notified by the Assistant Collector only in accordance with Section 121 of the Revenue Act and Clauses 18.12 to 18.14 of the Manual. Distinguishing the s relied G upon by the learned senior counsel Mr. Hooda for the appellants, learned senior counsel, Mr. Bhalla submitted that in the said cases, the status of co-sharer had come to an end on the date set out in the instrument of partition, whereas in the instant case neither the instrument of partition was prepared, nor the date was determined by the Assistant Collector H as per Section 121 of the Revenue Act, and therefore it could not be said JHABBAR SINGH (DECEASED) THROUGH LEGAL HEIRS v. 575 JAGTAR SINGH S/O DARSHAN SINGH [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] that the proceedings of partition had stood concluded before the date of A decrees passed in the suits. Placing reliance upon the of this Court in case of Bishan Singh & Others vs. Khazan Singh & Another1 he submitted that the right of pre-emption is a right of substitution and not a right of re-purchase and therefore the plaintiff was not required to challengein the suits, the sale deeds executed in favour of the appellants- B defendants. 5. For the better appreciation of the rival contentions raised by the learned counsel for the parties, it would be beneficial to refer to some of the provisions contained in the Pre-emption Act and the Revenue Act. Section 4 of the Pre-emption Act pertains to the right of pre-emption C which reads as under: “4.