The Tribunal finds that the V.P. Patel Group shareholders were having knowledge of the proposal to increase the share capital. The Sheth Group also, with knowledge, did not chose to participate in the Board Meeting on H 262 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 18.12.2009 and the Extraordinary General Body Meeting on 27.01.2010. The Tribunal, therefore, rejected the contention of the V.P. Patel Group and the Sheth Group that they had not received Notice or had no knowledge of the Board Meeting on 18.12.2009 or the Extraordinary General Body Meeting on 27.01.2010. Next, the Tribunal finds that the Minutes of the Board Meeting and the Extraordinary General Body B Meeting clearly show that after complying with the provisions of the Companies Act and Articles of Association, Resolutions were passed to increase the Authorised Share Capital. Pursuant thereto, Resolutions were passed to invite applications from shareholders. Increase in share capital and the allotments had not been given effect since no returns C were recorded with the Registrar of Companies because of the objections of the V.P. Patel Group. Therefore, ‘the increase in the share capital and the allotment of shares itself and allotment of shares itself, is not an act of oppression of the rights of the V.P. Patel Group and the Sheth Group’, is found by the NCLT. It is further found that the removal of the appellants, as directed, was not valid and could not be upheld. Under the D point, ‘outcome of financial irregularities alleged by the three Groups’, it is found that three Groups were at loggerheads. There appeared to be no possibility of the three Groups coming together and conducting affairs of the first respondent company. It is next pointed that the findings of the Tribunal would show that there are no established acts of oppression E and mismanagement except some financial irregularities, which require examination by the Board of Directors. Thereafter, we have noticed the directions in paragraph-92 (supra). 19. Next, is the finding in the impugned in regard to allotment. The NCLAT also finds that the contention of the Sheth Group and V.P. F Patel Group that they did not get Notice of the Extraordinary General Body Meeting, could not be believed. The need to increase the share capital and the circumstances, which led to it, canvassed by the appellants, including the letter dated 24.11.2009 issued by the Bank of Baroda, was found reliable. Dealing with the point pertinent to the Appeals before us, viz, the actual allotment of shares on increase of share capital, it is, inter G alia, found that there did not appear to be any discussion by the NCLT regarding allotment of shares. 20. Next, the NCLAT finds that the allotment in the ratio of 1:1 may not be oppressive, it is found. However, the manner in which allotment is done, may be illegal and, thus, oppressive. The direction of the NCLT H was found to be not without basis in the records. Referring to the forms HASMUKHLAL MADHAVLAL PATEL v. AMBIKA FOOD 263 PRODUCTS PVT.