In paragraph 4 what is stated is that accused No.1 through its partners i.e., accused Nos. 2 to 6, on the basis of the authority vested in them approached the complainant for purchasing the ceramic tiles, sanitary-wares and bath fi ttings from the complainant on credit basis. Indubitably, besides the aforesaid averments no other averments are made in the complaint in regard to the appellant’s role. Therefore, the question is whether the averments referred to hereinbefore are suffi cient to prosecute the appellant under Section 138 of the NI Act, on the afore-extracted averments. We are not oblivious of the fact that the appellant has also got a contention that he retired from the partnership fi rm much prior to the issuance of the cheque in question. It is only proper and profi table to refer to sub-section (1) of Section 141 of the N.I. Act in view of the rival contentions. It reads thus:- “(1) If the person committing an off ence under section 138 is a company, every person who, at the time the off ence was committed, was in charge of, and was responsible to the company for the conduct 826 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. of the business of the company, as well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the off ence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly: Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any person liable to punishment if he proves that the off ence was committed without his knowledge, or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such off ence: 22 [Provided further that where a person is nominated as a Director of a company by virtue of his holding any offi ce or employment in the Central Government or State Government or a fi nancial corporation owned or controlled by the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be, he shall not be liable for prosecution under this Chapter. ]” 9. Bearing in mind the averments made in the complaint in relation to the role of the appellant and sub-section (1) of Section 141, we will have to appreciate the rival contentions. Going by the decision relied on by the respondent in S.P. Mani’s case (supra) it is the primary responsibility of the complainant to make specifi c averments in the complaint, so as to make the accused vicariously liable. Relying on paragraph 47(b) of the said decision learned counsel appearing for the respondent would also submit that the complainant is supposed to know only generally as to who were in charge of the aff airs of the company or fi rm, as the case maybe and he relied on mainly the following recitals thereunder: “47…… a.) …… b.) The complainant is supposed to know only generally as to who were in charge of the aff airs of the company or fi rm, as the case may be. The other administrative matters would be within the special knowledge of the company or the fi rm and those who are in charge of it.