……..Note 2 and Note 5 with Entry 33.04, we find ourselves in agreement with the majority opinion of the Tribunal that the product “Lip Salve” is a kind of “barrier cream” or a protective cream against skin irritants. It, therefore, clearly falls under Entry 33.04 and conforms to the description “preparations for the care D of the skin (other than medicaments)”. The learned counsel of the appellant has not been able to persuade us to take a different view from the one taken in the majority opinion of the Tribunal. We confirm that the product “Lip Salve” is essentially a preparation for protection of lips and skin and is not a E “medicament”. Such preparations which have a subsidiary curative or prophylactic value clearly fall under Entries 33.03 to 33.07 as per Note 2 under Chapter 33. The product clearly is covered by Entry 33.04 read with Note 5 of Chapter 33, it essentially being a preparation for protection of lips or skin. We have also gone through the minority opinion expressed F by one of the members of the Tribunal and the reasoning therein supported before us on behalf of the appellant. For the reasons aforesaid, we are unable to agree with the minority view. In the result, we find no merit in these appeals and the same are hereby dismissed.” G (emphasis supplied) 15.2. In G.C. Jain (supra), this Court held that the words and expressions have to be construed as per trade and understanding usage, unless defined in the statute. This Court said: - H COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 331 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] “18. Admittedly, the expression “adhesive” is not defined in the A Act. It is now well settled that the words and expressions, unless defined in the statute have to be construed in the sense in which persons dealing with them understand i.e. as per trade and understanding and usage.” 15.3. In Wockhardt Life Sciences (supra), this Court further B elaborated on the common parlance test as under: - “33. There is no fixed test for classification of a taxable commodity. This is probably the reason why the “common parlance test” or the “commercial usage test” are the most common (see A. Nagaraju Bros. v. State of A.P. [1994 Supp (3) SCC 122] ). C Whether a particular article will fall within a particular tariff heading or not has to be decided on the basis of the tangible material or evidence to determine how such an article is understood in “common parlance” or in “commercial world” or in “trade circle” or in its popular sense meaning. It is D they who are concerned with it and it is the sense in which they understand it that constitutes the definitive index of the legislative intention, when the statute was enacted (see Delhi Cloth and General Mills Co. Ltd. v. State of Rajasthan [(1980) 4 SCC 71]. E 34.One of the essential factors for determining whether a product falls within Chapter 30 or not is whether the product is understood as a pharmaceutical product in common parlance [see CCE v. Shree Baidyanath Ayurved Bhavan Ltd. [(2009) 12 SCC 419] and CCE v. Ishaan Research Lab (P) Ltd. [(2008) 13 SCC 349]].