[2023] 6 S.C.R. 505 505 AJAY SHANKAR SRIVASTAVA A v. BAR COUNCIL OF INDIA & ANR. (Writ Petition (Civil) No. 82 of 2023) APRIL 10, 2023 B [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI, PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA AND J. B. PARDIWALA, JJ.] Bar Council of India Certificate and Place of Practice C (Verification) Rules, 2015 – Verification of certificates of practice and educational degrees – Petitioner challenged an office dated 01.11.2022 of the Bar Council of India to all the State Bar Councils, the purport of which (according to the petitioner) was to interdict the process of verification of advocates who are enrolled with the State Bar Councils for scrutinizing the genuineness of their D degrees and enrollments – Held: The Bar Council of India apprehends that many advocates who have not submitted their forms for verification are persons who are not qualified or are “in possession of fake degrees” – Therefore, the Bar Council of India is justified in asserting that such persons have to be identified and E weeded out from the list of advocates enrolled with the Bar Councils – The due verification of advocates who are enrolled with the State Bar Councils, is of utmost importance to preserve the integrity of the administration of justice – According to Bar Council of India, the intent of the letter dated 01.11.2022 was not to direct the cessation of the process of verification, but only to ensure that the process of F verification was not carried out merely on the basis of the certificates of practice issued by the State Bar Council without verifying the genuineness and validity of degree certificates – Having regard to the larger dimensions of the matter, a High Powered Committee should be constituted to monitor the process of verification – Such a High G Powered Committee should be chaired by a former Judge of this Court and its members should consist of: (i) two Judges of the High Court; (ii) two senior advocates; and (iii) three members of the Bar Council of India. H 505 506 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Issuing directions, the Court HELD: 1. The Bar Council of India apprehends that many advocates who have not submitted their forms for verification are persons who are not qualified or are “in possession of fake degrees”. The Bar Council of India has submitted and, with B justification, that this class of persons, without the possession of qualifications required for law practice, is known to enter upon the arena of courts for extraneous purposes, including the disruption of work. The Bar Council of India is justified in asserting that such persons have to be identified and weeded out from the list of advocates enrolled with the Bar Councils. [Para C 9][509-E-F] 2. The due verification of advocates who are enrolled with the State Bar Councils, is of utmost importance to preserve the integrity of the administration of justice. Persons who profess to be lawyers, but do not either have the educational qualifications D or degree certificates on the basis of which they could have lawfully granted entry to the Bar, pose a grave danger to the administration of justice to citizens.