Having considered the FIR which has been registered for the various off ences under sections 457, 380 and 506 of the IPC, we now proceed to discuss the ingredients of sections 457, 380 and 506 of the IPC in to test whether the High Court was right in recording a fi nding that on the face of it, the ingredients for the said off ence were not made out from the reading of the FIR. 11. Theft is defi ned under section 378 of the IPC, according to which anyone intending to dishonestly take any moveable property out of possession of any person without that person’s consent, moves that property in to such taking, is said to commit Theft. In the present case, the assets and belongings inside the shop in question were in joint possession of the appellant as also the respondent No.1 and there was an injunction 924 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. granted by the Competent Court that the assets and belongings of the shop in question would be preserved, removal of the same without consent or knowledge of the appellant would amount to theft. 12. As per the dated 01.07.2013 and further by a subsequent dated 11.11.2013, it was directed that the entire assets and belongings of the said fi rm would be preserved till the making of the arbitral award before it is enforced in accordance with section 36. The possession,would therefore, remain with the appellant and respondent No.1 so long as the injunction was operating on it. Respondent No.1 knowing fully well could not have fi rstly surrendered the shop and allowed M/s Sushma Constructions Pvt. Ltd. to remove the assets and belongings in the said shop. It is diffi cult to say whether he was directly involved in the theft but he was defi nitely involved in the conspiracy and abetting the theft. Respondent No.1 should have informed the appellant of the same but he did not. 13. The appellant, being a partner in the said fi rm, removal of the assets without his knowledge would amount to theft, be it by M/s Sushma Constructions Pvt. Ltd. or others. 14. Further, section 457 IPC talks of an off ence regarding ‘lurking house trespass or house breaking at night to commit an off ence punishable with imprisonment’. Theft committed in any building which is used as a human dwelling or for a custody of a property is punishable under section 380 of the IPC and the sentence for a term which may extend to seven years and also be liable to fi ne. In the present case, there was breaking open of the locks of the premises wherein the property was stored for the purposes of theft, the punishment under section 457 of the IPC would extend to 14 years. 15. Section 506 of the IPC talks of the off ence of criminal intimidation. The FIR contained the specifi c averment that when the appellant questioned respondent No.1, he threatened him to remain quiet otherwise he would lose his life.