Further contentions were raised defending the C cancellation of the allotment and permission for conversion of the land, on the ground that the decision was taken in contravention of the Model Code of Conduct that had come into effect during the period when the Land Planning Committee and Infrastructure Development Committee of RIICO had decided to allow Respondent No. 1 to convert 23% of the land to commercial use. D 31. While the matter was initially placed before a learned Single Judge, the then Chief Justice of the High Court decided to transfer the file to a Division Bench presided over by him. The various Appellant Unions which had been aggrieved by the non-implementation of the AAIFR scheme were impleaded into the proceedings. Eventually, the E Division Bench heard detailed arguments and passed the impugned , concurring with Respondent No. 1’s position. It held: i) The question as to whether RIICO could be directed under Article 138 of the AoA to carry out actions which may abrogate the fundamental rights of a third party was of vital F importance. It required the Division Bench to adjudicate the dispute, rather than a Single Judge; ii) The decision made by the State Government to direct RIICO to cancel the allotment of land to Respondent No. 1 was without following due procedure, and hence, a Writ G under Article 226 of the Constitution was maintainable against this measure; iii) The Government dated 18.09.1979, allocated all industrial areas in the State of Rajasthan to RIICO for the purpose of overseeing and facilitating their development. H 266 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Whatever course of action was taken in respect of these lands from this point onwards would have to be under the 1979 Rules. These Rules had been completely ignored by the State Government and its authorities while quashing the supplementary leases and the conversion; iv) The conversion of land was permissible under the Master B Plan for the LIA, Kota. RIICO, given it was now in charge of these lands, had the authority under the 1979 Rules read with the Master Plan to allow conversion of land, if it was deemed necessary and appropriate; v) There was no reason assigned by the Cabinet Committee C for its conclusion on 03.08.2019 that the leases required cancellation. The Supreme Court in Mohinder Singh Gill v. The Chief Election Officer3 had laid down that reasons behind certain actions had to be included in the final decision itself and could not be subsequently supplemented via D affidavits. A change of government could not be a permissible catalyst for abrogation of the decisions made by the previous government. Further, Respondent No. 1 was kept in the dark about the deliberations throughout and had no forum to advocate its case for why the allotment and conversion of land were legally sound; E vi) The claim that the permission for conversion of the land from industrial use to commercial use violated the Model Code of Conduct was suspect, as no other similarly granted approvals had been set aside on this basis.