It is submitted that considering the aforesaid circumstances, the High Court has rightly set aside the decree for specific performance, considering Section 20 of the Specific Relief Act and has rightly exercised the discretion in favour of the defendants, rather than in favour of the plaintiff. H 256 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 4.3 It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the defendants that as on today the price of the property in question has gone very high and therefore it is prayed not to interfere with the impugned and passed by the High Court. 5. I have heard the learned counsel for the respective parties at B length. At the outset, it is required to be noted that the execution of agreement to sell and receipt of part sale consideration paid under the agreement to sell has not been disputed by the defendants. It is not in dispute that the defendants as such agreed to sell the property in question. C The relevant terms of agreement to sell, as agreed between the parties, are as follows: “(a) the balance consideration was to be paid by the Petitioner to the Respondents within six months from the date of sale agreement. D (b) The Petitioner was obligated to measure the property at his own expense, arrange the balance consideration amount and prepare the deeds with respect to the plaint schedule property in favour of himself or in favour of its nominees. (c) Respondents were to handover the abovementioned deeds as E also the anterior documents, possession certification, tax receipt and encumbrance certificate for the last 13 years, purchase certificate, either in their originals or certified copies within the stipulated six months to the Petitioner. (d) After the fulfilment of the above terms and conditions, the F Respondent No.1 and his wife were obligated to execute the sale deed prepared by the Petitioner and register the same after obtaining the balance consideration amount and then accordingly, the Respondents were to hand over actual possession of the plaint schedule property to the Petitioner.” G 6. It is contended on behalf of the defendants that the agreement to sell was a forced agreement to sell. On the contrary, the defendants stated in the written statement in para 4 that the defendants were always ready and willing to perform their part of the contract. It may be true that at the relevant time the defendants may be in need of money. However, the fact remains that they agreed to sell the property in question H C. HARIDASAN v. ANAPPATH PARAKKATTU VASUDEVA 257 KURUP [M. R. SHAH, J.] for sale consideration mentioned in the agreement to sell and as observed A hereinabove, it was the case on behalf of the defendants that they were always ready and willing to perform their part of the contract. Therefore, as observed hereinabove, it was never the case on behalf of the defendants in the written statement and/or even before the learned trial Court that the agreement to sell was inequitable and/or was a forced B agreement to sell.