162 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 16. The appellant on the other hand, maintained that (i) The agreement was not a consortium agreement in the technical sense (clause 7 of the pre-qualifi cation requirements); (ii) It was called a consortium agreement only because it was styled in accordance with the template for a consortium agreement, appended to the tender document; (iii) If it were actually a consortium agreement in the strict sense, the Chinese company would have contributed to the bid and had a share in the profi ts as well; (iv) the nature of the agreement was more like a service contract than like a consortium agreement strictly speaking; (v) The Chinese company was a mere associate who was providing services in relation to the designs under the terms of the agreement; it did not contribute to the bid and was not entitled to any profi ts that accrued in favor of the appellant; (vi) The bid was submitted and awarded in favour of the appellant as a standalone bidder and not as a part of a bidding consortium; and (vii) Considering the nature of the contract and the Chinese company’s limited role, the non-registration under the Procurement was inconsequential. 17. By its impugned dated 27 July 2023, the Division Bench reversed the decision of the Single Judge. The Division Bench observed that (i) The agreement between the appellant and the Chinese Company is an undertaking to the tendering authority as to the due performance of the contract; (ii) The agreement is central to the appellant’s bid and is thus a consortium agreement; (iii) The bid was thus made on behalf of the bidding consortium; (iv) According to the Single Judge, the requirement of registration was not applicable in view of the clarifi cation by the subsequent Offi ce BTL EPC LTD. v. MACAWBER BEEKAY PVT LTD AND 163 OTHERS [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Memorandum dated 23 July 2020; this subsequent clarifi cation applied in respect of import of raw material and whether the goods procured would be considered raw material or fi nished goods was relevant only after the award of the contract; (v) The requirement of mandatory registration had not been done away with by the clarifi cation contained in the Offi ce Memorandum dated 23 July 2020; (vi) The Chinese company, as a part of the bidding consortium was required to register in the absence of which the bidding consortium was ineligible to participate in the tender process; and (vii) BHEL, in awarding the tender, had overlooked this violation and wrongly based its decision only on the fi nancial bid. 18. The Division Bench thus, set aside the Single Judge’s decision. The LoI which was awarded to the appellant has been set aside with the consequential direction to process the bids submitted by the fi rst respondent in terms of the Notice Inviting Tenders. In the meantime, albeit in pursuance of interim directions to the eff ect that no equities would be created in favour of the successful bidder, work has proceeded apace.