It cannot be said, in such circumstances, that leaving the key of the vehicle in the ignition was an open invitation to steal the vehicle. 16) The Court of Appeal in England, in the case of David Topp vs. London Country Bus (South West) Limited, [1993] EWCA Civ C 15 had occasion to consider the issue, though in the context of liability of the owner of the vehicle for a fatal accident. The facts as set out in the are as follows:- “In accordance with usual practice, the driver, Mr. Green, left the bus in that lay-by at the bus stop at about 2.35 p.m. on 24th April D 1988. He left it unlocked, with the ignition key in it. He had then a 40 minute rest period before resuming his duties, driving a different bus. There was an arrangement under which the drivers could spend their rest period in the hospital. The expectation was that another driver, about eight minutes after Mr. Green had left the bus in the lay-by, would pick the bus up and drive the same route. E But the other driver, who should have picked the bus up at about 2.43 p.m., did not do so because he was feeling unwell. His shift would have been non-compulsory overtime, and he did not report for his overtime. The bus therefore remained in the lay-by. Mr. Green saw it there later and reported that it was still standing F there. Therefore, there is no doubt that the depot knew that the bus was there. But, possibly because of shortage of drivers or available staff, nothing was done to pick the bus up that evening. It was taken by somebody who has never been traced just before 11.15 at night, driven for a relatively short distance until the point where Mrs. Topp was knocked down and killed, and it was G abandoned round the corner from there.” Referring to the of Lord Justice Robert Goff in P.Perl (Exporters) Ltd. vs. Camden London Borough Council [1984] QB 342, the Court of Appeal held as under:- H 1258 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A “In so far as the case is put on the basis that to leave the bus unlocked and with the key in the ignition on the Highway near a public house is to create a special risk in a special category, it is pertinent to refer to a passage in the of Lord Justice Robert Goff (as he then was) in P. Perl (Exporters) Ltd. V. Camden London Borough Council [1984] QB 342 at page 359E- B F where he said: “In particular, I have in mind certain cases where the defendant presents the wrongdoer with the means to commit the wrong, in circumstances where it is obvious or very likely that he will do so – as, for example, where he hands over a car to be C driven by a person who is drunk, or plainly incompetent, who then runs over the plaintiff…” But the sort of cases to which Lord Justice Robert Goff was there referring are far different from the present case.