3. In the general scheme of the Income Tax Act, 1961, direct B taxation, except in areas such as e-commerce, is inextricably connected to the ownership and not just possession of the underlying asset, creating income. Section 22 of the Act, which provides for taxation of income from house property provides that the assessee must be the owner of such property generating income. Section 45 provides for income tax on C capital gains to be imputed on owners of capital assets who transfer such assets and those who convert them for lawful gains. Likewise, section 69A provides as a rule of evidence that for the deeming effect to apply- the assessee must be the owner of money, bullion, jewellery and other valuable articles on which he is unable to proffer a satisfactory explanation. Section 69B provides that in cases of understated D investments the assessee should be the owner of money, bullion, jewellery and other valuable article(s). Hence, determining ownership of impugned goods is an important factor to impute tax liability. Someone having mere possession and without legal ownership or title over the goods, will not be covered within the ambit of Section 69A.An assessee may E nevertheless be also regarded as deemed owner if possession is imputed on the assessee and no other person having a better claim is contesting the assessee’s claim. In the present case, the assessee was certainly not the owner of the bitumen - but was the carrier who was supplying goods from the consignor- oil marketing companies to the consignee- Road Construction Department. Notably, due to short delivery of goods, F the possession of the assessee was unlawful. The inevitable conclusion therefore is that the assessee is not the owner, for the purposes of Section 69A. 4. To address the second question on whether bitumen is a valuable article under Section 69A,we must understand whatsort of article is G bitumen. Commonly, bitumen is described as a sticky, black, highly viscous, liquid or a semi-solid form of petroleum and a crude oil by-product,which is also known as asphalt.When crude oil is subjectedto refining- by fractional distillation, i.e.before it is converted into industrially viable finished petroleum products, midway, several useful articles are obtained. H 592 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A In the process of distillation of crude oil in the fractionating column- top distillates like liquified petroleum gas (LPG), middle distillates like- kerosene, diesel, jet fuel and paraffin are obtained and in the lower column, distillates like lubricants and greases, are collected. At the residual level at the bottom of the column, bitumen and asphalt are the offshoot of the distillation process. Bitumen, the highly viscous complex B of hydrocarbons is mostly used for road surfacing, roofing and for water and alkaline resistant painting. The question is whether this residual offshoot from crude oil refining, can be categorised as a valuable article, in the context of Section 69A of the Income Tax Act keeping in mind that the section, specifically lists three items i.e.