The second option is to realise the security interest, but in the manner specified in Section 52 of the Code. Sub-section (2) to Section E 52 of the Code states that where the secured creditor realises the security interest, he shall inform the liquidator of such security interest and identify the asset subject to such security interest to be realised. The liquidator is to verify the security interest and shall permit the secured creditor to realise such security interest, which is proved either by records of such security interest maintained by an information utility, or by such other F means as may be specified by the Board. Sub-section (4) to Section 52 of the Code states that the secured creditor may enforce, realise, settle, compromise or deal with the secured asset in accordance with such law as applicable to the security interest being realised and to the secured creditor. The secured creditor is to accordingly apply the proceeds to G 9 For the purpose of the present decision, we are not interpreting sub-clause (iii) to clause (a) of sub-section (4) to Section 36 of the Code as this is an issue of some debate and pending consideration in other matters. The legal effect of exclusion is that, the amount of sums due to any workmen or employee from the provident fund, the pension fund or the gratuity fund cannot be made subject matter of reduction or dilution even in a rehabilitation or revival plan. They are excluded from the waterfall mechanism and would not be used in recovery on liquidation, and they cannot be shared. H 128 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A recover the debts due to him. We need not refer to sub-section (5) to Section 52 of the Code as it relates to the action which the secured creditor may take if he faces resistance from the corporate debtor or any other person connected therewith in taking possession of, selling or otherwise disposing off the security. Sub-section (6) to Section 52 of the Code applies when an adjudicating authority is in receipt of an application B under sub-section (5) to Section 52 of the Code. Sub-section (7) to Section 52 of the Code, however, is important as it states that where on enforcement of the security interest, an amount by way of proceeds is in excess of the debts due to the secured creditor, the secured creditor shall account for and pay the excess/surplus amount to the liquidator C from enforcement of such secured assets. The amount of insolvency resolution process costs, due from secured creditors who realise their security interests in the manner provided in the section, are to be deducted from the proceeds of any realisation by such secured creditors. They are to be transferred and included in the liquidation estate. Sub-section (9) to Section 52 of the Code states that where proceeds for realisation D of the secured assets are not adequate to repay the debts owed to the secured creditor, the unpaid debts of such secured creditor shall be paid by the liquidator in the manner specified in clause (e) to sub-section (1) to Section 53 of the Code.