ISSUES FOR CONSIDERATION 12. In this backdrop, the questions that we are required to consider are: – 12.1 Whether the Tribunal could have issued a direction to the Government to frame a policy for fi lling up the post of JAG (Air)? 12.2 Whether the Tribunal could have directed that the Respondent would continue functioning in such capacity despite non-acceptance of the Promotion Board’s recommendation till such time that the policy is framed by the Government and be given an opportunity for consideration by the promotion board constituted under such new policy? CONSIDERATION AND CONCLUSION 13. The Preamble to the Armed Forces Tribunal Act, 2007 reads- “An Act to provide for the adjudication or trial by Armed Forces Tribunal of disputes and complaints with respect to commission, appointments, enrolment and conditions of service in respect of persons subject to the Army Act, 1950, the Navy Act, 1957 and the Air Force Act, 1950 and also to provide for appeals arising out of s, fi ndings or sentences of court martial held under the said Acts and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. (Emphasis Supplied) 14. Chapter III of the Act pertains to the powers and jurisdiction vested in the Tribunal. Section 14 therein, details the jurisdiction, power and authority of the Tribunal in service matters and Section 15 delineates the same in terms of appeal from s of Court Martial. The present case concerns the service rendered/to be rendered, by the Respondent. The former reads- “14. Jurisdiction, powers and authority in service matters.—(1) Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, the Tribunal shall exercise, on UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. AIR COMMODORE NK 1037 SHARMA (17038) ADM/LGL [SANJAY KAROL J.] and from the appointed day, all the jurisdiction,powers and authority, exercisable immediately before that day by all courts (except the Supreme Court or a High Court exercising jurisdiction under articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution) in relation to all service matters. (2) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, a person aggrieved by an pertaining to any service matter may make an application to the Tribunal in such form and accompanied by such document or other evidence and on payment of such fee as may be prescribed. (3) On receipt of an application relating to service matters, the Tribunal shall, if satisfi ed after due inquiry, as it may deem necessary, that it is fi t for adjudication by it, admit such application; but where the Tribunal is not so satisfi ed, it may dismiss the application after recording its reasons in writing. (4) For the purpose of adjudicating an application, the Tribunal shall have the same powers as are vested in a Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), while trying a suit in respect of the following matters, namely— (a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath; (b) requiring the discovery and production of documents; (c) receiving evidence on affi davits; (d) subject to the provisions of sections 123 and 124 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872), requisitioning any public record or document or copy of such record or document from any offi ce; (e) issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses or documents; (f) reviewing its decisions; (g) dismissing an application for default or deciding it ex parte; (h) setting aside any of dismissal of any application for default or any passed by itex parte; and 103 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.