This Court observed that once the right to treat is recognised, then the right to prescribe medicine or issue necessary certificate flows from it, or else the right to treat cannot be completely protected. It was further observed that appellants therein had the right C to prescribe medicine. Consequently, the of the Division Bench was set aside and the of the learned Single Judge was restored. A direction was issued to include the names of all the diploma-holders concerned in the State Medical Register D for the limited purpose indicated therein. (C) Dr. A.K.Sabhapathy vs. State of Kerala, AIR 1992 SC 1310,(“Dr. A.K.Sabhapathy”): (i) In this case, the validity of the first proviso to Section 38 of the Travancore Cochin Medical Practitioners’ Act, 1953 E (for short, “the State Act”) and the dated 20.09.1978 and a notification dated 13.04.1981 issued by the Government of Kerala, were assailed. This Court considered the aforesaid State Law in light of the IMC Act, 1956 (“the Central Act”) and observed that the expression ‘modern F scientific medicine’ in Section 2(f) of the Central Act refers to the Allopathic system of medicine and that the provisions of the Central Act have been made in relation to medical practitioners practising the said system. This view found support from the fact that after the enactment of the Central Act, the Parliament had enacted the IMCC Act, 1970 in G relation to the system of Indian medicine commonly known as Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani and the Homoeopathy Central Council Act, 1973 in relation to Homoeopathic system of medicine wherein provisions similar to those contained in the Central Act had been made in relation to H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 1005 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] the said systems of medicine. This Court was of the view A that from the provisions of the State Act, noticed earlier, it was evident that the field of operation of the State Act covered all the systems of medicine, namely, Allopathic, Ayurvedic, Siddha, Unani and Homoeopathic systems of medicine. Moreover, the State Act dealt with recognition B of qualifications required for registration of a person as a medical practitioner in these systems, conditions for registration of medical practitioners and maintenance of register of practitioners for each system and the constitution of separate councils for modern medicine, homoeopathic medicine and indigenous medicine. C It was observed that as compared to the State Act, the field of operation of the Central Act is restricted and it is confined in its application to modern scientific medicine, namely, the Allopathic system of medicine only, wherein it also deals with recognition of medical qualifications which D may entitle a person to be registered as a medical practitioner; constitution of the Medical Council of India to advise the Central Government in the matter of recognition or withdrawal of recognition of medical qualifications, to prescribe the minimum standards of medical education E required for granting recognised medical qualifications by Universities or Medical Institutions in India and to appoint inspectors and visitors for inspection of any medical institution, college or hospital.