No response was forthcoming. Neither from the records nor at the hearing has it been demonstrated as to how the charge of failure to conduct the inspection was countered by the respondent. The records sought being made available, the onus did shift to the respondent to show that the charge was untenable. 25. In view of the above, clearly with regard to the fi rst limb of the fi rst charge, namely, the failure to conduct periodical inspection, it cannot be said that the fi nding of the Enquiry Offi cer is on a mis-reading of the evidence or that the records of the inspection of units were part of the records that could be possibly misplaced or that a fi nding was based on some stray sentence and personal knowledge was imported by the Enquiry Offi cer de hors the record. STATE BANK OF INDIA v. A.G.D. REDDY 667 [K. V. VISWANATHAN, J.] Charge regarding formalities for creation of equitable mortgage 26. There is one other aspect which has completely escaped the attention of the learned Single Judge and consequently the Division Bench. One of the charges dealt with by the Enquiry Offi cer was about not securing the advance to M/s Saraswathi Fabricators by creation of an equitable mortgage even though the equitable mortgage of immovable property was off ered by the party. The following fi ndings were recorded by the Enquiry Offi cer:- “On page 12 para 7.2 of PEX 9, the borrower has off ered equitable mortgage of building at No. 458, Viveknagar, Bangalore, a site measuring 1500 sq. ft. and built in area of 700 sq. ft. belonging to Sri K. V. Srinivasan valued at Rs. 4.5 lacs. The CO by his negligence has not stipulated this in his recommendations to the BM. In the process the advance could not be collaterally secured by non-creation of equitable mortgage. Hence the charge that equitable mortgage has not been created is proved.” 27. To satisfy ourselves, we examined the record of the enquiry proceedings on this issue. In the deposition of PW-4, recorded in the enquiry proceeding on 17.02.1993, the following is found:- “PO: Looking to PEX page 12 item 7.2 of PEX 9 please tell us the collateral security off ered by the unit. PW4: …. security is a site measuring 1,500 sq. ft. & bldg. area of 700 sq. ft. belonging to Sri KV Srinivasan at Vivek Nagar, Bangalore valued at Rs.4.5 lacs. PO: Was the formality completed at the time of sanctioning of this loan. PW4: No.” Deposition of PW-4 recorded on 03.03.1993:- “DR: Who puts the stipulations in sanctioning of a loan? At the branch level? PW4: Field Offi cer in consultation with the Br. Manager. 668 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. DR: Can the Br. manager as sanctioning authority waive any stipulation? PW4: Depends on the circumstances. …. ….. DR: Showing PEX9 from pg. l to 12 constitute the application. Do you agree? PW4: It is application cum interview form. DR: From pg.