However, Clause (5) of Article 324 does not provide similar protection to the Election Commissioners and it only says that they cannot be removed from office except on the recommendation of the Chief Election Commissioner. The provision, in the opinion of the Election Commission, is inadequate E and requires an amendment to provide the very same protection and safeguard in the matter of removability of Election Commissioners from office as is provided to the Chief Election Commissioner. The Election Commission recommends that constitutional protection be extended to all members of the Election Commission. F The Election Commission also recommends that the Secretariat of the Election Commission, consisting of officers and staff at various levels is also insulated from the interference of the Executive in the matter of their appointments, promotions, etc., and all such functions are exclusively vested in the Election G Commission on the lines of the Secretariats of the Lok Sabha, 52 Report of Second Administrative Reform Commission (2009), Pg. 79, Available at: https://darpg.gov.in/en/arc-reports 53 Background Paper on Electoral Reform, Ministry of Law & Justice (2010), 6.3 Measures for Election Commission, pg. 19, Available at: https://lawmin.gov.in/sites/default/files/bgp_0.doc H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 221 [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] and Rajya Sabha, Registries of the Supreme Court and High Courts A etc. The third recommendation of the Election Commission is that its budget be treated as “Charged” on the Consolidated Fund of India.” F. Law Commission of India Report, 2015 (255th Report)54 B 104. Taking note of the important role played by the Election Commission of India i.e., the task of conducting elections throughout the country, the Law Commission in its 255th Report emphasized that the Commission should be completely insulated from political pressure or executive interference to maintain the purity of elections, inherent in a C democratic process, and recommended: “Appointment of Chief Election Commissioner and Election Commissioners – (1) The Election Commissioners, including the Chief Election Commissioners, shall be appointed by the President by warrant under his hand and seal after obtaining the D recommendations of a Committee consisting of: (a) the Prime Minister of India – Chairperson (b) the Leader of the Opposition in the House of the People – Member (c) the Chief Justice of India – Member Provided that after the Chief Election Commissioner ceases to hold office, the senior-most Election Commissioner shall be E appointed as the Chief Election Commissioner, unless the Committee mentioned in sub-section (1) above, for reasons to be recorded in writing, finds such Election Commissioner to be unfit. Explanation: For the purposes of this sub-section, “the Leader of the Opposition in the House of the People” shall, when no such F Leader has been so recognised, include the Leader of the single largest group in opposition of the Government in the House of the People.” 105. The Law Commission also recommended the formation of an independent and permanent Secretariat staff for Election Commission and suggested that: G 54 255th LAW COMMISSION OF INDIA REPORT, 2015, Chapter VI- STRENGTHENING THE OFFICE OF THE ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA, Available at: https://cdnbbsr.s3waas.gov.in/s3ca0daec69b5adc880fb464895726dbdf/uploads/2022/ 08/2022081635.pdf H 222 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R.