Both the appeals were decided by a common dated 14.02.2002. The fi rst appellate Court dismissed the appeal fi led by the appellants/State, whereas the appeal fi led by respondent-plaintiff was allowed and he was held entitled to all the service benefi ts as accrued. However, the Court granted liberty to the appellants to proceed against respondent-plaintiff under Rule 16.24 of PPR. The said and decree was confi rmed by High Court vide common impugned . Being aggrieved by the same, these appeals have been preferred by State. 9. Learned counsel for the appellants contends that the respondent was appointed on probation and during training, he was sent for special duty along with other trainee/recruited constables. After the completion of the deputation, while the other trainee constables reported back to the Training THE STATE OF PUNJAB AND OTHERS v. 827 JASWANT SINGH [J. K. MAHESHWARI, J.] Centre and joined, the respondent-plaintiff neither reported back nor gave any intimation for his non-reporting. Therefore, the S.P., Training Centre, made a recommendation to S.S.P., Amritsar to exercise power under Rule 12.21 of PPR to discharge the probationary constable. In the said recommendation, it was indicated that the act of non-reporting at the Training Centre without any intimation refl ects absolute lack of interest in training and sense of responsibility. In the said view, S.P. further reported that respondent-plaintiff cannot prove himself to be a good and effi cient police offi cer. Hence, on the said recommendation, the of discharge has rightly been passed under Rule 12.21 PPR by the S.S.P. within the period of three years from date of enrolment as the probationer constable was found unlikely to prove an effi cient police offi cer. It is further urged that the of termination is simpliciter and not punitive or stigmatic in nature and the High Court while affi rming the and decree of the Courts below committed grave error in law. In support of the said contentions, reliance has been placed on 3-Judge Bench of this Court in the case of “State of Punjab and Others Vs. Sukhwinder Singh, (2005) 5 SCC 569” and also on the in the case of “State of Punjab and others Vs. Constable Avtar Singh, (2008) 7 SCC 405”. 10. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent contends that the impugned of discharge is not simpliciter, but it is punitive. It is urged that, recommendation made by S.P., Training Centre, indicates that the foundation of such recommendation is based on an allegation of misconduct. Therefore, it was mandatory to conduct an inquiry following the procedure contemplated under Rule 16.24 of PPR and for the said reason, the Courts below have rightly set-aside the of discharge. It is further urged that the concurrent fi nding as recorded does not warrant any interference in these appeals. In support of the said contention, counsel for the respondent has placed reliance on the of this Court in the case of “Amar Kumar Vs. State of Bihar and Others, (2013) 4 PLJR 269” and “Ratnesh Kumar Choudhary Vs. Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna, Bihar and Others, (2015) 15 SCC 151”.