[2023] 2 S.C.R. 487 487 THE STATE OF GUJARAT & ORS. A v. H. B. KAPADIA EDUCATION TRUST & ANR. (Civil Appeal No. 2837 of 2022) FEBRUARY 21, 2023 B [DINESH MAHESHWARI AND BELA M. TRIVEDI, JJ.] Constitution of India – Art.30(1) – Right of minorities to establish and administer educational institutions – Respondent no.1- a minority institution was running a government aided school- C respondent no. 2 – Decision of the appellants refusing to provide the aid to the respondents towards the salary of the principal of the respondent no.2 on his attaining the age of superannuation as per the Grant-in-aid Code, if arbitrary or violative of Art.30(1) – Held: As per the Grant-in-Aid Code, the minority educational institutions like the respondents could not continue the employees/teachers D beyond the age of 58 years or 60 years, as the case may be – Respondent-institution was bound by the provisions contained in the Grant-in-Aid Code –Thus, if the appellants refused to pay the Grant-in-Aid to the respondents, on the Principal having reached the age of superannuation, it cannot be said that they had interfered E with the affairs of the respondents or violated Art.30(1) – High Court erred in holding that the respondent-institute had a right to continue the Principal of its school beyond his age of 60 years – of the High Court set aside–Gujarat Secondary Education Act 1972 – Secondary Education Regulations 1974. F Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 As per Regulation 42 of the Secondary Education Regulations 1974, the provisions contained in the said Regulations framed under the said Act prevail over those provisions contained in the Grant-in-Aid Code published under G the government notification dated 22.04.1964, insofar as they relate to any matter provided in the said Regulations. It further emerges that as per Regulation 43 of the said Regulations, Regulation 36 pertaining to the age of superannuation is not applicable to the educational institution established and administered by a minority, whether based on religion or H 487 488 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A language. Therefore, the age of superannuation of an employee of a registered Secondary School as mentioned in Regulation 36 would not be applicable to the employee or teacher of an educational institution established and administered by a minority. The combined reading of Regulations 42 and 43 of the said Regulations makes it clear that Regulation 36 would not apply to B any educational institutions established and administered by minority, and therefore the matter pertaining to the age of superannuation of the employees of registered Secondary School established and administered by minority, availing the Grant-in- Aid could not be said to have been provided under the said C Regulations. The necessary corollary would be that the said Regulation 36 being not applicable to the minority educational institution, the provisions contained in the Grant-in-Aid Code pertaining to the age of superannuation would be applicable to such minority institutions availing the grant from the State Government. [Para 7][493-C-G] D 1.2 Now, as per para 81.1 of the Grant-in-Aid Code, a secondary school teacher receiving grant-in-aid would ordinarily retire from service at the age of 58, and the management may grant to the teachers extensions upto the age of 60, in view of para 81.2 of the said Code.