A learned senior counsel, while seeking enhancement appeared to mirror the arguments of the learned Attorney General. In addition, he prayed for digitisation of medical records for the benefit of victims who had been attended to in the hospitals so as to enable a fair assessment of their injuries. This aspect is however stated to be pending before the Madhya Pradesh High Court. B Analysis 40. We have bestowed our anxious consideration to the arguments put forth by both sides. While we sympathize with the victims of the awful tragedy, we are unable to disregard settled principles of law, C particularly at the curative stage. Mere sympathy for the sufferers does not enable us to devise a panacea; more so while looking into the nature of dispute, and the multifarious occasions on which this Court has applied its mind to the settlement. 41. The very basis for the original settlement was the need to provide immediate succour to the victims - through medical relief, D rehabilitation measures, setting up of facilities etc. This has been clearly observed by this Court at every step; be it in the s recording the settlement, the detailing reasons for the same, and the review . We thus do not appreciate the endeavour by Ms. Karuna Nundy, counsel for the intervenors, in making out a case that there was E a ‘midnight settlement’ whereby a fraud was played upon this Court and the Union. The Court was clearly occupied with the aspect of a settlement being entered into, and it was found, after a number of sittings and rounds of hearings, that this was the most appropriate course of action. 42. On the aspect of adequacy, we must also take note of the F factual scenario which emerges as per the figures of the Union itself. Except for cases of minor injuries, the settlement amount was actually in excess as is apparent from the table reproduced above. As far as the issue of minor injuries is concerned, it appears from the Union’s own affidavit in IA Nos. 48-49/2004 in Civil Appeal No. 3187-88 of 1998 that in cases of injury, Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 4 lakh (original and pro rata G compensation) and an additional Rs. 50,000 were paid in cases of mere presence in the gas affected areas of Bhopal on the fateful night. It has also been admitted in the said affidavit that the amount of compensation for all categories was allocated on the higher side, and after disbursal of the leftover amount on a pro rata basis, the overall rate of compensation H UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. M/S. UNION CARBIDE 897 CORPORATION & ORS. has in fact been doubled. Suffice for us to say that as per the learned A Attorney General, a figure of Rs. 50 crore remains with the Reserve Bank of India lying undisbursed. 43. We are conscious of the fact that the exchange rate worked in the Union’s favour as the exchange rate of the Dollar rate escalated.