Upon investigation, it was found that Respondent No. 1 had never stayed at that hotel; viii. During investigation, reliable evidence has come on record to show that other Income Tax officials were hands in glove with Respondent No. 1, which is also evident from the active C role played by some officials in helping Respondent No.1 to avoid arrest by the ACB on 4th October, 2022. Custodial interrogation is highly necessary to ascertain the deeper plot at play and to examine the involvement of other Income Tax officials; D ix. Respondent No. 1 appeared before the CBI after the protection granted by the High Court but did not handover his mobile handsets which are a crucial piece of evidence and is, thus, not cooperating with the investigation. Custodial interrogation is necessary in this case to take the E investigation to its logical conclusion; x. Reliance has been placed on the of this Court in State Rep. By The CBI v. Anil Sharma1 to argue that “custodial interrogation is qualitatively more elicitation- oriented than questioning a suspect who is well ensconced with a favourable under Section 438 of the Code. In F a case like this, effective interrogation of a suspected person is of tremendous advantage in disinterring many useful information and also materials which would have been concealed. Success in such interrogation would elude if the suspected person knows that he is well protected and G insulated by a pre-arrest bail during the time he is interrogated. Very often interrogation in such a condition would reduce to a mere ritual.”; 1 (1997) 7 SCC 187. H 488 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A xi. Reliance has also been placed on the decisions in Prem Shankar Prasad v. State of Bihar2, State of Madhya Pradesh v. Pradeep Sharma3 and Lavesh v. State (NCT of Delhi)4 to urge that anticipatory bail should not be granted to an absconder; B xii. The High Court passed an unusual directing that the investigating agency would be at liberty to apply to the competent Magistrate for police remand of Respondent No. 1 and in the same breath, prevented custodial interrogation of the main suspect. C 20. Supporting the above submissions on behalf of the CBI, Mr. Maninder Singh, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the complainant, made following additions: i. The High Court ignored the observations & findings of the learned Sessions Court recorded while rejecting Respondent No. 1’s application for anticipatory bail. The D said Court had gone through the material on record, including the case papers, and then only observed that custodial interrogation was necessary to enable the investigation agency to reach the core of the matter. ii. The High Court failed to appreciate the unequivocal demand E of Rs. 30 lakhs made by Respondent No. 1, which was recorded by the complainant on a Digital Voice Rec and acceptance of that bribe money through Dhara Angadia Firm. 21. On the other hand, Mr. Mukul Rohatgi and Mr. Shyam Divan, F learned Senior Counsels strongly refuted the insinuations made against Respondent No.