154. These five golden principles, if we may say so, constitute the panchsheel of the proof of a case based on circumstantial evidence. 155. It may be interesting to note that as regards the mode of G proof in a criminal case depending on circumstantial evidence, in the absence of a corpus delicti, the statement of law as to proof of the same was laid down by Gresson, J. (and concurred by 3 more Judges) in King v. Horry [1952 NZLR 111] thus: 7(1973) 2 SCC 793. H 974 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A “Before he can be convicted, the fact of death should be proved by such circumstances as render the commission of the crime morally certain and leave no ground for reasonable doubt: the circumstantial evidence should be so cogent and compelling as to convince a jury that upon no rational hypothesis other than murder can the facts be accounted for.” B 156. Lord Goddard slightly modified the expression “morally certain” by “such circumstances as render the commission of the crime certain”. 157. This indicates the cardinal principle of criminal jurisprudence C that a case can be said to be proved only when there is certain and explicit evidence and no person can be convicted on pure moral conviction...”” 12.2. As regards inconsistencies and/or discrepancies in the version of the witnesses, in the case of Shyamal Ghosh (supra) this Court has explained the distinction between serious contradictions and omissions D which materially affect the prosecution case and marginal variations in the statement of witnesses in the following terms: - “68. From the above discussion, it precipitates that the discrepancies or the omissions have to be material ones and then alone, they may amount to contradiction of some serious E consequence. Every omission cannot take the place of a contradiction in law and therefore, be the foundation for doubting the case of the prosecution. Minor contradictions, inconsistencies or embellishments of trivial nature which do not affect the core of the prosecution case should not be F taken to be a ground to reject the prosecution evidence in its entirety. It is only when such omissions amount to a contradiction creating a serious doubt about the truthfulness or creditworthiness of the witness and other witnesses also make material improvements or contradictions before the court in to render the evidence unacceptable, that the courts may not be G in a position to safely rely upon such evidence. Serious contradictions and omissions which materially affect the case of the prosecution have to be understood in clear contradistinction to mere marginal variations in the statement of the witnesses. The prior may have effect in law upon the evidentiary value of the H VAHITHA v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU 975 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] prosecution case; however, the latter would not adversely affect A the case of the prosecution.” (emphasis supplied) 12.3. In the case of Bharwada Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai (supra), this Court has explained that concurrent findings of fact cannot be B reopened in an appeal by special leave unless shown to be based on no evidence or inadmissible evidence or being perverse or suffering from disregard of some vital piece of evidence.