of lodging of the FIR in any State, he is residing or is present there for a legitimate purpose in any other State – It does not emerge that the expression “the High Court” or “the Court of Session” must have reference only to the place or territorial jurisdiction within which the FIR is lodged – If that was the implication, the same would have been expressly evident in the Section itself or by a necessary implication – Use of the word “the” before “High Court” and “Court of Session” also does not mean that only the High Court or the Court of Session, as the case may be, within whose jurisdiction the FIR is fi led, is competent to exercise jurisdiction for the grant of transit anticipatory bail. [Para 44] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s. 438 – Expression ‘transit anticipatory bail’ – Need and necessity for: Held: Need and necessity for transit anticipatory bail has occasioned because the police has been conferred power under the CrPC to pursue an accused in other jurisdictions – Police is obligated to secure a transit remand of the accused for taking him from the place where he is arrested to the place where the crime is registered, for production before the competent magistrate in terms of the requirement of Art. 22 – Primary purpose of transit remand is to enable the police to shift the person in custody from the place of arrest to the place where the matter can be investigated – It appears that from the requirement of transit remand, the necessity of ‘transit anticipatory bail’ has arisen, for aff ected person cannot be without a remedy. [Para 35] Bail – Anticipatory Bail – Evolution of the safeguard – Stated. [Para 10] Bail – Pre-arrest bail – Position of law in United States of India, United Kingdom, Kenya and India – Comparative legal study – Stated. [Paras 19, 20] Bail – Limited anticipatory bail – Grant of, by the High Court or the Court of Session u/s 438 CrPC with respect to FIR registered outside the territorial jurisdiction of the said Court – Conditions to be fulfi lled – Stated. [Para 36] Constitution of India – Art. 21 – Right to life and liberty under – Access to justice : PRIYA INDORIA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA AND ORS. 529 ETC. Held: Art. 39A which deals with equal justice and free legal aid can be construed to be a specie of Art 21 – Citizen must be provided a just adjudicatory forum to agitate his grievance and seek adjudication of what he may perceive as a breach of his right to the level of a fundamental right – Adjudicatory forum supposed to be eff ective in its functioning and just, fair and objective in its approach, but it also must be conveniently approachable and aff ordable – Access to justice would, thus, be a constitutional value of any signifi cance and utility only if the delivery of justice to the citizen is speedy.