A The appeal under Section 37 of the Act 7. In challenge to the aforesaid dated 12.09.2019 as passed by the Commercial Court, the State preferred Commercial Appeal No. 12 of 2019 under Section 37 of the Act before the High Court of Judicature at Bombay, Goa Bench that has been partly allowed by the High Court B by the impugned and dated 08.03.2021 and thereby, substantial and material parts of the findings in the award in question have been reversed. 7.1. Again, we shall refer to the relevant findings of the High Court at the appropriate stage but, in to indicate the points taken up for determination by the High Court with reference to the rival C contentions, the following extraction shall be apposite: - “39. We have considered the rival submissions made by the learned Counsel for the parties. We have also considered the material on record, which includes the impugned Award, as well as the impugned and made by the Commercial Court. D Based on the rival contentions, the following points now arise for our determination: (A) The scope of the provisions of Section 34 of the Arbitration Act (as amended in 2017). E (B) Whether the Appellant has made out a case of breach of natural justice in the course of the arbitral proceedings warranting interference with the impugned Award? (C) Whether the Appellant has made out a case that the impugned Award on the aspect of variable charges for Rs. 24.66 F crores is required to be set aside? (D) Whether the Appellant has made out a case that the impugned Award on the aspect of downrating for Rs. 18.53 crores is required to be set aside? (E) Whether the Appellant has made out a case that the G impugned Award on the aspect of variable charges on 4 MW power which was permitted to be traded for Rs. 3.94 crores is required to be set aside? (F) Whether the Appellant has made out a case that the impugned Award on the aspect of netting out for Rs. 2.36 crores H is required to be set aside? RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 399 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] (G) Whether the award of interest for the period up to the A making of the impugned Award as well as the post Award period, warrants interference? (H) Whether the computations at Schedules 2 and 3 to the impugned Award are ex facie incorrect and were made without affording sufficient opportunity to the Appellant? B (I) Whether the impugned and made by the Commercial Court upholding the impugned Award is ex facie erroneous and warrants interference?” 7.2. As regards point (A) aforesaid, the High Court, though C mentioned a decision of this Court in the case of Ssangyong Engineering and Construction Co. Ltd. v. NHAI: (2019) 15 SCC 131, wherein principles have been laid down for dealing with challenge to an award under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 but, thereafter, considered it appropriate to refer to the analysis by a learned Single Judge of the High Court and, after reproducing a few passages from that decision of the D learned Single Judge, observed that the submissions would be evaluated with reference to the principles so stated.