However, where oral partition C is pleaded, the same should be backed by evidence in support. Further omission of Section 23 as suggested by the Law Commission, will enable the Hindu Women to seek partition of a family house occupied by the family members just as male member could seek partition. 56. Thereafter, on 9.09.2005, the Amendment Act, 2005 came to D be passed as Act 39 of 2005. Section 3 of the Amendment Act, 2005 substituted erstwhile Section 6 of the Principal Act. The Amendment Act, 2005 did away with exclusion of married daughter from getting the benefit of the amendment and also added a proviso to Section 6(1) of the Principal Act saving partitions done prior to 20.12.2004 (the date of introduction of the Bill in Rajya Sabha). The Explanation to Section 6(5) E of the Principal Act provided that for the purposes of the Section 6 of the Act partition only means partition by registered document or decree of Court. 57. Before averting to the rival submissions canvassed on either side, it would be apposite to reproduce the erstwhile Section 6 as F appearing in the Principal Act and the amended Section 6 of the Principal Act, as substituted by Section 3 of the Amendment Act for the sake of convenience. The pre-amended Section 6 of the Principal Act reads as under: “Section 6:- Devolution of interest in coparcenary property - G when a male Hindu dies after the commencement of this Act, having at the time of his death an interest in a Mitakshara coparcenary property, his interest in the property shall devolve by survivorship upon the surviving members of the coparcenary and not in accordance with this Act; H 50 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A Provided that, if the deceased had left him surviving a female relative specified in class I of the Schedule or a male relative specified in that class who claims through such female relative, the interest of the deceased in the Mitakshara coparcenary property shall devolve by testamentary or intestate succession, as the case may be, under this Act and B not by survivorship. Explanation 1 - For the purposes of this section, the interest of a Hindu Mitakshara coparcener shall be deemed to be the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition of the property had taken place immediately before C his death, irrespective of whether he was entitled to claim partition or not. Explanation 2 - Nothing contained in the proviso to this section shall be construed as enabling a person who has separated himself from the coparcenary before the death of the deceased D or any of his heirs to claim on intestacy a share in the interest referred to therein.” 58. The substituted Section 6 of the Principal Act as amended by the Amendment Act, 2005 which is in force w.e.f. 9.09.2005 reads as under: E “6. Devolution of interest of coparcenary property.— (1) On and from the commencement of the Hindu Succession (Amendment) Act, 2005, in a Joint Hindu family governed by the Mitakshara law, the daughter of a coparcener shall, F (a) by birth become a coparcener in her own right in the same manner as the son; (b) have the same rights in the coparcenary property as she would have had if she had been a son; (c) be subject to the same liabilities in respect of the said G coparcenary property as that of a son, and any reference to a Hindu Mitakshara coparcener shall be deemed to include a reference to a daughter of a coparcener: Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall affect or invalidate any disposition or alienation including any H PRASANTA KUMAR SAHOO & ORS.