17. When we queried learned counsel for the plaintiff as to why no Release Deed was got executed from the children of Shri Chandran, H ELUMALAI @ VENKATESAN & ANR. v. M. KAMALA 275 AND ORS. & ETC. [K.M. JOSEPH, J.] viz., the appellants, learned Counsel responded by contending that A Sengalani Chettiar, apparently, proceeded on his understanding of the law. THE IMPACT OF SECTION 8 OF THE HINDU MINORITY AND GUARDIANSHIP ACT B 18. Section 8 (1), (2) and (3) of the Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, 1956 (hereinafter referred to as, ‘the 1956 Act’), inter alia, reads as follows: “8. Powers of natural guardian. — (1) The natural guardian of a Hindu minor has power, subject to C the provisions of this section, to do all acts which are necessary or reasonable and proper for the benefit of the minor or for the realisation, protection or benefit of the minor’s estate; but the guardian can in no case bind the minor by a personal covenant. (2) The natural guardian shall not, without the previous permission D of the court,— (a) mortgage or charge, or transfer by sale, gift, exchange or otherwise, any part of the immovable property of the minor; or (b) lease any part of such property for a term exceeding five years or for a term extending more than one year beyond the date E on which the minor will attain majority. (3) Any disposal of immovable property by a natural guardian, in contravention of sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), is voidable at the instance of the minor or by any person claiming under him.” F 19. The appellants rely upon the prohibition against the natural guardian of a Hindu minor, binding the minor by a personal covenant. In view of the said embargo, the principle enunciated in Gulam Abaas (supra) would not apply it is contended. We would think that it is a contention, which may not pass muster on a proper interpretation of Section 8. G 20. Section 6 of the 1956 Act, inter alia, declares that the father and, after him, the mother, shall, in the case of a boy or an unmarried girl, be the natural guardians of the minor’s person as well as in respect of the minor’s property. However, the minor’s property would not include the undivided interest the minor has in the joint family property. It is, H 276 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A thereafter, that Section 8 appears and it purports to delineate the powers of a natural guardian. The powers of a natural guardian, in other words, relate either to the person or to the minor’s property or both. Section 8 purports to, inter alia, provide that the natural guardian would have the power to do all acts, which are necessary or reasonable and proper for the benefit of the minor or realisation, protection or benefit of the minor’s B estate. It is, thereafter, that the Law-Giver has interdicted the guardian from binding the minor by a personal covenant.