A recommend officers for appointment to the posts above the level of the Deputy Director of Enforcement and also recommend the extension or curtailment of the tenure of such officers in the Directorate of Enforcement; B (g) on receipt of the recommendation under clause (f), the Central Government shall pass such s as it thinks fit to give effect to the said recommendation.” 56. Similarly, by an amendment to DSPE Act by Act No. 45 of 2003 (CVC Act), a provision was made for a Committee for appointment of the Director of CBI, which reads thus: C “4-A. Committee for appointment of Director.—(1) The Central Government shall appoint the Director on the recommendation of the Committee consisting of— D E (2) While making any recommendation under sub-section (1), the Committee shall take into consideration the views of the outgoing Director. F (3) The Committee shall recommend a panel of officers— (a) on the basis of seniority, integrity and experience in the investigation of anti-corruption cases; and (b) chosen from amongst officers belonging to the Indian Police G Service constituted under the All-India Services Act, 1951 (61 of 1951), for being considered for appointment as the Director.” 57. Section 4-B of the DSPE Act deals with the terms and conditions of service of Director, which reads thus: H DR. JAYA THAKUR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 559 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] “4-B. Terms and conditions of service of Director.—(1) The A Director shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the rules relating to his conditions of service, continue to hold office for a period of not less than two years from the date on which he assumes office. (2) The Director shall not be transferred except with the previous B consent of the Committee referred to in sub-section (1) of Section 4-A.” 58. It could thus be seen that in view of clause (d) of Section 25 of the CVC Act, as it existed prior to the amendment, it was provided that a Director of Enforcement shall continue to hold office for a period C of not less than two years from the date on which he assumes office. 59. Similarly, in view of Section 4B of the DSPE Act, the Director of CBI was required to continue to hold office for a period of not less than two years from the date on which he assumes office. It also provided that the Director shall not be transferred except with the previous consent D of the Committee referred to in sub-section (1) of Section 4A. 60. By the Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Act, 2021, in clause (d) of Section 25 of the CVC Act, the following provisos have been inserted: “Provided that the period for which the Director of E Enforcement holds the office on his initial appointment may, in public interest, on the recommendation of the Committee under clause (a) and for the reasons to be recorded in writing, be extended up to one year at a time: Provided further that no such extension shall be granted F after the completion of a period of five years in total including the period mentioned in the initial appointment.” 61.