462] 52. It is observed in Corpus Juris Secundum Vol XL, Page 1283 that: “In weighing dying declarations, the jury may consider the circumstances under which they were made, as, whether they were due to outside infl uence or were made in a spirit of revenge, or when declarant was unable or unwilling to state the facts, the inconsistent or contradictory character of the declarations, and the fact that deceased has not appeared and accused has been deprived of the opportunity to cross- examine him, and may give to them the credit and weight to which they believe, under all the circumstances, they are fairly and reasonably entitled.” 53. In India in the relevant provision of Section 32 of the Act 1872, the fi rst exception to the rule against admissibility of hearsay evidence, is as under: “32(1). When it relates to cause of death.— When the statement is made by a person as to the cause of his death, or as to any of the circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his death, in cases in which the cause of that person’s death comes into question. Such statements are relevant whether the person who made them was or was not, at the time when they were made, under expectation of death, IRFAN @ NAKA v. THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 813 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] and whatever may be the nature of the proceeding in which the cause of his death comes into question.” 54. Jon R. Waltz, American Jurist observed that, “It has been thought, rightly or wrongly, that Dying Declarations have intrinsic assurances of trustworthiness, making cross examination unnecessary. The notion is that a person who is in the process of dying, and knows it, will be truthful immediately before departing to meet his Maker. (Of course, the validity of this hearsay exceptions is open to some debate. What about the person who is not deeply religious? What of the person who, as his last act, seeks revenge by falsely naming a life-long enemy as his killer? How reliable is the perception and memory of a person who is dying? )” [See: Waltz, J.R. (1975) Criminal Evidence, Chicago: Nelson-Hall. pp.75-76] 55. The Privy Council in Neville Nembhard v. The Queen reported in (1982) 1 AII ER 183, on Section 32(1) of the Act 1872 opined that the evidence of dying declaration under the Indian law lacks the special quality as in Common Law and hence, the weight to be attached to a dying declaration admitted under Section 32 of the Act 1872 would necessarily be less than that attached to a dying declaration admitted under the common law rules. 56. The below cited observations from the decision of Nembhard (supra) are of signifi cant importance: “ fi nal observation should be made concerning the cases al ready mentioned that have been decided in the Court of Appeal for Eastern Africa. It appears that rule of practice has been developed that when a dying declaration has been the only evidence implicating an accused person a conviction usually cannot be allowed to stand where there had been a failure to give a warning on the necessity for corroboration: see for example Pius Jasunga s/o Akumu v. The Queen (1954) 21 E.A.C.A.