iii. Validity of the proceedings of the House between the prohibitory conduct and the decision in the disqualification petitions C 86. In Rajendra Singh Rana (supra), a Constitution Bench of this Court observed that disqualification is incurred at the point when the MLA indulges in conduct prohibited under the Tenth Schedule. The petitioners rely on this observation to contend that the validity of the proceedings in the House during the pendency of the disqualification petitions depends on the outcome of the disqualification petitions. The D petitioners urge that though the MLAs cannot be barred from participating in the proceedings of the House merely on the initiation of disqualification petitions against them, the outcome of such proceedings will be subject to the decision of the Speaker in the pending disqualification petitions. It is important to understand the context in which this Court decided E Rajendra Singh Rana (supra) to appreciate the gamut of its observations. 87. A coalition Government, headed by the leader of the BSP, Ms. Mayawati, was formed in May 2002 pursuant to the elections to the 14th Legislative Assembly of Uttar Pradesh. On 27 August 2003, thirteen MLAs of the BSP wrote to the Governor requesting him to invite the F Leader of the Samajwadi Party to form the Government. On 4 September 2003, the leader of the BSP filed disqualification petitions against the thirteen MLAs under the provisions of Paragraph 2(1)(a) of the Tenth Schedule. On 6 September 2003, thirty-seven MLAs of the BSP filed a claim before the Speaker for recognition of a split in the party. They G claimed that pursuant to a meeting in Lucknow on 26 August 2003, the BSP split and that they constituted the group representing a faction which had arisen as a result of the split, namely the Lok Tantrik Bahujan Dal. On the very same day, the Speaker accepted the claim of a split and recognized a separate group by the name Lok Tantrik Bahujan Dal while the disqualification petitions were kept pending. Proceedings under Article H SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 917 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] 226 of the Constitution were instituted before the High Court challenging A the of the Speaker recognizing the split. The High Court set aside the of the Speaker and directed the Speaker to consider the disqualification petitions instituted against the thirteen MLAs. The appeal against the of the High Court was disposed by the Constitution Bench in Rajendra Singh Rana (supra). B 88. This Court held that the Speaker could not have decided whether a split existed de hors the disqualification petitions. The Court considered the issue of the point in time when the defence of a split must have existed. The respondents in that case contended that the defence of a split in terms of Paragraph 3 must have existed on the day on which C the MLAs indulged in prohibitory conduct. In response, the petitioners contended that it is sufficient for the MLAs to prove a split in terms of Paragraph 3 as on the day when the disqualification petitions are decided by the Speaker.