That the original writ petitioners filed a Miscellaneous Petition before the learned Single Judge of the High Court challenging the notifications under sections 4 & C 6 of the Act, 1894 and prayed that the entire acquisition proceedings be quashed. The original writ petitioners also prayed that Scheme No. 97 prepared by the IDA be quashed and their land be ed to be deleted and released therefrom. That in the year 1997, some lands were released from Scheme No. 97. The IDA during the pendency of the writ petitions filed a clarification regarding land release out of Scheme No. 97 pointing D out the justification. The aforesaid release was sought challenging Scheme No. 97 on the following grounds: (i) That the Scheme framed by the appellant under Section 50(7) of the Adhiniyam was not implemented within three years and therefore it stood lapsed, by virtue of Section 54 of the Adhiniyam. E (ii) That the notification issued under Section 6 was not in accordance with law inasmuch as the objections invited under Section 5-A were not decided by the Competent Authority. There was also a plea of hostile discrimination inasmuch as various parcels of lands were released from acquisition indiscriminately. F 2.6 The learned Single Judge by a common and dated 10.12.19998 allowed the respective writ petitions and quashed the Scheme framed by the IDA as well as the land acquisition proceedings initiated by the State Government, mainly on three grounds, namely,:- (i) The objections invited under Section 5-A of the L.A. Act were G not decided by the Competent Authority, i.e., State Government. (ii) There was hostile discrimination against the respondents by the appellant and the State of Madhya Pradesh inasmuch as the various parcels of land owned by several other persons and societies forming part of the same scheme were released by the H 92 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A appellant violating the fundamental rights of the respondents as guaranteed under Article 14 of the Constitution of India. (iii) That in view of Section 54 of the Adhiniyam, the Scheme lapsed as it was not implemented within three years from the date of its publication as provided under Section 54 of the Adhiniyam. B 2.7 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the common and passed by the learned Single Judge, quashing and setting aside the entire acquisition proceedings as well as quashing and setting aside Scheme No. 97 on the ground that the same had lapsed in view of Section 54 of the Adhiniyam, the IDA preferred the writ appeals before the C Division Bench of the High Court. By the impugned common and , the Division Bench of the High Court has dismissed the said appeals, which has given rise to the present appeals. 3. Shri Balbir Singh, learned Additional Solicitor General of India, assisted by Shri Sanjay Kapur, learned counsel, appearing on behalf of the IDA has vehemently submitted that in the facts and circumstances D of the case, the learned Single Judge as well as the Division Bench of the High Court have materially erred in quashing and setting aside the entire acquisition proceedings as well as Scheme No.