Taking the overall spectrum of the fact situation that the candidates who might be lower in the of merit vis-à-vis G the present appellants have joined and sent for training, but they were never at fault, at the same time, the present appellants also need indulgence of being considered for appointment after they are finally selected and indisputedly have secured higher marks than cut-off in their respective category and this fact has not been disputed by the respondents H 612 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A as well, few of the applicants can be adjusted against the available advertised vacancies and without disturbing or taking away the rights of the candidates who have been appointed by the recruiting authority, in the peculiar facts and circumstances, in exercise of our power under Article 142 of the Constitution, to do complete justice to the parties, it may be appropriate to direct the respondents to consider each of the B appellants for appointment who could not be adjusted against the advertised vacancies of Civil Judge against future vacancies, subject to their suitability under the Scheme of Rules, 2010. 43. The appeals succeed and are accordingly allowed. The C impugned of the High Court is hereby quashed and set aside and the respondents are directed to consider candidature of each of the appellant for appointment with consequential benefits including seniority to the post of Civil Judge on their participation in the selection process held pursuant to advertisement dated 22nd July, 2021. The may be passed subject to their suitability within two months. No costs. D 44. Pending applications, if any, shall stand disposed of. BELA M. TRIVEDI, J. E 1.I have had the opportunity to go through the opinion expressed by my esteemed brother Justice Ajay Rastogi, however I express my inability to agree with the views expressed in the said opinion, and pen down my opinion as under: - F 2. Leave granted. 3.The common adjudication is being made having regard to the contextual semblance of facts and legal issues involved in all these appeals. The appellants in all the appeals have challenged the impugned s G passed by the High Court of Judicature for Rajasthan, whereby the High Court has dismissed the writ petitions filed by them. In the writ petitions before the High Court, the primary challenge was to the action of the respondent-High Court in issuing the notice on 04.08.2022 requiring the candidates, who had successfully qualified themselves in the main H SAKSHI ARHA v. THE RAJASTHAN HIGH COURT AND 613 OTHERS [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] examination for the post of Civil Judges, to produce the certificates relating A to the categories like Other Backward Class / More Backward Class - Non-Creamy Layer and Economically Weaker Section etc. issued within one year from the last date of submission of the application form i.e. 31.08.2021 and not after the said date. The appellants having produced the certificates showing their status in the respective reserved category, B which were issued after the said date 31.08.2021, they were not found eligible for the said post by the respondent-High Court.