1026 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 8P SO.RCT.RS. 1026 [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Y. BALAJI v. KARTHIK DESARI & ANR. ETC. (Criminal Appeal Nos. 1671-1673 of 2023) B MAY 16, 2023 [KRISHNA MURARI AND V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, JJ.] Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 – ss.3, 2(1)(u) – Offence of Money Laundering – Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 – Jobs-for-cash scam in the State of Tamil Nadu – Whether without C identifying the proceeds of crime/a property representing the proceeds of crime and any process or activity connected to proceeds of crime as required by s.3, which constitute the foundational/ jurisdictional fact, can ED initiate an investigation and issue summons – Held: All the three FIRs alleged that the accused had D committed offences included in the schedule by taking illegal gratification for providing appointment to several persons in the Public Transport Corporation – It is the bribe money that constitutes the proceeds of crime u/s.2(1)(u) – A public servant receiving illegal gratification is in possession of proceeds of crime – Mere generation of proceeds of crime is sufficient to constitute the offence of money- E laundering – In s.3 there are 6 activities or process and one of them is “acquisition” – If a person takes a bribe, he acquires proceeds of crime, hence, activity of “acquisition” takes place – Even if he does not retain it but “uses” it, he will be guilty of offence of money- laundering, since “use” is one of the activities mentioned in s.3 – F The FIRs for the predicate offences identify all the three components of s.3, persons; process; and product – Corruption money represents the proceeds of crime – In the case of an offence of corruption, the criminal activity and the generation of the proceeds of crime are like Siamese twins – The contention that the investigation by ED was triggered without any foundational/jurisdictional facts are aimed G at hoodwinking the Court – Wherever there are allegations of corruption, there is acquisition of proceeds of crime which itself tantamount to money-laundering – Once an information relating to the acquisition of huge amount of illegal gratification in the matter of public employment has come in the public domain, it is the duty H of the ED to register an Information Report – This is because 1026 Y. BALAJI v. KARTHIK DESARI & ANR. ETC. 1027 “acquisition” is an activity amounting to money-laundering and A the illegal gratification acquired by a public servant represents “proceeds of crime”, generated through a criminal activity in respect of a scheduled offence – Receipt of bribe money is an act of money- laundering – All the arguments on facts and all the legal contentions emanating from some portions of the in Vijay Madanlal B Choudhary, to challenge the validity of the proceedings initiated by ED are completely unsustainable. Criminal Law – Matters pertaining to Jobs-for-cash scam in the State of Tamil Nadu – Impugned allowed de novo investigation on a ground not raised in the petition – Held: ‘D’, C whose original complaint led to the registration of FIR in Crime No.441 of 2015 seems to have had a genuine grievance against the culprits at the bottom of the layer, but he later turned out to be a Trojan horse, willing to sabotage the investigation against influential persons – directing de novo investigation in all the three cases, actually inured to the benefit of the accused, but the High Court D put it on the ground that the credibility of the investigation should not be eroded – In fact, the accused did not seek de novo investigation on the ground of slackness on the part of the Investigating Officer, but it was ‘D’ who sought it, with the able assistance of the Investigating Officer – What is shocking is that the High Court E directed reinvestigation to be started ab initio, wiping out the earlier investigation altogether – By issuing the said direction, the High Court not only directed the wiping out of the investigation carried out so far, but virtually wiped out even the of Supreme Court dtd.08.09.2022 passed in the previous round of litigation – The problem with the impugned is not merely one of improper F usage of language, as sought to be diluted by the accused and the complainant, but something more – Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 –Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.