At the time of inquest it was noted that froth was coming out from the mouth and nose of the deceased. The expression “normal circumstances” apparently means natural death. In other words, the expression “otherwise than under normal circumstances” means death not being in the usual course but apparently under suspicious circumstances. In the case of Bhupendra Versus State of Madhya Pradesh reported in 2013(4) Crimes 480(Supreme Court) it was held that chemical examination of viscera is not mandatory in every case of dowry death. For the purpose of Section 304 B IPC mere fact of an unnatural death is suffi cient to invite a presumption under Section 113B of the Evidence Act. The relevant paragraph 26 of the in Bhupendra’s case (supra) is quoted hereinbelow: “26. These decisions clearly bring out that a chemical examination of the viscera is not mandatory in every case of a dowry death; even when a viscera report is sought for, its absence is not necessarily fatal to the case of the prosecution when an unnatural death punishable under Section 304-B of the IPC or under Section 306 of the IPC takes place; in a case of an unnatural death inviting Section 304-B of the IPC (read with the presumption under Section 113-B of the Evidence Act, 1872) or Section 306 of the IPC(read with the presumption under Section 113- A of the Evidence Act, 1872) as long as there is evidence of poisoning, identifi cation of the poison may not be absolutely necessary. 340 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Reverting to the case in hand, from the evidence on record it is clear that death of Tuli had occurred otherwise than under normal circumstances.” (Emphasis supplied) 26. There is intrinsic evidence on record to indicate that the case on hand is one of suicide by poison. The PW-10 (Medical Offi cer) who performed the post mortem has deposed that “odour material with pungent smell was found in the stomach”. The expert opined that in cases of consumption of poison, such kind of pungent smell would be found. The PW-10 admitted that if there is any delay in forwarding the viscera sample for chemical examination, the poison may not be detected. 27. Unfortunately, in the case on hand, the viscera was received by the FSL for chemical analysis on 22nd February, 2012 that is after a period of almost fi ve months. 28. In a research article titled, “Negative viscera report and its medico-legal aspects”, it has been mentioned that in many cases, the viscera report is negative on three major basis, namely it can be procedure based, sample based or lab based. The said research paper reveals that there are circumstances in which viscera test may not reveal the presence of compounds from the following circumstances:— 1. Sample quantities received by FSL much less than those prescribed for optimal analysis; 2. Required quantity and quality of preservative not used during sampling; 3. Appropriate temperature, time and container not maintained for preservation of sample; 4.