It says that market value in relation to any goods means the price that such goods would ordinarily fetch on sale in the open market. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX v. M/S JINDAL STEEL & POWER 509 LTD. THROUGH ITS MANAGING DIRECTOR [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] 15.7. Thus,Section 80IA (8) provides that where goods or services held for the purposes of eligible business are transferred to any other business carried on by the assessee, the price charged for such transfer should correspond to the market value of such goods or services as on the date of transfer. If the price of goods or services transferred is overstated in comparison to the market value, the assessing offi cer has the competence to recompute the profi t by substituting the market value of such goods. The explanation below sub-section (8) defi nes the expression “market value” to mean the price that such goods or services would ordinarily fetch in the open market. That takes us to the expression “open market” which is however not defi ned. 15.8. Since the expression “open market” is not defi ned, we will analyze the said expression in conjunction with the expression “market value”, though at a subsequent stage of the . 16. We may also advert to the relevant provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 (briefl y “the 1948 Act” hereinafter), which was the enactment governing the fi eld at the relevant point of time. As per Section 43 of the 1948 Act, the State Electricity Board was empowered to enter into arrangements for purchase or sale of electricity under certain conditions. Sub-section (1) says that the State Electricity Board may enter into arrangements with any person producing electricity within the State for purchase by the State Electricity Board on such terms as may be agreed upon of any surplus electricity which that person may be able to dispose of. Thus, what sub-section (1) provides is that if any person who produces electricity has surplus electricity, he may dispose of such surplus electricity by entering into an arrangement with the State Electricity Board for supply of such surplus electricity by him and purchase thereof by the State Electricity Board. 16.1. Section 43A provides for the terms, conditions and tariff for sale of electricity by a generating company. It says that a generating company may enter into a contract for the sale of electricity generated by it with the State Electricity Board of the State in which the generating station owned or operated by the generating company is located or with any other person with the consent of the competent government. 510 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 16.2. As per Section 44, no person can establish or acquire a generating station or generate electricity without the previous consent in writing of the State Electricity Board. However, such an embargo would not be applicable to the Central Government or any corporation created by a central act or any generating company. As per Section 45, the State Electricity Board has been empowered to enter upon and shut down a generating station if the same is in operation contravening certain provisions of the 1948 Act.