The Court allowed the petition and directed the police to ensure that no harm befalls the petitioner and his wife. 285. In Latha v. Commissioner of Police,254 the Madras High Court dismissed a writ petition for the issuance of a habeas corpus fi led by the petitioner for the production of her sibling, who happened to be a transgender 253 2018 SCC OnLine Mad 3250 254 2021 SCC OnLine Mad 7495 138 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. person. The Court found that the sibling had attained the age of majority and had voluntarily joined other transgender persons. 286. Sushma v. Commissioner of Police255 concerned a lesbian couple whose families opposed their relationship. Both their families fi led complaints with the police that they were missing and an FIR was registered. The police visited the couple and interrogated them. The couple then fi led a writ petition before the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the police not to harass them as well as for protection from any form of threat or danger to their safety and security from their families. The Court directed the parties to undergo counselling (and the judge personally underwent counselling to understand queerness). Counsel informed the Court that the FIR would be closed and the parents agreed to let their daughters live their lives as they wished to. The Court also issued directions to ensure the protection of LGBTQ couples. 287. We affi rm the approach adopted in these cases, which protects the fundamental rights of LGBTQ persons. xiii. The right of queer persons to adopt children b. Challenge to the Adoption Regulations 288. The JJ Act was enacted to consolidate and amend the law catering to the basic needs of children. Chapter VIII (Sections 56 to 73) deals with the provisions relating to adoption. Section 2(49) of the JJ Act defi nes “prospective adoptive parents” to mean a person or persons eligible to adopt a child according to the provisions of Section 57. Section 57 prescribes the eligibility criteria for prospective adoptive parents: “57. Eligibility of prospective adoptive parents.— (1) The prospective adoptive parents shall be physically fi t, fi nancially sound, mentally alert and highly motivated to adopt a child for providing a good upbringing to him. (2) In case of a couple, the consent of both the spouses for the adoption shall be required. 255 WP 7248 of 2021, Madras High Court SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1389 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (3) A single or divorced person can also adopt, subject to fulfi lment of the criteria and in accordance with the provisions of adoption regulations framed by the Authority. (4) A single male is not eligible to adopt a girl child. (5) Any other criteria that may be specifi ed in the adoption regulations framed by the Authority.” (emphasis supplied) 289. Section 57(1) prescribes general conditions to do with the physical, mental, and fi nancial well-being of the prospective parents as well as their motivations.