The rules of natural justice are not embodied rules. The extent of their application depends upon the particular statutory framework whereunder jurisdiction has been conferred on the administrative authority. With regard to the exercise of a particular power by an administrative authority including exercise of judicial or quasi-judicial functions the legislature, while conferring the said power, 2 (1990) 4 SCC 594 888 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. may feel that it would not be in the larger public interest that the reasons for the passed by the administrative authority be recorded in the and be communicated to the aggrieved party and it may dispense with such a requirement. It may do so by making an express provision to that eff ect as those contained in the Administrative Procedure Act, 1946 of U.S.A. and the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act, 1977 of Australia whereby the s passed by certain specifi ed authorities are excluded from the ambit of the enactment. Such an exclusion can also arise by necessary implication from the nature of the subject matter, the scheme and the provisions of the enactment. The public interest underlying such a provision would outweigh the salutary purpose served by the requirement to record the reasons. The said requirement cannot, therefore, be insisted upon in such a case. 40. For the reasons aforesaid, it must be concluded that except in cases where the requirement has been dispensed with expressly or by necessary implication, an administrative authority exercising judicial or quasi-judicial functions is required to record the reasons for its decision. 31. This Court in State of Orissa versus Dhaniram Luhar3 reiterated the importance of furnishing reasons in decision making, be it administrative, quasi-judicial or judicial. It was in that context that this Court opined that reason is the heartbeat of every conclusion, and without the same it becomes lifeless. Reasons are live links between the mind of the decision-taker and the decision or conclusion arrived at. Reasons substitute subjectivity by objectivity. One of the salutary requirements of natural justice is spelling out reasons for an made; in other words, a speaking out. This is what has been opined in paragraph Nos. 7 and 8: 7. Reason is the heartbeat of every conclusion, and without the same it becomes lifeless. (See Raj Kishore Jha v. State of Bihar [(2003) 11 SCC 519 : 2004 SCC (Cri) 212 : (2003) 7 Supreme 152] .) 8. Even in respect of administrative s Lord Denning, M.R. in Breen v. Amalgamated Engg. Union [(1971) 1 All ER 1148 : (1971) 3 (2004) 5 SCC 568 EVA AGRO FEEDS PRIVATE LIMITED v. PUNJAB NATIONAL 889 BANK AND ANR. [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] 2 QB 175 : (1971) 2 WLR 742 (CA)] observed: “The giving of reasons is one of the fundamentals of good administration.” In Alexander Machinery (Dudley) Ltd. v. Crabtree [1974 ICR 120 (NIRC)] it was observed: “Failure to give reasons amounts to denial of justice.” “Reasons are live links between the mind of the decision-taker to the controversy in question and the decision or conclusion arrived at.” Reasons substitute subjectivity by objectivity.