Master ‘X’ being a legitimate child F of the parties herein has nothing to do with the alleged adultery on the part of the appellant herein. Hence, the of this Court in Dipanwita Roy is of no assistance to the respondent herein. [Paras 9.2, 10.1][707-F-H; 710-H; 711-A; 710-F-G; 711- B, E-F, H; 712-A] Dipanwita Roy vs. Ronobroto Roy, (2015) 1 SCC 365 : G [2014] 11 SCR 553 – distinguished. Black’s Law Dictionary, 9th Edition – referred to. 2.2 The following principles could be culled out as to the circumstances under which a DNA test of a minor child may be H directed to be conducted: i. That a DNA test of a minor child is APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 687 not to be ed routinely, in matrimonial disputes. Proof by A way of DNA profiling is to be directed in matrimonial disputes involving allegations of infidelity, only in matters where there is no other mode of proving such assertions. ii. DNA tests of children born during the subsistence of a valid marriage may be directed, only when there is sufficient prima-facie material to dislodge the B presumption under Section 112 of the Evidence Act. Further, if no plea has been raised as to non-access, in to rebut the presumption under Section 112 of the Evidence Act, a DNA test may not be directed. iii. A Court would not be justified in mechanically directing a DNA test of a child, in a case where the paternity of a child is not directly in issue, but is merely collateral C to the proceeding. iv. Merely because either of the parties have disputed a factum of paternity, it does not mean that the Court should direct DNA test or such other test to resolve the controversy. The parties should be directed to lead evidence to prove or disprove the factum of paternity and only if the Court D finds it impossible to draw an inference based on such evidence, or the controversy in issue cannot be resolved without DNA test, it may direct DNA test and not otherwise. In other words, only in exceptional and deserving cases, where such a test becomes indispensable to resolve the controversy the Court can direct such test. v. While directing DNA tests as a means to prove E adultery, the Court is to be mindful of the consequences thereof on the children born out of adultery, including inheritance-related consequences, social stigma, etc. [Para 12][716-D-H; 717-A-C] 3. Children have the right not to have their legitimacy questioned frivolously before a Court of Law. This is an essential F attribute of the right to privacy. Courts are therefore required to acknowledge that children are not to be regarded like material objects, and be subjected to forensic/DNA testing, particularly when they are not parties to the divorce proceeding. [Para 17][718-H; 719-A] G 4. The concept of privacy for a child may not be equivalent to that of an adult. However, the evolving capacity of children has been recognised and the Convention acknowledges the control that individuals, including children, have over their own personal boundaries and the means by which they define who H 688 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R.