10.4 It was submitted that admittedly, the defendants had, B immediately after executing the agreement of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights , moved the Land Tribunal, Tirur for obtaining the purchase certificate. However, the issuance of purchase certificate and time taken for the same was not under the control of the defendants. That the plaintiff was well aware of the status of the matter at every C juncture. It was averred that delay on the part of the Land Tribunal in granting purchase certificate could neither be attributed to the defendants, nor could it absolve the plaintiff of his obligations under the agreement of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights. That had the plaintiff duly got measured the schedule property and tendered the balance sale consideration, it could be concluded that he was ready and willing to D comply with the terms of the agreement. 10.5 With the aforesaid averments it was lastly submitted that the High Court, appreciated the matter in its true perspective and passed the impugned which appropriately balances equities between the parties and the same does not call for interference by this Court. E Therefore, it was prayed that the instant appeal be dismissed. 11. Having heard the learned counsel for the respective parties, the following points would arise for consideration which shall be considered together: i) Whether the plaintiff’s conduct demonstrates readiness and F willingness on his part to carry out his obligations under the agreement of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights dated th 7 August, 2005? ii) Whether the plaintiff, by not paying consideration above 4% of total sale consideration within the period stipulated G in the agreement, had defeated the purpose of the agreement to sell Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights executed by the defendants? iii) What ? H 268 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A The detailed narration of facts and contentions would not call for reiteration. 12. The High Court has relied on Section 20 of the Act, prior to the same being substituted by way of Act No. 18 of 2018, to deny the relief of specific performance to the plaintiff. Section 20 of the Act as it B stood prior to the Amendment Act of 2018 provided that the jurisdiction to decree specific performance is discretionary. It said that the Court is not bound to grant such relief merely because it is lawful to do so. Such a discretion, however, was not to be exercised arbitrarily, but ought to have been based on sound and reasonable judicial principles. The Section also specified the circumstances in which the Court may properly exercise C the discretion not to decree specific performance and it also specified when, in an appropriate case, a decree could be given by proper exercise of discretion. Section 20, as it then stood was not an exhaustive provision, but merely illustrative as it was not possible to define the circumstances in which equitable relief could or could not be granted. If, therefore, on D a consideration of all the circumstances of the case, the Court thought that it would be inequitable to grant the relief prayed for, it should not do so.