The arrest of the accused was shown from a place known as Seoni Trisection whereas the public witnesses including PW4 stated that the accused was arrested in the night of 01.02.2010 from a Nala (drain) where he was hiding with C an axe. The disclosure statement, as per the memorandum (Ex.P-9), was prepared at Seoni Trisection and witnessed by PW6; the recovery memo (Ex.P-10), as per memorandum, was prepared at Phoolchand’s (accused’s) hut near railway line in Model village at 1400 hours and the same too, was witnessed by PW6. Interestingly, PW6 is D the only public witness of disclosure and recovery to be examined and he has not supported the prosecution case. What is even more interesting is that the other seizure memorandum prepared in respect of lifting blood-stained saree, gravel, slippers etc. from near the railway line, that E is the spot from where the deceased was lifted, was prepared at 1400 hours on 02.02.2010. How could it be possible that the police prepared two memorandums at the same time at different places. The answer to it lies in the testimony of PW6, a witness to both, who stated that he was made to sign the papers at the police station. Meaning F thereby that all papers were prepared at one go rendering the entire exercise of disclosure and consequential discovery/recovery doubtful. Not only that, there appears no cogent reason for the accused to carry stones from the spot and hide them in his hut while leaving several blood- G stained stones near the railway line. In such circumstances, it appears to us that those stones were picked from the spot near the railway track to show recovery from the hut. Insofar as the recovery of blood-stained clothes is concerned, in addition to the above reasons, the same is doubtful also because of the statement of PW4 (Madhuri) H STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH v. PHOOLCHAND RATHORE 621 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] that her father on return had washed those clothes and had A spread them to dry over the cattle shed in the house therefore, how could they be recovered from the hut. It be noted that the house is shown located in the village, whereas the hut is shown in the field at quite a distance from the house. For all the reasons above, the High Court was B justified in doubting the recovery of blood-stained clothes etc. at the instance of the accused from the hut and on the basis of a disclosure statement made by him. (iii) Extra Judicial Confession to PW4 The alleged extra judicial confession made by the C accused to PW4 was neither disclosed in the FIR nor in the previous statement of PW4 made during investigation. PW4 was confronted with that omission during her deposition in court. That apart, the testimony of PW4 with regard to the accused returning home, making extra judicial confession, changing clothes, washing blood-stained clothes and D spreading them to dry has been found unreliable and shaky by the High Court for cogent reasons extracted above, which do not appear perverse as to warrant an interference.