The Bombay High Court did not accept the said submission by observing that it would be ludicrous to suggest that the money realised by the bank from sale of the secured assets could be used by the borrower to fulfil the condition of pre-deposit under Section 18. The Bombay High Court has observed that it would be a different matter if the sale is accepted and confirmed D by the borrower. The Bombay High Court further observed that the borrower cannot be permitted to use the sale proceeds received from the sale of the subject properties to be adjusted/given credit for in the application for waiver of deposit and at the very same time challenge the sale of very same subject properties. The said decision of the Bombay E High Court has been confirmed by this Court as the special leave petition preferred impugning the same, has been dismissed. Even otherwise, we are in full agreement with the view taken by the Bombay High Court in the case of Eskays Construction Pvt. Ltd. (supra). We are of the firm opinion and view that in a case where the borrower challenges the auction sale, thereafter it will not be open for the borrower to pray to use the F sale proceeds received from the sale of the secured properties to be adjusted/given credit in an application for waiver of pre-deposit. 16. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, in the present case, the respective High Courts have seriously erred in directing to adjust/appropriate the amount realised by auction sale of the secured G properties/deposited by the auction purchasers while considering the 50% of the amount as pre-deposit to be deposited by the borrower, while preferring an appeal before the DRAT. Even the High Court of Delhi has erred in excluding the amount payable towards interest while considering the “debt due”. As per Section 2(g) of the Act 1993, “debt” H 572 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A means liability inclusive of interest as claimed by the bank/financial institution. 17. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the respective appeals preferred by the financial institution/assignee and auction purchasers being civil Appeal Nos. 8970, 8972, 8973 and 8974 B of 2022 are hereby allowed. The appeal preferred by the borrower against the and passed by the Delhi High Court being Civil Appeal No. 8969/2022 deserves to be dismissed and is accordingly dismissed. It is observed and held that the borrower has to deposit 50% of the amount of “debt due” as claimed by the bank/financial institution/assignee along with interest as claimed in the notice under Section 13(2) of the C SARFAESI Act and the borrower is not entitled to claim adjustment/ appropriation of the amount realised by selling the secured properties and deposited by the auction purchaser when the auction sale is also under challenge. 18. Civil Appeal Nos. 8970, 8972, 8973 & 8974 of 2022 are D accordingly allowed except Civil Appeal No.