As D such a party challenging a compromise can file a petition under proviso to Rule 3 of 23, or an appeal under Section 96(1) of the Code, in which he can now question the validity of the compromise in view of Rule 1-A of 43 of the Code.” (Emphasis supplied) E 90. We may also refer to and rely upon the decision of this Court in the case Vipan Aggarwal and Another v. Raman Gandotra and Others reported in 2022 SCCOnLine SC 1357 more particularly paras 4 and 5 resply therein: “4. This Court in a reported in ‘Banwari Lal v. F Chando Devi (Smt.) (Through LRS. )’ (1993) 1 SCC 581 held the question as to whether an aggrieved person against the compromise decree has a right to file an application before the Court which granted the decree or an appeal in terms of 43 Rule 1A of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908 (for short, ‘the CPC’). It was held as under:— G “13. When the amending Act introduced a proviso along with an explanation to Rule 3 of 23 saying that where it is alleged by one party and denied by the other that an adjustment or satisfaction has been arrived at, “the Court shall decide the question”, the Court before which a H 74 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A petition of compromise is filed and which has recorded such compromise, has to decide the question whether an adjustment or satisfaction had been arrived at on basis of any lawful agreement. To make the enquiry in respect of validity of the agreement or the compromise more comprehensive, the explanation to the proviso says that B an agreement or compromise “which is void or voidable under the Indian Contract Act…” shall not be deemed to be lawful within the meaning of the said Rule. In view of the proviso read with the explanation, a Court which had entertained the petition of compromise has to examine C whether the compromise was void or voidable under the Indian Contract Act. Even Rule 1(m) of 43 has been deleted under which an appeal was maintainable against an recording a compromise. As such a party challenging a compromise can file a petition under proviso to Rule 3 of 23, or an appeal under Section 96(1) D of the Code, in which he can now question the validity of the compromise in view of Rule 1-A of 43 of the Code.” 5. The appellants had thus the right to avail either the remedy of appeal in terms of 43 Rule 1A CPC or by way of an E application before the court granting decree. Therefore, the application filed by the appellants before the Court which granted the decree cannot be said to be without jurisdiction.” (Emphasis supplied) 91. Thus, in view of the aforesaid discussion, we hold that the F cross-appeal filed by the Original Defendant No. 2, questioning the legality and validity of the settlement was maintainable in law. 92.