B 19.9. The Appellate Tribunal recorded its conclusions in the following terms: - “CONCLUSION 174. The increase in RP fees with retrospective effect can not be C considered as CoC’s prudent decision. The possibility of an impact on the decision of RP for the submission of the Resolution Plan before the Adjudicating Authority for approval, even without the approval of CoC, cannot be ruled out. Submission of the Resolution Plan for Approval before the Adjudicating Authority violates the statutory provision of Section 30(2) &(3) of the Code and has D vitiated the entire CIRP and made the Resolution Plan Void ab initio. 175. Further, Adjudicating Authority observation that Regulation 35 of the IBBI (IRPCP) Regulations 2016 contemplates sharing of only fair value and liquidation value figures on obtaining E confidentiality undertaking from the members of the CoC is incorrect. Finding that Since the Promoter is not a member of the CoC, the values were shared with the Promoter and that there are no requirements under the law for the RP to share the valuation report is also erroneous. F 176. A valuation consisting of mere naked values without a detailed report is not valid. It is a settled proposition that the Valuation exercise is conducted to facilitate the CoC’s decision-making process. Therefore, the existence of a valid and accurate valuation report is a sine qua non for the COC to exercise its commercial wisdom. A natural sequitur to those above would be that a detailed G valuation report is necessary for the CoC to exercise its commercial wisdom objectively. 177. The Adjudicating Authority’s observation that a statutory provision regulating a matter of practice or procedure will H 838 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A generally be read as a directory and not mandatory is erroneous. Compliance with statutory requirements in regulating a matter of practice and procedure are mandatory. The Tribunal is a creature of statute, and by interpretation, it cannot dilute the statutory compliances. B 178. Further, observation of the Adjudicating Authority that procedural irregularities in relation to the conduct of the proceedings in relation to the CoC will not be material when the objectors failed to establish prejudice caused to them in respect of the same is also erroneous. C 179. Regulation 36(2) of CIRP Regulations provides the mandatory condition for publication of ‘Form-G’ on the Corporate Debtor’s website and the website designated by the Board for the purpose. Non-publication of notices of Form G is a material irregularity in exercise of the powers by Resolution Professional during the Corporate Insolvency Resolution period. In the instant case, there D has been a material irregularity in exercising the powers by Resolution Professional during the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process. 180. Since the said Trust (Prospective Resolution Applicant) ‘Sri Balaji Vidyapeeth’ has already been declared as ineligible, the E 2nd Respondent (SRA) cannot be permitted to act as its alter ego in implementing the Resolution Plan and attain any financial advantage or gain, which is barred by Section 88 of the Indian Trusts Act.