58. In addition, the petitioners have sought directions to the Union Government, the State Governments, and district and police authorities to adopt and follow a protocol in cases which concern adult, consenting LGBTQ persons who require protection from their families, regardless of whether such persons are married; SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1285 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] D*. Analysis i. This Court is vested with the authority to hear this case 59. The respondents argued that this Court should not decide the issue of whether legal recognition in the form of marriage can be given to non- heterosexual relationships. It was argued that this issue must necessarily be decided by the people by themselves or through the elected representatives. It was also submitted that this Court, by deciding the issue one way or the other, would pre-empt any debate in the legislature. 60. The respondent’s submission is two-fold: fi rst, the Court does not have the power to decide this issue; and second, such a decision can be arrived at only through a process that refl ects the electoral will. a. Article 32 vests this Court with the power to enforce the rights in Part III of the Constitution 61. Part III of the Constitution of India enshrines the fundamental rights of the people of India. Article 13 of the Constitution stipulates that the State shall not make any law which takes away or abridges the rights conferred in Part III and that any law made in contravention of this condition, shall, to the extent of the contravention, be void. Article 32 complements Article 13 and provides the right to a constitutional remedy for the enforcement of rights conferred by Part III: “Article 32. Remedies for the enforcement of rights conferred by this Part. (1) The right to move the Supreme Court by appropriate proceedings for the enforcement of the rights conferred by this Part is guaranteed. (2) The Supreme Court shall have power to issue directions or s or writs, including writs in the nature of habeas corpus, mandamus, prohibition, quo warranto and certiorari, whichever may be appropriate, for the enforcement of any of the rights conferred by this Part.” (emphasis supplied) 62. The Constitution of India is unique in that its provisions expressly accord the judiciary with the power to review the actions of the legislative and * Ed. Note: PART D 128 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. executive branches of government, unlike in many other countries. Article 32 makes fundamental rights justiciable and is worded broadly. The right to approach this Court for the enforcement of the fundamental rights embodied in Part III is itself a fundamental right by virtue of Clause (1) of Article 32. It states that this Court may be moved “by appropriate proceedings.” This expression means that the appropriateness of the proceedings depends on the relief sought by the petitioner.61 Clause (1) of Article 32 does not place any constraints on the power of this Court to entertain claims that the rights enumerated in Part III have been violated.