[2023] 14 S.C.R. 520 : 2023 INSC 935 CASE DETAILS URBAN IMPROVEMENT TRUST, BIKANER v. GORDHAN DASS (D) THROUGH LRS. & OTHERS (Civil Appeal No.8411 of 2014) OCTOBER 19, 2023 [HRISHIKESH ROY AND MANOJ MISRA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether land acquisition proceedings can be declared null and void for failure to give notice u/s.52(2) of the Rajasthan Urban Improvement Act, 1959 to the owners who had purchased the land two years earlier through registered sale deeds, before the initiation of the land acquisition proceedings, even though the name of original khatedaar was refl ected in the Revenue records; whether the civil court has jurisdiction to grant injunction as s. 207 of the Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955 bars jurisdiction of civil court in respect of agricultural land; and whether the suit for injunction was maintainable without seeking declaration in a civil court. Rajasthan Urban Improvement Act, 1959 – s. 52 – Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955 – s. 207 – Compulsory acquisition of land – Requirement of service of notice upon the owners prior to notifi cation – Jurisdiction of civil court in respect of the said land – On facts, the respondents purchased the land through registered sale deeds, though in the Revenue records, the name of original khatedaar-tenure holders was refl ected – Two years later, initiation of the land acquisition proceedings wherein notices duly issued to the tenure holders and were paid compensation – Suit instituted against the appellant-Trust seeking permanent prohibitory injunction to restrain the Trust from entering or acquiring the land without adopting due process of law – Matter reached the High Court wherein it was held that the acquisition notifi cation was issued without notice to the land owners, thus was null and void; and that the suit fi led for injunction was maintainable – Issue arising 520 URBAN IMPROVEMENT TRUST, BIKANER v. GORDHAN 521 DASS (D) THROUGH LRS. as regards whether the land acquisition proceedings could be declared null and void for failure to give notice u/s.52(2) to the landowners who had purchased the land through registered sale deeds, two years before the initiation of the land acquisition proceedings; whether the civil court has jurisdiction to grant injunction; and whether the suit for injunction was maintainable without seeking declaration in a civil court: Held: Per Hrishikesh Roy, J: Upholding the of the High Court, it was held that the land acquisition proceedings is held to be void ab initio for not following the procedure of serving notice; that having regard to the limited relief that can be obtained from a revenue court under Tenancy Act, 1955, to deny the land losers access to civil court would aggravate the injustice, thus, civil court has jurisdiction to grant injunction; and that the suit for injunction can be fi led without seeking declaration in a civil court [Paras 10, 21, 38, 39 and 41] Per Manoj Misra, J: Setting aside the of the High Court it was held that if the landowners did not get their names mutated in the record of rights, how would the State come to know of their ownership, thus, mere non-service of notice, u/s.