COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 691 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] It was contended that the equity jurisdiction doesn’t generally apply to arbitration agreements because they are in the realm of private law. Since arbitration is a matter of consent, interests of justice and equity cannot be the sole grounds for invoking arbitration agreement. The primary test to apply the group of companies doctrine is by determining the intention of the parties on the basis of the underlying factual circumstances. The application of the group of companies doctrine will serve to stymie satellite litigation by non-signatory members of the corporate group, thereby ensuring the effi cacy of the agreement between the parties. Avoiding multiplicity of proceedings and fragmentation of disputes is certainly in the interests of justice. However, it can never be the sole consideration to invoke the group of companies doctrine. 110. In Discovery Enterprises (supra), this Court refi ned and clarifi ed the cumulative factors that the courts and tribunals should consider in deciding whether a company within a group of companies is bound by the arbitration agreement: “40. In deciding whether a company within a group of companies which is not a signatory to arbitration agreement would nonetheless be bound by it, the law considers the following factors: (i) The mutual intent of the parties; (ii) The relationship of a non-signatory to a party which is a signatory to the agreement; (iii) The commonality of the subject-matter; (iv) The composite nature of the transactions; and (v) The performance of the contract.” 111. Since the group of companies doctrine is a consent based theory, its application depends upon the consideration of a variety of factual elements to establish the mutual intention of all the parties involved. In other words, the group of companies doctrine is a means to infer the mutual intentions of both the signatory and non-signatory parties to be bound by the arbitration agreement. The relationship between and among the legal entities within the corporate group structure and the involvement of the parties in the performance of the underlying contractual obligations are indicators to 692 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. determine the mutual intentions of the parties. The other factors such as the commonality of the subject matter, composite nature of the transactions, and the performance of the contract ought to be cumulatively considered and analysed by courts and tribunals to identify the intention of the parties to bind the non-signatory party to the arbitration agreement. The party seeking joinder of a non-signatory bears the burden of proof of satisfying the above factors to the satisfaction of the court or tribunal, as the case may be. 112. Section 7 of the Arbitration Act broadly talks about an agreement by the parties in respect of a defi ned legal relationship, whether contractual or not. Such a legal relationship must give rise to legal obligations and duties. In a corporate group, a company may have various related companies. The legal relationship must be analysed in the context of the underlying contract containing the arbitration agreement.