The application A had been filed prior to the constitution of the CoC. The settlement had been arrived at within two days of the admission . The payment as per the settlement had been made within the next five days i.e. in a weeks’ time from the date of admission. The application for withdrawal was filed on the 10th day. The NCLT ought to have immediately taken B the decision on the application. Once the parties had settled the dispute even before the CoC had been constituted, the application ought to have been allowed then and there rather than await the other creditors to jump into the fray and allow the IRP to proceed further. 24. On behalf of the appellant number of s of this Court C have been relied upon wherein the power under Article 142 of the Constitution was exercised to approve the settlement and permit withdrawal of cases wherein CIRP had been initiated. We could have also done the same which would have been an easy way out but considering the passed by the NCLT rejecting the application for withdrawal and further the IRP and three other OCs having filed D intervention applications, we are embarking upon to decide the issues raised and as to what should be the course adopted by NCLT in dealing with withdrawal matters before the constitution of CoC. We take up the issues one by one. Alternative Remedy E 25. Plea of alternative remedy is a self-imposed restriction by the superior Courts and is never an absolute bar unless barred by the statute. Further, in the present case, this Court had entertained the SLP in 2021 itself and had granted an of status quo on 20.04.2021.Substantial time has passed since then.As such we are not inclined to entertain the F said objection relating to availability of alternative remedy of filing the appeal before the NCLT. We may also note here that IBC provides a statutory timeframe for disposal of matters. Further, such matters being commercial in nature keeping these matters pending for long, frustrates the very object of IBC. G Violation of the Moratorium 26. The intervenors have vehemently contended that after 01.03.2021, once the NCLT has admitted the petition and had issued restraint , section 14 of IBC had come into play; the transactions made in the accounts of the CD would be unlawful and illegal as such H 610 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A payment of the settlement amount from the funds of the CD transferred to the account of the suspended Director after 01.03.2021 oughtto be rejected and no discretion should be exercised permitting withdrawal of the proceedings. In this respect, it would suffice to state that even the NCLT was not satisfied with the said submission of the IRP and has not approved the same. Secondly, even if there was any transaction from B the account of the CD, the same may at best be held to be a wrongful transaction and in any other proceedings where CIRP is initiated the amount so transferred could be recovered under section 66 of IBC by the IRP or the RP subject to establishing that the said transactions would be hit by the said provision.