In other words, if coercion or fraud is alleged, it must be set out with full particulars.” The B court had cited and applied the principle enunciated in Bishundeo Narain v. Seogeni Rai37where it was held that: “ […] Now if there is one rule which is better established than any other, it is that in cases of fraud, undue influence and coercion, the parties pleading it must set forth full particulars and the case can only be decided on the particulars C as laid. There can be no departure from them in evidence. General allegations are insufficient even to amount to an averment of fraud of which any court ought to take notice, however strong the language in which they are couched may be, and the same applies to undue influence and coercion. D [See 6 Rule 4 of the Civil Procedure Code. ]” 70. In New Indian Assurance Co. Ltd v Genus Power Infrastructure Ltd38 this court dealt with the standard of pleadings and evidence, needed in cases, where coercion or duress is alleged: “8. It is therefore clear that a bald plea of fraud, coercion, E duress or undue influence is not enough and the party who sets up a plea, must prime facie establish the same by placing material before the Chief Justice/his designate.” 71. In the present case, this salutary rule was thrown to the wind, by the State Commission. In this court’s opinion, APTEL, in the most F cavalier fashion, virtually rubber stamped the State Commission’s findings on coercion, in regard to the entering into the PPA by the parties. There was no shred of evidence, nor any particularity of pleadings, beyond a bare allegation of coercion, alleged against Gujarat Urja. It is incomprehensible how such an allegation could have been entertained and incorporated as a finding, given that the respondents are established G companies, who enter into negotiations and have the support of experts, including legal advisers, when contracts are finalized. The findings 36 (2010) 4 S.C.R. 958 37 (1951) 1 SCR 548 38 2014 (12) SCR 360 H 718 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A regarding coercion are, therefore, wholly untenable. This court is also of the opinion that the casual approach of APTEL, in not reasoning how such findings could be rendered, cannot be countenanced. As a judicial tribunal, dealing with contracts and bargains, which are entered into by parties with equal bargaining power, APTEL is not expected to casually render findings of coercion, or fraud, without proper pleadings or proof, B or without probing into evidence. The findings of coercion are therefore, set aside. Conclusions 72. In view of the foregoing discussion, it is held that the concurrent C findings and s of the State Commission and APTEL cannot be sustained. They are accordingly set aside. The appeals are allowed, with costs payable to the appellants. Divya Pandey Appeals allowed. (Assisted by : Shevali Monga, LCRA) D E F G H