By the mere execution of Release Deed, in other words, in the facts of this case, no transfer took place. This is for the simple reason that the transferor, namely, the father of the appellants did not have any right at all which he B could transfer or relinquish. [Para 14][273-G-H] 3. ‘S’, the father of ‘C’ married twice. The first union produced ‘C’, the father of the appellants. Thereafter, ‘S’ married again. It is after the second marriage and the birth of the children from the said wedlock that Release Deed came to be executed C on 12th November, 1975. It would appear that from the second marriage, a son was born who incidentally was ill and in whose favour ‘C’, the father of the appellants executed the Release Deed. The intention of ‘S’ would appear to have been to secure the interest of the son from the second marriage. He wished to D secure his interest created under the second marriage and for which the father of the appellants who was his son from the first marriage was given some valuable consideration, which persuaded ‘C’ to release all his rights in respect of property in question. The words in the ‘Release Deed’ that hereafter he did not have E any other connection except blood relation appears to signify that the intention of ‘S’ was to deny any claim to ‘C’ in regard to the property. [Para 15][274-C-E] 4. Conjecturing that ‘C’ has survived his father and his succession had opened intestate in regard to the estate of his F father, the conduct of executing the Release Deed though by itself may not have resulted in a lawful transfer, his conduct being accompanied by the receipt of consideration would have estopped ‘C’. The very fact that C’s father did not execute any document by way of Will only shows that he proceeded on the basis that the G branch represented by ‘C’ was being cut off from inheritance from the property in question. [Para 16][274-F-G] H ELUMALAI @ VENKATESAN & ANR. v. M. KAMALA 265 AND ORS. & ETC. 5.1. Section 6 of the Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, A 1956, inter alia, declares that the father and, after him, the mother, shall, in the case of a boy or an unmarried girl, be the natural guardians of the minor’s person as well as in respect of the minor’s property. However, the minor’s property would not include the undivided interest the minor has in the joint family property. It B is, thereafter, that Section 8 appears and it purports to delineate the powers of a natural guardian. The powers of a natural guardian, in other words, relate either to the person or to the minor’s property or both. Section 8 purports to, inter alia, provide that the natural guardian would have the power to do all acts, which C are necessary or reasonable and proper for the benefit of the minor or realisation, protection or benefit of the minor’s estate.