The High Court, D however, did not take into consideration, the factor of the appellants’ continued detention. But the of the High Court was delivered on 15th October 2019, when the appellants were in detention for a period little over one year. 17.The NIA has also referred to a set of letters which are alleged E to have been recovered from electronic devices of the co-accused persons in course of searches. The other set of documents on which the NIA has placed reliance, are literatures, pamphlets etc. some of which are meant to have been recovered from the residences of the appellants themselves. So far as the aforesaid letters are concerned, copies thereof have been annexed to the courter-affidavits of the NIA filed in connection F with both the appeals. We shall refer to them in this in the way they have been described numerically as annexures in NIA’s counter- affidavit in the appeal of AF. The first document is an undated letter addressed to Surendra, from an unnamed sender, marked as Annexure “R-6”. This letter is claimed to have been recovered from the computer G of one of the co-accused and refers to Radical Student Union initiative by AF and VG. This letter requests the addressee to ask Arun to manage finances for legal defence of one Murgan. There is further reference to two other individuals who apparently have been inspired by the struggles of AF and VG. H VERNON v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA & ANR. 901 [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] 18.The second document is a letter dated 18th April 2017, marked A as Annexure “R-10”, addressed to one “Comrade Prakash” and is claimed to have been written by “R”. Prosecution claims “R” is Rona Wilson. Only reference to the two appellants in this document is that they, and others were equally concerned about the “two-line struggle” that was slowly taking shape on the urban front. The source of this letter B has not been disclosed in the counter-affidavit. From the content of this letter, the Agency wants to establish that the appellants were senior leaders of the banned organisation. 19. The third document is a letter dated 25th September 2017, marked as Annexure “R-12”, written by “Comrade Prakash”, which is C claimed to have been recovered from the computer of Surendra Gadling and addressee thereof is “Comrade Surendra”. Here also there is appreciation of activities of ‘Vernon’ and ‘Arun’ in motivating research scholars to get them involved in the revolutionary movement. About VG, it is recorded that one “Comrade G” has been asked to arrange APT to meet with Vernon. D 20.As regards AF, his name appears in an undated letter, marked as Annexure “R-4”, addressed to Surendra by Darsu, which refers to organisation of a joint meeting by the addressee and Arun in Hyderabad. The next letter is purported to have been written to Prakash by Surendra on 5th November 2017 and is marked as Annexure “R-5”. It refers to E establishing Indian Association of People’s Lawyer (“IAPL”) in Kerala for which discussion was held with Arun.