They constitute substantive obligations that need to be followed by decision-making and adjudicating authorities. E The principles of natural justice act as a guarantee against arbitrary action, both in terms of procedure and substance, by judicial, quasi-judicial, and administrative authorities. Two fundamental principles of natural justice are entrenched in Indian jurisprudence: (i) nemo judex in causa sua, which means that no person should be a judge in their own cause; F and (ii) audi alteram partem, which means that a person affected by administrative, judicial or quasi-judicial action must be heard before a decision is taken.The courts generally favor interpretation of a statutory provision consistent with the principles of natural justice because it is presumed that the statutory authorities do not intend to contravene fundamental rights. Application of the said principles depends on the G facts and circumstances of the case, express language and basic scheme of the statute under which the administrative power is exercised, the nature and purpose for which the power is conferred, and the final effect of the exercise of that power.21 H 21 Union of India v. Col. J N Sinha, (1970) 2 SCC 458 STATE BANK OF INDIA & ORS v. RAJESH AGARWAL & ORS 503 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 30. While the borrowers argue that the actions of banks in A classifying borrower accounts as fraud according to the procedure laid down under the Master Directions on Frauds is in violation of the principles of natural justice, the RBI and lender banks argue that these principles cannot be applied at the stage of reporting a criminal offence to investigating agencies. At the outset, we clarify that principles of natural B justice are not applicable at the stage of reporting a criminal offence, which is a consistent position of law adopted by this Court. In Union of India v. W N Chadha, a two-judge bench of this Court held that that providing an opportunity of hearing to the accused in every criminal case before taking any action against them would “frustrate the proceedings, obstruct the taking of prompt action as law demands, defeat C the ends of justice and make the provisions of law relating to the investigation lifeless, absurd, and self-defeating.”22 Again, a two-judge bench of this Court in Anju Chaudhary v. State of UP23 has reiterated that the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 does not provide for right of hearing before the registration of an FIR. D 31. Chapter VIII of the Master Directions on Fraud provides detailed procedures to be followed by the banks before forming an opinion to proceed with a criminal complaint against the borrowers. Under the said chapter, the lender banks have to report a borrower to the CBI after classifying the borrower’s account as fraudulent. E However, the classification of the borrower’s account does not simpliciter lead to reporting of criminal complaint with the enforcement authorities; it also entails penal consequences for the borrowers as laid down under Clause 8.12. 32. The process of forming an informed opinion under the Master F Directions on Frauds is administrative in nature.