It is, also, corroborated and supported and reinforced by the Resolution dated 06.11.87. It is, therefore, clear that the petitioners, who were F employees of the respondent No. 1-Board, and who have retired after 1.1.86 were also entitled to pensionary benefits. The respondent No. 1-Board, undoubtedly, has been paying pension to the employees, those who have retired from service of the Board, got pensionary benefits but not in terms of the recommendations G made by the 5th Pay Commission report until 31.12.1995. As a result of which, the pension which was being paid to the petitioners, were due and payable, prior to the recommendations of the 5th Pay Commission and it continued. However, the effect of the recommendations made by the 5th Pay Commission report, accepted by the State and despite that the respondent no. 2-State, H STATE OF ORISSA v. ORISSA KHADI AND VILLAGE INDUSTRIES 1079 BOARD KARAMCHARI SANGH [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] as well as, the respondent No. 1-Board, have not been given. In A other words, the pensionary benefits which were available under the pension scheme, which were not revised in terms of the 5th Pay Commission report, though accepted and adopted by the respondents authorities, have not been paid so far.” 17.1. Thus, in the said case, pension scheme had already been B introduced and was made applicable from 12.11.1973; and the employees who were the members of CPF, were made eligible for the pension scheme. In fact, the question therein was as to whether the employees of the Gujarat State Khadi Gramodyog Board, who had retired prior to 01.01.1996, were entitled to the payment of pension according to the C revised pay scale as per the recommendations of the 5th Pay Commission Report. The observations in the said decision cannot be applied to issue a writ of mandamus to the appellant State to amend the Regulations and to change the service conditions. 18. In view of the foregoing, it follows that the cited decisions are D of no assistance to the claim of the respondents. 19. The other factor indicated on behalf of the respondents that a small number of affected employees may not bring about much financial burden on the State hardly make out a case for issuing a mandamus to the State to amend the Regulations. Whether to amend the Regulations E or not, in the scheme of Act of 1955 as also the Regulations of 1960, is required to be left to the State and for that matter, the number of employees to be affected/benefitted is not of much relevance. In this regard too, as noticed hereinbefore, apparently the objections of the State were against retrospective amendment of the Regulations and thereby allowing pension with effect from 01.04.1976. Moreover, the indications F in the referred communications that such a prescription is likely to bring about a huge amount of administrative trouble to the Government cannot be dubbed as mere pretence or a bogus alibi. We would hasten to observe that irrespective of these observations and irrespective of the result of this litigation, nothing would prevent the State Government to carry out G the amendment in the form suggested or in any other modified form, if the State Government would be willing to do so.