One of the accused-Shoaib was produced before the Juvenile Justice Board and Ravi was tried by the Children’s Court under the provisions of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. The charge was framed against six accused persons and in all 18 witnesses were examined on behalf of the prosecution. The statements of the accused under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (for short ‘Cr.P.C.’) came to be recorded and the accused having denied the incriminating material appearing in evidence against them, had pleaded not guilty. After hearing the learned advocates appearing for the accused persons and the public prosecutor and on appreciation of the evidence laid before the court, the learned Sessions Judge by dated 06-10-2017 convicted the accused persons for the off ences already noticed hereinabove and said of conviction and sentence imposed came to be affi rmed by the High Court under the impugned vide dated 09-01-2020. Hence, these appeals have been preferred by accused Nos.4 to 6. 3. We have heard Mr. Siddharth Mittal and Mr. Vikas Walia, learned Advocates appearing for the accused-appellants in Criminal Appeal Nos.1786 of 2023 and 1787-1788 of 2023 respectively, and Ms. Manisha Aggarwal Narain, learned Additional Advocate General appearing for the State of Haryana, Respondent. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANTS: 4. Mr. Siddharth Mittal, learned counsel for the appellant appearing for Naresh @ Nehru Accused No.4, contends that the trial court and High Court had committed an error in convicting him without considering the statement of Mohit @ Kala (PW-9) in proper perspective whereunder he had not named the appellant and the CCTV footage did not conform to Section 65 B of the Indian Evidence Act which even otherwise did not refl ect A-4’s 776 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. of presence. He also contends that no Test Identifi cation Parade (TIP ‘for short’) was conducted, and PW-9 had only identifi ed this accused (A-4) in the court. Mr. Mittal learned counsel would also contend that said witness (PW-9) was shocked or perplexed when his statement came to be recorded as admitted by him and reliance could not have been placed on said evidence for convicting the appellant. He would further contend that A-4 had no common object to share with the main accused, Pawan (PW-1), who is said to have fi red at Ajay (deceased). Mr. Mittal, learned counsel would also contend that PW-9 was an interested witness as he was a close relative of the deceased, and various discrepancies, including the improvement in his statement made before court, ought to have been the ground to summarily brush aside his testimony. Mr. Mittal, learned advocate would point out that discrepancies in PW-9’s statement had clearly surfaced which was evident from his admission of not informing the police about the Splendor vehicle being driven by the appellant and this fact was conveniently ignored by the courts below. Mr. Mittal, learned counsel would also contend that CCTV footage relied upon by prosecution was recorded on a mobile phone by PW-8 and converted into a CD, which was not in conformity with Section 65B of the Evidence Act and it was allegedly recorded on 26.04.2016 but handed over to the police on 01.06.2016 and during this interregnum period the possibility of said recording being tampered could not have been ruled out.