According to learned senior counsel for the petitioners, if any demonetisation of currency has to take place, and if H the power of the Central Government is not channelised or VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 195 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] restricted by reading down sub-section(2) of Section 26 of A the Act, it would result in arbitrariness and unconstitutionality. Therefore, to save it from the vice of arbitrariness and unconstitutionality, it is necessary to read down the provision in the following two respects: a) the Central Government has no power to demonetise B any currency note except on the recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act, and; b) the expression “any” in sub-section(2) of Section 26 of the Act must be restricted to be “any one”, that is, C “one series” or “one denomination” of bank notes. That the addition of the words “any series” before the words “of bank notes of any denomination” limits the power of the Government to declare only a specified series of notes as no longer being a legal tender. Thus, “any series” means any specified series D and not “all series” of notes of a given denomination. 15.12 Since I have accepted the contention of the learned Attorney General appearing for Union of India vis-à-vis the power of the Central Government for initiating the process of demonetisation, the next question would be, whether, the E Central Government can, on initiating the process of demonetisation, proceed to issue a gazette notification to demonetise any or all series of any or all denomination of bank notes, on the strength of sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. Consideration of this issue would also answer the contention of learned senior counsel for the petitioners F regarding sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act being unguided and arbitrary in nature and hence, unconstitutional. To this end, the following aspects have to be examined: (a) Whether demonetisation can be initiated and carried but by the Central Government by issuing a G notification in the Gazette of India as per sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act? (b) Extent of the Central Government’s power to carry out demonetisation, i.e., whether “all series” of “all denominations” may be demonetised. H 196 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 15.13 As held hereinabove, the proposal for demonetisation can emanate either from the Central Government or from the Central Board of the Bank.It is however necessary to contrast the proposal for demonetisation initiated by the Central Government, with that initiated by the Central Board of the Bank. When the Central Board of the Bank B recommends demonetisation, it is in my view, only for a particular series of bank notes of a particular denomination as specified in the recommendation made under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. The word “any” in sub-section (2) of Section 26 cannot be read to mean “all”. If read as C “specified” or “particular” as against all, in my view, it would not suffer from arbitrariness or suffer from unguided discretion being given to the Central Board of the Bank.