527 [M. R. SHAH, J.] s under reference correctly hold that “mere membership of a A banned organization will not make a person a criminal unless he resorts to violence or incites people to violence or creates public dis by violence or incitement to violence.” 7.5 Now so far as the submission made by Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General that while deciding Raneef (supra) and Arup B Bhuyan (supra), this court ought not to have relied upon the US Supreme Court s, Shri Sanjay Parikh, learned Senior Counsel has submitted that in the case of Shreya Singhal v. Union of India, (2015) 5 SCC 1, this Court has held that the legal position in India is not different. He has relied upon the observations made in paragraph 41 made in the case of C Sherya Singhal (supra). 7.6 It is submitted that the decision of this Court in the case of Shreya Singhal (supra) has been recently relied upon and considered by one of the Hon’ble Judge of the Constitution Bench in the case of Kaushal Kishor v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Others, 2023 SCC D OnLine SC 6, while concurring on the question that the restrictions under Article 19(2) are exhaustive. 7.7 It is further submitted by Shri Sanjay Parikh, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the applicant that Shreya Singhal (supra) is the culmination of an unbroken line of Indian precedent stipulating that E speech or association can be prevented or punished only if, • Speech or association is ‘intended’ or has the ‘tendency’ to disturb ‘public ’, ‘sovereignty and integrity of India’, ‘security of the state’, or one of the other permitted ground of restrictions under Article 19; and F • The connection between the speech or association and the ‘intended’ or likely effect on ‘public ’, ‘sovereignty and integrity of India’ or ‘security of the state’ is “proximate” not “far- fetched, hypothetical or problematical or too remote in the chain of its relation.” G 7.8 Shri Parikh, learned Senior Counsel has relied upon the observations made by the Federal Court in the case of Niharendu Dutt Majumdar v. The King Emperor 1942 F.C.R. 38 taking the view that “the acts or words complained of must, either incite to dis or must be such as to satisfy reasonable men that that is their intention or tendency.” It is submitted that the said decision has been approved and H 528 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A adopted by this Court in the case of Kedar Nath v. State of Bihar, AIR 1962 SC 955. He has relied upon the observations made in paragraph 26 of Kedar Nath (supra). 7.9 It is further submitted that in the case of State of Bihar v. Shailabala Devi, AIR 1952 SC 329, this Court asserted that it was not B sufficient for law restricting freedom of speech and expression to be under one of the permitted heads of restriction enumerated under Article 19(2), but must also have a proximate link to it.