6. We have heard Shri Mehmood Pracha, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the accused – appellant and Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the State of Gujarat. 6.1 The short question which is posed for the consideration of this F Court is whether in the facts and circumstances of the case, the appellant shall be entitled to the statutory/default bail under Section 167(2) of the Cr.PC on the ground that at the time when the extension of time for completing the investigation was prayed by the investigating agency and granted by the Trial Court the accused was not kept present? G 6.2 Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant – accused has heavily relied upon the decisions of this Court in the cases of Hitendra Vishnu Thakur (supra); Sanjay Dutt (supra); Sayed Mohd. Ahmed Kazmi (supra) and on the recent decision of this Court in the case of Jigar (supra). H QAMAR GHANI USMANI v. THE STATE OF GUJARAT 831 [M. R. SHAH, J.] 6.2.1 In the case of Hitendra Vishnu Thakur (supra), this Court A observed and held that when a report is submitted by the Public Prosecutor to the Designated Court for grant of extension, its notice should be issued to the accused before granting such an extension so that the accused may have an opportunity to oppose the extension on all legitimate and legal grounds available to him. B 6.2.2 However, thereafter, the decision of this Court in the case of Hitendra Vishnu Thakur (supra) fell for consideration before this Court in the case of Sanjay Dutt (supra) and the view taken by this Court in the case of Hitendra Vishnu Thakur (supra) as above, has not been accepted by the Constitution Bench of this Court and it is C observed and held in the case of Sanjay Dutt (supra) that a notice to the accused is not required to be given by the Designated Court before it grants any extension for completing the investigation. Meaning thereby, the accused is to be kept present before the Court when it grants any extension for completing the investigation. The view taken by this Court D in the case of Hitendra Vishnu Thakur (supra) that a notice is to be given to the accused so that he can oppose the extension has not been accepted by the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Sanjay Dutt (supra). As such under the Scheme of Cr.PC and on the report submitted by the Investigating Agency, prayer for extension of time for completing investigation is subject to the satisfaction of the concerned E Court whether to grant further extension or not. The Court is to be satisfied on the grounds on which the extension is sought. 6.2.3 Now so far as the reliance placed upon the decision of this Court in the case of Sayed Mohd. Ahmed Kazmi (supra) by learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant is concerned, at the outset, F it is required to be noted that the said decision shall not be applicable to the facts of the case on hand.