There is no remedy to re-open the agreement by way of approaching the Court in the statue. D III. The distinction created between the two classes of land owners has been done on the basis of their residence. The base compensation given to both the classes is the same, and only an additional 15% extra amount is given to Pushtaini landowners as rehabilitation bonus, which is not E a necessity for the Gair-pushtaini landowners as they do not reside in the concerned land and are not sons of the soil. IV. As regards to the ex-gratia payment given to the Pushtaini landowners, the same is merely an additional compensation based on the classification between sons of the soils and F mere investors in the land. The payment is based on reasonable classification and is not violative of Article 14. Issues 22. In the aftermath of the aforesaid litigations in the High Court, G the following three questions arise for adjudication in these Appeals :- I. Whether the Appellants, by signing the agreement,have waived their right to seek for revised compensation? II. Whether the classification made under the Land Acquisition Act, and the UP Land Acquisition Rules,1997 between H RAMESH CHANDRA SHARMA v. STATE OF UTTAR 447 PRADESH [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] Pushtaini Landowners and Gair-pushtaini Landowners for A the payment of compensation at different rates is liable to be struck down as violative of Article 14 of the Constitution? III. Whether the classification made by the Full-Bench of the High Court between Pushtaini landowners and Gair-pushtaini landowners is in contravention to the law laid down by this B Hon’ble Court in the case of Nagpur Improvement Trust and Another vs. Vithal Rao and Others (1973) 1 SCC 500? 23. We have heard, Shri Pradeep Kant, Learned Senior Counsel for the appellants, Shri. Ravindra Kumar, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Greater Noida and Shri Ravindra Kumar Raizada, C learned counsel for the State of U.P./A.A.G., at great length. 24. At the outset, we would like to clarify that in the present appeals, we are only concerned with the legality and validity of action of G. Noida paying an enhanced compensation to the landholders by carving out an artificial class of ‘Pushtaini’ landholders from among the same class of D landholders whose land was acquired by the same notification for the same purpose. There is no challenge to the validity of the acquisition itself as the same stands finally settled by this Court. Analysis E Whether the Appellants are bound by the compensation as per the agreement under the Land Acquisition rules, and have waived off their right to seek enhanced compensation? 25. It has been vehemently submitted on behalf of Greater Noida that the appellants herein did not exhaust their remedy under Section 18 F of the Land Acquisition Act and approach the High Court, and has sidestepped a procedural requirement. Section 18 of the 1894 Act reads as under :- “Reference to Court.- (1) Any person interested who has not accepted the award may, by written application to the Collector, G require that the matter be referred by the Collector for the determination of the Court, whether his objection be to the measurement of the land, the amount of the compensation, the persons to whom it is payable, or the apportionment of the compensation among the persons interested.