Allowing the appeal, the Court D HELD: 1.1 If a right of production of documents at the trial stage exists, it is a natural corollary that the High Court, sitting in appeal, must benefit from those documents. In the considered view of this Court, this is a demand of the said sacrosanct requirement. [Para 18][520-F] E 1.2 In the instant case, despite efforts, documents such as the witness statements, statements under Section 313 Cr.P.C. are neither available nor have been able to be reconstructed. Therefore, upholding conviction in the absence of such documents cannot be said to be in consonance with due process of law and F fairness. [Para 19][520-G] 1.3 Once a violation of a right under Article 21 is established, that is undoubtedly sufficient to set aside a conviction. Nonetheless, it is essential to appreciate what the law of procedure says in this regard. After all, it cannot be gainsaid that personal G liberty cut down in the absence of fair legal procedure is an affront to the sanctity of Article 21. [Para 20][521-A-B] 1.4 A bare reading of the s. 385 CrPC makes it clear that when appeals are not dismissed summarily, the appellate court H 514 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A shall call for the records of the Court below except in cases where the question for consideration is the legality of a sentence. There is undoubtedly a compulsion upon the appellate court to call for the record and then proceed to examine the merits of a case before it. That, as is prima facie observable, is not the case before this court. [Para 22][522-B-C] B 1.5 Sub-section, 2 of Section 385, requires that the parties are heard in light of the records received by the Court. The documents undoubtedly need to include the essential documents necessary to properly appreciate the appeal on its merits. Even the depositions of the witnesses, both prosecution and defence, C have not been re-constructed and are not available for the Court. [Para 31][526-G; 527-A] 1.6 The Court below, by taking a mutually contradictory view, proceeded to decide the appeal on merits sentencing the accused, forgetting that the challenge was also for conviction. D And yet did not deal with the merits of the appeal, laying specific challenge to the of conviction. The whole approach is illegal and erroneous. Firstly, it is observed that the record was missing, and then it casts the onus to produce the same on the appellant. [Para 32][527-B] E 1.7 The accused, in appeal, has a right to have the record perused by the Appellate Court and, therefore, upholding a conviction by merely having noted that the counsel for the accused not having the record at the time of filing the appeal is “doubtful” and that “no one can believe” the appeal would have been filed without perusing the record, as observed by the High Court is F not correct. The job of the Court of Appeal is not to depend on the lower Court’s to uphold the conviction but, based on the record available before it duly called from the trial court and the arguments advanced before it, to come to a conclusion thereon.