The necessary enquiry having not been made, the trial stands vitiated and consequently, the benefit ought to be extended to the accused-appellant. The learned counsel has also referred to the decision in A.R. Antulay v. B R.S. Nayak: (1988) 2 SCC 602 to submit that the act of the Court should not harm a litigant.The learned counsel has even referred to a decision of the Supreme Court of the State of Delaware in Eric Dolby v. State of Delaware decided on 02.03.2012 to submit that therein the accused was permitted to raise the defence of competence even though C it was not as such raised by the counsel and has submitted that the Trial Court ought to have ed examination of the accused with regard to the propensity/capacity. 10.3.3. Learned counsel has extended his submissions to the effect that since the evidence of PW-2 and PW-3 gave rise to a doubt in relation D to the mental capacity of the appellant, the Trial Court ought to have given an opportunity to the appellant to explain the circumstances of such normality/abnormality at the time of his examination under Section 313 CrPC because these aspects had a bearing on his capacity and ultimately on his defence. The learned counsel has submitted with reference to an observation of this Court in the case of Rahul v. State E of Delhi, Ministry of Home Affairs and Anr. : 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1532, that a Judge is not expected to be a passive umpire but is supposed to actively participate in the trial, and to question the witnesses to reach to a correct conclusion. The learned counsel would submit that, in the present case, the witnesses examined to establish the guilt were F not cross-examined on the relevant factors, particularly as regards mental capacity of the appellant, which ought to have been ensured by the Trial Court. 10.4. In the last limb of submissions, learned counsel for the appellant has submitted that even if it be taken that the evidence on G record did not establish conclusively the mental incapacity of the appellant, it indeed raised a reasonable doubt as regards existence of all the ingredients of Section 300 IPC, including mens rea and hence, the appellant was entitled to be extended the benefit of doubt. The learned counsel would also submit in the alternative that the conviction, if at all, ought to have been under Section 304 IPC. In this regard, the learned H PREM SINGH v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 839 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] counsel has referred to a decision of Calcutta High Court in the case of A King-Emperor v. Tincouri Dhopi: 1922 SCC OnLine Cal 90 to submit that therein the mental state of the appellant, who was a habitual ganja smoker, was taken into consideration and accordingly, capital sentence was converted to transportation for life to meet the ends of justice. 10.5. Therefore, according to the learned counsel for the appellant, B in view of serious infirmity in the trial, benefit of doubt deserves to be given to the appellant and in the alternative, the conviction deserves to be converted to one under Section 304 IPC and sentence deserves to be reduced to the period of imprisonment already undergone.