Tripathi (supra). 11. We fi nd that the of this Court in Express Newspapers Ltd. (supra), sought to be relied upon by the Respondents, would not come to their aid in the present case. It is to be noted that the said turns on its own facts. In the said case, the income tax authorities had made extensive investigation and inquiry, whereby they had collected voluminous material demonstrating large scale concealment of income on the part of the assessee therein. In that background, this Court observed that the assessee, having merely off ered a part of such concealed income before the Commission, the application for settlement ought to have been rejected. 12. While we are mindful of the fact that the provisions of Chapter XIX-A of the Act are not to be employed so as to provide a shelter for tax dodgers to obtain immunity from facing the consequences of tax evasion by simply approaching the Settlement Commission, vide B.N. Bhattacharjee (supra), we are however of the view that in the present case, the Commission rightly exercised its discretion under Section 245H having regard to the bona fi de conduct of the assessee of off ering additional income for tax, apart from the income disclosed in the return of income. 13. Before parting with the record, we may add that having regard to the legislative intent, frequent interference with the s or proceedings of the Settlement Commission should be avoided. We have already indicated the limited grounds on which an or proceeding of the Settlement Commission can be judicially reviewed. The High Court should not scrutinize an or proceeding of a Settlement Commission as an appellate court. Unsettling reasoned s of the Settlement Commission may erode the confi dence of the bonafi de assessees, thereby leading to multiplicity of litigation where settlement is possible. This larger picture has to be borne in mind. KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. v. COMMISSIONER OF 27 INCOME TAX BANGALORE [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 14. In light of the aforesaid discussion, we are of the view that the of the Settlement Commission dated 04.03.2008 was based on a correct appreciation of the law, in light of the facts of the case and the High Court ought not to have interfered with the same. Therefore, the dated 06.07.2012, passed by the High Court of Karnataka at Bangalore in Writ Appeal No. 2458 of 2010 whereby the of the learned Single Judge dated 20.05.2010, passed in Writ Petition No. 12239 of 2008, remanding the matter to the Settlement Commission to determine afresh, the question as to immunity from levy of penalty and prosecution was affi rmed, is hereby set aside. Consequently, the of the learned Single Judge is also set aside. The of the Settlement Commission dated 04.03.2008 is restored. The appeal is allowed. Pending application (s), if any, stand disposed of in the aforesaid terms. No as to costs. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal allowed. Nidhi Jain