[2023] 15 S.C.R. 1022 : 2023 INSC 967 CASE DETAILS ORBIT ELECTRICALS PRIVATE LIMITED v. DEEPAK KISHAN CHHABRIA & ORS. (Contempt Petition (Civil) No 1195 of 2023) In (Civil Appeal No. 6108 of 2023) OCTOBER 30, 2023 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI, J. B. PARDIWALA AND MANOJ MISRA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: dtd.13.10.23 was passed by the Supreme Court directing NCLAT to pronounce in the pending appeal only after the results of the Annual General Meeting of Finolex Cables Limited were declared. Despite the fact that NCLAT’s attention was drawn to the of the Supreme Court, it went on to deliver the ignoring the direction therein. Said , if was in willful defi ance of the Supreme Court’s . Contempt – Interim direction passed by the NCLAT at the stage of reserving s, restoring the status quo ante as available prior to EOGM dtd.03.05.19 was vacated by Supreme Court – While vacating the , it was noted that the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of Finolex Cables Limited was to take place on 29.09.23 and directed that any action taken on the appointment of the Executive Chairperson shall be subject to the outcome of the appeal pending before NCLAT – Proceedings mentioned in the Contempt Petition, apprising the Supreme Court that the declaration of the result of the AGM was deferred till the declaration of the by NCLAT – Vide dtd.13.10.23, Scrutinizer was directed to declare the result of the AGM and NCLAT was directed to declare its in the pending appeal after it was duly apprised of the fact that the result of the AGM was declared – Grievance of the Petitioners that the NCLAT was though apprised 1022 ORBIT ELECTRICALS PRIVATE LIMITED v. 1023 DEEPAK KISHAN CHHABRIA & ORS. of the said , it proceeded to deliver the ignoring the direction therein– Chairperson of the NCLAT directed to verify the position and submit report– Report submitted – Affi davits fi led by the two members who constituted the Bench of the NCLAT and by the Scrutiniser: Held: From the CCTV footage as well as from the transcript, it is evident beyond doubt that though the NCLAT was duly apprised of the fact that this Court had in the morning session on 13.10.23 passed an to the eff ect that the shall be pronounced only after the results by the Scrutiniser were declared, the Bench of the NCLAT declined to pay heed to the of this Court – The Bench of the NCLAT acted in willful defi ance of the despite the fact that its attention was drawn to the of this Court – Unconditional apology tendered by the Member (Technical) accepted – As regards the Member (Judicial), what was stated by him was contrary to the record – This was compounded by what had been stated in the affi davit fi led – The conduct of the Member (Judicial) is censured – Further, on facts, there is no doubt that the the Scrutiniser acted in concert with ‘DKC’, the then acting Chairman-cum-Managing Director to delay the declaration of the result of the AGM, in breach of the directions issued by this Court – ‘DKC’ to pay Rs.1 crore and the Scrutiniser to pay Rs.10 lakhs to the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund – Directions issued in the earlier of this Court setting aside the delivered by the Bench of the NCLAT on 13.10.23, reiterated – Contempt proceedings disposed of.