A physical possession of the acquired land. It is submitted that possession of the acquired land has been handed over to the representative of HUDA on the same day of the award vide Rapat no. 702 date 04.08.2006. The petitioners are encroachers in the acquired land. Rest of the contents of this Para is matter B of record. xxx xxx xxx 14. That the contents of Para no. 14 of the writ petition are wrong and denied. It is specifically denied that the acquisition proceeding C qua the petitioners has lapsed as per the provision of section 24 (2) of Right to fair compensation and transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act 2013. It is submitted that the physical possession of the acquired land has been handed over to the representative of HUDA on the same day of the award vide Rapat no. 702 dated 04.08.2006. The D petitioners are encroachers in the acquired land and compensation of the acquired land was not paid to the petitioners because they are not owners of the acquired land and were not entitled to the same. Rest of the contents of this Para is matter of record. E xxx xxx xxx 17. That the contents of Para no. 17 of the writ petition are wrong and denied. It is submitted that the acquisition proceeding qua the petitioners cannot be lapsed as per the provision of section 24 (2) of Right to fair compensation and transparency in Land Acquisition, F Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act 2013, because the physical possession of the acquired land has been handed over to the representative of HUDA on the same day of the award vide Rapat no. 702 dated 04.08.2006. The petitioners are encroachers in the acquired land and compensation of the acquired land was not G paid to the petitioners because they are not owners of the acquired land. The acquisition proceedings have been carried out as per the demarcation given by Distt, Town Planner, Gurgaon, in accordance with the mandatory provisions of the L.A. Act. The acquisition is just as per law in the interest of public at large and H THE STATE OF HARYANA & ORS. v. SUSHILA & ORS. 577 [M. R. SHAH, J.] not Liable to be quashed on any of the grounds mentioned by the A petitioners in this Para of the writ petition. That no law points is involved in the writ petition which requires adjudication by this Hon’ble High Court. The contentions raised in sub Para (i) to (iv) are wrong and hence denied. The acquisition proceeding were carried out in accordance with Law.” B 3. From the aforesaid it can be seen that it was the specific case on behalf of the appellants that the possession of the land in question was taken over and handed over to the beneficiary on 04.08.2006. It was also the case on behalf of the appellant that the petitioners are C encroachers in the acquired land and compensation of the acquired land was not paid to them because they were not co-owners at the time of award.