v. Subodh Gopal Bose [AIR 1954 SC 92 : 1954 SCR 587] these rights are great and basic rights which are recognized and guaranteed as the natural rights, inherent in the status of a citizen of a free country. Yet, there B cannot be any liberty absolute in nature and uncontrolled in operation so as to confer a right wholly free from any restraint. Had there been no restraints, the rights and freedoms may tend to become the synonyms of anarchy and dis. The founding fathers of the Constitution, therefore, conditioned the enumerated rights and C freedoms reasonably and such reasonable restrictions are found to be enumerated in clauses (2) to (6) of Article 19...” (Emphasis supplied) 7. While considering the reasonableness of the restrictions imposed under Article 19(2) to 19(6), a Constitution Bench of this Court in State D of Madras v. VG Row6 (five-Judge Bench)observed as under: “22. This Court had occasion in Khare case [N.B. Khare v. State of Delhi, 1950 SCR 519 : 1950 SCC 522] to define the scope of the judicial review under clause (5) of Article 19 where the phrase “imposing reasonable restrictions on the exercise E of the right” also occurs, and four out of the five Judges participating in the decision expressed the view (the other Judge leaving the question open) that both the substantive and the procedural aspects of the impugned restrictive law should be examined from the point of view of reasonableness; that is to say, the Court should consider not only factors such as the duration and the extent of the F restrictions, but also the circumstances under which and the manner in which their imposition has been authorised. 23. It is important in this context to bear in mind that the test of reasonableness, wherever prescribed, should be applied to each individual statute impugned, and no abstract standard, or general G pattern of reasonableness can be laid down as applicable to all cases. The nature of the right alleged to have been infringed, the underlying purpose of the restrictions imposed, the extent and urgency of the evil sought to be remedied thereby, the disproportion H 6 1952 SCR 597 ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 565 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] of the imposition, the prevailing conditions at the time, should all A enter into the judicial verdict.....” (Emphasis supplied) 8. Furthermore, laws restricting freedoms under Article 19, must be under one of the permitted heads of restrictions and must have a B proximate link to it. [See: State of Bihar v. Shailabala Devi7 (five- Judge Bench); O.K. Ghosh and Anr. v. E.X. Joseph8 (five-Judge Bench) and Shreya Singhal v. Union of India9 (two-Judge Bench)] 9. This development of Article 19 has been encapsulated by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Kaushal Kishor v. State of U.P. & C Ors.10 (five-Judge Bench).Justice V. Ramasubramanian has reiterated that the restrictions under Article 19(2) have been included after detailed deliberations. Furthermore, after the amendments to the Constitution that have been discussed herein above, the restrictions “save and enable the State” to make laws restricting freedoms under the enumerated heads, D such as, sovereignty and integrity of India, security of the State and incitement to an offence.11 Specifically, Development of Article 19(1)(c) 10.