RAJO @ RAJWA @ RAJENDRA MANDAL v. THE STATE 497 OF BIHAR & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 23. In his opinion dated 21-7-2021 the Special Judge, Durg referred to the crime for which the petitioner was convicted and simply stated that in view of the facts and circumstances of the case it would not be appropriate to grant remission. The opinion is in the teeth of the provisions of Section 432(2)CrPC which require that the Presiding Judge’s opinion must be accompanied by reasons. Halsbury’s Laws of India (Administrative Law) notes that the requirement to give reasons is satisfi ed if the authority concerned has provided relevant reasons. Mechanical reasons are not considered adequate. The following extract is useful for our consideration: “[005.066] Adequacy of reasons Suffi ciency of reasons, in a particular case, depends on the facts of each case. It is not necessary for the authority to write out a as a court of law does. However, at least, an outline of process of reasoning must be given. It may satisfy the requirement of giving reasons if relevant reasons have been given for the , though the authority has not set out all the reasons or some of the reasons which had been argued before the court have not been expressly considered by the authority. A mere repetition of the statutory language in the will not make the a reasoned one. Mechanical and stereotype reasons are not regarded as adequate. A speaking is one that speaks of the mind of the adjudicatory body which passed the . A reason such as ‘the entire examination of the year 1982 is cancelled’, cannot be regarded as adequate because the statement does explain as to why the examination has been cancelled; it only lays down the punishment without stating the causes therefor.” [Halsbury’s Laws of India (Administrative Law) (Lexis Nexis, Online Edition).] 24. Thus, an opinion accompanied by inadequate reasoning would not satisfy the requirements of Section 432(2)CrPC. Further, it will not serve the purpose for which the exercise under Section 432(2) is to be undertaken, which is to enable the executive to make an informed decision taking into consideration all the relevant factors.” 498 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 13. Noting that the presiding judge’s opinion did not consider the fi ve parameters laid out in Laxman Naskar (supra), a coordinate bench of this court in Ram Chander (supra) directed the presiding offi cer of the concerned court, to consider the matter afresh and in light of these factors, so that the appropriate government could in turn reconsider the petitioner’s application for premature release. A similar fate awaited the writ petitioner in Jaswant Singh v. State of Chhattisgarh15 (wherein both writ petitions arose from the same facts and commission of off ence). 14. In the present case, the Remission Board rejected the petitioner’s application for premature release twice. A brief glance at all the reports submitted by the authorities to the Remission Board before each of its two meetings where it considered the petitioner’s case, is telling: Considered in Remission Board Considered in Remission Board meeting meeting dated 19.05.2021 dated 20.04.2023 Jail Superintendent report dated Jail Superintendent report dated 27.04.2021: 15.09.2022: “conduct of prisoner is satisfactory.