That is diff erent from saying that even in the case of income earned by a club from non-members or income earned from investment made by a club in fi xed deposits in a bank would attract the principle of mutuality and therefore, no tax is payable. Thirdly, if an of this Court is brief and meant only for the purpose of closure of the controversy involved in a particular case and with a view to conclude the case, undoubtedly, such an is binding on the parties to the said , but in our view, it cannot act as a precedent for subsequent cases such as the present one with which we are dealing. 25. In fact, in paragraph 19 of Bankipur Club, while considering the interest income received on fi xed deposits, this Court observed that such income could be considered as income from other sources and not income from property. It was further observed by this Court, “It does not appear that the larger plea that the income is totally exempt on the principle of mutuality, was decided in favour of the assessee.”. It was in the above context that the Group “E” cases were segregated as this Court was of the view that the income earned from the property let out and also interest received on the fi xed deposits could be considered separately. 26. When the appeals were considered thereafter in the case of Cawnpore Club this Court simply applied the principle of mutuality to the income earned by the club from rooms rented out to its members as not being subject to tax. As far as the other questions were concerned, this Court only observed that “no useful purpose would be served in proceeding with the appeals on the other questions when the respondent cannot be taxed because of the principle of mutuality.” This observation in Cawnpore Club must be juxtaposed with the observations expressed above in Bankipur Club. When the aforesaid observations made in Cawnpore Club are considered in light of the larger plea, we fi nd that the same was not answered in Bankipur SECUNDRABAD CLUB ETC. v. C.I.T.-V ETC. 1023 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Club nor in Cawnpore Club. But, the subsequent decision in Bangalore Club ultimately answered the said larger plea through a detailed reasoning. Therefore, it cannot be held that the short passed in Cawnpore Club is a precedent which was ignored by a Coordinate Bench of two judges in Bangalore Club, so as to make the latter decision per incuriam. On the other hand, we are of the view that the larger plea which was neither considered in Bankipur Club nor in Cawnpore Club was ultimately considered and answered in Bangalore Club by a detailed . 27. Therefore, we do not fi nd any fault in a subsequent Coordinate Bench of this Court in Bangalore Club in not noticing the passed in the case of Cawnpore Club while dealing, in a detailed manner, on the taxability of the income earned from the interest on fi xed deposits made by the said Club in banks, whether the banks are members of the clubs or not.