The appointment of Central Vigilance Commissioner and Vigilance Commissioners can be made only after a Committee consisting of (a) the Prime Minister (Chairman); (b) the Minister of H 574 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Home Affairs (Member); and (c) the Leader of the Opposition in the House of the People (Member) recommends for the same. The explanation thereto provides that when no such Leader of the Opposition in the House of the People has been so recognized, the Committee shall include the Leader of the single largest group in opposition of the Government in the House of the People. B 81. A perusal of Section 6 of the CVC Act would reveal that a very stringent provision has been made for removal of the Central Vigilance Commissioner and the Vigilance Commissioners. They can be removed from the office only by an of the President on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity and that too, only after the Supreme C Court, on a reference made to it by the President, has, on inquiry, reported that the Central Vigilance Commissioner or any Vigilance Commissioner, as the case may be, ought on such ground be removed. 82. It is, thus, clear that the procedure for removal of the Central Vigilance Commissioner or the Vigilance Commissioner is very stringent. D Unless on a reference made by the President to the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court conducts an inquiry and reports that such Central Vigilance Commissioner or the Vigilance Commissioner, as the case may be, ought to be removed on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity, they cannot be removed. As such, a very strong protection has been provided to these officers to act independently and the Statute E insulates them from extraneous pressures. 83. As already discussed herein above, the Committee which recommends appointment of the Director of Enforcement consists of the Central Vigilance Commissioner as well as the Vigilance Commissioner. It is to be noted that this Court in the case of Vineet F Narain (supra) directed a Selection Committee for appointment to the post of Director of Enforcement headed by the Central Vigilance Commissioner, and including the Home Secretary, Secretary (Personnel) and Revenue Secretary. However, Section 25 of the CVC Act provides for a Committee, which, apart from aforesaid three Members also includes G the Vigilance Commissioners. 84. It could thus be seen that the constitution of the Committee for appointment of Director of Enforcement is wider than what is ed by this Court in the case of Vineet Narain (supra) and consisting of Central Vigilance Commissioner as well as Vigilance Commissioners. H DR. JAYA THAKUR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 575 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 85. As already observed herein above, there is safeguard in the A statute which insulate the office of the Central Vigilance Commissioner and the Vigilance Commissioner from extraneous pressures and permits them to act independently. 86. Similarly, the appointment of Director of CBI is to be made only after a candidate is recommended by the Committee consisting of: B (i) The Prime Minister (Chairperson); (ii) The Leader of Opposition recognised as such in the House of the People or where there is no such Leader of Opposition, then, the Leader of the single largest Opposition Party in that House (Member); C (iii) The Chief Justice of India or Judge of the Supreme Court nominated by him (Member).