In Indian National Congress (I) (supra), this Court held that: B “29. … another test which distinguishes administrative function from quasi-judicial function is, the authority who acts quasi- judicially is required to act according to the rules, whereas the authority which acts administratively is dictated by the policy and expediency.” C 48. In Board of High School and Intermediate Education v. Ghanshyam Das Gupta18, this Court expounded upon when an authority is required to act judicially: “8. … Now it may be mentioned that the statute is not likely to provide in so many words that the authority passing the is D required to act judicially; that can only be inferred from the express provisions of the statute in the first instance in each case and no one circumstance alone will be determinative of the question whether the authority set up by the statute has the duty to act judicially or not. The inference whether the authority acting under E a statute where it is silent has the duty to act judicially will depend on the express provisions of the statute read along with the nature of the right affected, the manner of the disposal provided, the objective criterion if any to be adopted, the effect of the decision on the person affected and other indicia afforded by the statute.” F 49. From the above decisions, it emerges that: a. The decision of an authority is prima facie, and in the absence of any other factor, a quasi-judicial act when there is a lis before it, with two parties with competing claims; b. When the authority has the power to do something which will G prejudicially affect the subject, the decision it takes is a quasi- judicial act even in the absence of a lis and two parties with competing claims, when the authority is required by the statute in question to act judicially. The express provisions of the statute, 18 AIR 1962 SC 1110 H 774 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A the nature of the right affected, the manner of disposal, the objective criterion (if any) to be adopted while deciding one way or the other, the effect of the decision, and other signs in the statute may be considered when evaluating whether there is a duty to act judicially; and B c. The decision of an authority is quasi-judicial when it is made in accordance with rules. The decision is administrative when it is dictated by policy and expediency. 50. Having laid down the above principles, it must be realised that the distinction between quasi-judicial and administrative acts is not always C well defined and its application is not always certain. Doctrine and practice are not necessarily happy partners. The instant case evidently does not involve a lis or two parties with competing claims appearing before an authority who will determine their respective rights. Further, the act of the Union Government establishing the OAT did not prejudicially affect the subject in any manner. Litigants or other citizens were not left D without a forum.