324 SUPREME CO[U2R02T3 ]R 4E PSO.CR.RT.S 324 [2023] 4 S.C.R. A COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE & SERVICE TAX v. M/S SUZLON ENERGY LTD. B (Civil Appeal Nos. 11400-11401 of 2018) APRIL 10, 2023 [M. R. SHAH AND KRISHNA MURARI, JJ.] Finance Act, 1994 – ss.65(35b), 65(105)(zzzzd) – “design services” – Respondent engaged in manufacture of Wind Turbine C Generator (WTG), entered into a product development and purchase agreement with its sister concern in Germany for manufacturing WTG in India – Various models of “Engineering Design & Drawings” were imported by the respondent for manufacturing of WTG – If leviable to service tax under the category of “design D services” as defined u/s.65(35b) r/w s.65(105)(zzzzd) – Held: Yes – Definition of “design services” is very clear and wide enough to cover all “design services” – Merely because “Engineering Design & Drawings” prepared and supplied by sister company of the respondent were shown as ‘goods’ under the Customs Act and in the bill of entry, that by itself cannot be a ground to take such E services out of the definition of “design services” under the 1994 Act – View taken by the CESTAT that the same activity cannot be taxed as goods and services is absolutely erroneous – Impugned and passed by the CESTAT setting aside the levy of service tax is quashed and set aside – However, matter remitted F back to the CESTAT to consider the grounds raised on behalf of the respondent. Tax/Taxation: Aspect theory – Application of – Held: There can be two different taxes/levies under different heads by applying the aspect G theory – The same activity can be taxed as ‘goods’ and ‘services’ provided the contract is indivisible and on the aspect of services there may be levy of service tax. Sale of goods and a contract of service – Distinction – Held: There is a distinction between the sale of goods and a contract of H service – What is relevant is the intention of the contracting parties. 324 COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE & SERVICE 325 TAX v. M/S SUZLON ENERGY LTD. Disposing of the appeals, the Court A HELD: The designs were to be exclusively used by the respondent in the territory of India and it was a tailormade design. The respondent engaged the sister concern M/s SEG for the activity of “Engineering Design & Drawings” used in manufacturing of WTG, that was reduced as blue print on paper B and delivered to the respondent on the same medium. Such “designs” were subjected to the service tax even as per the clarification by the Board dated 18.03.2011 on the issue of applicability of indirect taxes on packaged software. Therefore, as such, the respondent was liable to pay service tax on the C “design services” received from abroad under reverse charge. M/s SEG was a related unit, i.e. subsidiary of the assessee and the amount received for service by M/s SEG from the assessee- respondent for the said “Engineering design & drawings” services therefore was liable to service tax under reverse charge in terms of the concept of ‘associated enterprise’.