In such a situation, it assumes importance that there was nothing on record to show as to what happened to the remaining bulk quantity of contraband. The absence of proper explanation H MANGILAL v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 531 [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] from the prosecution significantly undermines its case and A reduces the evidentiary value of the statements made by the witnesses. 10. Omission on the part of the prosecution to produce the bulk quantity of seized opium would create a doubt in the mind of the Court on the genuineness of the samples drawn B and marked as A, B, C, D, E, F from the allegedly seized contraband. However, the simple argument that the same had been destroyed, cannot be accepted as it is not clear that on what authority it was done. Law requires that such an authority must flow from an passed by the C Magistrate. On a bare perusal of the record, it is apparent that at no point of time any prayer had been made by the prosecution for destruction of the said opium or disposal thereof otherwise. The only course of action the prosecution should have resorted to is for its disposal is to obtain an from the competent court of Magistrate as D envisaged under Section 52-A of the Act. It is explicitly made under the Act that as and when such an application is made, the Magistrate may, as soon as may be, allow the application (see also Noor Aga v. State of Punjab, (2008) 16 SCC 417 : (2010) 3 SCC (Cri) 748). E 11. There is no denial of the fact that the prosecution has not filed any such application for disposal/destruction of the allegedly seized bulk quantity of contraband material nor was any such passed by the Magistrate. Even no notice has been given to the accused before such alleged F destruction/disposal. It is also pertinent here to mention that the trial court appears to have believed the prosecution story in a haste and awarded conviction to the respondent without warranting the production of bulk quantity of contraband. But, the High Court committed no error in dealing with this aspect of the case and disbelieving the G prosecution story by arriving at the conclusion that at the trial, the bulk quantities of contraband were not exhibited to the witnesses at the time of adducing evidence. 12. Turning to the other discrepancies in the prosecution case, PWs 1 and 2 the independent witnesses portrayed by the H 532 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A prosecution have turned hostile and did not support its case. It is manifest from the record that they had simply put their signatures on the papers at the whims of the investigating agency. Another aspect that goes in favour of the accused is that, the version of prosecution that the respondent voluntarily made the confessional statement cannot be believed in the light of admission by Narcotics B Officer (PW 5), a key prosecution witness, that the statement of the respondent-accused under Section 67 of the Act was recorded while he was in his custody and the time was not mentioned on the statements.