Behaviour - physical, verbal, and non-verbal, ranging from what discomfi ts a child to as horrifying as rape and physical sexual abuse have been criminalized. Special mechanisms to provide access to the justice delivery system, and ensure speedy justice, have been devised. Yet, a society’s commitment to such a cause does not cease by mere enactment of any law, but its willingness, and those governing and administering it, to create and ensure eff ective overall frameworks which support and strengthen its institutions. 2. The present writ petition, arose from the strife caused to an individual victim in her painstaking struggle for justice while navigating the police, investigation stage, and court processes, for the prosecution of an off ence under the POCSO Act. At numerous stages, she was revictimized, and faced severe hardships; the issues arising from the individual case, have been dealt with by way of continuing mandamus, wherein this court through a series of s has monitored the aspects requiring special attention. During those proceedings, it was noticed that the role of a ‘support person’ BACHPAN BACHAO ANDOLAN v. 663 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] as envisaged1 in the Protection of Children from Sexual Off ences Rules, 2020 (hereafter ‘POCSO Rules, 2020’), despite being a progressive step – remains unfulfi lled, or is given eff ect to, in a partial or ad-hoc manner, thus limiting its positive potential in off ering support to victims and their families. 3. From the point of registering an FIR/complaint under the POCSO Act, the victim and their family are required to interact with the police machinery, medical offi cers and hospitals, the Magistrate, Special Court and/or Juvenile Justice Board (hereafter ‘JJB’), the concerned Child Welfare Committee (hereafter ‘CWC’), and other stakeholders – which in itself can be daunting and overwhelming (over and above the already traumatic experience of the crime itself), often dissuading them from pursuing the case altogether. Noticing the need for support at various stages, the role of a ‘support person’ was institutionalised in the POCSO Rules, 2020, to fi ll this lacuna: “2. Defi nitions.––(1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,– […] (f) “support person” means a person assigned by the Child Welfare Committee, in accordance with sub-rule (7) of rule 4, to render assistance to the child through the process of investigation and trial, or any other person assisting the child in the pre-trial or trial process in respect of an off ence under the Act; 4. Procedure regarding care and protection of child.– […] (8) The CWC, on receiving a report under sub-section (6) of section 19 of the Act or on the basis of its assessment made under sub-rule (5), and with the consent of the child and child’s parent or guardian or other person in whom the child has trust and confi dence, may provide a support person to render assistance to the child in all possible manner throughout the process of investigation and trial, and shall immediately inform the SJPU or Local Police about providing a support person to the child.