While giving eff ect to the legislature’s intention, if two reasonable interpretations can be given to a particular provision of a penal statute, the Court should generally adopt the interpretation that avoids the imposition of penal consequences. In other words, a more lenient interpretation of the two needs to be adopted. 25. The legislative intent which can be gathered from the defi nition of the scheduled off ence under clause (y) of sub-Section (1) of Section 2 of the PMLA is that every crime which may generate proceeds of crime need not be a scheduled off ence. Therefore, only certain specifi c off ences have been included in the Schedule. Thus, if the submissions of the learned Additional Solicitor General are accepted, the Schedule will become meaningless or redundant. The reason is that even if an off ence registered is not a scheduled off ence, the provisions of the PMLA and, in particular, Section 3 will be invoked by simply applying Section 120-B. If we look at Section 120-B, only because there is a conspiracy to commit an off ence, the same does not PAVANA DIBBUR v. THE DIRECTORATE OF 1069 ENFORCEMENT [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] become an aggravated off ence. The object is to punish those involved in conspiracy to commit a crime, though they may not have committed any overt act that constitutes the off ence. Conspiracy is an agreement between the accused to commit an off ence. If we look at the punishments provided under Section 120-B, it becomes evident that it is not an aggravated off ence. It only incorporates the principle of vicarious liability. If no specifi c punishment is provided in the Statute for conspiracy to commit a particular off ence, Section 120-B treats a conspirator of the main accused as an abettor for the purposes of imposing the punishment. The interpretation suggested by the ED will defeat the legislative object of making only a few selected off ences as scheduled off ences. If we accept such an interpretation, the statute may attract the vice of unconstitutionality for being manifestly arbitrary. It cannot be the legislature’s intention to make every off ence not included in the Schedule a scheduled off ence by applying Section 120-B. Therefore, in our view, the off ence under Section 120-B of IPC included in Part A of the Schedule will become a scheduled off ence only if the criminal conspiracy is to commit any off ence already included in Parts A, B or C of the Schedule. In other words, an off ence punishable under Section 120-B of IPC will become a scheduled off ence only if the conspiracy alleged is of committing an off ence which is otherwise a scheduled off ence. 26. Coming back to the facts of the case, in the chargesheets filed in the alleged scheduled offences, there is no allegation of the commission of criminal conspiracy to commit any of the offences included in the Schedule. As pointed out earlier, except for Section 120B of the IPC, no other offence in the schedule has been applied.