Such an is not only arbitrary but is non est in the eye of law. There could not have been any occasion for the Liquidator to go for a fresh auction keeping the reserve price at the same amount of Rs.10 crores which was the bid off ered by the appellant and accepted by the Liquidator. In fact, Liquidator had declared that the appellant had won the bid. Tribunal had rightly appreciated the grievance of the appellant and interfered with the aforesaid of the Liquidator. Liquidator did not challenge the of the Tribunal dated 12.08.2021, rather Liquidator had complied with the same by accepting the balance sale consideration from the appellant and issuing the sale certifi cate. Since Liquidator had accepted the of the Tribunal, it was not open for him to support Respondent No.1 or the of the Appellate Tribunal in the appeal fi led by the appellant. He has also pointed out that at the time of auction, Mr. Vijay Kumar Ghidia was no longer connected with the corporate debtor having retired from the said company way back in the year 2011. Therefore, he cannot come within the ambit of the expression ‘related party’ as defi ned under the Code. He submits that the present is a fi t case for setting aside the of the Appellate Tribunal and restoring the of the Tribunal which as a matter of fact has been complied with by the Liquidator. 876 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 12. Mr. Rajesh Kumar Gautam, learned counsel for Respondent No.1 submits that appellant has failed to point out any particular provision either in the Code or in the Regulations prohibiting the Liquidator from cancelling the auction sale after declaring the highest bidder but before completion of sale. Power of cancellation is available to the Liquidator under Clause 3(k) of the auction notice. Such a power could be exercised by the Liquidator without assigning any reason. While bidding, the appellant had unconditionally accepted all the clauses of the auction notice, including Clause 3(k). Therefore, the Tribunal was not justifi ed in interfering with such a decision of the Liquidator and further directing the Liquidator to conclude the auction sale process. Before completion of sale, highest bidder has no vested right for confi rmation of sale in his favour. Insofar as the maintainability of the appeal before the Appellate Tribunal is concerned, he submits that there is no bar or prohibition restraining a fi nancial creditor from preferring an appeal against an of the Tribunal since the fi nancial creditor is certainly an aggrieved person and has substantial interest in the auction sale of the subject property of the corporate debtor. That apart, under para 1(11) of Schedule I to the Regulations, the Liquidator has the discretion to conduct multiple rounds of auction to maximize realization in the sale of assets and to promote the best interest of the fi nancial creditors. He submits that reliance on para 1(13) of Schedule I to the Regulations by learned senior counsel for the appellant is misplaced inasmuch as a sale can be said to have been completed only on payment of the full amount and not on declaration of a bidder as the highest bidder who in any case has no vested right to claim confi rmation of sale.