B 2.2 Rule 4 of Rules, 2020 provides for appointment of President and member of District Commission. Rule 4(2)(c) provided that a person shall not be qualified for appointment as a member of the District Commission unless he is a person of ability, integrity and standing, and having special knowledge and professional experience of not less than fifteen years in consumer affairs, law, public affairs….. C 2.3 Rule 6 of Rules 2020 provides for procedure for appointment. Rule 6(9) provided that the Selection Committee shall determine its procedure for making its recommendation keeping in view the requirements of the State Commission or the District Commission and after taking into account the suitability, record of past performance, D integrity and adjudicatory experience. 2.4 Rule 3(2)(b), Rule 4(2)(c) and Rule 6(9) were the subject matter of challenge before the High Court being unconstitutional, arbitrary and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. Rule 3, Rule 4, and Rule 6 reads as under: - E “3. Qualifications for appointment of President and members of the State Commission.—(1) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as President, unless he is, or has been, a Judge of the High Court; (2) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as a member F unless he is of not less than forty years of age and possesses-— (a) an experience of at least ten years as presiding officer of a district court or of any tribunal at equivalent level or combined service as such in the district court and tribunal: G Provided that not more than fifty percent of such members shall be appointed; or (b) a bachelor’s degree from a recognised university and is a person of ability, integrity and standing, and has special knowledge and professional experience of not less than twenty years in H consumer affairs, law, public affairs, administration, economics, THE SECRETARY MINISTRY OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS v. DR. 297 MAHINDRA BHASKAR LIMAYE [M. R. SHAH, J.] commerce, industry, finance, management, engineering, technology, A public health or medicine: (3) At least one member or the President of the State Commission shall be a woman. 4. Qualifications for appointment of President and member B of District Commission.—(1) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as President, unless he is, or has been, or is qualified to be a District Judge. (2) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as member unless he— C (a) is of not less than thirty-five years of age; (b) possesses a bachelor’s degree from a recognised University; and (c) is a person of ability, integrity and standing, and having special knowledge and professional experience of not less than fifteen D years in consumer affairs, law, public affairs, administration, economics, commerce, industry, finance, management, engineering, technology, public health or medicine. (3) At least one member or the President of the District Commission shall be a woman. E 6. Procedure of appointment.—(1) The President and members of the State Commission and the District Commission shall be appointed by the State Government on the recommendation of a Selection Committee, consisting of the following persons, namely:— F (a) Chief Justice of the High Court or any Judge of the High Court nominated by him- Chairperson; (b) Secretary in charge of Consumer Affairs of the State Government “ Member; G (c) Nominee of the Chief Secretary of the State—Member.