Even if these litigants ultimately lose the lis, they become the real victors and have the last laugh. This class of people who perpetuate illegal acts by obtaining stays and injunctions from the courts must be made to pay the sufferer not only the entire illegal gains made by them as costs to the H BHUPINDER SINGH v. UNITECH LIMITED 965 [M. R. SHAH, J.] person deprived of his right but also must be burdened A with exemplary costs. The faith of people in judiciary can only be sustained if the persons on the right side of the law do not feel that even if they keep fighting for justice in the court and ultimately win, they would turn out to be a fool since winning a case after 20 or 30 B years would make the wrongdoer as real gainer, who had reaped the benefits for all those years. Thus, it becomes the duty of the courts to see that such wrongdoers are discouraged at every step, and even if they succeed in prolonging the litigation due to their money power, ultimately, they must suffer the costs of C all these years’ long litigation. Despite the settled legal positions, the obvious wrongdoers, use one after another tier of judicial review mechanism as a gamble, knowing fully well that dice is always loaded in their favour since even if they lose, the time gained is the real gain. This D situation must be redeemed by the courts.” 176. Against this of the Delhi High Court, Special Leave to Appeal (Civil) No. 29197 of 2008 was preferred to this Court. The Court passed the following [Padmawati v. Harijan Sewak Sangh, (2012) 6 SCC 460 : E (2012) 3 SCC (Civ) 765] : (SCC p. 460, para 1) “1. We have heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties. We find no ground to interfere with the well-considered passed by the High Court. The special leave petition is, accordingly, dismissed.” F * * * 183. In Marshall Sons & Co. (India) Ltd. v. Sahi Oretrans (P) Ltd. [Marshall Sons & Co. (India) Ltd. v. Sahi Oretrans (P) Ltd., (1999) 2 SCC 325] this Court in para 4 of the observed as under : (SCC pp. 326-27) G “4. … It is true that proceedings are dragged on for a long time on one count or the other and, on occasion, become highly technical accompanied by unending prolixity at every stage, providing a legal trap to the unwary. Because of the delay, unscrupulous parties to H 966 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A the proceedings take undue advantage, and a person who is in wrongful possession draws delight in delay in disposal of the cases by taking undue advantage of procedural complications. It is also a known fact that after obtaining a decree for possession of immovable property, its execution takes a long time. In such a B situation, for protecting the interest of the - creditor, it is necessary to pass appropriate s so that reasonable mesne profit which may be equivalent to the market rent is paid by a person who is holding over the property.