C 16. Let us take for instance, Illustration (h) under Section 114. It says that if a man refuses to answer a question which he is not compelled to answer by law, the Court may presume that the answer, if given, would be unfavourable to him. But the exposition to Illustration (h) says that in considering the maxim under (h), the Court shall have due regard as to whether the refusal of the man to answer the question, is due to the D fact that the answer may cause loss to him in matters unconnected with the matter in relation to which it is asked. 17. In other words, while dealing with a situation where a presumption in terms of Illustration (h) under Section 114 is sought to be raised, the Court has to examine whether the refusal of the person to E answer, is on account of the fear that the answer may produce an unfavourable result to him in relation to the matter in issue or due to the fear that such an answer might cause loss to him in a matter unconnected to it. 18. Keeping in mind the above scheme of Sections 4, 112 and 114, F let us now test the main contention of Shri Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel for the respondent-husband that the attempt of the respondent- husband is not so much to show that he did not father the second child but is only to show that the appellant was living in adultery and that what comes into play in this case is only Section 114 and not Section 112. The learned senior counsel submitted that the respondent-husband is even G prepared to accept the second child as his own, irrespective of the outcome of the DNA test. According to the learned senior counsel for the respondent, it is open to the appellant-wife not to subject the child to DNA test, even if the Court s the same, but if the appellant chooses not to subject the child to DNA test, the Court is obliged to draw an H adverse inference in terms of Section 114(h). According to the learned APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 733 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] senior counsel, such adverse inference need not be about the paternity A of the child but shall be only about the adulterous conduct of the appellant- wife. 19. To drive home the point that such an adverse inference, not about the paternity of the child, but about the adulterous conduct of the wife is permissible in law, learned senior counsel for the respondent B placed heavy reliance upon last two paragraphs of the decision in Dipanwita Roy vs. Ronobroto Roy2. These paragraphs read as follows: “17. The question that has to be answered in this case is in respect of the alleged infidelity of the appellant wife. The respondent husband has made clear and categorical assertions in the petition C filed by him under Section 13 of the Hindu Marriage Act, alleging infidelity.