This Court would break down the clause as meaning that it contemplated determination of the agreement by either party (words lifted from D the contract as such) by giving three months notice to the other party with the intention to terminate the agreement. The clause provides that upon the expiration of such notice, the agreement and the licence granted would stand cancelled and revoked. There are no words even faintly suggesting acceptance of a notice of intention to terminate the agreement as being indispensable for E the determination of the agreement. The ball is set rolling by the issuance of the notice and the process appears to successfully culminate in the agreement and the licence granted under the agreement being cancelled or revoked. [Para 19][696-F-H; 697- A] 1.3 Though such a view appears to be the correct F construction of the agreement, the counsel, appearing for the first respondent would point out that IOC and what is more, even the arbitrator, and therefore the District Court and the High court have all proceeded on the basis that acceptance of the notice of termination alone suffices. In view of the fact that this appears to G be the case, the matter is to be considered on the basis that acceptance is necessary. [Para 20][697-A-C] 1.4 There is no dispute that the first respondent addressed communication dated 25.09.2006. It is also indisputable that the officers of the IOC insisted that the first respondent must notarise the notice. A meeting in this regard did take place. The notice H 684 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A came to be notarised and what is more, received on 16.11.2006. A perusal of the notice dated 25.09.2006 clearly indicates that the first respondent has clearly indicated that it gave the version that they have shifted to Bangalore for their childrens education, and what is more, therefore, they were not able to look after the dealership. They wished to “withdraw from the dealership and B appoint new R.O. dealers before three months as per the agreement”. In other words, there cannot be even a shred of doubt that the first respondent indeed invoked clause (3). The words used may appear to be inelegant. However, the conduct leaves no doubt, and what is more, even the first respondent C does not have a case that the action was not traceable to the provisions of clause (3). On the expiry of three months, the inexorable consequences provided in clause (3) would have ensued. However, since it is proceeded on the basis that IOC must have signified its assent for the notice to bear fruit, on 18.11.2006, the second appellant in the appeal filed by IOC D referred to the notarised letter dated 03.10.2006 which was received on 16.11.2006. IOC has taken note of the intention of the first respondent to resign from the dealership. Thereafter, the first respondent was requested to continue operation till arrangements were made. Lastly, the letter ends with expression E of gratitude for the association of the first respondent with the IOC and wishing both the partners the very best in their future endeavours.