What has in fact been assented to, specifi cally, are the few dickered terms, and the broad type of the transaction, and but one thing more. That one thing more is a blanket assent (not a specifi c assent) to any not unreasonable or indecent terms the seller may have on his form, which do not alter or eviscerate the reasonable meaning of the dickered terms. The fi ne print which has not been read has no business to cut under the reasonable meaning of those dickered terms which constitute the dominant and only real expression of agreement, but much of it commonly belongs in. There has been an arm’s-length deal, with dickered terms. There has been accompanying that basic deal another which … at least involves a plain expression of confi dence, asked and accepted, with a 101 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. corresponding limit on the powers granted : the boiler-plate is assented to en bloc, “unsight, unseen,” on the implicit assumption and to the full extent that (1) it does not alter or impair the fair meaning of the dickered terms when read alone, and (2) that its terms are neither in the particular nor in the net manifestly unreasonable and unfair. (The Common Law Tradition : Deciding Appeals (1960), pp. 370-71) 88. We do not mean to suggest that a standard form contract, by itself, establishes an inequality of bargaining power (Waddams (2017), at p. 240). Standard form contracts are in many instances both necessary and useful. Sophisticated commercial parties, for example, may be familiar with contracts of adhesion commonly used within an industry. Suffi cient explanations or advice may off set uncertainty about the terms of a standard form agreement. Some standard form contracts may clearly and eff ectively communicate the meaning of clauses with unusual or onerous eff ects (Benson, at p. 234). 89. Our point is simply that unconscionability has a meaningful role to play in examining the conditions behind consent to contracts of adhesion, as it does with any contract. The many ways in which standard form contracts can impair a party›s ability to protect their interests in the contracting process and make them more vulnerable, are well-documented. For example, they are drafted by one party without input from the other and they may contain provisions that are diffi cult to read or understand (see Margaret Jane Radin, “Access to Justice and Abuses of Contract” (2016) 33 Windsor Y.B. Access Just. 177, at p. 179; Stephen Waddams, “Review Essay : The Problem of Standard Form Contracts : A Retreat to Formalism” (2013) 53 Can. Bus. L.J. 475, at pp. 475- 476; Thal, at pp. 27-28; William J. Woodward, Jr., “Finding the Contract in Contracts for Law, Forum and Arbitration” (2006) 2 Hastings Bus. L.J. 1, at p. 46). The potential for such contracts to create an inequality of bargaining power is clear. So too is their potential to enhance the advantage of the stronger party at the expense of the more vulnerable one, particularly through choice of law, forum selection, and arbitration clauses that violate the adhering party’s reasonable expectations by depriving them of LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 1015 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. [J.