in Sections 41, 42, 43, 49 and 50 has laid down in Section 51 that the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure shall apply insofar as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of the NDPS Act. The expression “insofar as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of 316 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. this Act” occurring in Section 51 of the NDPS Act is of signifi cance. This expression implies that the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure relating to search, seizure or arrest apply to search, seizure and arrest under the NDPS Act also except to the extent they are “inconsistent with the provisions of the Act”. Thus, while conducting search and seizure, in addition to the safeguards provided under the Code of Criminal Procedure, the safeguards provided under the NDPS Act are also required to be followed. Section 50(4) of the NDPS Act lays down that no female shall be searched by anyone excepting a female. This provision is similar to the one contained in Section 52 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 and Section 51(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 relating to search of females. Section 51(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 lays down that whenever it is necessary to cause a female to be searched, the search shall be made by another female with strict regard to decency. The empowered offi cer must, therefore, act in the manner provided by Section 50(4) of the NDPS Act read with Section 51(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 whenever it is found necessary to cause a female to be searched. The document prepared by the investigating offi cer at the spot must invariably disclose that the search was conducted in the aforesaid manner and the name of the female offi cial who carried out the personal search of the female concerned should also be disclosed. The personal search memo of the female concerned should indicate compliance with the aforesaid provisions. Failure to do so may not only aff ect the credibility of the prosecution case but may also be found as violative of the basic right of a female to be treated with decency and proper dignity. 14. The provisions of Sections 100 and 165 CrPC are not inconsistent with the provisions of the NDPS Act and are applicable for aff ecting search, seizure or arrest under the NDPS Act also. However, when an empowered offi cer carrying on the investigation including search, seizure or arrest under the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, comes across a person being in possession of the narcotic drug or the psychotropic substance, then he must follow from that stage onwards the provisions of the NDPS Act and continue the investigation as provided thereunder. If the investigating offi cer is not an empowered RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 317 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] offi cer then it is expected of him that he must inform the empowered offi cer under the NDPS Act, who should thereafter proceed from that stage in accordance with the provisions of the NDPS Act.