He also argues that the register was not stitched. Further, he has submitted that serial entry no. 566 of the register shows the date of entry of the student to be 2nd February 1980, which is not in in relation to the other entries. He has also C referred certain other entries in the register prior in to serial no. 568, in which dates of admission of the respective students are earlier than that of the applicant. But these entries, at best, would show some defect in maintaining the records and cannot lead to the conclusion that the entire admission register D is fabricated. Reference has also been made to an entry of one Lekhram, that stood against serial no. 423, which reappeared in entry 562. The endorsement of the school in serial no. 423 is that “his name was deleted” whereas against entry no. 562, recordal is “as per previous records”. This clearly appears to be the case of re-admission or re-entry in the school. His further E stand is that there was interpolation of pages. He has again pointed out that one of the pages (page no. 33) of the register has been stitched in reverse. But these are nitpicking submissions and cannot lead to the conclusion that admission register itself is fake. So far as Niranaram’s name is concerned, in the admission F register there is no discrepancy. His serial number is 568 which falls in in which the register is maintained and is in sequence with the admission entries of other students barring few minor discrepancies as regards names in other entries. Even if the register has been freshly stitched and paginated to be sent to this Court, that would not lead to a conclusion that the whole G thing has been fabricated. Moreover, there is no clear evidence to demonstrate that at the time of initial inquiry, the register was unstitched or without pagination. This Court have itself seen the register and it is of sufficient vintage. Thus, this Court agree H NARAYAN CHETANRAM CHAUDHARY v. THE STATE OF 1061 MAHARASHTRA with the Inquiring Judge that the date of birth recorded therein A was not a fabricated entry. [Para 34][1105-D-H; 1106-A-C] 7. So far as the applicant is concerned, his claim of juvenility basedon his date of birth in the school certificate would not vary based on definitions of juvenile, “juvenile in conflict with law” or “child in conflict with law” under the 1986 Act, 2000 Act or the B 2015 Act. For applying the procedure for determining his claim, of juvenility or of being a child, in this Court’s opinion, the law applicable at the time of undertaking that exercise by the concerned statutory body would prevail. Hence, in his case, this Court has tested his claim on the basis of the provisions of Section C 9 read with Section 94 of the 2015 Act. [Para 40][1111-E-F] 8. Under the 2015 Act the date of birth certificate ought to be the main factor for determination of juvenility.