A to be recorded, is incapable of being acted upon. Neither the investigating agency nor the Magistrate has any power to or conduct “fresh investigation”. This is primarily for the reason that it would be opposed to the scheme of the Code. It is essential that even an of “fresh”/”de novo” investigation passed by the higher judiciary should always be coupled with a specific B direction as to the fate of the investigation already conducted. The cases where such direction can be issued are few and far between. This is based upon a fundamental principle of our criminal jurisprudence which is that it is the right of a suspect or an accused to have a just and fair investigation and trial. This principle flows C from the constitutional mandate contained in Articles 21 and 22 of the Constitution of India. Where the investigation ex facie is unfair, tainted, mala fide and smacks of foul play, the courts would set aside such an investigation and direct fresh or de novo investigation and, if necessary, even by another independent investigating agency. As already noticed, this is a power of wide plenitude and, D therefore, has to be exercised sparingly. The principle of the rarest of rare cases would squarely apply to such cases. Unless the unfairness of the investigation is such that it pricks the judicial conscience of the court, the court should be reluctant to interfere in such matters to the extent of quashing an investigation and directing a “fresh investigation”. E 29. In paragraphs 43 and 45, this Court held that the power to de novo investigation vests only with superior courts and that the same has to be exercised sparingly in exceptional cases. In paragraph 46, this Court pointed out that while ing de novo investigation, there are two options open to the superior court namely, (i) to direct the report F already prepared or the investigation so far conducted, not to form part of the records of the case; or (ii) to direct the report already prepared or the investigation so far conducted to form part of the record. If the superior court is silent on this aspect, the report already prepared or the investigation so far conducted will form part of the record. In other words, if the superior court intended that the investigation so far conducted G and the report already filed should not form part of the record, it should specifically say so. 30. In the impugned in these appeals, the High Court has indicated by using four different expressions and phrases that the investigation so far conducted shall not form part of the record. But H Y. BALAJI v. KARTHIK DESARI & ANR. ETC. 1059 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] even according to the learned senior counsel for Devasagayam and A learned senior counsel for the accused, the operative portion of the impugned of the High Court need not be understood in such a manner. If that is so, all those phrases and expressions deserve to be removed.