He simply stated that 19 days after his son went missing, the appellant B disclosed in his presence to one Bhagirath (not examined by the prosecution), PW-1, PW-4 and PW-6 that he had murdered both the boys and had concealed their dead bodies in the field of Bhagirath. His version is that it was Suchai (PW-8) who took out the bodies. However, PW-8 himself C did not state that he took out the bodies. (e) According to the version of PW-7, PW-1 did not inform him about any extra-judicial confession made by the appellant but PW-1 informed him that he had received the information that the appellant had murdered both boys. Out of these D three witnesses, PW-7 is the only witness who stated that the appellant made the confession in his own house. (f) According to the version of PW-7, in the afternoon of 20th June 1989, he was informed by PW-5 that the appellant had murdered both the boys. There is no explanation as to E why PW-7 did not approach the police. This conduct of the witness is unnatural. (g) None of these three witnesses who supported the prosecution, have stated that the appellant was either their relative or a close acquaintance. In fact, they have not even stated that they personally knew the appellant. There is F nothing on record to show that the relationship between the appellant and these three witnesses was such that the appellant had implicit faith in these three witnesses and, therefore, he confided with them. (h) Even after the alleged extra-judicial confession of G committing murder was made before them by the appellant, PW-7 to PW-9 did not report to the police. The prosecution case is that without informing the police, they accompanied the appellant to the field of Bhagirath where dead bodies were found buried. This conduct of PW-7 to PW-9 is unusual H 880 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A and unnatural. PW-7 to PW-9 are not consistent about the place at which the alleged confession was made. (i) There is no explanation offered by the prosecution for not examining Bhagirath who was also present according to PW-9 when the alleged confession was made. This omission B becomes more significant as the dead bodies were allegedly found in his land. CONCLUSION 7. Hence, the prosecution’s case about extra-judicial confession does not inspire confidence at all. Moreover, there are no other C circumstances brought on record which could support or corroborate the prosecution case. Therefore, in our considered view, the evidence in form of the extra-judicial confession of the appellant deserves to be discarded. Admittedly, there is no other evidence against the appellant. Therefore, the conviction of the appellant cannot be sustained at all. Accordingly, the impugned s are set aside and the appellant is D acquitted of the offences alleged against him. The bail bonds of the appellant stand cancelled. The appeal is allowed. Divya Pandey Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Sanika Thakare and Shevali Monga, LCRAs) E F G H