It is submitted that as such number of grounds were raised before the Tribunal on the ground that the refund was not payable to the assessee including the unjust enrichment as envisaged in Section 11B of the Central Excise Act. It is submitted that question of unjust enrichment has not at H COMMISSIONER OF CENTRAL EXCISE MUMBAI – I v. M/S MORARJEE 895 GOKULDAS SPG. & WVG. CO. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] all been examined by the Tribunal and the Tribunal only considered the A grounds set out in the additional grounds which was by way of amendment/raising the additional grounds. 4.5 It is further submitted that neither the Tribunal nor even the High Court has considered the fact that while claiming the refund the assessee had claimed that the initial payment was under protest or while B contesting the demand that the assessee took the stand that assessment was final and without notice under Section 11A amount cannot be recovered. It is submitted that however while claiming the refund the assessee claimed that payment was under protest so that the refund claim was not time barred. It is therefore submitted that the assessee is C approbating and reprobating the issue whether the initial payment of duty was final or not. 4.6 It is submitted that in any case when the Department preferred an appeal under Section 35E against the in original sanctioning the refund and when the said proceedings under Section 35E terminated in D favour of the Revenue thereafter the necessary consequences shall follow and for recovery of any amount pursuant to the passed under Section 35E of the Act there shall not be any separate notice issued under Section 11A of the Act as observed and held by the High Court as well as the Tribunal. E Making above submissions it is prayed to allow the appeal. 5. While opposing the present appeal learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the assessee has vehemently submitted that as such the Tribunal heavily relied upon the earlier decision in the case of Collector of Central Excise, Bhubaneshwar vs. Re-Rolling Mills, reported in 1997 (94) ELT 8. It is submitted that in the case of Re- F Rolling Mills (supra) the Tribunal specifically observed and held that the timelimit of Section 11A governs the issue of the demand under that Section and that Section alone and therefore if no demand in accordance with Section 11A is issued, nothing else can take its place. It is submitted that therefore the Tribunal took the view that the demand has to be G issued for the erroneously refunded money within the time limit prescribed by Section 11A. 5.1 It is submitted that subsequently the same question arose before the Bombay High Court in Bajaj Auto Ltd. (supra) and after referring to the Board’s Circular No. 423/56/98-CX, dated 22-9-1998 and the H 896 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A case of Re-Rolling Mills (supra) it was held that the erroneous refund cannot be recovered by mere filing an application under Section 35E(2) of the Central Excise Act, unless the notice under Section 11A is issued within the stipulated time.