But, in our opinion, clause (f) of Article 371F is intended to enable, a departure from Art. 332(3). This is the clear operational eff ect of the non obstante clause with which Article 371F opens … PUBLIC INTEREST COMMITTEE FOR SCHEDULING SPECIFIC 1113 AREAS v. UOI [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 181. This provision empowers Parliament to make provision prescribing the number of seats in the Legislative Assembly in the State of Sikkim which may be fi lled in by candidates belonging to the diff erent sections of the population of Sikkim with a view to protect the rights and interests of those sections. The non-obstante clause in Article 371-F enables Parliament to make a departure from the ratio contemplated by Article 332 (3) within the limitation which is inherent in the power conferred by Article 371-F, i.e., not to alter any of the basic features of the Constitution. It is, therefore, necessary to examine whether in providing for reservation of twelve seats out of thirty-two seats for Bhutias and Lepchas Parliament has acted in disregard of the said limitation.” 92. The above paragraphs form parts of the separately authored opinions of Justice Venkatachaliah and Justice Agarwal respectively. While para 133 states that Article 371F permits a departure from Article 332 (2), as a whole, para 181 implies that the departure is permissible only from the ratio contemplated in Article 332(3), as opposed to the Article as a whole. 93. We believe that since Article 371F uses the non-obstante clause in respect of “anything in the Constitution”, it would be anomalous to say that the non-obstante clause in Article 371F only applies to a part of Article 332(3) which deals with proportionality and not to the whole provision, including the very principle of reservations. However, we are not inclined to fi nally decide on the specifi c contention of the petitioners, which requires a detailed analysis of the interface between Article 371F on the one side and Articles 332 on the other. 94. In any case,the ruling in RC Poudyal is unambiguous on the aspect that proportionality is not capable of being applied with mathematical precision. The principle of proportionality is to be borne in mind by the Delimitation Commission and the Election Commission while acting in discharge of their powers under the two legislations. 95. For instance, if the percentage of ST population is 3% of the total state population and the state has 70 Assembly Seats, 3% of 70 seats would be 2.1 or 2 seats (rounded off to the closest whole number). Now if three seats are allocated for the STs instead of two,this would be considered violative of the mandate of Article 332(3) since the reservation allowed 111 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. to the STs is greater than their percentage of total population in the state. These were the facts of Anand Singh Kunwar v. Election Commission of India where though the Election Commission later rectifi ed this error, a two-judge bench of this Court held that reserving 3 seats instead of 2 in the Uttarakhand Legislative Assembly would have been contrary to the paramount consideration of proportionality under Article 332(3).21 Notably, provisions analogous to Article 371F that permit a departure from Article 332(3) do not exist for the State of Uttarakhand.