[2023] 5 S.C.R. 401 401 MAGIC EYE DEVELOPERS PVT. LTD. A v. M/S. GREEN EDGE INFRASTRUCTURE PVT. LTD. & ORS. ETC. (Civil Appeal Nos. 3634-37 of 2023) B MAY 12, 2023 [M. R. SHAH AND C. T. RAVIKUMAR, JJ.] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Arbitration and Conciliation Amendment Act, 2015 – s.11(6) – Pre-referral C jurisdiction – Before the High Court, appellant raised objection with regard to the existence of an arbitration agreement – High Court/referral court held that the issue of arbitrability of the dispute can be addressed by Arbitral Tribunal – Thereafter, High Court referred the disputes for arbitration and appointed a arbitrator – On appeal, held: Pre-referral jurisdiction of the court u/s. 11(6) of D the Arbitration Act is very narrow and inheres two inquiries – The primary inquiry is about the existence and the validity of an arbitration agreement and the Secondary inquiry is with respect to the non-arbitrability of the dispute – The issue of existence and the validity of an arbitration agreement has to be to conclusively and E finally decided by the referral court at the referral stage itself and the same should not be left to be determined by the Arbitral Tribunal as it goes to the root of the matter – Furthermore, it is the duty of the referral court to decide the said issue first conclusively to protect the parties from being forced to arbitrate when there does not exist any arbitration agreement and/or when there is no valid arbitration F agreement at all – In the instant case, the referral court (High Court) has not decided the said issue conclusively and finally, which ought to have been done by it and Court has left it to be decided by the Arbitral Tribunal – of High Court quashed and set aside – Matter remitted back to the High Court. G Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1. As per the settled position of law, pre-referral jurisdiction of the court under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act is very narrow and inheres two inquiries. The primary inquiry is about the existence and the validity of an arbitration agreement, H 401 402 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A which also includes an inquiry as to the parties to the agreement and the applicant’s privity to the said agreement. The said matter requires a thorough examination by the referral court. The Secondary inquiry that may arise at the reference stage itself is with respect to the non-arbitrability of the dispute. Both are different and distinct. So far as the first issue with respect to the B existence and the validity of an arbitration agreement is concerned, as the same goes to the root of the matter, the same has to be to conclusively decided by the referral court at the referral stage itself. Now, so far as the non-arbitrability of the dispute is concerned, even as per the law laid-down by this Court C in the case of Vidya Drolia, the court at prereferral stage and while examining the jurisdiction under Section 11(6) of the Act may even consider prima facie examining the arbitrability of claims.