133. In the present batch of cases, the premises were sold in E auction sales generally held on an “as is where is” basis. A sale on “as is where is basis” postulates that the purchaser would be acquiring the asset with all its existing rights, obligations and liabilities. When a property is sold on an “as is where is” basis, encumbrances on the property stand transferred to the purchaser upon the sale. 134. In U.T. Chandigarh Administration v. Amarjeet Singh63, F a two-judge Bench of this Court explained the characteristics of a public auction in the context of the maintainability of a consumer complaint. This Court held that where existing sites are put up for sale or lease by public auction and the sale is confirmed in favour of the highest bidder, the resultant contract relates to sale or lease of immovable property, and G not a provision of service or sale of goods. This Court delved into the nature of public auctions and opined on the implications of an auction conducted on an “as is where is basis”, where an auction purchaser is 61 (2012) 8 SCC 197 62 (2016) 13 SCC 561 H 63 (2009) 4 SCC 660 K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 711 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] expected to exercise due diligence with regard to the condition of a site. A The Court observed: “19. …. In a public auction of sites, the position is completely different. A person interested can inspect the sites offered and choose the site which he wants to acquire and participate in the auction only in regard to such site. Before bidding in the auction, B he knows or is in a position to ascertain, the condition and situation of the site. He knows about the existence or lack of amenities. The auction is on `as is where is basis’. With such knowledge, he participates in the auction and offers a particular bid. There is no compulsion that he should offer C a particular price. When the sites auctioned are existing sites, without any assurance/representation relating to amenities, there is no question of deficiency of service or denial of service. Where the bidder has a choice and option in regard to the site and price and when there is no assurance of any facility or amenity, the question of the owner of the site becoming a service provider, D does not arise… 20.Where there is a public auction without assuring any specific or particular amenities, and the prospective purchaser/lessee participates in the auction after having an opportunity of examining the site, the bid in the auction E is made keeping in view the existing situation, position and condition of the site. If all amenities are available, he would offer a higher amount. If there are no amenities, or if the site suffers from any disadvantages, he would offer a lesser amount, or may not participate in the auction. Once with open eyes, a F person participates in an auction, he cannot thereafter be heard to say that he would not pay the balance of the price/premium or the stipulated interest on the delayed payment, or the ground rent, on the ground that the site suffers from certain disadvantages or on the ground that amenities are not provided….” (emphasis supplied) G 135.