(4) No female shall be searched by anyone excepting a female. (5) When an offi cer duly authorised under section 42 has reason to believe that it is not possible to take the person to be searched to the nearest Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate without the possibility of the person to be searched parting with possession of any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance, or controlled substance or article or document, he may, instead of taking such person to the nearest Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate, proceed to search the person as provided under section 100 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974). (6) After a search is conducted under sub-section (5), the offi cer shall record the reasons for such belief which necessitated such search and 310 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. within seventy-two hours send a copy thereof to his immediate offi cial superior.” 33. Ordinarily, it could be said or argued that “to search any person” would mean, to search the articles on the person or body of the person to be searched and would normally not include the articles which are not on the body of the person to be searched. When we are deliberating on the scope and true purport of Section 50 of the NDPS Act, we should bear in mind that the main object of Section 50 of the NDPS Act is to avoid the allegation of planting something or fabricating evidence by the prosecution or the authorized offi cer. 34. The aforesaid interpretation is made clear to a certain extent by Section 50(4) of the NDPS Act which provides for search of a female. Section 50(4) of the NDPS Act provides that “no female shall be searched by anyone excepting a female”. If the articles to be searched are not on the person or body, then there is no question of a search being carried out by a female. But when articles which are on the body of the person to be searched, then such search could be only done by another female. This is necessary as the law enjoins strict regard to decency. This provision also gives some clue as to how to interpret the phrase “to search any person” occurring in Section 50 of the NDPS Act. 35. There is a similar provision in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (for short, “CrPC 1898”) and also in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short, “CrPC 1973”). Section 51, Part III, of the CrPC 1898, provides that the offi cer making the arrest or, when the arrest is made by a private person, the police offi cer to whom he makes over the person arrested, may search such person, and place in safe custody all articles, other than necessary wearing apparel, found upon him. With regard to search of a female, Section 51(2) of the CrPC 1973, provides that whenever it is necessary to cause a female to be searched, the search shall be made by another female with strict regard to decency.