Further, it has been D contended that the resolution professional in this case undertook a hasty process, without adjudicating on all the claims received by it. 34.1. Relying on the seventh and eighth CoC meetings, it has been submitted that there was a certain amount set apart for related parties, however, in the final resolution plan, there was no amount stated E to be paid to the related parties and there had not been any discussion in the CoC in this regard. Thus, for Dharani Finance being an operational and a financial creditor, the failure to provide for discharge of its debt in the final resolution plan, is in violation of Sections 30(2)(b), (e) and (f) of the Code. It has been strenuously argued that at the very least, CoC must discuss whether Dharani Finance is to be repaid, which has not F been done. 35. Learned Solicitor General of India Mr. Tushar Mehta, appearing for SBI, has submitted that this financial creditor has a voting share of about 26% in the CoC with an admitted claim of Rs. 102.88 crore. As a matter of record, it has been accepted that SBI approved the resolution G plan of Rs. 423 crore submitted by the resolution applicant within 87.39% of the voting share in CoC. It is submitted that the topmost priority of SBI is that the CIRP be decided in a definite time frame given that nearly 2 years have elapsed and further delay would cause deterioration in the asset value. Since the CoC had already taken steps in furtherance H 856 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A of the impugned dated 17.02.2022, it has been prayed that the CoC be allowed to continue with the CIRP from the stage of fresh issuance of Form G; consideration of proposal under Section 12-A of the Code and also determine eligibility of appellant, on independent footing, uninfluenced by the observations of the NCLAT. B 35.1. In regard to the fresh proceedings during the pendency of these appeals (as noticed above), it has been submitted on behalf of SBI that after being given further opportunity, the promoter re-submitted the settlement proposal under Section 12-A IBC with deposit of upfront amount of Rs. 105 crore and a Bank Guarantee of Rs. 325 crore; and on being put to vote, this settlement proposal was approved by 100% voting C share in the CoC which deserves to be taken forward. Learned SG has relied on the decisions of this Court in Vallal RCK v. Siva Industries and Holdings Ltd. and Ors. : 2022SCC OnLine SC 717 and Brilliant Alloys (P) Ltd. v. S. Rajagopal and Ors. : (2022) 2 SCC 544. 36.Appearing for Edelweiss and associates, learned senior counsel D Mr. Rakesh Dwivedi has submitted that these financial creditors of the corporate debtor with total of about 21.13% voting share in CoC, too had voted in favour of the resolution plan in question; and the plan so approved with 87.39% of the voting share in CoC could not have been lightly interfered with.