The relevant observations made therein are reproduced below:- “2. Learned counsel tried to highlight a point that Section 50 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has not strictly been complied with by PW 8, the offi cer who conducted the search. According to the learned counsel for the appellant the searching offi cer should have told the person who was subjected to search that he had a right to be searched in the presence of a gazetted offi cer or a Magistrate. In this case PW 8 has deposed that she told the appellant that if he wished he could be searched in the presence of the gazetted offi cer or a Magistrate to which the appellant had not favourably reciprocated. According to us the said off er is a communication about the information that the appellant has a right to be searched so. It must be remembered that the searching offi cer had only Section 50 of the Act then in mind unaided by the interpretation placed on it by the Constitution Bench. Even then the searching offi cer informed him that “if you wish you may be searched in the presence of a gazetted offi cer or a Magistrate”. This according to us is in substantial compliance with the requirement of Section 50. We do not agree with the contention that there was non-compliance with the mandatory provision contained in Section 50 of the Act.” 52. In Prabha Shankar Dubey v. State of M.P. reported in (2004) 2 SCC 56, this Court held that for the purpose of due compliance of Section 50 there is no specifi c word or form in which the communication is to be made and it is not necessary to use the word “right”, as the person to be searched is only required to be made aware that he has a choice of having his search conducted before a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate. The relevant observations made in it are reproduced hereunder:- “11. ... What the offi cer concerned is required to do is to convey about the choice the accused has. The accused (suspect) has to be told in a way that he becomes aware that the choice is his and not of the offi cer concerned, even though there is no specifi c form. The use of the word RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 327 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] “right” at relevant places in the decision of Baldev Singh case seems to be to lay eff ective emphasis that it is not by the grace of the offi cer the choice has to be given but more by way of a right in the “suspect” at that stage to be given such a choice and the inevitable consequences that have to follow by transgressing it.” 53. However, a fi ve-Judge Bench of this Court in Vijaysinh Chandubha Jadeja v. State of Gujarat reported in (2011) 1 SCC 609, overruled the decisions in Prabha Shankar Dubey (supra) and Joseph Fernandez (supra) and disapproved the concept of “substantial compliance” and held that the obligation under Section 50 is mandatory and the failure to comply with the same would render the recovery of illicit article suspicious and vitiate the conviction, more particularly if the basis of conviction is the recovery of illicit article from the accused during search.