1-4-2015. This being the case, it would be fallacious to say that the respondents would be claiming this restitutionary amount on some general principle of equity outside H 58 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A the PPA. Since it is clear that this amount of carrying cost is only relatable to Article 13 of the PPA, we find no reason to interfere with the of the Appellate Tribunal. 19. Lastly, the of this Court in Energy Watchdog v. CERC [Energy Watchdog v. CERC, (2017) 14 SCC 80 : (2018) 1 B SCC (Civ) 133] was also relied upon. In this , three issues were set out and decided, one of which was concerned with a change in law provision of a PPA. In holding that change in Indonesian law would not qualify as a change in law under the guidelines read with the PPAs, this Court referred to Clause 13.2 as follows : (SCC p. 131, para 57) C “57. … This being so, it is clear that so far as the procurement of Indian coal is concerned, to the extent that the supply from Coal India and other Indian sources is cut down, the PPA read with these documents provides in Clause 13.2 that while determining the consequences of change in law, parties shall have due regard D to the principle that the purpose of compensating the party affected by such change in law is to restore, through monthly tariff payments, the affected party to the economic position as if such change in law has not occurred.” There can be no doubt from this that the restitutionary E principle contained in Clause 13.2 must always be kept in mind even when compensation for increase/decrease in cost is determined by CERC.” (Emphasis supplied) (85) We are of the view that the view which we have taken does F not in any way conflict with the view which has been laid down by this Court. (86) No doubt, in Energy Watchdog2again a which is relied upon by both the sides, the Court was dealing with a case under the Act and has expressed the following view: G “19. The construction of Section 63, when read with the other provisions of this Act, is what comes up for decision in the present appeals. It may be noticed that Section 63 begins with a non 2 Energy Watchdog v. Central Electricity Regulatory Commission and Others (2017) H 14 SCC 80 HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 59 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] obstante clause, but it is a non obstante clause covering only Section A 62. Secondly, unlike Section 62 read with Sections 61 and 64, the appropriate Commission does not “determine” tariff but only “adopts” tariff already determined under Section 63. Thirdly, such “adoption” is only if such tariff has been determined through a transparent process of bidding, and, fourthly, this transparent B process of bidding must be in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Central Government.