(i) any other matter which may be prescribed by the Central Government. (5) The Tribunal shall decide both questions of law and facts that may be raised before it” 15. A perusal of this Chapter of the Act clearly shows that the Legislature has laid out in the legislation, in considerable detail, the functioning of the Tribunal. It must be noticed, as per Section 14(4) for the purposes of adjudication of dispute before it, the Tribunal has been vested with the powers of a civil court. Further we notice, that the Section itself expressly states that the Tribunal shall not have the powers exercised by the Supreme Court or that of a High Court under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India. 16. It is in consideration of this statutory scheme that we must look for an answer to the question as to whether the Tribunal could have directed the formation of a policy, albeit in regard to a matter aff ecting the service of armed forces personnel, to adjudicate which, it otherwise possesses the jurisdiction? 17. Making policy, as is well recognised, is not in the domain of the Judiciary. The Tribunal is also a quasi-judicial body, functioning within the parameters set out in the governing legislation. Although, it cannot be questioned that disputes in respect of promotions and/or fi lling up of vacancies is within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal, it cannot direct those responsible for making policy, to make a policy in a particular manner. 18. It has been observed time and again that a court cannot direct for a legislation or a policy to be made. Reference may be made to a recent judgement of this Court in Union of India v. K. Pushpavanam13 where while adjudicating a challenge to an passed by a High Court directing the State to decide the status of the Law Commission as a Statutory or Constitutional body and also to consider the introduction of a bill in respect of torts and State liability, observed as under: – 13 2023 SCC OnLine SC 987 (2 Judge Bench) UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. AIR COMMODORE NK 1039 SHARMA (17038) ADM/LGL [SANJAY KAROL J.] “..As far as the law of torts and liability thereunder of the State is concerned, the law regarding the liability of the State and individuals has been gradually evolved by Courts. Some aspects of it fi nd place in statutes already in force. It is a debatable issue whether the law of torts and especially liabilities under the law of torts should be codifi ed by a legislation. A writ court cannot direct the Government to consider introducing a particular bill before the House of Legislature within a time frame. Therefore, the fi rst direction issued under the impugned was unwarranted.” (Emphasis Supplied) 19. We may further refer to Union of India &Ors v. Ilmo Devi & Anr14 wherein the Court, while considering with the case concerning regularisation/ absorption of part-time sweepers at a post offi ce in Chandigarh observed:- “The High Court cannot, in exercise of the power under Article 226, issue a Mandamus to direct the Department to sanction and 17 create the posts.