The first ground I would call ‘illegality’, the second ‘irrationality’ and the third ‘procedural impropriety’. That is not to say that further development on a case by case basis may not in course of time add further grounds. I have in mind particularly the G possible adoption in the future of the principle of ‘proportionality’ which is recognised in the administrative law of several of our fellow members of the European Economic Community; …” (emphasis supplied) H 442 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 33. In Bhagat Ram v State of Himachal Pradesh, (1983) 2 SCC 442, it was opined: “15. … It is equally true that the penalty imposed must be commensurate with the gravity of the misconduct, and that any penalty disproportionate to the gravity of the misconduct B would be violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. … ” (emphasis supplied) 34. In Ranjit Thakur v Union of India, (1987) 4 SCC 611, this Court, in the circumstances therein, commented, at paragraph no. 27, that: “… the punishment is so strikingly disproportionate as to call C for and justify interference. It cannot be allowed to remain uncorrected in judicial review.”. 35. In Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation Limited v S N Raj Kumar, (2018) 6 SCC 410, this Court exposited: D “20.… In the realm of Administrative Law “proportionality” is a principle where the court is concerned with the process, method or manner in which the decision-maker has ed his priorities and reached a conclusion or arrived at a decision. The very essence of decision-making consists in the attribution of relative importance to the factors and E considerations in the case. The doctrine of proportionality thus steps in focus true nature of exercise — the elaboration of a rule of permissible priorities [Union of India v. G. Ganayutham, (1997) 7 SCC 463: 1997 SCC (L&S) 1806]. De Smith [Judicial Review of Administrative Action (1995), F para 13.085, pp. 601-605; see also, Wade: Administrative Law (2009), pp. 157-158, 306-308.] also states that “proportionality” involves “balancing test” and “necessity test”. The “balancing test” permits scrutiny of excessive onerous penalties or infringement of rights or interests and a manifest imbalance of relevant considerations.” G (emphasis supplied) 36. We are quite conscious that in the armed forces of the Union, including the paramilitary forces, utmost discipline, unity of command et al are the sine qua non. That said, the doctrine of proportionality still holds the field. H B. S. HARI COMMANDANT v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 443 [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] 37. In the absence of direct and cogent evidence against the A appellant, even if the GSFC was convinced of the appellant’s guilt, the punishment handed out was too harsh, paying heed that the appellant would, even then, be a first-time delinquent, and not a habitual offender. Arguendo, that there be some semblance of truth in the allegations, the punishment meted out, in our considered view, was disproportionate. B 38. Another factor which has nudged this Court to introspect vis- à-vis proportionality herein, is that the appellant has served the country for over 31 ½ years without blame or blemish, and has received various awards, inter alia, including medal from Hon’ble the President of India.