(3) any instrument executed, by, or, on behalf of, or, in favour of, the Developer, or Unit or in connection with the carrying out of purposes of the Special Economic Zone. Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause, the expressions “Developer”, “Special Economic Zone” and “Unit” shall have meanings respectively assigned to them in clauses (g), (za) and (zc) of Section 2 of the Special Economic Zones Act, 2005.” 31. Section 3 provides that the three categories of instruments in clauses (a), (b) and (c) shall be chargeable with duty of the amount indicated in Schedule I. The proviso to Section 3 indicates three other categories in respect of which no duty shall be chargeable. In terms of Section 5 of the Stamp Act, the duty chargeable on any instrument which comprises or relates to several distinct matters is the aggregate amount of the duties with which separate instruments (each comprising or relating to one of the many matters) would be chargeable under the same statute. Section 6 governs situations where the same instrument falls within two or more of the descriptions in Schedule I. In such a situation, if the duties chargeable under the diff erent descriptions are diff erent, the instrument shall be chargeable with the highest of them. The rule in Section 6 is subject to the provisions of Section 5. As a consequence, Section 6 cannot be relied on to avoid the payment of stamp-duty if an instrument relates to several distinct matters with each such matter covered by a distinct entry in Schedule I. Section 6 is applicable only when an instrument relates to a single matter which is covered by two or more descriptions in Schedule I, or when a single matter in an instrument relating to several distinct matters is covered by two or more descriptions in that schedule. 32. Sections 13 and 14 indicate the mode of stamping. In terms of Section 13, every instrument written upon paper stamped with an impressed 111 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. stamp shall be written in such manner that the stamp may appear on the face of the instrument and cannot be used for or applied to any other instrument. Section 14 stipulates that no second instrument chargeable with duty shall be written upon a piece of stamped paper upon which an instrument chargeable with duty has already been written.21 Section 15 is signifi cant because it indicates the eff ect of non-compliance with Sections 13 and 14: instruments written in contravention of Section 13 or Section 14 shall be deemed to be unstamped.22 33. Chapter II of the Stamp Act provides for various other contingencies or situations, including inter alia policies of sea-insurance,23 bonds, debentures, and securities,24 transactions in stock exchanges and depositories,25 and instruments executed outside India.26 Chapter II also provides for the valuation of stamp-duty, including for the conversion of amounts expressed in foreign currencies,27 how to value stock and marketable securities,28 the eff ect of statement of rate of exchange or average price,29 instruments reserving interest,30 instruments connected with mortgages of marketable securities,31 how the transfer and consideration of debt etc.