This is also not a case where any case is set up of the carrier exercising rights available in law entitling it possess goods as of right or pass on title to another under law as permitted. Hence, this Court would hold that the Assessing Officer acted illegally in holding that one appellant was the B ‘owner’ and on the said basis made the addition. L. “OTHER VALUABLE ARTICLE” 64. It is a case of the appellant that applying the Principle of Ejusdem Generis, bitumen would stand out as a strange bed fellow in C the company of its immediate predecessor words, viz., money, bullion and jewellery. In other words, it is the case of the appellant that bitumen is a clear misfit and it could not have been the legislative intention to treat bitumen as other valuable article. Our attention is drawn to the Circular No. 20D dated 07.07.1964 issued by Central Board of Direct Taxes, which has been adverted to. {see paragraph 48} D 65. In Bhagwandas Narayandas v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Ahmedabad and others18, the question, which, inter alia, fell for consideration before a learned Single Judge of High Court of Gujarat, was, whether fixed deposit receipts and title deeds of immovable property were ‘valuable things or articles’, which required a show-cause notice E under Rule 112A of the Income-Tax Rules, 1962. Section 132 if the Act also employs the expression ‘other valuable articles’. The Court, inter alia, held as follows: “18. On close consideration of the scheme of sub-section (5) of section 132, we find that the above referred contention of Shri F Bhatt is not acceptable. As already pointed out by us in the foregoing discussion, it is evident from the scheme of sub-section (5) of section 132 that the “assets”, which are seized during the course of an authorised search under section 132, are expected to be retained only for the purpose of satisfying the tax liability of an assessee as ascertained from his undisclosed income. G Therefore, by using the words “valuable article or thing”, what the legislature has intended to imply is that the assets covered by these words should be such as could be converted into cash so that the tax liability of the assessee concerned, as revealed from H 18 1973 Vol. 98 ITR 194 M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 583 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] his undisclosed income, could be duly satisfied. In other words, A the thing or article which can be retained under sub-section (5) of section 132 should be the one which is carrying its own intrinsic value in terms of money. Therefore, the question is whether the fixed deposit receipts and documents of title relating to an immovable property are the things or articles which can be B evaluated in terms of money. Obviously, a document of title relating to an immovable property or even a fixed deposit receipt issued by a bank in favour of a particular person are merely the documents of title which, though possessing much evidentiary value, do not passes any intrinsic market value.