15.3. The High Court, while dismissing the petition filed by the appellants and endorsing the views of the Trial Court, has proceeded to rely upon the decision of this Court in the case of Kedarnath(supra), that the provisions of Section 17 of the Act of 1887 are held to be G mandatory. In our view, reference to the said decision remains inapposite in the present case. Even if the requirements of Section 17 of the Act of 1887 are held to be mandatory, the present one had not been a case where the defendant had altogether ignored those requirements. In Kedarnath (supra), in the very passage reproduced by the High Court, it was clearly noticed that the applicant did not make any deposit and did H SHYAM KUMAR GUPTA & ORS. v. SHUBHAM JAIN 885 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] not move any application for dispensing with deposit or seeking leave of A the Court for furnishing security. In the backdrop of such facts, showing total non-compliance of the requirements of Section 17 of the Act of 1887, this Court held the application for setting aside the decree as incompetent. It is difficult to apply the decision in Kedarnath (supra) to the facts of the present case. B 16. Apart from the above, where we find that the Trial Court and the High Court had taken too technical and impractical a view of the matter, there is another strong reason for which we are inclined to accept the prayer for setting aside the decree passed ex parte in this case. As noticed, in response to the queries of this Court,the appellants have C immediately taken bonafide steps and have deposited the amount which may be relatable to rent/mesne profits until the month of April, 2023. For this bonafide and prompt step (albeit taken after approaching this Court),in our view, they do deserve an opportunity to contest the suit on merits, particularly when the matter relates to a shop where the predecessor of the appellants had been continuing as tenant and the plaintiff-respondentis D seeking the decree for eviction only on the ground of default in payment of rent. 17. Accordingly and in view of the above, this appeal succeeds and is allowed in the manner that while setting aside the impugned s dated 01.09.2022 and 21.09.2022, the application filed by the appellants E under IX Rule 13 CPC is allowed and thereby, the ex parte and decree dated 09.03.2016/16.03.2016 are set aside. Consequently, the said suit shall stand restored for being considered on its own merits. 18. For the purpose of proceedings in the suit, looking to the time F that has elapsed, it shall definitely be required of the Trial Court to assign the same a reasonable priority and to proceed expeditiously, while curbing against unnecessary delay. Further, in the interest of justice, it is also considered appropriate and hence provided that it shall be required of the appellants to submit their written statement(s) on or before 28.02.2023 G and thereafter, the Trial Court shall proceed with expedition, as indicated above.