Power to refer parties to arbitration 8. Power to refer parties to arbitration where there is an arbitration where there is an arbitration agreement.— agreement.— (1) A judicial authority, before (1) A judicial authority, before which an action is brought in a which an action is brought in a matter which is the subject of an matter which is the subject of an arbitration agreement shall, if a arbitration agreement shall, if a party so applies not later than when party to the arbitration agreement submitting his fi rst statement on the or any person claiming through substance of the dispute, refer the or under him, so applies not later parties to arbitration. than the date of submitting his fi rst statement on the substance of the dispute, then, notwithstanding any , decree or of the Supreme Court or any court, refer the parties to arbitration unless it fi nds that prima facie no valid arbitration agreement exists. (2) The application referred to (2) The application referred to in sub-section (1) shall not be in sub-section (1) shall not be entertained unless it is accompanied entertained unless it is accompanied by the original arbitration agreement by the original arbitration agreement or a duly certifi ed copy thereof. or a duly certifi ed copy thereof. Provided that where the original arbitration agreement or a certifi ed copy thereof is not available with the party applying for reference to arbitration under sub-section (1) and 274 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. the said agreement or certifi ed copy is retained by the other party to that agreement, then, the party so applying shall fi le such application along with a copy of the arbitration agreement and a petition praying the court to call upon the other party to produce the original arbitration agreement or its duly certifi ed copy before that court. (3) …….. (3) ……. Section 11: Section 11: Appointment of arbitrators.— Appointment of arbitrators.— (1) ……. (1) ……. (2) ……. (2) ……. (3) ……. (3) ……. (4) If the appointment procedure in (4) If the appointment procedure in sub-section (3) applies and— sub-section (3) applies and— (a) ……. (a) …… (b) the two appointed arbitrators (b) the two appointed arbitrators fail to agree on the third arbitrator fail to agree on the third arbitrator within thirty days from the date of within thirty days from the date of their appointment, the appointment their appointment, the appointment shall be made, upon request of a shall be made, upon request of a party, by the Chief Justice or any party, by the Supreme Court or, as person or institution designated by the case may be, the High Court or him. any person or institution designated by such Court; (5) Failing any agreement referred to (5) Failing any agreement referred to in sub-section (2), in an arbitration in sub-section (2), in an arbitration with a sole arbitrator, if the parties with a sole arbitrator, if the parties fail to agree on the arbitrator within fail to agree on the arbitrator within SMT.