Thus, a man responsible for his conduct on equity is not expected to be allowed to avail a remedy.” H 1070 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 33. Finally, in paras 37 and 38, it was observed as under : “37. We have already dealt with the principles of law that may have a bearing on this case. … there was an unexplained and studied reluctance to raise the issue .... 38. ….Hence, on the principle governing delay, laches … B Respondent No. 1 ought not to have been granted any relief by invoking Article 226 of the Constitution of India.”. 34. If the aforesaid principles of law are applied in the facts of the case in hand from the table of list of dates as available in para no. 12, it is evident that there is huge delay on the part of the respondents to avail C of their appropriate remedy. Record of rights was finalised in the year 1962. As admitted in the writ petition, objections were filed by the respondents or their predecessors-in-interest before that. Remedy, after publication of final record of rights, was revision under Section 15(b) of the 1958 Act, to be filed within one year. No remedy was availed of. Nearly three decades after finalisation of record of rights, application D was filed before the Settlement Officer, which was not maintainable after final record of rights is published. When no relief was granted by the Settlement Officer, the respondents kept quite for 13 years before filing a civil suit in the year 2003. It was dismissed as withdrawn in the year 2007. The writ petition was filed in the year 2008, which is subject E matter of dispute in the present appeal. The aforesaid facts show that the writ petition to claim relief was filed after 46 years of finalisation of record of rights, which was highly belated. Hence, the respondents were no entitled to any relief. 2. Maintainability of writ petition when the civil suit filed F for same relief was withdrawn without liberty to file fresh one and on the concealment of material facts from the Court. 35. From the facts on record, it is evident, that the respondents had filed a civil suit in January 2003, claiming that the plaintiffs therein G be declared owner of the land which is in their adverse possession since 1965 as mentioned in Schedule ‘A’, annexed to the plaint. The second prayer was that the plaintiffs therein be declared lawful owner in possession of the land as mentioned in Schedule ‘B’ and the defendant therein had no right to interfere with the peaceful possession of the plaintiffs. The property, as mentioned in Schedule ‘B’, included the H STATE OF ORISSA & ANR. v. LAXMI NARAYAN DAS (DEAD) 1071 THR. LRS & ORS. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] same which was the subject matter of consideration at the time of A finalisation of record of rights. Part of which was allotted to the Reserve Bank of India on which staff quarters had been constructed long back as has been noticed in dated 01.03.1990 passed by the Settlement Officer.