G vi. An Election petition can be summarily dismissed on the omission of a single material fact leading to an incomplete cause of action, or omission to contain a concise statement of material facts on which the petitioner relies for establishing a cause of action, in exercise of the powers H 826 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A under Clause (a) of Rule 11 of VII CPC read with the mandatory requirements enjoined by Section 83 of the RP Act. Conclusion: 29. In the light of the afore-stated legal position, let us see whether B the respondent/election petitioner had complied with the requirements of Section 83(1)(a) of the RP Act, by stating “material facts” in the Election petition, constituting cause of action and the ground as contemplated in Section 100(1)(d)(iv) of the RP Act, for declaring the election of the Appellant-returned candidate to be void. The bone of C contention raised by the learned counsel appearing for the respondent- election petitioner is that the Election Commission of India had called for the information prescribing the Form 26 in regard to status of filing of income tax return of candidates and their family members by exercising powers under Article 324 of the Constitution of India and in that the petitioner had provided information that her spouse was working as D consultant at foreign country and earning salary against the columnNo.8, Serial No.9(b) and 9A(b), respectively under Part A of Form 26.Besides, she had mentioned “No” to the query regarding Income tax dues of her spouse, (mentioned as “Ethumilai” in Tamil language).She had further statedthat her spouse had bank accounts in Singapore with deposit of E dollars against column No.7 Serial No. (ii) of column in Part A of Form 26 but had failed to disclose the status of filing income tax return of her spouse in the foreign country. He therefore submitted that these material facts which have already been stated in the Election petition, were sufficient to constitute cause of action for filing Election petition under Section 100(1)(d)(iv) of the RP Act. F 30. It may be noted the precise allegations made by the respondent- election petitioner in para 5 to 9 of his Election petition have already been reproduced hereinbefore, from which it clearly transpires that the election petitioner i.e., the respondent has made very bald and vague allegations without stating the material facts as to how there was non- G compliance of any of the provisions of the Constitution of India or of the RP Act or of the rules made thereunder. If the averments made in the Election petition are read in juxtaposition to the information furnished by the appellant-returned candidate in Form No. 26, it clearly emerges that against the information sought about the PAN number of the spouse of the appellant, it has been stated that “No PAN No.”, “Spouse K. H KANIMOZHI KARUNANIDHI v. A. SANTHANA KUMAR 827 [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] Aravindhan Foreign Citizenship”. Against the information soughtwith A regard to “The financial year for which the last income tax return has been filed”, the information supplied by the appellant about her spouse is “Not applicable”.