Therefore, even in the 2nd Gazette all the AYUSH doctors working under the Ministry of AYUSH were included without any distinction whether working in the Ministry or in any autonomous body. g. That contrary to the Cabinet decision, the impugned letter dated 31.10.2017 was issued denying the extension of age up to 65 years to the AYUSH doctors working in autonomous bodies like the respondent No. 1. Para 2 of said letter is not sustainable in law and on facts for the following amongst other reasons:- i. That the decision was a Cabinet decision and the same could not have been diluted or misinterpreted by the impugned letter of a subordinate functionary viz., a Senior Consultant working in the Ministry of AYUSH by excluding the AYUSH Doctors working in the autonomous bodies under the administrative control of the Ministry of AYUSH. ii. That there is no Cabinet approval to exclude the AYUSH doctors working in autonomous bodies. Therefore, the impugned letter is contrary to the Cabinet decision and on this count alone the same cannot be enforced against the respondent No. 1. iii. The letter dated 31.10.2017 in any case stood overruled/superseded in view of the subsequent Gazettes dated 05.01.2018 and 11.08.2018 respectively. iv. That the sub classifi cation introduced by the impugned letter besides being contrary to the Cabinet decision, is a suspect classifi cation, and it is directly violative of Articles 14, 16 and 21 respectively of the Constitution of India. The reason being fi rst, there is no rationale or nexus with the object which it seeks to achieve i.e, CENTRAL COUNCIL FOR RESEARCH IN AYURVEDIC 755 SCIENCES v. BIKARTAN DAS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] exclusion of the AYUSH Doctors working in autonomous bodies and secondly, it creates an artifi cial distinction of AYUSH doctors working in the Ministry and elsewhere, although both are similarly qualifi ed and discharge functions of OPD/IPD treatment of patients including surgery etc, albeit at diff erent places. The respondent No. 1 also drew NPA (Non-Practicing Allowance). These facts have not been disputed. v. That it is well settled in law where the classifi cation has no nexus with the object it seeks to achieve and that there is artifi cial distinction the same would fall foul of Articles 14 and 21 in the matter of conditions of service of an employee. vi. That even otherwise, the respondent No. 1 is entitled to the benefi t of enhanced age of retirement of 65 years on the strength of plain reading of Clause 34 of the Society Rules extracted @ Pg 12 of the Judgement by the High Court, on which extensive reliance is placed by the appellants contending that the applicability of the extension of age is dependent upon the decision to be taken by the Governing Body of the autonomous body, and hence the Central Govt rule of age of superannuation is not automatic. This contention is not correct for the following reasons: - Clause 34 is in two parts. The fi rst part is that the rules governing the retirement of employees of the Government of India as amended from to time shall apply to the employees of the Central Council.