121. If the reasoning which is adopted by the High Court is to be accepted, then it will lead to a situation wherein, as aforementioned, D what is not directly permissible in law, is being indirectly permitted. Therefore, in our view, the reasoning of the High Court would not be tenable in law. 122. As stated hereinabove, the CMP-2031 itself states that since Phase-I Sectors have been recommended for heritage status, the E re-utilization of the identified housing/institutional pockets in the first Phase has to be undertaken only with the prior approval of the Heritage Committee. Even in the report of the said Board, it has been specifically stated that the Heritage Committee has recommended that northern sectors of Chandigarh (Corbusian Chandigarh) should be preserved in their present form as far as possible. It is also stated that general F redensification is not recommended. It has considered that the Heritage Committee has taken a serious note of the relaxations in FAR and building controls already given earlier and has recommended that no further relaxation be given and has also recommended that the relaxations already granted should be revoked. G 123. This Court in the case of Bangalore Medical Trust v. B.S. Muddappa and Others15, while considering the provisions of Bangalore Development Authority Act, 1976, has considered an issue with regard to deviation from duly sanctioned scheme thereby sacrificing the public interest in the preservation and protection of environment. It will be H 15(1991) 4 SCC 54 RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 661 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] apposite to reproduce certain observations made in the aforesaid A , which read thus: “18. ….…Any unauthorised deviation from the duly sanctioned scheme by sacrificing the public interest in the preservation and protection of the environment by means of open space for parks and play grounds and ‘ventilation’ will be contrary to the legislative B intent, and an abuse of the statutory power vested in the authorities…” 24. Protection of the environment, open spaces for recreation and fresh air, play grounds for children, promenade for the residents, and other conveniences or amenities are matters of C great public concern and of vital interest to be taken care of in a development scheme. It is that public interest which is sought to be promoted by the Act by establishing the BDA. The public interest in the reservation and preservation of open spaces for parks and play grounds cannot be sacrificed by leasing or selling such sites to private persons for conversion to some other user. D Any such act would be contrary to the legislative intent and inconsistent with the statutory requirements. Furthermore, it would be in direct conflict with the constitutional mandate to ensure that any State action is inspired by the basic values of individual freedom and dignity and addressed to the attainment of a quality of life E which makes the guaranteed rights a reality for all the citizens. 36. …….Emphasis on open air and greenery has multiplied and the city or town planning or development Acts of different States require even private house owners to leave open space in front and back for lawn and fresh air…….” F 124.