It is submitted that in the case of Hindustan Shipyard Ltd. v. State of A.P., reported in (2000) 6 SCC 579, it is held that if the thing to be delivered has any individual existence before the delivery as the sole property of the party who is to D deliver it, then it is a sale. Further, if the bulk of material used in construction belongs to the manufacturer who sells the end product for a price, then it is a strong pointer to the conclusion that the contract is in substance one for the sale of goods and not one for labour. 4.3 Learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent E has heavily relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of Associated Cement Companies Ltd. v. Commissioner of Customs, reported in (2001) 4 SCC 593. It is submitted that in the said decision, this Court has held that any media which contain drawings or designs would be regarded as goods under the provisions of the Customs Act. It is observed F that these items are movable goods and would be covered by Section 2(22)(e) of the Customs Act. It is observed and held that the fact that the technology or ideas is tailormade would not make any difference. 4.4 It is submitted by Shri V. Sridharan, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent that it may be true that the decision G of this Court in the case of Associated Cement Companies Ltd. (supra) may not be an authority for the proposition that service tax cannot be levied on pure sale of goods, the said decision is certainly an authority for the proposition that designs on a medium will be treated as goods under the natural definition of goods. It is submitted that the said decision H COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE & SERVICE 333 TAX v. M/S SUZLON ENERGY LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] is also an authority for the proposition that the amount paid by the importer A to the original supplier is nothing but price for sale of such goods. 4.5 Shri V. Sridharan, learned senior counsel has also relied upon the Constitution Bench decision of this Court in the case of Tata Consultancy Services v. State of A.P., reported in (2005) 1 SCC 308. It is submitted that in the said decision, the question was, as to whether B canned software soled by the appellants can be termed to be “goods” and as such assessable to sales tax under the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Act, 1957. It is submitted that in the said decision, this Court affirmed the decision in the case of Associated Cement Companies Ltd. (supra) and held that intellectual property, once it is put on to a C media, whether it be in the form of books or canvas (in case of painting) or computer discs or cassettes and marketed would become “goods.” 4.6 It is further submitted that the intent of service tax legislation is not to levy service tax on sale of goods.