10. The High Court committed an error by examining the merits of the matter. It pre-judged the truth, legality and validity of the sale deed under which the Defendants No. 4 to 14 claim title. This is not to say that the Plaintiff s have any less burden to prove their case or even that their case is probable. Simply put, the High Court could not have anticipated the truth of the averments by assuming that the alleged previous sale of the property is complete or that it has been acted upon. The approach adopted by the High Court is incorrect and contrary to the well-entrenched principles of considering an application under VII Rule 11, CPC. Under these circumstances, we set aside the and the passed by the High Court and dismiss the application under VII Rule 11, CPC, and restore the suit even with respect to properties mentioned under Schedule A of the Plaint. 11. There is yet another reason why the of the High Court is not sustainable. In an application under VII Rule 11, CPC a plaint cannot be rejected in part. This principle is well established and has been continuously followed since the 1936 decision in Maqsud Ahmad v. Mathra Datt & Co4. This principle is also explained in a recent decision of this Court in Sejal Glass Ltd. v. Navilan Merchants (P) Ltd,5 which was again followed in Madhav Prasad Aggarwal v. Axis Bank Ltd.6 The relevant portion of Madhav Prasad (supra) is extracted hereinunder: “10. We do not deem it necessary to elaborate on all other arguments as we are inclined to accept the objection of the appellant(s) that the relief of rejection of plaint in exercise of powers under 7 Rule 11(d) CPC cannot be pursued only in respect of one of the defendant(s). 4 AIR 1936 Lahore 1021 5 (2018) 11 SCC 780. 6 (2019) 7 SCC 158. 162 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. In other words, the plaint has to be rejected as a whole or not at all, in exercise of power under 7 Rule 11(d) CPC. Indeed, the learned Single Judge rejected this objection raised by the appellant(s) by relying on the decision of the Division Bench of the same High Court. However, we fi nd that the decision of this Court in Sejal Glass Ltd. [Sejal Glass Ltd. v. Navilan Merchants (P) Ltd., (2018) 11 SCC 780 : (2018) 5 SCC (Civ) 256] is directly on the point. In that case, an application was fi led by the defendant(s) under 7 Rule 11(d) CPC stating that the plaint disclosed no cause of action. The civil court held that the plaint is to be bifurcated as it did not disclose any cause of action against the Director’s Defendant(s) 2 to 4 therein. On that basis, the High Court had opined that the suit can continue against Defendant 1 company alone. The question considered by this Court was whether such a course is open to the civil court in exercise of powers under 7 Rule 11(d) CPC.