… (6A) Where a sanctioned scheme provides for the transfer of any property or liability G of the sick industrial company in favour of any other company or person or where such scheme provides for the transfer of any property or liability of any other company or person in favour of the sick industrial company, then, by virtue of, and to the extent provided in, the scheme, on and from the date of coming into operation of the sanctioned scheme or any provision thereof, the property shall be transferred to, and vest in, and the liability shall become the liability of, such other company or person or, as the case H may be, the sick industrial company.] BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 259 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] 2. It is further agreed that while APPL will take over all the liabilities A pertaining the workmen/employees of Sir Padampat Research Centre, as determined as per Annexure B even though the SPRC unit will not be transferred to APPL and will be retained by JKSL. 3. The APPL will operate the Kota Complex .in the name and style of Arfat petrochemical Pvt. Ltd. (APPL) as a new company B and new employer. They will issue their appointment letters as per requirements in a phased manner subject to suitability and covering terms of employment etc. The dues of employment under JKSL would be settled as full and final payment as summarized in Annexure-A. C xxx xxx xxx” The rest of the agreement contains numerous clauses that are in furtherance of the absorption of the workers into Respondent No. 1’s operations that were to start after the demerger of defunct units owned by JKSL. The second agreement of 22.10.2002 also contained similar D provisions. 18. Eventually, AAIFR sanctioned a rehabilitation scheme for JKSL on 23.01.2003. The scheme referred to and validated the tripartite agreements/settlements entered into by JKSL, Respondent No. 1, and the different labour unions. It was noted that the liabilities of the workers E had been taken on by Respondent No. 1, alongside its obligation under those agreements to revive the industrial operations at Kota. A Joint Venture & Shareholder Agreement (hereinafter, “JV”) was signed between Respondent No. 1 and JKSL on 13.05.2003, which cemented the former’s obligation to discharge the liabilities outstanding on LIA, Kota, as well as the dues of the labourers. The AAIFR scheme was F finalized on 07.01.2005, and it included an obligation on the part of Respondent No. 1 to honour the earlier tripartite agreements with the JKSL workers unions. Part of the rehabilitation scheme involved hiving off 227.15 acres of the land in the LIA, Kota, away from JKSL and to Respondent No. 1. G 19. Respondent No. 1, as part of the aforementioned JV between itself and JKSL, continued to coordinate with the State Government on shifting the lease on LIA, Kota, away from JKSL and to itself. A letter to this effect was sent by Respondent No. 1 to the State Government on 07.01.2006, seeking the demarcation and transfer of the lease over LIA, H 260 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R.