The question before us is whether Article 3 contemplates the power to convert a State into a Union Territory, thereby abolishing its character as a State. It would be pertinent to refer to this Court’s in the State of W.B. v. Union of India,128 where it was noted that it would be incorrect to presume that absolute sovereignty remained vested in the States. The Court drew this conclusion from the framework of the Constitution: noting that there was no concept of dual (State and national) citizenship in India, there were no independent Constitutions of States, and pertinently, Article 3 gave Parliament wide powers to alter the boundaries of States. States themselves had no constitutional guarantee against the Parliament’s exercise of this power. The power of States extended merely to expressing their opinions on the same. 108. The position that States have no independent sovereignty was also reiterated by this Court in Babulal Parate v. State of Bombay,129 128 (1964) 1 SCR 129 (1960) 1 SCR 605 IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 367 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] where the Court was again persuaded to reach this finding by looking at the nature and extent of Article 3 itself. Another factor that weighed with the Court here was that the Parliament was enabled to exercise this power simply by making law, it was thus not even necessary to invoke the procedure of constitutional amendments. 109. We agree with these findings, as under the Constitutional setup, States have no independent or standalone sovereignty. They derive their existence from the Constitution, which at the same time gives Parliament the power to vary or alter the boundaries of the State. Since the petitioners concede that the power under Article 3 extends to carving out a Union Territory from a State, the Respondents claim that this power must also extend to converting the State into a Union Territory in toto. The Petitioners contended that such a move would be contrary to the federal principle, which guarantees a two-tier democracy and continuing statehood under the Indian constitution. In response, the Solicitor-General contended that the federal structure is not disturbed by converting Jammu, Kashmir, and Ladakh into a Union Territory, as Article 239A (which is an entrenched part of the federal scheme) would apply to the newly formed Union Territories. However, at present, we need not examine this aspect in greater depth as the Solicitor-General assured this Court of the Union’s commitment made on the floor of the House that the Statehood of Jammu and Kashmir would be restored in the near future upon elections being held. B. Suspension of the first proviso to Article 3 was permissible during President’s rule: 110. The second proviso to Article 3, as was applicable to the erstwhile State, was not in force after the issuance of CO 272 on 5.8.2019. The President was liable to refer the Bill introduced in 2019 to the State Legislature of the erstwhile Jammu & Kashmir to express their “views” in compliance with the first proviso to Article 3.