It means that the notification, if any, C published in the official Gazette at the behest of the Wakf Act giving the lists of the wakfs is not a conclusive proof that a particular property is a wakf property especially, when no procedure as prescribed under Section 4 of the Wakf Act has been followed in issuing the same. 36. In view of the aforesaid facts and circumstances, we do not D find any substance in the argument that the suit land is or was a wakf property and as such would continue to be a wakf always. In the absence of any evidence of valid creation of a wakf in respect of the suit property, it cannot be recognized as a wakf so as to allow it to be continued as a wakf property irrespective of its use or disuse as a burial ground. E 37. Now coming to the second argument of learned counsel for the appellate Committee that the High Court hearing the writ appeal was only obliged to either allow the writ petition or to dismiss it and when it had decided to dismiss it, it had no authority of law to issue any direction to the Government to consider claims under Section 19A of the F Abolition Act. 38. The argument, though in the first blush, appears to be attractive but upon deeper scrutiny is found to be bereft of merits for two reasons; first, the appellant Committee was never aggrieved by such a direction as it never questioned or challenged it in any higher forum; secondly, the G appellant Committee appears to have accepted the said decision and the direction contained therein by participating in the subsequent proceedings before the Director of Survey and Settlement without any protest or taking any objection in this regard. In such an event and participation of 8 2022 SCC OnLine SC 159 H 400 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A the appellant Committee in the consequential proceedings debars it from turning around so as to agitate a point to which it had acquiesced and had virtually given up or accepted. 39. To bring home the point that the appellant Committee had participated in the proceedings before the Director of Survey and B Settlement pursuant to the directions of the Division Bench of the High Court contained in the and dated 12.01.1965, it is relevant to reproduce paragraph 10 of the of the Director of Survey and Settlement dated 31.01.1975 whereunder the claimants respondents have been granted relief in exercise of powers under Section 19A of the Abolition Act: C “The case was posted to 11.00 A.M on 17.1.75. The Secretary of the Muslim Burial ground protection committee who was present then said that his lawyer is attending the case. He never request any adjournment. But the lawyer did not attend till 12:00 noon. The case was heard by me and D the Secretary was also present. At 1.50 P.M the advocate for the Muslim Burial ground protection committee was present and filed necessary vakalat.