]” 19. The State of Himachal Pradesh, exercising the powers drawn from Entries 56 and 57 of List II of the Seventh Schedule C enacted the Himachal Pradesh Motor Vehicles Taxation Act 19723. In the said Act various amendments were brought from time to time. Vide Amending Act No.15 of 1999, Sections 3A, 3B and 3C were incorporated. The object and reasons as spelled out for bringing out the Amending Act of 1999 was mainly to augment finances/funds for D development, construction and maintenance of roads and bridges being a vital part of expanding and developing trading facilities in the State. It also mentioned that Himachal Pradesh being a hilly State, substantial amount of its budget was spent on construction, maintenance and development of roads and bridges. Objects and reasons as reflected in the Bill No. 10 of 1999, is reproduced here E under: “Developed roads and bridges constitute arteries of a healthy economy. Himachal Pradesh being a hill State, the importance of roads, their construction and maintenance can hardly be over emphasized as a vital trading facility. Each year, the F government has to incur considerable part of its budget on construction, maintenance and development of roads and bridges in the State. Since it is essential to finance these activities, it is considered necessary to levy road tax on transport vehicles used or kept for use on public roads in Himachal Pradesh.” G 20. In the original Act of 19724, Section 3 provided for levy and collection of taxes on all motor vehicles which were to be used or kept for use in the State of Himachal Pradesh. Section 3 reads as follows: 3 HPMVT Act 1972 H 4 HPMVT Act 1972 THE STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH v. GOEL BUS SERVICE 901 KULLU ETC. ETC. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] “SECTION-3** LEVY OF TAX. A *(1) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, on and from the commencement of the Himachal Pradesh Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 2004, there shall be levied, charged and paid to the State Government, a tax on all motor vehicles specified in column (2) of Schedule-I, used or kept for use in B Himachal Pradesh, at the rate as may be specified by the State Government, by notification, but not exceeding the rates specified in column (3) of Schedule-I.. **(2) On and from the commencement of the Himachal Pradesh Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act,2004, there C shall be levied, charged and paid to the State Government, a tax on motor cycles/scooters or personal vehicles, used or kept for use in Himachal Pradesh, for a period of fifteen years from the date of issue of certificate of registration under sub- section (3) of section 41 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, (59 of 1988) D at the rates as may be specified by the State Government, by notification, on the basis of the price of such motor cycle/scooter or personal vehicle, subject to the maximum of ten percent of the price thereof. **(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- sections (1), E on and from the commencement of the Himachal Pradesh Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 2004, there shall be levied, charged and paid to the State Government, a tax on motor cabs or maxi cabs which are allowed to be converted as personal motor vehicles, and on second hand personal motor * Substituted vide H.P.