This Court further observed that impracticality cannot be raised to an independent status but it can be one of the aspects which the Court must consider while assessing public interest. 215. At a preliminary level, the issue in Krishna Kumar Singh (supra) was whether the consequence of an Ordinance can subsist even after the Ordinance ceases to exist or whether the rights created by an Ordinance cease 197 AIR 1962 SC 945 198 (1985) 3 SCC 198 IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 133 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] to exist along with the Ordinance. An Ordinance ceases to exist on the expiry of six weeks from the reassembly of the Legislature or when before the said period, a resolution disapproving the Ordinance is passed. The provisions dealing with Ordinance making power (Article 123 and 213) do not contain a clause saving actions taken under an Ordinance after it ceases to exist. As discussed above, Article 356 is placed diff erently by virtue of Article 357(2), whereby laws enacted by Parliament in exercise of the State legislature’s power do not cease to exist merely on the expiry of the Proclamation, and thus there was no necessity for a savings clause. 216. Finally, this Court by following the line of approach taken in SR Bommai (supra) interpreted the phrase ‘cease to exist’ in Article 213 broadly because the narrow interpretation would lead to the abrogation of the principle of parliamentary supremacy where the eff ects of executive action would have a permanent eff ect without any parliamentary oversight. To recall, in SR Bommai (supra), this Court held that “irreversible” changes cannot be made before the Proclamation under Article 356 is approved by both Houses of Parliament under Article 356(3). Otherwise, the purpose of the provision which is to place a Parliamentary check on the exercise of power by the executive would become nugatory. In this context, Justice Jeevan Reddy made the following observations: “290. […] The expression “approval” has an intrinsic meaning which cannot be ignored. Disapproval or non-approval means that the Houses of Parliament are saying that the President’s action was not justifi ed or warranted and that it shall no longer continue. In such a case, the Proclamation lapses, i.e., ceases to be in operation at the end of two months — the necessary consequence of which is the status quo ante revives. To say that notwithstanding the disapproval or non-approval, the status quo ante does not revive is to rob the concept of approval of its content and meaning. Such a view renders the check provided by clause (3) ineff ective and of no signifi cance whatsoever. The Executive would be telling Parliament : “I have dismissed the Government. Now, whether you approve or disapprove is of no consequence because the Government in no event can be revived. The deed is done. You better approve it because you have practically no choice.” We do not think that such a course is consistent with the principle of parliamentary supremacy and parliamentary control over the Executive, the basic 134 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.