From the above discussion, it is amply clear that power to arrest a person by a Customs Offi cer is statutory in character and cannot be interfered with. Such power of arrest can be exercised only in those cases where the Customs Offi cer has “reason to believe” that a person has been guilty of an off ence punishable under Sections 132, 133, 135, 135-A or 136 of the Act. Thus, the power must be exercised on objective facts of commission of an off ence enumerated and the Customs Offi cer has reason to believe that a person sought to be arrested has been guilty of commission of such off ence. The power to arrest thus is circumscribed by objective considerations and cannot be exercised on whims, caprice or fancy of the offi cer. 37. The section534 also obliges the Customs Offi cer to inform the person arrested of the grounds of arrest as soon as may be. The law requires such person to be produced before a Magistrate without unnecessary delay. 38. The law thus, on the one hand, allows a Customs Offi cer to exercise power to arrest a person who has committed certain off ences, and on the other hand, takes due care to ensure individual freedom and liberty by laying down norms and providing safeguards so that the power of arrest is not abused or misused by the authorities. ….” (emphasis supplied) 325. The safeguards provided in the 2002 Act and the preconditions to be fulfi lled by the authorised offi cer before eff ecting arrest, as contained in Section 19 of the 2002 Act, are equally stringent and of higher standard. Those safeguards ensure that the authorised offi cers do not act arbitrarily, but make them accountable for their about the necessity to arrest any person as being involved in the commission of off ence of money-laundering even before fi ling of the complaint before the Special Court under Section 44(1)(b) of RAM KISHOR ARORA v. DIRECTORATE OF 753 ENFORCEMENT [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] the 2002 Act in that regard. If the action of the authorised offi cer is found to be vexatious, he can be proceeded with and infl icted with punishment specifi ed under Section 62 of the 2002 Act……. 326. Considering the above, we have no hesitation in upholding the validity of Section 19 of the 2002 Act. We reject the grounds pressed into service to declare Section 19 of the 2002 Act as unconstitutional. On the other hand, we hold that such a provision has reasonable nexus with the purposes and objects sought to be achieved by the 2002 Act of prevention of money-laundering and confi scation of proceeds of crime involved in money-laundering, including to prosecute persons involved in the process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime so as to ensure that the proceeds of crime are not dealt with in any manner which may result in frustrating any proceedings relating to confi scation thereof.” 11. Further while dealing with the issue as to whether it was necessary to furnish a copy of ECIR to the person concerned apprehending the arrest or at least after his arrest, the Bench held in Vijay Madanlal (supra) as under: - “458.