of GMR Warora Energy Limited v. MSEDCL and Anr. (Petition A No.284/MP/2018): “52. It is pertinent to mention that similar submissions of the Respondent, MSEDCL were considered by the Commission in Petition No.88/MP/2018 and it was observed by dated 15.11.2018 that SHR given in B the bid is under test conditions and may vary from actual SHR. Therefore, it would only be correct to take SHR specified in the tariff Regulations as a reference point instead of other parameters suggested by MSEDCL. It was also held that SHR as a bidding C document cannot be considered for deciding the coal requirement for the purpose of calculating relief under change in law…” [emphasis supplied] 112. The learned APTEL thereafter held that the SHR submitted D in the bid was not a bid parameter as per the bidding guidelines. It concurred with the findings of the CERC that the SHR specified in the Tariff Regulations was as a reference point. It held that it cannot be used as the basis for computing the coal shortfall requirement and, thereby, for computation of Change in Law compensation to be awarded E to the generating company. It held that such linking of Change in Law compensation to the SHR mentioned in the bid documents would not restitute the affected party to the same economic position as if the approved Change in Law event had not occurred. 113. Insofar as the GCV is concerned, the CERC in the case of GMR Warora Energy Limited (supra) has specifically rejected the F contention of the MSEDCL that the GCV should be taken at the mid value of GCV band which should be applied on GCV measured on ‘as billed’ basis. The CERC held that, on account of the grade slippage of the coal supplied by CIL, it would not be appropriate to consider GCV on ‘as billed’ basis. It has been held that in the 2014 Tariff Regulations G of the Commission, the measurement of GCV has been specified as on ‘as received’ basis. Therefore, it will be appropriate if the GCV on ‘as received’ basis is considered for computation of compensation for the Change in Law. This finding of the CERC is affirmed by the learned APTEL. H 138 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 114. The learned APTEL in the case of Adani Power Maharashtra Limited (APML) (supra) has also considered the issue as to whether the reference GCV of domestic coal supplied by CIL for computing the Change in Law compensation should be “the middle value of GCV range of assured coal grade in LoA/FSA/MoU”. The learned APTEL observed that it was a fact that there is no guidance in the B PPAs or in the bidding Guidelines as to the reference GCV that should be applied in case of the Change in Law claims in Case 1 bid projects where SHR or GCV is not a bid parameter. It, however, held that the overarching principle for Change in Law compensation was that the generating company should not be left with in a worse economic position.