said meeting dated 5th April 2007 have been placed on record. A Thus, the question of down rating of contracted capacity is completely irrelevant. It is not disputed that, based on the minutes of the said meeting and the agreement arrived there at, the invoices for the period April 2004 to April 2007 were reconciled and the reconsideration was duly approved by the Respondent and the B payment was made on the basis thereof by the Respondent to the Claimant. All future invoices were raised on the basis of the said agreement arrived at the meeting and the invoices were duly approved by the Respondent and have been paid by the Respondent for the period up to March 2013 and a part of April 2013. In the circumstances, therefore, the issue relating to the down rating of C capacity of the plant appears to have been settled between the parties, and should not be allowed to be re-agitated in this proceeding. This claim is accordingly, rejected.” 23.3. The Arbitral Tribunal thus held that the issue relating to downrating of capacity was settled between the parties and the parties D should not be allowed to reagitate the same. 24. As regards this issue of downrating, again, we find that the High Court has found shortcomings in the discussions of the Arbitral Tribunal as regards the meaning and effect of the certificate dated 08.11.2005 and as to whether the claimant could have made any claim E on that basis or not. The High Court even proceeded to analyse the minutes of the meeting. It has clearly been a case of value and worth attached to a particular evidence by Arbitral Tribunal, which was considered not satisfactory by the High Court; and rejection of the contention of the Government by the Arbitral Tribunal was found to be F erroneous. However, thereafter, the High Court again observed that it was not a case of re-appreciation of evidence but being a case of no evidence, there had been patent illegality. The High Court observed as under: - “124. The impugned Award has recorded a finding based on the G bald statement in the certificate dated 8th November 2005 and there was no degradation of the plant and further, in the absence of degradation of the plant, the concept of downrating will not apply, Again, this is, with respect, patent illegality. The certificate could hardly have been regarded as a recommendation of OEM. In any case, the certificate referred to the absence of degradation H 442 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A in the year 2005, and based on such a certificate, there was no question of inferring that there was no degradation of the plant even thereafter. Therefore, the contractual stipulation regards downrating, which was never amended or deleted by any subsequent agreements, could not have been ignored or bypassed based on the certificate dated 8th November 2005 or the minutes B of the meeting dated 5th April 2007. 125. The impugned award to the extent it rejects the Appellant’s contention based on the downrating, will, therefore, have to be set aside on the ground that the same is vitiated by patent illegality on the face of the record.