Justice Jeevan Reddy was of the opinion that the Madan Mohan Pathak case cannot be treated as an authority for the proposition that mandamus cannot be set aside by a legislative act. Justice Hansaria F was not in agreement with such view. Relying upon the of this Court in A.V. Nachane v. Union of India (1982) 1 SCC 205, Justice Hansaria held that the legal stand taken by Justice Beg in the Madan Mohan Pathak case had received majority’s endorsement and it was because of this that retrospectivity given to the relevant rule assailed in A.V. Nachane was held to have G nullified the effect of the writ and was accordingly invalid. In view of the difference of opinion, the matter was referred to a larger bench. We are informed by the leaned Amicus Curiae that the difference of opinion could not be resolved as the case was settled out of court. H 318 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 43. In Virender Singh Hooda (2004) 12 SCC 588, this Court did not accept the contention of the petitioners therein that vested rights cannot be taken away by retrospective legislation. However, it was observed that taking away of such rights would be impermissible if there is violation of Articles 14, 16 or any other constitutional provision. The appointments already made in B implementation of a decision of this Court were protected with the reason that “the law does not permit the legislature to take away what has been granted in implementation of the Court’s decision. Such a course is impermissible.” This Court in Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal 1993 Supp (1) SCC 96 (2) declared the C ordinance which sought to displace an interim passed by the statutory tribunal as unconstitutional as it set side an individual decision inter partes and therefore, amounted to a legislative exercise of judicial power. When a mandamus issued by the Mysore High Court was sought to be annulled by a legislation, this Court quashed the same in S.R. Bhagwat v. State of Mysore D (1995) 6 SCC 16 on the ground that it was impermissible legislative exercise. Setting at naught a decision of the Court without removing the defect pointed out in the would sound the death knell of the rule of law. The rule of law would cease to have any meaning, because then it would be open to the Government to E defy a law and yet to get away with it.50 44. The permissibility of legislative override in this country should be in accordance with the principles laid down by this Court in the aforementioned as well as other s, which have been culled out as under: F a) The effect of the s of the Court can be nullified by a legislative act removing the basis of the . Such law can be retrospective. Retrospective amendment should be reasonable and not arbitrary and must not be violative of the fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution. G b) The test for determining the validity of a validating legislation is that the pointing out the defect would not have been passed, if the altered position as sought to be brought in by the validating statute existed before the Court at the time of rendering its .