H 980 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 6. Learned counsel for the appellant made a two-fold submission while assailing the of the High Court. In the first instance, she submitted that the High Court was not right in answering the second question of law in favour of the respondent without appreciating the factual aspects of the matter. Elaborating the said contention, she drew our attention to various clauses of the Scheme dated 18.08.1998 which B had been issued by the Bank by way of a Circular, to contend that the respondent did not fulfill the criterion regarding financial status of a candidate, within clause (c) of “Important points”, which gives the formula to be applied in to consider the case of a candidate for appointment on compassionate basis. In this regard, she drew our attention to the C application made by the respondent disclosing the income of his deceased father as well as the income of the family. She submitted that having regard to the true position of the income of the family, the respondent was not at all eligible to be considered for appointment on compassionate basis. 7. She further submitted that the first question of law has not at all D been considered by the High Court in the context of the eligibility of the respondent. Further, our attention was drawn to clause ‘A’ regarding the educational qualification of the candidate and it was submitted that the respondent had not completed his matriculation within a period of four years from the date of death of his father and hence, was not entitled to be considered for the appointment on compassionate basis as a clerk E and was over qualified to be appointed as a Peon. 8. In the above backdrop, learned counsel for the appellant drew our attention to certain s of this Court, namely, General Manager (D&PB) and Others vs. Kunti Tiwary reported in (2004) 7 SCC 271, Balbir Kaur and Another vs. Steel Authority of India Ltd. F reported in (2000) 6 SCC 493 and N.C. Santhosh vs. State of Karnataka reported in (2019) 7 SCC 617 which is a of a Three Judge Bench of this Court, to buttress the submission in support of the proposition that compassionate appointment is an exception to recruitment and that no vested right is available to a party to seek compassionate appointment G as a matter of right. She also submitted that in fact, the suit seeking the relief of declaration and mandatory injunction as against the appellant- Bank was not maintainable. 9. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent supported the of the High Court which has restored the of the Trial Court and had directed the appellant-Bank to consider the case of the H BANK OF BARODA & ORS v. BALJIT SINGH 981 respondent on compassionate grounds. He brought to our notice, the A fact that as on the date of the respondent’s father’s death i.e., 16.05.1999, the respondent had already passed 8th Standard and thereafter, he also acquired his matriculation and intimated to the Bank that he had the eligibility to be considered for compassionate appointment.