In Queen Empress v. Khimat Singh [1889 AWN 55] the view taken was that the provisions of Section 423(1) of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1898 (in short “the old Code”) made it obligatory for the F Court to obtain and examine the record at the time of hearing. When it was not possible to do so, the only available course was a direction for reconstruction. The said view was reiterated more than six decades back in Sevugaperumal, Re [AIR 1943 Mad 391 (2) : 44 Cri LJ 611] . The view has been reiterated by several G High Courts as well, even thereafter. 9. The High Court did not keep the relevant aspects and considerations in view and came to the abrupt conclusion that reconstruction was not possible merely because there was no 12 (1987) 2 SCC 55 H 524 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A response from the Sessions Judge. The for reconstruction was on 1-11-1993 and the of the High Court is in Criminal Appeal No. 1970 of 1979 dated 25-2-1994. The was followed in Criminal Appeal No. 1962 of 1979 disposed of on 16-8-1995. It is not clear as to whytheHighCourtdidnotrequire the Sessions Court to furnish the information about reconstruction ofrecords; B and/oritselftakeinitiativebyissuing positivedirectionsastothe manner, method and nature of attempts, efforts and exercise to be undertaken to effectively achieve the purpose in the best interests of justice and to avoid ultimately any miscarriageofjustice resultingfromanylapse, inactionorinappropriateorperfunctory C action, in this regard; particularly when no action was taken by the High Court to pass necessary s for about a decadewhen it received information about destruction of record. The course adopted by the High Court,ifapproved,wouldencouragedubious persons anddetractorsofjusticebyallowingundeservedpremium toviolatorsoflawbyactinghand in glovewiththoseanti-social D elementscomingtoholdsway,behindthe screen,in the ordinary and normal courseofjustice. 10.We, therefore, set aside the of the High Court and remit the matter back for fresh consideration. It is to be noted at this juncture that one of the respondents i.e. Om Pal has died during E the pendency of the appeal before this Court. The High Court shall direct reconstruction of the records within a period of six months from the date of receipt of our from all available or possible sources with the assistance of the prosecuting agency as well as the defending parties and their respective counsel. If it F is possible to have the records reconstructed to enable the High Court itself to hear and dispose of the appeals in the manner envisaged under Section 386 of the Code, rehear the appeals and dispose of the same, on their own merits and in accordance with law. If it finds that reconstruction is not practicable butbying retrialinterestofjusticecouldbe betterserved—adoptthatcourse G anddirectretrial— andfromthatstagelawshalltakeitsnormal course. If only reconstruction is not possible to facilitate the High Court to hear and dispose of the appeals and the further course of retrial and fresh adjudication by the Sessions Court is also rendered impossible due to loss of vitally important basic records — in that H case and situationonly,thedirectiongivenintheimpugned JITENDRA KUMAR RODE v. UNION OF INDIA 525 [SANJAY KAROL, J.]