Admittedly, the rules do not provide for such reservation to be treated as a vertical one. Likewise, the rules do not fix any cut- D off marks. An advertisement, made pursuant to a notification, binds the parties. It has got all the trappings of a statutory prescription, unless it becomes contrary to either a rule or an Act. A change, if any, can only be brought forth by way of an amendment and nothing else. Such an amendment even if it is E permissible can be tested on the touchstone of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. It cannot be introduced to give an entry to a special reservation, in a case where a right becomes accrued to a candidate, under a policy decision reduced in the form of an advertisement, to be considered for a post in the absence of any eligible candidate from the horizontal category. It is true that a F candidate may not have a vested right to the post, however, it cannot be confused with a right to be considered in accordance with law. A law which enables a candidate to get a post cannot be changed to facilitate another group of persons, since the candidate acquires a vested right to be considered in accordance with law. G [Paras 22-24][552-D-H; 553-A-B] 1.2 Admittedly, in the case on hand, the appellants are entitled to get the respective post as per the advertisement issued. The said advertisement has not been amended. It was sought to be modified on the advice of the Government. Fixing cut-off marks for a particular category has got a rationale behind H SURESHKUMAR LALITKUMAR PATEL v. STATE OF 545 GUJARAT it. Reducing it only for the purpose of providing employment to a A particular category, when the others have already acquired some right would be an affront to Article 14 of the Constitution of India. The relevant clauses contained in the advertisement do not confer unbridled power either on the State Government or on the Selection Committee to modify the selection process, and thereby, B reduce the cutoff marks after the results are published. [Paras 25, 26][554-C-E] 1.3 The decision to reduce the cut-off marks is not based upon an objective-criteria, namely, the suitability of the candidate to the post, but for extraneous reason, i.e., to accommodate C otherwise ineligible candidates. Earlier cut-off marks were fixed on a conscious consideration of the marks required to be eligible for the post, which could not be reduced, unless there is a sound reason that the reduced marks also would be sufficient to be suitable for that post. Having held that the of the Division Bench of the High Court of Gujarat cannot be sustained in the D eye of law, this Court is inclined to balance the equities and do justice by exercising power under Article 142 of the Constitution of India. The object behind the decision is laudable and the private respondents belong to the special category comprising of women, ex servicemen and physically challenged.