30[(6A)Where a financial debt— (a) is in the form of securities or deposits and the terms of the financial debt provide for appointment of a trustee or agent to act G as authorised representative for all the financial creditors, such trustee or agent shall act on behalf of such financial creditors; 29 The words “or issued as securities” omitted by Act. No 26 of 2018, sec. 15(iii) (w.r.e.f. 6-6-2018). 30 Ins. by Act 26 of 2018, sec. 15(iv) (w.r.e.f. 6-6-2018). H M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 861 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] (b) is owed to a class of creditors exceeding the number as may A be specified, other than the creditors covered under clause (a) or sub-section (6), the interim resolution professional shall make an application to the Adjudicating Authority along with the list of all financial creditors, containing the name of an insolvency professional, other than the interim resolution professional, to act B as their authorised representative who shall be appointed by the Adjudicating Authority prior to the first meeting of the committee of creditors; (c) is represented by a guardian, executor or administrator, such person shall act as authorised representative on behalf of such C financial creditors, and such authorised representative under clause (a) or clause (b) or clause (c) shall attend the meetings of the committee of creditors, and vote on behalf of each financial creditor to the extent of his voting share. D (6B) The remuneration payable to the authorised representative- (i) under clauses (a) and (c) of sub-section (6A), if any, shall be as per the terms of the financial debt or the relevant documentation; and (ii) under clause (b) of sub-section (6A) shall be as specified which E shall be form part of the insolvency resolution process costs.] 31[(7) The Board may specify the manner of voting and the determining of the voting share in respect of financial debts covered under sub-sections (6) and (6A). F (8) Save as otherwise provided in this Code, all decisions of the committee of creditors shall be taken by a vote of not less than fifty-one per cent. of voting share of the financial creditors: Provided that where a corporate debtor does not have any financial creditors, the committee of creditors shall be constituted and shall G comprise of such persons to exercise such functions in such manner as may be specified.] (9) The committee of creditors shall have the right to require the resolution professional to furnish any financial information in relation 31 Subs. by Act 26 of 2018, sec. 15(v), for sub-sections (7) and (8) (w.r.e.f. 6-6-2018). H 862 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A to the corporate debtor at any time during the corporate insolvency resolution process. 10) The resolution professional shall make available any financial information so required by the committee of creditors under sub- section (9) within a period of seven days of such requisition. B Section 24. Meeting of committee of creditors. - (1) The members of the committee of creditors may meet in person or by such electronic means as may be specified.