It was D further submitted that the overruled s are still binding on the parties to the said s and have attained finality and in view of the Explanation, they cannot be reopened or reviewed. 33. Applying the Explanation to the facts of the present case, it was contended that in Indore Development Authority, the E in Pune Municipal Corporation was overruled on a pure question of law and further, all other s following Pune Municipal Corporationalso stood overruled. But the overruling of the decision in Pune Municipal Corporation by a subsequent decision of a Larger Bench of five Judges in Indore Development Authorityis not a ground F for review and recall of the very decision in Pune Municipal Corporation and all other decisions following Pune Municipal Corporation. It was submitted that the Explanation to XLVII Rule 1 CPC bars the review petition being entertained in the instant cases. Hence, in these cases, the review petitions may have to be rejected/dismissed. 34. The expression “any other sufficient reason” which is a ground G for review and which is the sheet anchor of the petitioner’s review petition has not been defined in the Code. However, the s of the (i) Privy Council in Chajju Ram vs. Neki AIR 1922 P.C. 112; Bisheshwar Pratap Sahi vs. Parath Nath AIR 1934 P.C. 213; H 240 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A (ii) Federal Court in Hari Sankar Pal vs. Anath Nath Mitter AIR 1949 FC 106, and, (iii) This Court in Moran Mar Basselios Catholicos vs. Most Rev. Mar Paulose Athanasius AIR 1954 SC 526 have held that words must mean “a reason sufficient on grounds, B at least analogous to those specified in the Rule”. 35. In Chajju Ram vs. Neki (supra), the Privy Council held that there cannot be a review on the ground that the proceeded on an incorrect exposition of law. Further, the Court has no jurisdiction to a review because it was of the opinion that a different conclusion C of law should have been arrived at. It was also observed that if a decision is erroneous in law that is not a ground for ing review. If a court has decided a point erroneously, the error could not be one apparent on the face of the record or even analogous to it. Therefore, subsequent events or the fact that the Court took a different view in a subsequent case is not a sufficient reason for granting review (vide Explanation to D XLVII Rule 1 CPC). 36. Although, the expression “for any other sufficient reason” in XLVII Rule 1 CPC is wide enough to take within its scope and ambit many circumstances or situations which do not fall in the earlier part of the XLVII Rule 1 CPC which are the two grounds (i) and E (ii) referred to above, in my view, the Explanation to the said provision carves out an exception to the expression “for any other sufficient reason” as a ground for review of a in ground (iii).