Whenever its powers are invoked either F under Article 226 of the Constitution or section 482, Cr. P.C. for quashing a first information report/complaint, the courts would not be justified in embarking upon an enquiry as to the probability, reliability or genuineness of the allegations made therein. Thus, it being the settled principle of law that when an investigation is yet to start, there should be no scrutiny to what extent the G allegations in a first information report are probable, reliable or genuine and also that a first information report can be registered merely on suspicion, the High Court ought to have realized that the FIR which, according to it, was based on “probabilities” ought not to have been interdicted. Viewed through the prism of gravity H of allegations, a first information report based on “probability” of THE STATE OF CHATTISGARH & ANR. v. AMAN KUMAR 137 SINGH & ORS. ETC. ETC a crime having been committed would obviously be of a higher A degree as compared to a first information report lodged on a “mere suspicion” that a crime has been committed. The High Court failed to bear in mind these principles and precisely did what it was not supposed to do at this stage. No reason to invalidate the FIR for alleged breach of the CBI Circular. The High Court was B not justified in its interference with the investigative process and committed an error of law in quashing the FIR on the grounds it did. [Paras 58, 59, 61 and 65][157-E-F, G-H; 158-E-H; 159-H] State of Maharashtra v. Ishwar Piraji Kalpatri (1996) 1 SCC 542 : [1995] 5 Suppl. SCR 812 – relied on. C 1.3 In the writ petitions filed by AS and YS, the pleadings are insufficient to return a finding that the FIR is an outcome of mala fide. No doubt, certain allegations are levelled against the Government and the Chief Minister; however, such allegations are vague and general in nature. Mala fide motives are required D to be affirmatively pleaded and proved. However, no foundation in that behalf has been laid and naturally so, the High Court even did not examine whether exception could have been taken to the FIR on the ground of mala fide. Neither the head of the political executive (the incumbent Chief Minister) nor that of the administrative executive (the Chief Secretary) was personally E arrayed as a party to any of the proceedings. The person against whom mala fide or bias is imputed should be impleaded as a party respondent to the proceedings eo nomine and that in his/her absence no inquiry into the allegations can be made. When an information is lodged at the police station and an offence is F registered in respect of a disproportionate assets case, it is the material collected during the investigation and evidence led in court that is decisive for determining the fate of the accused. Whether the first information report is the outcome of mala fide would be of secondary importance.