located in the States of Jammu and Kashmir. Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya. Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura: or d) an inter-state hydel power plant of a capacity of 500 MW or F more, located in States other than those specified in clause (c) above’ Fiscal concessions/benefits available to the Mega Power Projects Zero Customs Duty: In terms of the notification of the Government G of India in the Ministry of Finance(Department of Revenue) No. 21/2002-Customs dated 18 March, 2002 read together with No. 49/2006-Customs dated 26 May, 2006. the import of capital equipment would be free of customs duty for these projects.” (132) The understanding of the Authority for Advance Ruling appears to be that as far as the entitlement to exemption under the H HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 81 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] notification is concerned a mega power project has to be understood as A confined to what follows after the words ‘that is to say’. In other words, though the use of the words power project in entry 400 would appear to suggest that it is capable of embracing within its scope a captive mine from which the fuel is generated to run the power plant, when it came to the actual beneficiary of entry 400, the maker of the notification has B confined the exemption to the goods for the purpose of the power plant. In other words, the word power project has been conflated with the power plant. This appears to be the soul of the reasoning of the Advance Ruling Authority. While we are aware that the first respondent is not bound by the said Ruling as it is not a party, we do not find it erroneous on our part in finding merit in the logic of the same or adopting the same C for the purpose of deciding the question which squarely arises before this Court viz., whether there is a change in law. (133) There is also merit in the contention of the appellant that for article 13.1.1 to be successfully invoked by the seller, it must demonstrate that there was an interpretation earlier to or as on the date of the cut off D date which was advantageous to the seller and there has been a change in the said interpretation after the cut off date. (134) In other words, the OM issued with the approval of the Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Power does not indicate that it is a case of a change in interpretation. He does not say that the position E adumbrated in the OM represents a shift or a change from what the position was prior to the cut off date. This is apart from any material being available to show that there was an interpretation in favour of the first respondent prior to the cut off date. (135) We reiterate that no instance of exemption to goods of F similar nature being imported by any person for the captive mine as part of a power project be it mega or ultra mega plant is placed before the Commission.