C At this stage, Ld. APP submits that he wants to cross examine the witness as he is resiling from his previous statement. Heard. Allowed Xxxxxx by Ld. APP for the State. D I do not remember that my statement EX PW-5/A was recorded on 13.06.2009 or not. It is wrong to suggest that I have stated in my statement that my brother Prem Singh during quarrel and in the rage he used to abusing and beating his wife. Confronted from “A” to “A1” of my statement EX PW-5/A where it is so E recorded. I have not stated to the police that my brother was suspicious over the character of his wifeand the suspicion was because of the reason that whenever his wife come from the house of Mahender Singh, his maternal uncle situated at Shakur Pur Village, she was brought by some boys of tenant of Mahender Singh. He was also not having affection like a father towards his F both the sons and during quarrel he used to pin pointing that the sons were not belongs to him. Prem Singh was not controlled neither by me not his father. Confronted from “B” to “B1” of my statement EX PW-5/A where it is so recorded. It is correct that my brother was released from the Nasha Mukti Kendr on G 29.04.2009. it is correct that on receiving the information from Rohini Court police staff on 03.05.2009 they informed that they got an information for my brother Prem Singh that when both his son Jitender and Sunny were present at Haider pur Canal and they were running and playing in front of him they were drowned H 820 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A in the canal and flown (Beh Gaye) in the canal. I have not stated to the police that oftenly my brother cursing the character of his wife and abusing and beating her and was having haterisim against his both the sons. Confronted from “C” to “C1” of my statement EX PW-5/A where it is so recorded. I have not stated to the police that the cause of suspicion over character of wife and for B taking revenge from his wife he has committed murder of his both son Jitesh and Sunny and thereafter informed to the police that they were drowned in the canal when they were playing. Confronted from “D” to “D1” of my statement EX PW-5/A where it is so recorded. It is wrong to suggest that accused is my brother C as such I am not giving the fair statement which I have got recorded during the police investigation. It is wrong to suggest that due to passage time my anger cool down or that I am deposing in favour of accused Prem Singh. It is wrong to suggest that I strategically concealed the fact of haterism of my brother towards his wife because of her character and concequently his ill behavior D towards his sons and ultimately causes the death of his sons.