This is not a conceivable position because courts must interpret statutes so as to D give effect to their provisions rather than to render them futile.24 65. The appellants have also submitted that what cannot be done directly cannot be done indirectly. For the reasons discussed above, neither Article 323-A of the Constitution nor the Administrative Tribunals Act prohibit the abolition of SATs. Hence, it cannot be said that the Union E Government is barred from abolishing the SATs “directly” and that it has resorted to Section 21 of the General Clauses Act to evade such a ban and “indirectly” abolish the OAT. The Union Government’s reliance on Section 21 of the General Clauses Act to abolish the OAT is legally permissible. F 66. The appellants have urged that the Administrative Tribunal (Amendment) Bill 2006 was introduced in Parliament to provide an enabling provision for the abolition of SATs and for the transfer of pending cases from the abolished SAT to the relevant High Court. This bill was referred to the Rajya Sabha Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice, which submitted its report on 5 December G 2006. The report recommended that the power to abolish an SAT should not be granted to the executive. It is argued that the Union Government does not have the power to abolish SATs because this Bill was not enacted 24 M. Pentiah v. Muddala Veeramallappa (1961) 2 SCR 295 H 780 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A into law because of the recommendations contained in the report of the Standing Committee. 67. The appellants seem to be implying that Parliament was of the opinion that the Union Government did not have the power to abolish SATs in the absence of an enabling provision. It may also be the case B that Parliament introduced the Administrative Tribunal (Amendment) Bill 2006 in to clarify the power of the Union Government to abolish SATs rather than to confer it with that power. This Court cannot possibly enter into a discussion or analysis of all the potential reasons for a proposed amendment. 68. The appellants have put forth another argument on similar C lines. It is their case the Union Government’s stance before the Madras High Court in the TNAT Abolition Case (supra) must influence this Court’s decision on whether the Union Government has the power to rescind a notification establishing SATs. The Union Government’s stance was recorded in paragraph 4 of the TNAT Abolition Case (supra): D “4. On the other hand, the stand taken by the Central Government, the first respondent herein, is that though the Government of Tamil Nadu has sent a proposal to the Central Government for abolition, this cannot be done through Notification. The appropriate legislation for this proposal has to be brought in the Parliament E and the same is being contemplated by the Law Department which after due processing and approval will be brought before the Parliament. Mere Notification of the Central Government would not suffice in this case, since Section 74 of the Madhya Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2000 would specifically provide for the abolition through Notification.