Pritam Tiwary, brother in law of (wife’s sister) Phuchchan Pandey lived in that house. He had called X to watch TV at his house. When X did not return even after two hours, Priya (elder sister) went to the room of Pritam Tiwary to call her. On asking Pritam Tiwary about the whereabouts of X, he told that X had not come there. At that time Pritam was locking the grills of the verandah. Then she went to the nearby mango orchard to look for her. She did not fi nd her there also. Finally the she telephone her mother and informed her that X was missing. On arrival of Kiran Devi everybody started looking for X at all their relatives’ place, but could not fi nd her anywhere. Some people suspected that X was with Pritam Tiwary. Then everybody started searching for Pritam Tiwary. He was also not found anywhere. Then all the villagers and their relatives asked Munna Pandey to open the house but Munna Pandey refused to do so and made an excuse that he does not possess the keys. Then the villagers telephoned Fucchan Pandey who is the brother of Munna Pandey but they found that Fucchan Pandey was living at his in law’s place (sasuraal) at Rajmahal since the last two months. On date 01.06.15 at about 12:00 o’clock Naval Kishore Ojha @ Fucchan Pandey came and opened the lock of his investigation. (Emphasis supplied) 39. Thus, the case of all the witnesses before the police was that it was Pritam Tiwari who had come to the house of the victim on the fateful day and date and had taken the victim along with him to his house to watch TV. All the statements further reveal that it was Pritam Tiwari who was found 1042 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. locking the door when the witnesses enquired with Pritam Tiwari about the whereabouts of the victim. 40. Neither the defence counsel nor the public prosecutor nor the presiding offi cer of the Trial Court and unfortunately even the High Court thought fi t to look into the aforesaid aspect of the matter and try to reach to the truth. 41. It was the duty of the defence counsel to confront the witnesses with their police statements so as to prove the contradictions in the form of material omissions and bring them on record. We are sorry to say that the learned defence counsel had no idea how to contradict a witness with his or her police statements in accordance with Section 145 of the Evidence Act, 1872 (for short, ‘Evidence Act’). 42. The lapse on the part of public prosecutor is also something very unfortunate. The public prosecutor knew that the witnesses were deposing something contrary to what they had stated before the police in their statements recorded under Section 161 of the CrPC. It was his duty to bring to the notice of the witnesses and confront them with the same even without declaring them as hostile.