22. The doctrine of legitimate expectation was crystallized in common law jurisprudence by Lord Diplock in the locus classicus, Council of Civil Service Unions v. Minister for the Civil Service.11 Lord Diplock held that courts can exercise the power of judicial review of administrative decisions in situations where such decision deprives a person of some benefit or advantage which: 10 [1983] 2 WLR 735 11 [1985] AC 374 SIVANANDAN C T AND OTHERS v. HIGH COURT OF KERALA AND 689 OTHERS [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (i) they had in the past been permitted by the decision-maker to enjoy and which they can legitimately expect to be permitted to continue until there has been communicated to them some rational grounds for withdrawing it on which they have been given an opportunity to comment; or (ii) they have received assurance from the decision-maker that the advantage or benefi t will not be withdrawn without giving them an opportunity of advancing reasons for contending that the advantage or benefi t should not be withdrawn. 23. The doctrine of legitimate expectation emerged as a common law doctrine to guarantee procedural fairness and propriety in administrative actions. Legitimate expectation was developed by the courts to require a degree of procedural fairness by public authorities in their dealings with individuals. Denial of an assured benefi t or advantage was accepted as a ground to challenge the decision of a public authority. b. Doctrine of legitimate expectation under Indian law 24. By the 1990s, the Indian courts incorporated the doctrine of legitimate expectation in the context of procedural fairness and non- arbitrariness under Article 14 of the Constitution. In Food Corporation of India v. Kamdhenu Cattle Feed Industries12, this Court held that public authorities have a duty to use their powers for the purposes of public good. This duty raises a legitimate expectation on the part of the citizens to be treated in a fair and non-arbitrary manner in their interactions with the state and its instrumentalities. This Court held that a decision taken by an executive authority without considering the legitimate expectation of an aff ected person may amount to an abuse of power: “7. […] To satisfy this requirement of non-arbitrariness in a State action, it is, therefore, necessary to consider and give due weight to the reasonable or legitimate expectations of the persons likely to be aff ected by the decision or else that unfairness in the exercise of the power may amount to an abuse or excess of power apart from aff ecting the bona fi des of the decision in a given case. The decision so made 12 (1993) 1 SCC 71 690 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. would be exposed to challenge on the ground of arbitrariness. Rule of law does not completely eliminate discretion in the exercise of power, as it is unrealistic, but provides for control of its exercise by judicial review.” The court held that whether the expectation of a claimant is legitimate or not is a question of fact which has to be decided after weighing the claimant’s expectation against the larger public interest.