From the and dated 09.12.2016 of the Competition Appellate Tribunal at New Delhi in Appeal No.80 of 2014. With E Contempt Petition (C) No.896 of 2018 In C.A. No.2845 Of 2017 And T.C. (C) Nos.19, 20, 16-18, 21 Of 2023 N. Venkataraman, A.S.G., K K Venugopal, Maninder Singh, Ranjit Kumar, Birendra Saraf, Sr. Advs., Ms. Sheena Taqui, Ms. Akansha Saini, Mrs. Bina Gupta, Harman Sandhu, Ms. Shally Bhasin, Yaman Verma, F Chaitanya Safaya, Prateek Gupta, Ms. Raveena Lalit, Abhishek Hazari, Ms. Sanjana L.B., S. S. Shroff, Ajay Nandalike, Achyuth Ajithkumar, Talha Abdul Rahman, Rishad Ahmed Chowdhury, Ms. Anuja Mishra, V. Chandrashekara Bharathi, Ms. Shruti Shiv Kumar, Ms. Shruthi Shiv Kumar, Ms. Amritha Chandramouli, Rahul Vijayakumar, Sakya Singha Chaudhuri, Ms. Radhika Gupta, Amit Gautam, Matrugupta Mishra, Ms. G Ishita Thakur, Ms. Ritika Singhal, Ms. Divya Roy, Prabhat Kaushik, M.A. Venkata Subramanian, Nagarkatti Kartik Uday, M/s. D.S.K. Legal, G. Saikumar, Samir Malik, Ms. Nikita Choukse, Akash Lamba, Advs. for the appearing parties. H COAL INDIA LIMITED v. COMPETITION COMMISSION 835 OF INDIA The of the Court was delivered by A K. M. JOSEPH, J. 1. The Civil Appeal is directed against the passed by the Competition Appellate Tribunal, New Delhi(hereinafter referred to as ‘Tribunal’), by which , the Tribunal affirmed the findings and B conclusion recorded by the CompetitionCommission of India (hereinafter referred to as ‘CCI’) on various facets of abuse of dominant position. The abuse of dominant position was ascribed to the appellants. The appeal was dismissed. 2. The second respondent had provided information to the CCI C which the CCI proceeded to consider and it found the abuse of dominant position by the appellants. 3. The appellants have filed Interlocutory Application, viz., I.A. No. 66587 of 2017 being an application seeking permission to take additional grounds. Parties exchanged pleadings in the interlocutory application.We have allowed the application seeking permission to urge D the new grounds. 4. When the matter came up on 16.09.2022 before a Bench of two learned Judges, the Court felt that since modification of dated 03.08.2017 was sought, it would be appropriate that these matters are heard by a Bench of three learned Judges. It is, accordingly, that the E matter stood posted before a Bench of three learned Judges. 5. The principal bone of contention of the appellants in the I.A. 66587 of 2017 appears to be that Coal India Limited, the first appellant (hereinafter referred to as ‘CIL’) being a monopoly created by a statute and what is more important, geared and duty bound to achieve the objects F declared in Article 39(b) of the Constitution of India and the second appellant,Western Coalfields Limited, a subsidiary company of the first appellantcannot be bound by the Competition Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Act’). In other words, having regard to the very object and purpose for which it was brought into being and the law G surrounding such a body, applying the Act would produce such anomalous results as would stultify the sublime goal enshrined in Article 39(b) as also the statute under which CIL witnessed its birth.