2.2 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned E and passed by the High Court whereby the penalty and interest has been set aside, the State has preferred the present appeal. 3. Ms. Aastha Mehta, learned counsel has appeared with Ms. Deepanwita Priyanka, on behalf of the State. 3.1 Ms. Mehta learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State F has vehemently submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case, the High Court has committed a serious error in deleting the penalty and interest levied under Section 45(6) and Section 47(4A) of the Act, 1969. 3.2 It is further submitted that while deleting the penalty, the High G Court has not at all considered sub-section (6) of Section 45 of the Act, 1969 in its true spirit. 3.3 It is next submitted that the High Court has not properly considered the fact that the penalty leviable under Section 45(6) of the Act, 1969, is a statutory penalty and hence, is compulsorily leviable. H STATE OF GUJARAT AND ANR. v. M/s. SAW PIPES LTD. 485 [M. R. SHAH, J.] 3.4 It is contended by Ms. Mehta, learned counsel appearing on A behalf of the State that the penalty leviable under Section 45(6) of the Act, being a statutory penalty, there is no discretion vested with the Commissioner to levy or not to levy, as long as the assessee falls under Section 45(5) of the Act, 1969. 3.5 It is further contended that even the Commissioner has no B discretion and/or authority to levy the penalty other than the penalty provided under Section 45(6) of the Act, 1969. 3.6 It is submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State that the moment it is found that the amount of tax assessed or reassessed exceeds the amount of tax already paid by the dealer under C Section 47 in respect of such period by more than 25% of the amount of tax so paid, the dealer can be deemed to have failed to pay the tax to the extent of the difference between the amount so assessed or reassessed and the amount paid and in that eventuality the dealer is liable to pay a penalty not exceeding one and one-half times the difference and/or, on D such dealer, who is deemed to have failed to pay the tax to the extent mentioned in sub-section (5) of Section 45, a penalty shall be leviednot exceeding one and one-half times the difference. It is further submitted that even the Commissioner has no jurisdiction and/or authority to levy the penalty lesser than one and one-half times the difference. E 3.7 It is contended by Ms. Mehta learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State that the phrase used in sub-section (6) of Section 45 of the Act is “shall be levied”. Reliance was placed on the decision of a three-judge bench of this Court in the case of Union of India and Ors. Vs. Dharamendra Textile Processors and Ors. ; (2008) 13 SCC 369 wherein it has been held that when the term is used “shall be leviable” F the adjudicating authority will have no discretion.