Insofar as that election is concerned, the mode of settlement of disputes to an Arbitral Tribunal has been elected. The provisions of the SARFAESI Act are thus, a remedy in addition to the provisions of the Arbitration Act. In Transcore v. Union of India it was clearly observed that the SARFAESI Act was enacted to regulate securitisation and reconstruction of fi nancial assets and enforcement of security interest and for matters connected therewith. Liquidation of secured interest through a more expeditious procedure is what has been envisaged under the Sarfaesi Act and the two Acts are cumulative remedies to the secured creditors.” (Emphasis supplied) 71. It would be also appropriate to refer to another decision of this Court rendered in Vishal N. Kalsaria v. Bank of India & Ors. reported in (2016) 3 SCC 762 wherein this Court while construing the expression “any other law” occurring in Section 35 of the SARFAESI Act, held the same would mean any other law operating in the same fi eld. The relevant observations made in it are given below: - “37. It is a settled position of law that once tenancy is created, a tenant can be evicted only after following the due process of law, as prescribed under the provisions of the Rent Control Act. A tenant cannot be arbitrarily evicted by using the provisions of the SARFAESI Act as that would amount to stultifying the statutory rights of protection given to the tenant. A non obstante clause (Section 35 of the SARFAESI Act) cannot be used to bulldoze the statutory rights vested in the tenants under the Rent Control Act. The expression “any other law for the CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 127 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] time being in force” as appearing in Section 35 of the SARFAESI Act cannot mean to extend to each and every law enacted by the Central and State Legislatures. It can only extend to the laws operating in the same fi eld.” (Emphasis supplied) 72. Thus, it appears from a combined reading of the decisions rendered by this Court in Madras Petrochem (supra) and M.D. Frozen Foods Exports (supra) that this Court has consistently construed that only those laws which have either been enumerated in Section 37 SARFAESI Act or similar to it would be applicable in addition to the SARFAESI Act i.e., laws which deal with securities or occupy the same fi eld as the SARFAESI Act. Thus, even on this aspect, we are of the view that the Act 1882 would not be applicable in addition to the SARFAESI Act. Suffi ce to say, that in view of the above discussion, the statutory right of redemption under the Act 1882 will not be applicable to the SARFAESI Act at least in view of the amended Section 13(8) and any right of redemption of a borrower must be found within the SARFAESI Act in terms of the amended Section 13(8). WHY THE DECISION OF THE TELANGANA HIGH COURT IN THE CASE OF AMME SRISAILAM (SUPRA) IS NOT A GOOD LAW?