(2) Where the materials placed before the Court disclose grave suspicion against the accused which has not been properly explained the Court will be fully justifi ed in framing a charge and proceeding with the trial. (3) The test to determine a prima facie case would naturally depend upon the facts of each case and it is diffi cult to lay down a rule of universal application. By and large however if two views are equally possible and the Judge is satisfi ed that the evidence produced before him while giving rise to some suspicion but not grave suspicion against the accused, he will be fully within his right to discharge the accused. (4) That in exercising his jurisdiction under Section 227 of the Code the Judge which under the present Code is a senior and experienced court cannot act merely as a Post Offi ce or a mouthpiece of the prosecution, but has to consider the broad probabilities of the case, the total eff ect of the evidence and the documents produced before the Court, any basic infi rmities appearing in the case and so on. This however does not mean that the Judge should make a roving enquiry into the pros and cons of the matter and weigh the evidence as if he was conducting a trial.’ (emphasis supplied) 21. In Niranjan Singh Karam Singh Punjabi (supra), this Court was alive to reality, stating that ‘… it cannot be expected even at the initial stage to accept all that the prosecution states as gospel truth even if it is 108 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. opposed to common sense or the broad probabilities of the case.’ If a view gives rise to suspicion, as opposed to grave suspicion, the Court concerned is empowered to discharge the accused, as pointed out in Sajjan Kumar v Central Bureau of Investigation, (2010) 9 SCC 368. The Court, in Dinesh Tiwari (supra) had reasoned that if the Court concerned opines that there is ground to presume the accused has committed an off ence, it is competent to frame a charge even if such off ence is not mentioned in the Charge Sheet. As to what is ‘strong suspicion’, reference to Dipakbhai Jagdishchandra Patel (supra) is warranted, where it was explained that it is ‘… the suspicion which is premised on some material which commends itself to the court as suffi cient to entertain the prima facie view that the accused has committed the off ence.’ 22. In a recent judgement viz. State of Gujarat v Dilipsinh Kishorsinh Rao, 2023 INSC 89414, this Court held: ‘7. It is trite law that application of judicial mind being necessary to determine whether a case has been made out by the prosecution for proceeding with trial and it would not be necessary to dwell into the pros and cons of the matter by examining the defence of the accused when an application for discharge is fi led. At that stage, the trial judge has to merely examine the evidence placed by the prosecution in to determine whether or not the grounds are suffi cient to proceed against the accused on basis of charge sheet material.