C 31. In light of the abovementioned facts and discussions, we are of the opinion that rendered by the High Court of Bombay in the Suresh (Supra) expounds the correction position of law, and we concur and approve the same. 32. While the conflict between the two sets of High Court D s has been brought to an end, certain other issues flowing from the said interpretation, in our opinion, must also be clarified. 33. The learned counsel for the respondent, through his submissions, contended that a non-declaration of goods, as mandated by Section 77 of the Customs Act, ousts the jurisdiction of the Settlement Commission. E To bring clarity to the said contention, we must first shed light on the two modes of clearance of incoming passengers, which are the red channel mode of entry and the green channel mode of entry. 34. When an incoming passenger goes through customs verification, he has two options of clearances, which are the red channel mode of F entry and the green channel mode of entry. When an incoming passenger avails the red channel mode of entry, it is accepted by the passenger that they have goods that are liable for duty, and hence, by virtue of their own admission, are mandated declare the goods that require duty as per Section 77 of the Customs Act. G 35. If a passenger opts for the green channel mode of entry, it implies that the passenger, by virtue of not opting for the red channel mode of entry, is stating that he has no goods that are liable to duty, and hence, it is deemed that they are making a declaration under Section 77 of the Customs Act of carrying “Nil” dutiable goods. H YAMAL MANOJBHAI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 929 [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] 36. However, if a passenger decides to opt for the green channel A of entry, but, is still found with goods that are subject to the levy of duty, they become liable to confiscatory and penal action as per the Customs Act. Since they become subject to the penal provisions of the Customs Act, by default, it must also be implied that they are given the benefit of settlement as per the same Act. No surgery in such a scenario B can be done, wherein the accused is held liable of the penal consequences of the act, however, is denied the benefit of remedy under the same Act. 37. Further, if we were to accept the proposition that a non- declaration under Section 77 of the Customs Act would automatically C bar the incoming passenger from availing the benefit of settlement, in light of our observation that an entry through the green channel mode implies a declaration of “Nil” goods under Section 77 of the Act , the provision of settlement would become irrelevant and defunct, since no accused would ever be able to avail the benefits of settlement. D 38. Therefore, in light of the above discussion, we see no reason as to why such a person cannot opt for a statutory remedy of settlement, and therefore reject the objection of the respondents in this regard.