6 2007 SCC OnLine Mad 457/ (2008) 3 Mad LJ 219 APPAIYA v. ANDIMUTHU @ THANGAPANDI & ORS. 535 [C.T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] (v) Vellaiya Thevar was entitled to only 96 cents and therefore in terms of Exhibit A5, the plaintiff (the appellant) is entitled only to 96 cents. (vi) Both sides have produced kist rasid, chitta and patta. 18. In the light of the reasons that persuaded the High Court to reverse the concurrent s, as mentioned above, their sustainability is to be looked into with respect to the positions of law as noted hereinbefore, with respect to the scope of exercise of power under Section 100, CPC and with reference to the relevant provisions under the Evidence Act as also other relevant enactments. 19. We will consider whether the High Court was legally correct in holding that owing to the non-production of any document by the plaintiff (the appellant) evincing as to how the sons of Vellaiya Thevar obtained the suit property in a partition Exhibit A1, being a registration copy (secondary evidence), could not be admitted in evidence as proof of the contents of its original. At the outset, it is to be stated that while holding thus the High Court has failed to consider the relevant provisions under the Evidence Act and also the Registration Act, 1908 appropriately. If the relevant provisions under the said enactments were properly applied to the facts of the case, the High Court would not have placed reliance on R. Nainar Pillai’s case (supra) to hold that since Exhibit A1 being a registration copy, the presumption of due execution of the original under Section 90 of the Evidence Act, particularly in the absence of independent witness would not be available. We say so because proper consideration of the provisions under Sections 61, 63, 65, 74, 76, 77 and Section 79 of the Evidence Act would have defi nitely brought out that it was absolutely unessential to consider the applicability of Section 90 as also Section 110 of the Evidence Act. Needless to say, that in such circumstances there would not have been any necessity to seek proof through an independent witness, as well. 20. At the outset, it is very much relevant to note that the fi nding of fact by the trial Court that Exts. A1 to A5 are all registered with Sub- Registrar’s offi ce was not disturbed, rather, agreed by the First Appellate Court. As a matter of fact, the High Court also did not reverse the said fi ndings on facts. Indisputably, the appellant has produced the registered copy of (Exhibit A1) sale deed No. 1209/1928 dated 27.08.1928 executed 536 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. by sons of Vellaiya Thevar in favour of Puliyankaladi. Section 61 of the Evidence Act provides that the contents of documents may be proved either by primary or secondary evidence. Section 63 which is an inclusive defi nition of secondary evidence provides under sub-section (1) thereof that, “certifi ed copies given under the provisions hereinafter contained” constitute secondary evidence.