[DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI] b. Parliament shall have the power to enact laws for NCTD with respect to all entries in the State List and Concurrent List4; c. If any provision of a law made by the Legislative Assembly of NCTD is repugnant to a provision of a law made by Parliament, the law made by Parliament shall prevail.5 3. Two Constitution Benches of this Court have dealt with the constitutional status imparted to the National Capital Territory by virtue of the provisions of Article 239AA of the Constitution. These are: (i) State (NCT of Delhi) Vs Union of India6 (ii) Govt. of NCT of Delhi Vs Union of India7 4. The second decision of the Constitution Bench (2023 Constitution Bench ) specifically dealt with control over “services” pertaining to the National Capital Territory of Delhi (NCTD). The subject of services is comprised in Entry 41 of the State List to the Seventh Schedule (“State Public Services; State Public Services Commission”). The 2023 Constitution Bench held that Article 239-AA(3)(a) does not exclude the legislative power of NCTD over entries other than those expressly excluded in the provision, and thus, NCTD has legislative competence over “services”. Since executive power is co-extensive with legislative power, this Court held that NCTD will have executive power over “services”. An incidental issue that arose was with respect to the scope of the executive power over entries over which both the Union of India and NCTD have legislative competence. Drawing upon the principles in Articles 73 and 162, the 2023 Constitution Bench held that on entries over which Parliament also has legislative competence, the executive power shall ordinarily lie with NCTD. However, such executive power would be “subject to and limited by” the executive power expressly conferred upon the Union of India by provisions of the 4 Article 239-AA(3)(b) 5 Article 239-AA(3)(c) 6 (2018) 8 SCC 501- 7 (2023) 9 SCC 1 – “2023 Constitution Bench” 462 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Constitution or a law made by Parliament.8 The relevant observation is extracted below: “85. […] The executive power of NCTD shall extend to all entries in List II and List III, other than the entries expressly excluded in Article 239AA(3). Such power shall be subject to the executive power of the Union (through the Lieutenant Governor) only when the Union has been granted such power by the Constitution or a law of Parliament. Therefore, the executive power of NCTD, in the absence of a law by Parliament, shall extend to all subjects on which it has power to legislate.” […] “95. […] The executive power of the Union, in the absence of a law upon its executive power relating to any subject in the State List, shall cover only matters relating to the three entries which are excluded from the legislative domain of NCTD. As a corollary, in the absence of a law or provision of the Constitution, the executive power of the Lieutenant Governor acting on behalf of the Union Government shall extend only to matters related to the three entries mentioned in Article 239-AA(3)(a), subject to the limitations in Article 73.