P.W.5-Shankar told Digambar that such type of marriage was not possible because Pooja is already married. On this, Digambar told him that Govind was his friend since childhood and thus he would get him married to his sister, Pooja. Pooja told Govind that Digambar is E her brother and she had faith on him that he would perform her marriage with Govind. P.W.5-Shankar stated that Pooja told that she will not leave Govind. At that point of time, accused No.2-Mohan abused them. Thereafter, both the accused and both the deceased had left on the motorcycle. Accused Mohan was driving the motorcycle, Pooja and F Govind were sitting in between and Digambar was sitting behind them. He stated that after some time, he and his brother-in-law Santosh (P.W.6) proceeded towards Mudhol by autorickshaw. He called Govind on his cell phone and asked him where he was. Govind told him that he was ahead of village Beltaroda. He asked Govind to give cell phone to Digambar. However, Digambar switched off the cell phone without G talking with him. He further stated that, at that time, his brother-in-law Santosh received phone call from Bhokar Police Station on his mobile, who informed him that his brother Govind and Pooja were killed in between village Divshi to village Nigva. H 102 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 13. Though P.W.5-Shankar was thoroughly cross-examined, his statement, insofar as the accused and the deceased leaving together from the house of the said witness, is not shattered. 14. Similar is the evidence of P.W.6-Santosh, who is the brother of the deceased. B 15. P.W.7-Sudam Kishanrao Thakre was a Police Head Constable, who was attached to the Bhokar Police Station at the relevant time. He, in his examination-in-chief, has stated that, on 23rd July 2017, at 1415 hours, he received phone call form LPC Mundhe, informing that a murder was committed of one girl and boy in between Divsi to Nigva. He went C there and saw that one girl was injured and when he inquired her about the boy, then she pointed her finger towards the river. He searched near river and he found one body soaked up in blood. He submitted that he intended to take the injured girl to the hospital. However, she succumbed to the injuries at the spot. 16. P.W.8-Sushilkumar Pralhad Chavan was the Police Sub- D Inspector, who recorded the confessional statement of the accused- Digambar and conducted the investigation. 17. Though the extra-judicial confession of the accused-Digambar cannot be taken into consideration, however, his conduct of going to the Police Station and surrendering before the Police can certainly be taken E into consideration in view of Section 8 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (hereinafter referred to as “the Indian Evidence Act”) 18. It could thus be seen that the prosecution has established that the deceased and the accused persons left the house of P.W.5-Shankar together and soon thereafter the death of the deceased person had F occurred. As such, the burden to show as to what happened after leaving the house would shift on the accused in view of Section 106 of the Indian Evidence Act.