in such cases, it is better to seek harmony between the two and held that “A better line of approach is to seek an interpretation which will bring harmony between them.” Without going into the details of the Reshma A. (supra) case, the problem which arose there was that the Service Rules in Kerala required the “merit list” to be “twice” the number of “probable vacancies”. After the fi rst half of the candidates from the list were given appointments on the notifi ed vacancies, the remaining candidates of the list, i.e., nearly half, claimed appointment on vacancies which came subsequently i.e., subsequent to the notifi cation of vacancies. The claim of these candidates was based on a provision of Service Rules [Rule 7(2)]2 which stipulated that the list shall be valid for “one year”, and therefore since the merit list was still a valid list, appointments could be made on these vacancies, was the case of the petitioners before the Kerala High Court. Their claim was accepted by the learned Single Judge in writ petition as well as in Appeal before the Division Bench. The Kerala High Court was thus here before this Court, in Reshma A (supra). Indeed, a literal interpretation of sub-rule (2) of Rule 7 would give a right of consideration to the petitioners who were before the Kerala High Court, but that would be against service jurisprudence as that would amount to making appointments on vacancies which were not advertised, vacancies which came up after the notifi ed date on which would also rest the claim of such candidates who gained eligibility subsequently and had a right of consideration. Hence, this exercise would principally be in violation of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India. This is how this Court resolved the issue: “71.1. Undoubtedly, the validity of Rule 7(2) was not in question before the High Court. The counsel for the respondents argued that it does not lie in the province of the appellant to raise a doubt about the validity of its own rules, more particularly Rule 7(2). It is necessary to note that Mr V. Giri, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant did not suggest or argue that Rule 7(2) should be held 2 Rule 7 (2) “The merit list prepared by the High Court shall be forwarded for the approval of the Governor. The list approved by the Governor shall come into force from the date of the approval and shall be valid till the notifi ed vacancies and the vacancies that may arise within one year from the date of approval of the list, are fi lled up or a fresh list comes into force, whichever is earlier.” 632 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. to be invalid. The submission of the learned Senior Counsel is that the expression “probable” denotes an addition/deduction which has to be made due to the imponderables of service such as death, resignation and promotion. The submission of the appellant is that a literal interpretation of Rule 7(2), without reference to the constitutional requirement of not operating a select list beyond the notifi ed vacancies, would render the Rule violative of Articles 14 and 16 and such an interpretation should be avoided.