The law laid down in the case of Smt. Madhuri Srivastava (supra) has taken adequate care of all these provisions while concluding that the Pushtaini and H RAMESH CHANDRA SHARMA v. STATE OF UTTAR 451 PRADESH [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] Gairpushtaini farmers are two different classes and the A resolution to award additional compensation on different rates is not at all discriminatory.” 32. To assess the validity of the impugned classification, we must put it through the rigours of Article 14 and see whether it survives the baptism. It is a well established principle of law, that the state, as per B Article 14, cannot deny equality before law and equal protection of the law. REASONABLE CLASSIFICATION TEST 33. For any classification to survive the test of Article 14, the C classification must be based on intelligible differentia, and it must have a rational nexus to the object sought to be achieved by the law. At this stage, it is important to note that the object sought to be achieved must also be lawful, and if the object of the law itself is found to be discriminatory, then such discrimination must be struck down. This has been held in a catena of s. D 34. The reasonable classification test was first introduced to Indian Jurisprudence in the case of State Of West Bengal Vs. Anwar Ali Sarkar7 . The issue raised therein was against the Bengal Special Courts Act which was enacted for the purpose of speedier trial of certain offences. This Act was challenged on the touchstone of Article 14 on E grounds of the Act giving arbitrary powers to the state government. The Court, while dismissing the appeal of the state held that:- “It can be taken to be well settled that the principle underlying the guarantee in Article 14 is not that the same rules of law should be applicable to all persons within the Indian territory F or that the same remedies should be made available to them irrespective of differences of circumstances [Charanjit Lal Chowdhury v. Union of India, 1950 SCR 869 : 1950 SCC 833] . It only means that all persons similarly circumstanced shall be treated alike both in privileges conferred and liabilities imposed [Old Dearborn Distributing Co. v. Seagram G Distillers Corpn., 81 L Ed 109 : 299 US 183 (1936) : 1936 SCC OnLine US SC 145] . Equal laws would have to be applied to all in the same situation, and there should be no discrimination between one person and another if as regards 7 (1952) AIR 75 H 452 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A the subjectmatter of the legislation their position is substantially the same. This brings in the question of classification. As there is no infringement of the equal protection rule, if the law deals alike with all of a certain class, the legislature has the undoubted right of classifying persons and placing those whose conditions are substantially B similar under the same rule of law, while applying different rules to persons differently situated.