L.N. Badgotia, the Sub-Divisional Officer of the Water Resources Department. This Map does not bear the signatures of any authorized Revenue Officer. The Map that was presented by Shri Santosh Rathore along with his request letter is in two pages and H 1076 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A describes all categories of land under the submergence area and which was presented to the then collector on 03.07.2021 and the factual description was presented to the then Collector. The then Collector then put the issue up for discussion but he was transferred and because of which the discussion could not take place. B On the basis of the various communications exchanged between the Chief Municipal Officer, Nagar Palika Mandsaur, and the Water Resources Department, what emerges clearly is that Map presented by Nagar Palika Parishad before the Hon’ble National Green Tribunal (NGT) which was C singed by Shri. L.N. Badgotia, Sub Divisional Officer, of the Water Resources Department, is not the original Map but only is descriptive of the proposal in the year 2002 to increase the height of the dam by one feet. The Map presented to me on 30.07.2021 by the Water Resources Department bears the D signatures of the Sub-Engineer, Water Resources Department, Tehsildar, Revenue Inspector and Halka Patwari and this Map also has a clear description of all of the areas that will come under the FTL and MWL and hence this is the original map.” 13. It is pointed out that the relevant correspondence between the E various authorities and bodies, relating to the map furnished to the NGT, and its accuracy, as well as the instructions issued on it, have been placed on record by affidavit dated 01.11.2022, sworn to by the Chief Officer of the Parishad. 14. Learned counsel also submit that the very same issue, about the boundaries of the Teliya Talab is again the subject matter of another F litigation before the NGT (i.e., Abhay Kumar Akolkar v. State of MP, O.A. No. 70/2022) in which the tribunal is cognizant of the present appeals. 15. The contesting respondents (applicants in the original applications before NGT), i.e., Mr. Dinesh Joshi and Mr. Alok Sharma, G were not represented at the time of hearing. However, they had filed replies and counter affidavits to some of the appeals. Their consistent stand is that the NGT’s s do not call for interference. It is urged by them, the map of 1973-74, relied on by the NGT, was supplied by the Parishad, which cannot now resile from its stand. It is also stated that H SHRAMJEEVI COOPERATIVE HOUSING SOCIETY LTD. v. 1077 DINESH JOSHI & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] the existence of the Development Plan, was a matter of record, and the A NGT was aware of it. Moreover, it is pointed out that the Parishad did not deny that untreated waste was being dumped into the talab. Analysis and Conclusions 16. A plain reading of the main by the NGT shows that it B went by the pleadings, and proceeded to pass s on the basis of the trace map produced before it.