(e) If more tenancies than one are held under the same landlord, then the landlord shall be competent to terminate only the tenancy or tenancies which are the shortest in point of duration. Section 31B - No termination of tenancy in contravention of Bom. LXII of 1947 or if tenant is member of co-orperative farming society In no case a tenancy shall be terminated under section 31–– (1) in such manner as will result in leaving with a tenant, after termination, less than half the area of the land leased to him, or (2) in such a manner as will result in a contravention of the provisions of the Bombay Prevention of Fragmentation and Consolidation of Holdings Act, 1947, or in making any part of the land leased a fragment within the meaning of that Act, or co-operative farming society. (3) if the tenant has become a member of a co-operative farming society and so long as he continues to be such member. Section 31C - Landlord not entitled to terminate tenancy for personal cultivation of land left with tenant The tenancy of any land left with the tenant after the termination of the tenancy under section 31 shall not at any time afterwards be liable to termination again on the ground that the landlord bona fi de requires that land for personal cultivation. Section 31D - Apportionment of rent after termination of tenancy for land left with tenant If, in consequence of the termination of the tenancy under section 31, any part of the land leased is left with the tenant, the rent shall be KESHAV BHAURAO YEOLE (D) BY LRS. v. MURALIDHAR 949 (D) & ORS. [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] apportioned in the prescribed manner in proportion to the area of the land left with the tenant. Section 33B - Special rights of certifi cated landlord to terminate tenancy for personal cultivation (1) xxx (2) xxx (3) xxx (4) xxx (5) The right of a certifi cated landlord to terminate a tenancy under this section shall be subject to the following conditions, that is to say,–– (a) If any land is left over from a tenancy in respect of which other land has already been resumed by the landlord or his predecessor-in-title, on the ground that other land was required for cultivating it personally under section 31 (or under any earlier law relating to tenancies then in force), the tenancy in respect of any land so left over shall not be liable to be terminated under sub-section (1). (b) The landlord shall be entitled to terminate a tenancy and take possession of the land leased but to the extent only of so much thereof as would result in both the landlord and the tenant holding thereafter in the total an equal area for personal cultivation––the area resumed or the area left with the tenant being a fragment, notwithstanding, and notwithstanding anything contained in section 31 of the * Bombay Preventation of Fragmentation and Consolidation of Holdings Act, 1947. (c) The land leased stands in the Record of Rights (or in any public record or similar revenue record) on the 1st day of January 1952 and thereafter until the commencement date in the name of the landlord himself, of any of his ancestors (but not of any person from whom title is derived by assignment or Court sale or otherwise), or if the landlord is a member of a joint family, in the name of a member of such family.