It is claimed that the appellant No.1 was thereafter kept in the lockup throughout the night without disclosing the reasons for such action and on 21.10.2020 about 19:15 hours, police Sub-inspector Shri Priyesh D Mathew John lodged FIR against him, bearing No.232/2020 for an alleged offence under Section 22(b) of the NDPS Act. Thereafter his name was also included in the earlier registered FIR No.255/2020 which is noted above. 8. In that background, the grievance put forth on behalf of the E appellants is that the appellant No.1 though being a qualified citizen, who was travelling with regard to his business has been illegally abducted, detained and a case under NDPS has been foisted on him due to which online complaints were lodged by his father- appellant No.2. It is in that light, the appellants are seeking for the directions as prayed and noted F above. 9. The respondents have filed their objection statement denying the allegations and also contending with regard to the involvement of the appellant for which he has been apprehended and is proceeded against in accordance with law. G 10. In that background, we have heard Shri Shyam Divan and Shri Gopal Sankaranarayanan, learned senior counsel for the appellants, Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, learned senior counsel for the State of Chhattisgarh as also the counsel for State of Odisha and perused the appeal papers. H 156 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 11. At the threshold it is necessary to take note that though initially the petition filed before the High Court had included the relief to quash the charge sheet and the further proceedings, considering that charges have been framed by the trial court and also detailed s have been passed declining discharge of the appellant No.1, at present, the reliefs sought is essentially limited with regard to the direction to the CBI to B conduct an investigation into the issue. 12. In that regard, the contention as noted is that, the FIR No.232/ 2020 is registered on 21.10.2020 alleging that at about 19:15 hours the appellant No.1 was apprehended by the Azad Chowk Police when the appellant No.1 was near Ashram Tiraha in front of Sulabh Complex C Police Station, Azad Chowk, Raipur attempting to sell contraband and on apprehending 9.240 grams cocaine was recovered from him. It is contended by the appellants that such offence could not have been alleged against the appellant to have been committed in Raipur on 21.10.2020, when in fact the police personnel named Pramod Behra, Sultan, Santosh D and Ali of Chhattisgarh Police had abducted and taken away the appellant No.1 from the hotel in Odisha on 20.10.2020 itself. As such, he was in their illegal custody at the point when it is alleged that he had indulged in committing the offence. The circumstances are referred to claim that there is something more than what meets the eye. The concern expressed is that a citizen who is carrying on his lawful business activities in various E states has been ‘framed’ and a case has been foisted, whereby the personal liberty has been taken away, which warrants a detailed investigation.