2-1-96 and 7-10-96, the following substitute teachers are absorbed as Primary teacher (Bengali Medium) and posted in Railway Schools. 1. Smt. Jayashree Deb Roy (Dutta) 2. Smt. Ratna Roy. 3. Shri Subal Chandra Chakraborty 4. Smt. Anupama Bhowmick 5. Shri Pijush Kanti Das 6. Smt.Radha Chakraborty 7. Shri S. K. Majumder. The past service rendered by (1) Smt. Jayashree Deb Roy (Dutta) (2) Smt. Ratna Roy (3) Shri Subal Chandra Chakraborty (4) Smt. Anupama Bhowmick and Shri Pijush Kanti Das as Substitute teacher in diff erent spells may be taken into account for all purpose except Seniority from the date of acquiring of temporary status with treating breaks as Dies-non. However, the Hon’ble Court has not directed any specifi c regarding Continuity of service in favour of Smt. Radha Chakraborty and Shri S.K. Majumder and as such the date of appointment will be the date of regular appointment after regularization by Screening Committee. This has the approval of Competent authority.” SAMIR KUMAR MAJUMDER v. 261 THE UNION OF INDIA & ORS. [K.V.VISWANATHAN, J.] 13. As will be seen from the penultimate paragraph of the letter dated 28.12.1998, extracted hereinabove, the only reason that the appellant was denied continuity of service while others were granted was that this Court had not made any regarding continuity of service. All other teachers, including Jayashree Deb Roy (Dutta) [applicant in O.A. No. 149(G) of 1989] were granted continuity of service and the past service rendered by them as substitute Teacher in diff erent spells was taken into account for all purposes except seniority from the date of acquiring of temporary status by treating breaks as dies non. (A day on which no legal business is carried on). 14. The respondent-authorities defended their s before the Central Administrative Tribunal, Calcutta Bench. Findings of the courts below: 15. The Central Administrative Tribunal, Calcutta Bench, by its of 28.11.2008, held that the appellant had only been appointed as a primary teacher on 05.12.1989 in the pay-scale of Rs.1200-2040; that functioning as a mathematics teacher for Classes XI and XII, as a stop- gap measure, would not entitle him the rights of a regular appointee to the post of Post Graduate Teacher; that the s of this Court did not, in the appellant’s case, direct specifi cally regarding continuity of service, as was done in the other cases and the appellant’s case being one of regular absorption, no continuity of service can be given to him. Holding so, the Central Administrative Tribunal, Calcutta Bench dismissed the application of the appellant. 16. The appellant fi led a Writ Petition before the High Court at Calcutta. The High Court once again, relying on the of this Court, held that the benefi t of continuous service was specifi cally rejected in the case of the appellant. So holding, the High Court upheld the of the Central Administrative Tribunal, Calcutta Bench. 17. The appellant is before us in Appeal. Contentions: 18. We have heard Ms. Uttara Babbar, learned counsel for the appellant and Mr. Nachiketa Joshi, learned counsel for the Union of India.