6.2 At the outset, it is required to be noted that the result of written examination was declared on 22.12.2016. Before declaration of the merit list, 3 candidates had filed representations seeking re-checking of their G answer sheets between 22.12.2016 to 18.01.2017 which was rejected. Interviews of successful candidates were held on 19/25.01.2017. The final merit list pursuant to the written examination and interviews was published and uploaded on internet on 30.01.2017. Appointment of 27 candidates as Private Secretaries came to be notified on 02.02.2017. H Respondent – Dinesh Kumar was also provided with a copy of his answer SUNIL & ORS. v. HIGH COURT OF DELHI & ORS. ETC. 99 [M. R. SHAH, J.] sheet pursuant to his applicationon 13.02.2017.After the declaration of A the merit list, 4 candidates sought re-evaluation which were rejected. 8 writ petitions including those by appellants came to be filed before the High Court regarding re-evaluation. The High Court passed an that having regard to the peculiar features, the Acting Chief Justice may consider taking an independent decision as to whether the award of B marks in respect of the questions involved in these petitions required to be reappraised independently. That thereafter, the Special Committee consisting of 3 Judges was constituted to decide the issue of re-evaluation. While these proceedings were ongoing further representations were filed by candidates for re-evaluation. Total 13 candidates had either filed writ petitions/representations praying for re-evaluation. The meeting of Special C Committee held on 10.07.2017 decided that an independent examiner would be appointed to carry out and that the re-evaluation which will be limited to 13 candidates as the other candidates have accepted the marks awarded to them. The Special Committee also took a decision that the re-evaluation would be done of only those questions which were D challenged by writ petitioners/re-presentationists. The decision of the Special Committee dated 10.07.2017 attained the finality. At this stage, it is required to be noted that out of 13 candidates, who either filed writ petitions/representations, 5 candidates were as such already appointed pursuant to the earlier select list/merit list dated 30.01.2017. Still they applied for re-evaluation/rechecking. That thereafter, after the re- E evaluation of the 13 candidates, marks of all 13 candidates increased. The Special Committee in its meeting held on 12.09.2017 directed copy of re-evaluation results be given to the 13 candidates as also to the already appointed private secretaries and also directed to be uploaded on the internet and also displayed on the notice board. Thus, results F were, therefore,made known to already selected candidates.In the meantime, one Saphalta Bhati filed writ petition before the High Court praying for re-evaluation which came to be dismissed on the grounds of delay and laches. That thereafter, the question arose what should be done on increasing the marks on re-evaluation. As such on increasing the marks on re-evaluation, the 8 candidates who earlier were deprived G of their appointments were required to be appointed and out of 27 candidates, a few already appointed were likely to be affected, therefore, a conscious decision was taken by the Acting Chief Justice to appoint those who stand qualified upon re-evaluation and their appointments to be adjusted against the additional vacancies.