The present case, therefore, falls within Article B 13.4.1(i). This being the case, it is clear that the adjustment in monthly tariff payment has to be effected from the date on which the exemptions given were withdrawn. This being the case, monthly invoices to be raised by the seller after such change in tariff are to appropriately reflect the changed tariff. On the facts of the present case, it is clear that the respondents were entitled C to adjustment in their monthly tariff payment from the date on which the exemption notifications became effective. This being the case, the restitutionary principle contained in Article 13.2 would kick in for the simple reason that it is only after the dated 4- 5-2017 [Adani Power Ltd. v. Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam D Ltd., 2017 SCC OnLine CERC 66] that CERC held that the respondents were entitled to claim added costs on account of change in law w.e.f. 1-4-2015. This being the case, it would be fallacious to say that the respondents would be claiming this restitutionary amount on some general principle of equity outside the PPA. Since it is clear that this amount of carrying cost is only E relatable to Article 13 of the PPA, we find no reason to interfere with the of the Appellate Tribunal. 93. This Court specifically rejected the contention of the DISCOMS that the Generator was claiming the restitutionary amount on some general principle of equity outside the PPA. This Court held that the amount of F carrying cost was relatable to Article 13 of the PPA. STATUTORY PROVISIONS WITH REGARD TO REGULATORY MECHANISM 94. We will now consider the relevant provisions of the Electricity G Act. 95. Section 70 of the Electricity Act deals with constitution of the Central Electricity Authority (“CEA”). The CEA shall consist of not more than 14 Members (including its Chairperson) of whom not more than 8 are required to be full-time Members to be appointed by the H 130 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Central Government. It will be relevant to refer to sub-section (5) of Section 70 of the Electricity Act, which reads thus: “(5) The Members of the Authority shall be appointed from amongst persons of ability, integrity and standing who have knowledge of, and adequate experience and capacity in, dealing B with problems relating to engineering, finance, commerce, economics or industrial matters, and at least one Member shall be appointed from each of the following categories, namely:— (a) engineering with specialisation in design, construction, operation and maintenance of generating stations; C (b) engineering with specialisation in transmission and supply of electricity; (c) applied research in the field of electricity; (d) applied economics, accounting, commerce or finance.” D 96. It can thus clearly be seen that the Members of the CEA are required to be persons who have adequate experience and capacity in dealing with problems relating to engineering, finance, commerce, economics or industrial matters. Four of the Members are required to be from the categories as mentioned in clauses (a) to (d).