5.1 Learned Solicitor General has relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of Subramanian Swamy & Others v. Raju through E Member, Juvenile Justice Board & Another, reported in (2014) 8 SCC 390 on as to when the power of reading down of a provision can be exercised. Reliance is placed on paragraphs 59 to 62 of the said . It is submitted that therefore when language in Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA Act is very clear and unambiguous and looking to the object F and purpose for which UAPA Act was enacted and taking into consideration the plain and literal meaning of a statute and in the absence of any constitutional challenge, it was impermissible for this Court to read down the statute. It is submitted that there was no occasion to “read down” G Section 10 of the UAPA Act in absence of a constitutional challenge. 6. Shri Vinay Navare, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the State of Assam, while adopting the submissions made by Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General, has in addition submitted that H 524 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A under the scheme of a statute (UAPA) every effort is made to ensure that every member of the association is made aware of the fact that such association is declared as unlawful. 6.1 It is further submitted that the language employed in Section 10 is very significant in the present context. It provides that “where an B association is declared as unlawful by notification under Section 3 which has become effective under sub-section (3) of that Section.” It is submitted that therefore it is only after notification under Section 3 has become effective under sub-section (3), that the latter part of that Section applies. It is submitted that language of Section 10(a)(i) is very cautiously worded – ‘who is and continues to be a member of such association’. It is submitted C that so if a person ‘has been’ a member but does not ‘continue to be’ a member after declaration, that does not attract mischief under Section 10. The intention in the Section is that not only is he a member on the day when the association is declared unlawful but he continues to be a member. It is submitted that therefore a person who is a member or wishes to be D a member is well aware of the fact that such an association is declared unlawful and if he still wishes to continue being a part of such an unlawful association it shows a clear and conscious intention on his part and Section 10 of the UAPA Act penalises this act of mere membership with such unlawful association. E 6.2 It is further submitted that Section 38 of the UAPA Act, 1967 provides that a person who associates himself or professes to be associated with a terrorist organization with intention to further its activities commits an offence relating to the membership of a terrorist organization.