1. D xxvi) As far as the SLPs filed by the Appellant Unions were concerned, the Supreme Court’s earlier s on 17.08.2017 and 06.03.2018 dismissing their Review Petitions had put a quietus to that issue. Respondent No. 1 had paid the workers their agreed upon dues under the AAIFR scheme and no E further directions could be issued to it in terms of the rehabilitation plan. 34. Learned Senior Counsels, Mr. Dave & Dr. Singhvi, provided the following rebuttals in their rejoinder, besides reiterating their earlier arguments once again: - F i) The act of the new government, following elections, going into the decisions of the earlier ruling party is legally In show cause notice the allottee would be asked to show cause why the plot allotment should not be cancelled, lease deed of the plot should not be terminated and plot should not be taken in possession, in view of the default committed by the allottee. In the G notice it would also be clarified that, the said default shall be condoned only on payment of interest/retention charges or removal of breach of terms and conditions/ its regularisation. In case of no response or reply to the show cause notice without commitment for deposition of dues, for regularisation of delay / default or removal of breach of terms and conditions by the allottee, allotment of plot should be cancelled terminating the lease-deed of plot. … H 280 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A acceptable. Respondent No. 1 had failed to prove the alleged mala fide intent behind the cancellation of the supplementary lease deed and the quashing of the approval for sub-division and conversion of the usage of land; ii) There is no fetter on the power provided under Article 138 of the AoA of RIICO to issue directions to the Corporation. B In terms of the requirement for reasons to be provided, Justice Chinnappa Reddy’s opinion in Sachidananda Pandey v. State of West Bengal & Ors.15 outlined that the process, deliberations, and minutes of the meeting preceding a decision would be taken into account when ascertaining C the reason for a particular measure to be taken. Contrary to Respondent No. 1’s position, the entire rationale did not have to be laid out in the conveyance of the final verdict; iii) It is only the subsequent government that is competent and capable of looking into the decisions taken by the previous D regime. The current government had all the authority and rights to examine earlier decisions, and annul them if irregularities were discovered. The State Government has acted in pursuance of its mandate and obligation in this matter; iv) RIICO is nothing more than a company and the 1979 Rules E are framed under its AoA. These Rules are subject to statutory mandates and requirements. The 1979 Rules are nothing more than a set of internal regulations of RIICO and are not comparable to the 1959 Rules that were enacted under the Rajasthan Land Revenue Act, 1956. This Court F in Life Insurance Corporation of India v. Escorts Ltd. & Ors.16 has emphasized the character of such companies and the conduct of their business via the AoA and internal rules made in furtherance of the Articles; v) Rule 11A is the appropriate provision in the 1959 Rules to G govern the usage and utilization of the land.