If the recruitment Rules are amended retrospectively during the pendency of selection, in that event selection must be held in accordance with the amended Rules. Whether the Rules have retrospective effect or not, primarily depends upon the F language of the Rules and its construction to ascertain the legislative intent. The legislative intent is ascertained either by express provision or by necessary implication; if the amended Rules are not retrospective in nature the selection must be regulated in accordance with the rules and s which were in force on the date of advertisement. Determination of this question G largely depends on the facts of each case having regard to the terms and conditions set out in the advertisement and the relevant rules and s. Lest there be any confusion, we would like to make it clear that a candidate on making application for a post pursuant to an advertisement does not acquire any H 554 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A vested right of selection, but if he is eligible and is otherwise qualified in accordance with the relevant rules and the terms contained in the advertisement, he does acquire a vested right of being considered for selection is accordance with the rules as they existed on the date of advertisement. He cannot be deprived of that limited right on the amendment B of rules during the pendency of selection unless the amended rules are retrospective in nature.” (emphasis supplied) 25. Admittedly, in the case on hand, the appellants are entitled to C get the respective post as per the advertisement issued. The said advertisement has not been amended. It was sought to be modified on the advice of the Government, though an earlier decision was taken on the similar line but wisely withdrawn. Fixing cut-off marks for a particular category has got a rationale behind it. Reducing it only for the purpose of providing employment to a particular category, when the others have D already acquired some right would be an affront to Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 26. We have already discussed the scope and ambit of the relevant clauses contained in the advertisement, particularly sub-clauses (15) and (19). In our considered view, they do not confer unbridled power either E on the State Government or on the Selection Committee to modify the selection process, and thereby, reduce the cut- off marks after the results are published. The submission made that the selection was made only thereafter, will not hold water. What was done by way of publishing the selection list after the change is nothing but a ministerial act. F 27. We wish to place reliance on the of this Court in Tamil Nadu Computer Science B.Ed. Graduate Teachers Welfare Society (1) v. Higher Secondary School Computer Teachers Association & Ors., (2009) 14 SCC 517, 20. It is thus established, that the State Government reduced the G minimum qualifying marks for the post of computer instructors to 35% which is contrary to an earlier decision taken in a meeting held on 10-10-2006 that the minimum qualifying marks for filling up the posts of computer instructors would be 50% i.e.