Platinum Theatre) should not be forfeited. After affording opportunity of hearing, the competent authority, in the first instance, passed an of forfeiture against the first appellant firm forfeiting M/s. Platinum Theatre and its equipment D by dated 31st July, 1995. However, on appeal being preferred at the instance of the appellants, the matter was remanded back to the competent authority for fresh consideration by dated 17th July, 1997. 5. The competent authority after revisiting the matter afresh and E affording an opportunity of hearing to the parties, passed an dated 31st December, 1997 of forfeiture of M/s.Platinum Theatre under Section 7 of the Act, 1976. Subsequently, the Appellate Tribunal for Forfeited Property, New Delhi(hereinafter being referred to as the “Tribunal”) dismissed the appeal and upheld the of forfeiture passed by the competent authority on 7th September, 1999 and, thereafter, the writ F petition filed at the instance of the appellants also came to be dismissed by and dated 19th April, 2007 which became a subject matter of challenge in appeal before us. 6. Learned counsel for the appellant has challenged the of forfeiture particularly on the following submissions:- G (i) The land on which the subject theatre was constructed is not the property of the first appellant firm. It is owned by appellant no. 2(P.M. Saheeda w/o Ibrahim Soofi) through a registered sale deed dated 16th April, 1969. Since the land was privately owned by appellant no. 2, the regarding forfeiture of land, in the facts and circumstance of H the case, is not legally sustainable. PLATINUM THEATRE v. COMPETENT AUTHORITY SMUGGLERS & 1089 FOREIGN EXCHANGE MANIPULATORS ACT, 1976 [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] (ii) The competent authority ought to have applied Section 9 of A the Act, 1976 in the present case and should have provided an option to the appellants to pay fine in lieu of forfeiture, taking into consideration the fact that the appellants had disclosed source of more than 50% cost incurred in construction of the theatre. The loan of Rs.12 lakhs obtained from Vijaya Bank by the appellants constituted more than 50% of cost B of the theatre’s construction. As such, the authority was under an obligation to give an option to the appellants to pay a fine in lieu of forfeiture in terms of Section 9 of the Act, 1976. (iii) The forfeiture proceeding initiated in 1995 was grossly delayed. The partnership firm is of the year 1974, the construction of the theatre C was carried out during the period 1971-1974 and the forfeiture was passed in 1997, after more than two decades. The competent authority ought to have considered the inordinate delay in passing of an adverse of forfeiture on the premise that it could not have been possible because of long delay to trace the relevant documents which, indeed, has caused prejudice to the appellants. D 7. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondents, while supporting the finding returned by the competent authority, in the first instance, forfeiting the subject property in question and later confirmed by the Tribunal in the impugned , in counter, has made the following submissions:- E (i) Section 8 of the Act, 1976 provides that the burden to proof, in any proceedings under this Act, shall lie on the person affected.