Hence, it was held that the power of the Registrar under Section 11 is not restricted to enquiring into the eligibility only at the stage of the formation or registration of the society. E 11. We have heard Mr Maninder Singh and Mr Neeraj Kishan Kaul, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants; Dr Abhishek Manu Singhvi, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the original complainants and Mr Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India appearing on behalf of the State of Maharashtra. The sugar factory is represented by Mr Siddarth Bhatnagar, senior counsel. F 12. The principal submission which has been urged on behalf of the appellants is that there has been no enquiry at all on an individual basis on whether or not the members who were sought to be disqualified fulfilled the condition specified in the bye-laws. In this context, it was submitted that: G (i) One omnibus notice was issued to the cooperative society containing an annexure listing out the members who were sought to be disqualified; (ii) There was no specific allegation of ineligibility against individual members; H 722 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A (iii) Confronted with an of the High Court dated 20 December 2019 requiring the enquiry to be concluded in less than 2 months i.e. by 15 February 2020, the Regional Joint Director pursued the enquiry in haste without considering the individual eligibility of each of the members who were sought to be disqualified; B (iv) Though a Committee was apparently constituted to verify the allegations in the show cause notice, the report of the Committee was not divulged either to the cooperative society or to the members who were sought to be disqualified. C Hence, it was urged that there was a breach of the principles of natural justice. Moreover, it was submitted that the grounds in the appeal before the appellate authority under Section 152 as well as before the High Court in the Writ Petitions would indicate that there were serious objections to the findings of ineligibility on facts. Since the facts have not been enquired into, it was submitted that an of remand to the D Regional Joint Director (Sugar) would be warranted. 13. Dr Abhishek Manu Singhvi, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the original complainants in the enquiry submitted: (i) No submissions were raised before the High Court in regard to the lack of enquiry into individual eligibility; and E (ii) The only submission which was urged was on the basis of Section 11. Hence, it was urged that it would not be open to the appellants to assert any other submission and, if they are aggrieved by the of F the High Court, the correct remedy would be in the form of a review. 14. The second limb of the submission of Dr Singhvi is that there are concurrent findings in the of the Regional Joint Director and the appellate authority on factual aspects which have been affirmed by the dismissal of the writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of G India.