He relied on various s D of this Court in support of this proposition. 42. Learned SG submits that the contention that by the impugned Amendment to the CVC Act and the DSPE Act, the mandamus issued by this Court has been annulled is without substance. It is submitted that the mandamus issued by this Court was contextual on the basis of the statutory provision existing then. Since the statutory provision has E undergone a complete change taking away the foundation on the basis of which the mandamus is issued, the contention in that regard deserves to be rejected. 43. Learned SG further submitted that India is undergoing FATF review. FATF review plays an important role. It is submitted that the F said evaluation is done by a team including members from different countries across the world. A mutual evaluation report provides an in- depth description and analysis of a country’s system for preventing criminal abuse of the financial system as well as focused recommendations to the country to further strengthen its system. It is submitted that the main component of the evaluation is its effectiveness. G It is submitted that the said evaluation involves various components/ stages. The evaluation had to be done in the year 2019. However, it could not be done on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. It is submitted that the evaluation has already begun and is likely to end in June 2024. It is submitted that since the present incumbent is at the helm of affairs for H the last so many years, it was found necessary that for effective DR. JAYA THAKUR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 549 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] presentation of the efforts made by the country, he should be continued A till the process of evaluation is complete. Learned SG submits that though nobody is indispensable, however, leadership makes a lot of difference. Therefore, it was found that the present assessment should be done under the leadership of the present incumbent. 44. Shri S.V. Raju, learned ASG supplemented the arguments B advanced by the learned SG. He submits that in view of the of this Court in the case of M/s Kishan Lal Lakhmi Chand and others v. State of Haryana and others18, the Legislature has power even to annul the mandamus issued by the Court. Relying on the of this Court in the case of Welfare Association, A.R.P., Maharashtra and another v. Ranjit P. Gohil and others19, he submits that the words C “rare” and “exceptional” as found in the case of Common cause (2021) have now been taken away by an Amendment and, as such, no interference would be warranted either with the Amendments to the enactments or to the extensions so granted. 45. Mr. Gopal Sankarnarayanan, in rejoinder, submits that insofar D as the Director of Enforcement is concerned, he is under the direct control of the Ministry of Finance and the incremental extension would lead to a situation where the incumbent would act as per the desires of the Government.