22. It warrants mention here that the Appellants are elderly couple. Being NRIs, the majority of their time is spent abroad. They have stated that they were not in India at the time of execution of disputed sale C deed. The Appellants’ claim that the market value of the land is not less than Rs. 50 crores, although not got verified yet by a valuation expert, does not appear to be far off the mark. There is a serious allegation of under-valuation of the land at the time of execution of the allegedly fraudulent sale deed. The contention that the consideration of Rs.6.60 crores is much less than the market value of the Subject Land, thus, also D requires a deeper probe. 23. We are not oblivious of the fact that Respondent No. 2 is said to have applied for the certified copy of the 1996 GPA in February, 2022 after a period of 26 years since its execution. It is also unclear why, given that when the Subject Land is situated in Gurugram District, the E GPA in relation to the property was registered in Kalkaji, New Delhi. It raises some suspicion regarding the genuineness of the GPA. There is, thus, overwhelming and clear cut prima facie evidence to indicate that the version of events provided by Respondent No. 2, the buyers of the property, and the Sub Registrar, should be viewed with scepticism. These F parties, prima facie, appear to be acting in concert with each other and might be hands in glove, with the ulterior motive of duping the absentee land-owners. This angle requires thorough consideration by the investigating authorities. The Appellants have seemingly fallen prey to a well-orchestrated conspiracy hatched to rob them of their highly valuable property. In such cases where the victims of a crime, on account of their G old age and geographical distance, are unable to secure justice on their own, it falls upon Courts and the State to carry out their solemn duty to ward off injustice and restore the faith of one and all in the rule of law. 24. All these material facts which go to the root of the matter were unfortunately not brought to the notice of the High Court. Had H 424 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A there been proper assistance, the High Court also would have given a free hand to the investigating agency to investigate the role of Respondent No. 2, the vendees, the Sub Registrar and other officials of the Registering Authority, so as to uncover the collusion, connivance and conspiracy, if any, engineered to commit fraud at the expense of the Appellants. B 25. Land scams in India have been a persistent issue, involving fraudulent practices and illegal activities related to land acquisition, ownership, and transactions. Scammers often create fake land titles, forge sale deeds, or manipulate land records to show false ownership or an encumbrance-free status. Organized criminal networks often plan and execute these intricate scams, exploiting vulnerable individuals and C communities, and resorting to intimidation or threats to force them to vacate their properties.