The members had difficulty being faced evaluating the profile/experience of the appointed valuers with respect to the hospitality industry.” G 81. It is further evident from the minutes of the COC meetings that the two valuers appointed by the IRP differs significantly and therefore warranted the appointment of a third valuer. Furthermore, the RP has also admitted in the 6th COC meeting that only the ‘Core Assets’ of the Corporate Debtor were valued, and the ‘Non- H Core Assets’ has not been appropriately valued. Therefore, the M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 821 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 3rd Valuer was also supposed to value the Non-Core Assets. Still, A the RP, as evident from the minutes of the 6th meeting of the Committee of Creditors, made it clear that another valuer needs to be appointed to value the Company’s non-core assets, which was not done. Therefore, the Valuation of the non-core assets is not in compliance with Regulation 35 (1) (a) of the Insolvency B and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency Resolution Process for Corporate Persons) Regulations, 2016. 82. It is pertinent to point out that due to lockdown, quarantine and travel restrictions, the appointed valuers could not conduct the Valuation and their agents at or near Chennai who are not C registered valuers and lacked the expertise to conduct the exercise on their behalf. Therefore, further physical verification of the assets by the registered valuers is indispensable, and the Respondent has taken the same note before furnishing the Valuation to the COC. Moreover, the details of the purported “Associates” of the ‘Registered Valuers’ have not been disclosed, D and the COC has neither considered nor approved the said Associate Valuers. Conveniently, the valuation reports have not been disclosed to date, and only the Valuation is sought to be accepted as gospel truth. Therefore, the Valuation furnished to the COC is in utter violation of Regulation 35 (1) (a) of the E Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency Resolution Process for Corporate Persons) Regulations, 2016 and contrary to Rule 8 of the Companies (Registered Valuers and Valuation) Rules, 2017. 83. Further, it is necessary to mention that many members of the F COC raised concerns relating to the Valuation. Even in the 7th meeting of the COC, concerns were raised as to the fact that the Resolution Plan values the Corporate Debtor at a rate that is significantly lower than the already paltry Valuation arrived at by the IRP. Moreover, the RP himself admitted the aforesaid fact in the aforesaid meeting. G *** ****** 86. Based on the above discussion, it is apparent that the two valuers appointed by IRP did not physically verify the corporate debtor’s assets despite that Regulation 35 (1) (a) of the CIRP Regulations mandates explicitly that the estimator fair value and H 822 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A liquidation value shall be computed after physical verification of the assets of the Corporate Debtor. It is further revealed that the valuation report was never circulated either to the Appellant or to other members of the COC.