However, under the FSSA, there is a provision for a levy of only a penalty up to Rupees 3 lakhs, as provided in Section 52. He submitted that when two statutes are operating in the fi eld prescribing a penalty for the same off ence and when an earlier statute contains a more stringent penalty or punishment, the provision in the earlier statute will stand repealed by necessary implication. He relied upon Clause (1) of Article 20 of the Constitution of India. He relied upon decisions of this Court in T. Barai v. Henry Ah Hoe & Anr.1 and Nemi Chand v. State of Rajasthan2. Lastly, he submitted that the High Court committed an error by relying upon the sunset clause under sub-section (4) of Section 97 since the same was not applicable in the facts of the case. 8. Learned counsel for the respondent- State fi rstly urged that the acts or omission constituting the alleged off ence took place when the PFA was not repealed though the FSSA was brought into force. Rule 32 of the PFA was also in force on that date, the violation of which has been alleged by the respondent. Learned counsel relied upon sub-section (4) of Section 97 of the FSSA, which permits cognizance of an off ence under the PFA before the expiry of three years from the date of the commencement of the FSSA. He would submit that considering the principles laid down in sub-section (4) of Section 97, the prosecution for violating the provisions of the PFA Act and the PFA Rules will certainly be maintainable. He submitted that after coming into force of the FSSA, all the provisions of PFA and the PFA Rules continued to apply. Inviting our attention to Section 52 of the FSSA, he submitted that even the Rules under the FSSA were not brought into 1 (1983) 1 SCC 177 2 (2018) 17 SCC 448 (cid:0) ABHAY S. OKA, J. (cid:1) 556 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. force on the date the off ence was committed. He would, therefore, support the reasons recorded by the High Court in the impugned . He relied upon a decision of this Court in the case of Hindustan Unilever Limited v. State of Madhya Pradesh3 in support of his submissions that the criminal proceedings initiated under the PFA before its repeal and the punishment to be imposed under the PFA after its repeal have been protected by Section 97 of the FSSA. He would, therefore, submit that the view taken by the High Court calls for no interference. CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 9. We have given careful consideration to the submissions. The off ence alleged against the appellant is under Section 2(ix)(k), read with Rule 32 of the PFA, which was made punishable under Section 16(1)(a). In short, the allegation was that the label on the food product of the appellant was not in accordance with the requirements of the PFA and the Rules framed thereunder. Therefore, the defi nition of ‘misbranded’ under Section 2 (ix) will apply.