It is also to be noted that before going to South Korea to join the aforesaid University, he had published a technical paper as first author with a foreigner as one of the C co-authors in the 39th American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) Joint Propulsion Conference, USA, without obtaining approval of the competent authority. Though he rejoined duty on 27.03.2004 with full knowledge that his application for sabbatical leave was not sanctioned he left for South Korea in March, 2004 without giving information to and obtaining permission from the organization. He re-joined duty on D 18.05.2004 and then, went back to South Korea on 28.05.2004 without permission from the authorities. The aforesaid factual aspects would reveal that without permission from the competent authority the appellant went to South Korea, joined Andong National University, South Korea and assisted Prof. H.D. Kim, Head of School of Mechanical Engineering E and kept on his association with the said foreign institution involved in the research on rocketry, which is a strategic research and development subject in ISRO. In the contextual situation, it is relevant to refer to Annexures P1 and P4. Annexure-P1 letter dated 28.08.2002 from Prof. H.D. Kim to himself, produced by the appellant, would reveal the nature of the research project in the laboratory of Prof. H.D. Kim and Annexure F P4 would reveal the repeated advice to the appellant not to have any contact in future with any external agency, such as Andong National University, South Korea, without permission from appropriate authorities in ISRO. The further indisputable facts would reveal his persistent dealings with that University ignoring such instructions. In such G circumstances, his continued association with a foreign agency/university, ignoring the fact that he is a responsible scientist in the ISRO, which is a highly sensitive and strategic research and development organization under the Department of Space, Government of India, if viewed suspiciously and thought that his further exposure to ISRO’s critical rocket technologies would create serious complications, it cannot be said to be H DR. V. R. SANAL KUMAR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 795 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] bereft of substance and not a matter of concern in regard to the security A of the State. As noticed hereinbefore, taking into account the expertise of the appellant in the particular branch and that he has been working under ISRO since 1992, there cannot be any doubt with respect to the experience which he gathered in the subject from ISRO and in such circumstances leaving to a foreign country without prior permission and B continuing there for a considerable long period despite advice and instructions to come back and continuing to associate with such a foreign organisation/university researching on rocketry, the respondent organisation cannot be said to have committed a flaw or fault in entertaining suspicion on his honesty, integrity, reliability, dependability and trustworthiness and above all to treat such acts as a matter of concern C in relation to the security of the State. 22.