It does not prescribe any disqualifications in the matter of appointment as either Chief Election Commissioner or Election B Commissioner. 61. The appointees have been bureaucrats drawn from the Civil Services. Article 324(5) deals with the conditions of service and tenure of Office of the Election Commissioners and the Regional Commissioners. Till Parliament made any law with regard to the same, C the founding fathers clothed the President with power to lay down the conditions of service and tenure of Office by Rule. It is to lay down the conditions of service and tenure of Office that Parliament has enacted the 1991 Act. The first proviso to sub-Article 324(5) acts as a guarantee against the removal of the Chief Election Commissioner except on like grounds and a similar manner a Judge of the Supreme Court can be D removed. The conditions of service of the Chief Election Commissioner shall not be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment. This means that Parliament cannot, nor can the Government by Rule, either remove the Chief Election Commissioner, except by impeaching him in the manner provided for the removal of a Judge of Supreme Court nor can Parliament E make law nor Government a Rule to vary the conditions of service of the Chief Election Commissioner to his disadvantage, after he is appointed. The first proviso to Article 324(5) operates as a singular insulation to protect the Chief Election Commissioner from either being arbitrarily removed or his conditions of service being varied to his disadvantage. But as contemplated by the founding fathers, protection against arbitrary F removal or protection againstvarying of conditions of the appointment were not the sole safeguards.Far more vital was the appointment of the ‘right man’ and the need to take it out of the exclusive hands of the executive. P. THE CLAMOUR FOR REFORMS G 62. In the year 1990, the Government of India constituted a Committee under the Chairmanship of the then Law Minister, Shri Dinesh Goswami and it is hereinafter referred to as the ‘Goswami Committee’. It made several recommendations relating to electoral reforms. The Committee, inter alia, recommended as follows: H 74 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A “CHAPTER II Electoral Machinery 1.Set up of multi-member Commission 1. The Election Commission should be a multi-member body with three members. B 2. The Chief Election Commissioner should be appointed by the President in consultation with the Chief Justice of India and the Leader of the Opposition (and in case no Leader of Opposition is available, the consultation should be with the Leader to the largest opposition group in the Lok Sabha). C 3. The consultation process should have a statutory backing. 4. The appointment of other two Election Commissioners should be made in consultation with Chief Justice of India, the Leader of the Opposition (in case no Leader of Opposition is available, the consultation should be with the Leader to the largest opposition group in the Lok Sabha) and the Chief Election Commissioner. D 5. The appointment of Regional Commissioners for different zones is not favoured.