The manufacturer claimed the product to be an Ayurvedic H COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 329 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] medicinal preparation product for dental care. The view of the A Tribunal was upheld by this Court by holding (at SCC pp. 404-05, para 3) that “ordinarily a medicine is prescribed by a medical practitioner and it is used for a limited time and not every day unless it is so prescribed to deal with a specific disease like diabetes”. B *** *** *** 7. ….. It is firmly established that on the question of classification of a product under the Central Excise Tariff Act, “commercial parlance theory” has to be applied. It is true that the entire supply by the appellant of its product “Lip C Salve” has been to the Defence Department for use of military personnel but that would also not be determinative of the nature of the product for classifying it. It is not disputed that the product “Lip Salve” is used for the care of the lips. It is a product essentially for “care of skin” and not for “cure of skin”. It is, therefore, D classifiable as a skin-care cream and not a medicament. From the nature of the product and the use to which it is put, we do not find that the claim of the appellant is acceptable that it is primarily for therapeutic use. What we find from the material produced before the Tribunal is that essentially the product is a protective/ preventive preparation for chapping of lips. It is not a curative E product, maybe, that incidentally on cracked and chapped lips, it has some curative effect. It is also not denied that the product “Lip Salve” is not suitable for use only for soldiers operating in high-altitude areas but it is of use for everyone as protection from dry, cold weather or sunrays. The product, therefore, essentially F is protective of skin of lips. It is a lip-care product and not a “medicament”. It is neither prescribed by any doctor nor obtainable from the chemist or pharmaceutical shops in the market. 8. The appellant seeks classification of the product as a pharmaceutical product under Chapter 30 and as a G “medicament” under Heading 30.03. Under the Rules for Interpretation of the Schedule under the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985, for the purpose of classification chapter notes can be taken as an aid for understanding their various entries under various headings of the tariff. What is to be noted from Chapter 30 of the Tariff Act is that under Note 1(d) preparations covered by Chapter H 330 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 33 even if they have “therapeutic or prophylactic properties” are excluded from Chapter 30. “Medicament” has been defined in Note 2(i) to mean “goods which are either products comprising two or more constituents which have been mixed or compounded together for therapeutic or prophylactic use”. On a reading of Note 1(d) with Note 2(i) of Chapter 30 under the heading B “Pharmaceutical Products”, it is clear that preparations which fall under Chapter 33 even if they have therapeutic or prophylactic properties are not covered under Heading 30.03 as “medicaments” *** *** *** C 13.