Hence, the matter was rightly remanded to the Commission to determine the issue as to grant of immunity to the assessee from levy of penalty and prosecution. v. Next, Sri Balbir Singh, Ld. ASG, referred to the of this Court in Commissioner of Income Tax vs. Express Newspapers Ltd., (1994) 2 SCC 374 to contend that in a similar factual background, wherein the assessee had neither disclosed before the Settlement Commission any income which was not disclosed before the Assessing Offi cer, nor any details as to the manner in which such income was derived, this Court held that the conditions specifi ed in Section 245C of the Act, were not complied with by the assessee and therefore, the Settlement Commission ought not to have entertained the application before it. In that context, it was submitted that the application in the present case also ought to have been dismissed in limine and the Commission ought not to have entertained the same. 3.4. In the light of the aforesaid contentions, learned ASG, Sri Balbir Singh submitted that the present appeal be dismissed as being devoid of merit and the of the learned Single Judge of the High Court, as affi rmed by the Division Bench in the impugned dated 06.07.2013, be upheld. KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. v. COMMISSIONER OF 17 INCOME TAX BANGALORE [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Points for Consideration: 4. Having heard the learned counsel for the respective parties and on perusal of the material on record, the following points would emerge for our consideration: i. Whether the Division Bench of the High Court was right in affi rming the fi ndings of the learned Single Judge, to the eff ect that the Settlement Commission ought not to have exercised discretion under Section 245H of the Act and granted immunity to the assessee de hors any material to demonstrate that there was no wilful concealment on the part of the assessee to evade tax and on that ground, remanding the matter to the Commission for fresh consideration? ii. What ? Legal Framework: 5. Before proceeding further, it would be useful to refer to the legal framework relevant to the issues which arise in this appeal. 5.1. Chapter XIX-A of the Act was introduced by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1975 w.e.f. 01.04.1976 for quick settlement of cases so that the tax due to the Department is realized at the earliest, by approaching the Settlement Commission. Chapter XIX-A of the Act incorporates Sections 245A to 245M. Section 245C which is relevant for the purpose of this case provides the manner in which an application for settlement of cases is to be made before the Settlement Commission. An assessee seeking to settle a case with the Department is required under Section 245C to make a full and true disclosure of his income which has not been disclosed before the Assessing Offi cer, the manner in which such income has been derived and the additional tax payable on such income. 5.2. Section 245D deals with the procedure to be followed by the Commission on receiving an application for settlement under Section 245C.