Finding of learned Single Judge in this regard is as under: - “ ... This is a fi t case to hand over the jewellery which was given to appellant (wife) at the time of marriage and thus, l -direct the Manager, Bank of Baroda, Sector 22, Chandigarh to hand over all the jewellery to the appellant lying in the locker ... “” 14. Having regard to the observations made by the Single Bench and Division Bench of the High Court, we do not propose to take any diff erent view. Suffi ce it to say that the appellant had failed to prove that the respondent had treated the appellant with “Cruelty” or that the respondent 842 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. had “Deserted” the petitioner as contemplated in Section 13(1)(ia) and 13(1) (ib) respectively of the said Act. 15. This brings us to advert to the submission made by the appellant for granting the decree of divorce on the ground that the marriage has irretrievably broken down. There is no dispute that the parties are staying separate since last many years and all the eff orts to bring them together have failed. Under the circumstances one may presume that the marriage is emotionally dead and beyond salvation and that there is an irretrievable break down of marriage between the parties. However, the question is, should the irretrievable break down of marriage necessarily result into a decree of divorce to be granted under Article 142 of the Constitution of India? 16. Recently, the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Shilpa Shailesh vs. Varun Sreenivasan (supra) while adumbrating the issue with regard to irretrievable break down of marriage and passing of decree of divorce under Article 142 of the Constitution, observed as under: - “41. Having said so, we wish to clearly state that grant of divorce on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage by this Court is not a matter of right, but a discretion which is to be exercised with great care and caution, keeping in mind several factors ensuring that ‘complete justice’ is done to both parties. It is obvious that this Court should be fully convinced and satisfi ed that the marriage is totally unworkable, emotionally dead and beyond salvation and, therefore, dissolution of marriage is the right solution and the only way forward. That the marriage has irretrievably broken down is to be factually determined and fi rmly established. For this, several factors are to be considered such as the period of time the parties had cohabited after marriage; when the parties had last cohabited; the nature of allegations made by the parties against each other and their family members; the s passed in the legal proceedings from time to time, cumulative impact on the personal relationship; whether, and how many attempts were made to settle the disputes by intervention of the court or through mediation, and when the last attempt was made, etc. The period of separation should be suffi ciently long, and anything above six years or more will be a relevant factor.