In exercise of power vested under Section 49 of the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956, right from 1959, various settlements were arrived at between the Life Insurance Corporation (“LIC” for short) and its employees from time to time in regard to various matters relating to D terms and conditions of service of Class III and Class IV employees. The said settlements were also approved by the Board of the LIC as also by the Central Government. An Ordinance was promulgated by the President of India on 25th September 1975, called the Payment of Bonus (Amendment) Ordinance 1975. Subsequently, the said Ordinance was E replaced by the Payment of Bonus (Amendment) Act, 1976, which was brought into force with retrospective effect from the date of the Ordinance, i.e., 25th September 1975. This amending law considerably curtailed the rights of the employees to bonus in industrial establishments. However, it had no impact insofar as the employees of the LIC were concerned. However, the employees of the LIC were denied the benefits F which they were entitled to. In these circumstances, the All-India Insurance Employees’ Association and some others filed writ petition(s) before the High Court of Calcutta for a writ of mandamus and prohibition directing the LIC to act in accordance with the terms of the Settlement dated 24th January 1974 read with the administrative instructions. G 105. The learned Single Judge of the Calcutta High Court allowed the writ petition and issued a writ of mandamus and prohibition as prayed for in the said writ petition. The LIC preferred a Letters Patent Appeal (“LPA” for short). However, during the pendency of the LPA, on 29th May, 1976, the Act impugned before this Court was enacted. The effect H 23 (1978) 2 SCC 50 DR. JAYA THAKUR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 581 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] of the enactment was to annul the benefits which the employees of the A LIC were entitled to in view of the mandamus issued by the Calcutta High Court. 106. Bhagwati, J (speaking for himself, Krishna Iyer and Desai, JJ.) observed thus: “9. ….We are, therefore, of the view that, in any event, irrespective B of whether the impugned Act is constitutionally valid or not, the Life Insurance Corporation is bound to obey the writ of mandamus issued by the Calcutta High Court and to pay annual cash bonus for the year April 1, 1975 to March 31, 1976 to Class III and Class IV employees.” C 107. Beg. C.J. in his concurring observed thus: “32. I may, however, observe that even though the real object of the Act may be to set aside the result of the mandamus issued by the Calcutta High Court, yet, the section does not mention this object at all. Probably this was so because the jurisdiction of a D High Court and the effectiveness of its s derived their force from Article 226 of the Constitution itself. These could not be touched by an ordinary act of Parliament.