Attempt to distinguish the above Supreme Court on the ground that the court was dealing with the C claim of the assessee for deduction of penalty under section 10(2)(xv) and not under section 10(1) of the Income-tax Act of 1922 is an exercise in futility. That, in the above case, neither the assessee claimed deduction of such penalty by way of loss under section 10(1) of the Act, nor the Supreme Court D considered it worthwhile allowing the claim under that sub- section is also indicative, if not decisive, of the untenability of such contention. Though deduction was claimed under section 10(1) of the Act, rejection of the claim is based on the broader basis that penalties and confiscations are not the normal incidents of business and do not constitute commercial loss. If E one examines the scheme of section 10(2), and section 24 of the 1922 Act and corresponding provisions of sections 28, 29 to 44A and sections 70 and 71 of the 1961 Act, it will be noticed that the provisions deal with the deductions or disbursement from the profits earned under various contingencies. If the F losses are incurred in the same business (source of income) under the same head enumerated under section 14, the same are liable to be deducted under section 22 (section 10(1) of the old Act) of the Act. If losses are incurred under a different source falling under the same head, the losses are liable to be deducted from the income of any other source falling under G the same head under section 70. When, however, net result of all sources under any one head of income is loss, the same is liable to be deducted from the income under another head under section 71. If the net result of all sources under all heads is a loss, the same can be carried forward under section 72 of the H 128 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Act. Sections 29 to 44A corresponding to section 10(2), clauses (1) to (xvi), deal with deductions or disbursements by way of expenses, etc. These provisions deal with the mode of determining the net taxable profits or income of the assessee. If the true ratio of the Supreme Court is that penalty incurred by infraction of law is not a commercial loss as it is B not incidental to trade or business, it matters little as to under what count the deduction or set-off is claimed. That the margin between what is and what is not incidental is very thin has been noticed by the learned judges of the Supreme Court themselves. Ratio of this is applicable to all C contingencies where such non-commercial loss is sought to be deducted on any count whatsoever. That the assessee in that case claimed deduction of penalty under section 10(2)(xv) cannot make any difference to the ratio of the case. I do not find it possible to agree with the view of the Punjab High Court. I do not think that the Gujarat High Court’s D in Kothari’s case supports its view.