Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 It is axiomatic that the High Courts (bearing in mind the facts of each particular case) have a discretion whether F to entertain a writ petition or not. One of the self-imposed restrictions on the exercise of power under Article 226 that has evolved through judicial precedents is that the high courts should normally not entertain a writ petition, where an effective and efficacious alternative remedy is available. It must be G remembered that mere availability of an alternative remedy of appeal or revision, which the party invoking the jurisdiction of the high court under Article 226 has not pursued, would not oust the jurisdiction of the high court and render a writ petition “not maintainable”. Availability of an alternative remedy does not operate as an absolute bar to the “maintainability” of a writ petition H M/S GODREJ SARA LEE LTD. v. THE EXCISE AND TAXATION 873 OFFICER-CUM-ASSESSING AUTHORITY and bar to the “maintainability” of a writ petition and that the A rule, which requires a party to pursue the alternative remedy provided by a statute, is a rule of policy, convenience and discretion rather than a rule of law. Though elementary, it needs to be restated that “entertainability” and “maintainability” of a writ petition are distinct concepts. The fine but real distinction B between the two ought not to be lost sight of. The objection as to “maintainability” goes to the root of the matter and if such objection were found to be of substance, the courts would be rendered incapable of even receiving the lis for adjudication. On the other hand, the question of “entertainability” is entirely within the realm of discretion of the High Courts, writ remedy being C discretionary. A writ petition despite being maintainable may not be entertained by a High Court for very many reasons or relief could even be refused to the petitioner, despite setting up a sound legal point, if grant of the claimed relief would not further public interest. Hence, dismissal of a writ petition by a High Court on D the ground that the petitioner has not availed the alternative remedy without, however, examining whether an exceptional case has been made out for such entertainment would not be proper. [Para 4][878-H; 879-A-F] 1.2. The appellant had claimed before the High Court that the suo motu revisional power could not have been exercised by E the Revisional Authority in view of the existing facts and circumstances leading to the only conclusion that the assessment s were legally correct and that the final s impugned in the writ petition were passed upon assuming a jurisdiction which the Revisional Authority did not possess. In fine, the s F impugned were passed wholly without jurisdiction. Since a jurisdictional issue was raised by the appellant in the writ petition questioning the very competence of the Revisional Authority to exercise suo motu power, being a pure question of law, the plea raised in the writ petition did deserve a consideration on merits G and the appellant’s writ petition ought not to have been thrown out at the threshold.