E 21. The administration of this Paigah estate, as in the case of other Paigahs in which similar arrangements were made, did not fare better and in fact all these estates ran into huge debts. A Controller General of Paigah Affairs called Sadr-Ul-Moham of the Paigahs was appointed by the Nizam to undertake complete control and management F of the three Paigahs under his s. This step proved successful and the able and efficient management of the committee helped to build up appreciable reserves for each of the Paigah estates after wiping out the huge debts. 22. It was then that Lutfuddaula was appointed Amir under the G Farman dated 29thRajjab, 1345 H (2-2-1927) A.D. During the interval, the properties left by Khurshid Jah were not permitted to be divided, though claims were advanced by his two sons and by their children. 23. In connection with the claims made by various heirs, the Nizam appointed as many as three Royal Commissioners: (1) The Egerton H 294 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Committee (2) The Glancy Commission and (3) The Reilly Commission. 24. After a careful consideration of these reports, a Farman was th th issued on 17 January, 1929 (5 Shahban1347 H.) The Nizam stated therein that in regard to the Paigah, he held a three-fold capacity (i) as the Ruler of the State (ii) as the head of Sarf-i-khas and (iii) as the B patron of the Paigah family. 25. In Para 2 of the General s of the Farman, he directed that “whatever property had hitherto been acquired or articles purchased or buildings constructed out of the income of the Paigahs will be considered the property of the Paigahs and not that of any C individual, and it will not be liable to division like Mathruka property”. 26. In II the Nizam directed that one-third of the gross income should be appropriated for the administrative charges of the Jagir, and the second-third would constitute the Manager’s share i.e., the Paigah Amir’s share and the remaining one-third shall form the share D of the other heirs, i.e., the shareholders of the Paigah. 27. In III Para 9, he further directed that the precious stones, jewellery and rare articles, which, in accordance with the principles laid down in Para 2 of the Farman are the property of the Paigah from olden times, or have been purchased with money belonging to the Paigahs E will remain with the Paigah Amir in trust. Paigah Amir shall not have the right to sell, pledge, or give them to any person, but they can be lent for temporary use to members of the Paigah family after obtaining the Nizam’s sanction from time to time, provided the Amir holds himself responsible for their safety and careful use. In III Para 2, the F Nizam directed that if there is any property left as intestate property of any Paigah, the distribution thereof shall also be settled by the Committee appointed by the Farman. 28.