As the definition itself suggests whosoever directly or indirectly attempts to indulge or knowingly assists or knowingly is a party or is actually involved in any process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime including its concealment, possession, acquisition G or use and projecting or claiming it as untainted property shall be guilty of offence of money-laundering. Hence, apart from having knowledge, if a person who directly or indirectly attempts to indulge or is actually involved in the process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime, is also guilty of the offence of money laundering. In the instant case, the H 542 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A direct involvement of the petitioners in the activities connected with the proceeds of crime has been alleged, along with the material narrated in the complaint which would require a trial to be conducted by the competent court. 28. It is axiomatic that the power to quash complaint under Section B 482 of Cr.P.C. should be exercised very sparingly and with circumspection, and that too in the rarest of rare cases. In State of Haryana and Others vs. Bhajan Lal and Others (supra), this Court has laid down certain guidelines as to when the powers under Section 482 could be exercised either to prevent abuse the process of any court or otherwise to secure ends of justice. C “102. In the backdrop of the interpretation of the various relevant provisions of the Code under Chapter XIV and of the principles of law enunciated by this Court in a series of decisions relating to the exercise of the extraordinary power under Article 226 or the inherent powers under Section 482 of the Code which we have D extracted and reproduced above, we give the following categories of cases by way of illustration wherein such power could be exercised either to prevent abuse of the process of any court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice, though it may not be possible to lay down any precise, clearly defined and sufficiently E channelised and inflexible guidelines or rigid formulae and to give an exhaustive list of myriad kinds of cases wherein such power should be exercised. (1) Where the allegations made in the first information report or the complaint, even if they are taken at their face value and accepted in their entirety do not prima facie constitute any F offence or make out a case against the accused. (2) Where the allegations in the first information report and other materials, if any, accompanying the FIR do not disclose a cognizable offence, justifying an investigation by police officers under Section 156(1) of the Code except under an of a G Magistrate within the purview of Section 155(2) of the Code. (3) Where the uncontroverted allegations made in the FIR or complaint and the evidence collected in support of the same do not disclose the commission of any offence and make out a case against the accused. H ANOOP BARTARIA & ETC.