Together, these three values combine to define a constitutional of priorities. Practices or beliefs which detract from these foundational values cannot claim legitimacy.” B (emphasis added) 28. The question is whether the exclusionary practice which prevails in the Dawoodi Bohra community of ex-communicating its members will stand the test of Constitutional morality? As observed by C Das Gupta, J. in the case of Sardar Syedna1, the ex-communication of a member of the community affects many of his civil rights. The Privy Council, in the case of Hasanali & Ors. v. Mansoorali & Ors.12, in paragraph 4, has dealt with the effect of ex-communication in Dawoodi Bohra community. Paragraph 4 reads thus: D “4. The appellants would limit the effect of excommunication, whatever steps might have been taken to bring it into being, to complete social ostracism. There is nothing, they say, to show that it excluded from rights of property or worship. Their Lordships do not find themselves E able to accept this limitation. The Dai is a religious leader as well as being trustee of the property of the community, and in India exclusion from caste is well known. There is at least one case in which it is recorded that certain persons applied to the King to intercede with the thirty-third Dai, complaining that in consequence of excommunication they were kept from the F mosques and places where true believers met; and no instance has been cited where excommunicated persons freely exercised their religious rights. Indeed, the complaint in the cases brought to their Lordships’ attention as regards which relief is claimed for the appellants or those whom they are said to represent is that G they were wrongly excommunicated, not that if rightly excommunicated they were wrongly deprived of their religious rights. Excommunication, in their Lordships’ view, if justified, necessarily involves exclusion from the exercise of religious rights in places under the trusteeship of the H 12 1947 SCC OnLine PC 63 CENTRAL BOARD OF DAWOODI BOHRA COMMUNITY 313 v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] head of the community in which religious exercises are A performed.” (emphasis added) A person who is ex-communicated by the community, will not be entitled to use the common property of the community and the burial/ B cremation grounds of the community. In a sense, such a person will virtually become untouchable (being banished or ostracized) within the community. In a given case, it will result in his civil death. It can be argued that the concept of Constitutional morality which overrides the freedom conferred by clause (b) of Article 26, will not permit the civil C rights of ex- communicated persons which originate from the dignity and liberty of human beings to be taken away. The concepts of equality, liberty and fraternity are certainly part of our Constitutional morality. Basic ideas enshrined in our Constitution are part of Constitutional morality. The conscience of our Constitution is Constitutional morality. Hence, it is contended that ex-communication or ostracisation is anathema to the D concepts of liberty and equality.