Once award has been passed on taking possession under Section 16 of the 1894 Act, the land vests in C State there is no divesting provided under Section 24(2) of the 2013 Act, as once possession has been taken there is no lapse under Section 24(2). 366.8. The provisions of Section 24(2) providing for a deemed lapse of proceedings are applicable in case authorities D have failed due to their inaction to take possession and pay compensation for five years or more before the 2013 Act came into force, in a proceeding for land acquisition pending with the authority concerned as on 1-1-2014. The period of subsistence of interim s passed by court has to be excluded in the computation of five years. E 366.9. Section 24(2) of the 2013 Act does not give rise to new cause of action to question the legality of concluded proceedings of land acquisition. Section 24 applies to a proceeding pending on the date of enforcement of the 2013 Act i.e. 1-1-2014. It does not revive stale and time-barred claims and does not reopen F concluded proceedings nor allow landowners to question the legality of mode of taking possession to reopen proceedings or mode of deposit of compensation in the treasury instead of court to invalidate acquisition.” 5. Applying the law laid down by this Court in the case of Indore G Development Authority (supra) to the facts of the case on hand and considering the fact that the decision of this Court in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation and Anr. (supra), which has been relied upon by the High Court while passing the impugned and has been overruled, the impugned and passed by the High H 796 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Court is unsustainable and the same deserves to be quashed and set aside and is accordingly quashed and set aside. 6. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, present appeal succeeds. The impugned and passed by the High Court, declaring that the acquisition with respect to the land in question B is deemed to have lapsed under Section 24(2) of the Act, 2013, is hereby quashed and set aside. Consequently, the original writ petition stands dismissed. Present appeal is accordingly allowed. However, in the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no as to costs. C Pending application, if any, also stands disposed of. Nidhi Jain Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Abhishek Agnihotri, LCRA) D E F G H