It would therefore follow that production of a power of attorney is F not a necessary requirement to prove a sale deed before a court of law executed through a power of attorney. 24. Section 67 of the Evidence Act deals with proof of documents such as a sale deed as in the instant case. The proof of signature or the handwriting of the executant on a document is sufficient to prove a G document which is the sale deed dated 29th October, 1968, in the instant case. There is no dispute that the said sale deed is not signed by plaintiff No.2 or that it is not his signature or that he is not the executor of the document. The admission of the signature of the said document by plaintiff No.2 is proof of the signature on the document which is sufficient for proof of the document of sale deed of sale in favour of plaintiff No.1. H 184 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Further, the same is a registered sale deed which is a document conveying title. Hence, the plaintiff No.1 has acquired title from plaintiff No.2 and from the original owner of the land in question. Therefore, under the circumstances, plaintiff No.1 has proved her right, title and interest in the land in question. There is no contra evidence produced by the defendants so as to defeat the validity of the sale deeds. The said B documents speak for themselves. Therefore, there is no substance in the contentions of the appellants arising under the provisions of the Registration Act, 1908. Thus, plaintiff No.1 has acquired title to the land in question. Further, when a sale deed is executed on the strength of deed of power of attorney, the non-production of the deed of power of C attorney in the suit is not fatal to the case of the plaintiff. 25. The appellants-defendants herein contended that that there may be a statutory presumption as per Section 60 of the Registration Act, 1908, only where all other requirements of execution of sale deed are complied with and there is no doubt as to the genuineness of the D power of attorney. In the present case, the sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968 was executed on the strength of the power of attorney which was executed in conformity with Section 33 (1) (c) of the Registration Act, 1908 because the power of attorney has been duly executed before the 1st Class Magistrate, Komilla, East Pakistan as noted from the two sale deeds. There is no contra evidence produced by defendants in that regard. E Since the requirements of execution of a sale deed are duly complied with, and there is no reason to doubt the recitals of the sale deed which has been proved in accordance with law, it would follow that the statutory presumption under Section 60 of the Registration Act could be invoked in the instant case. F 26. It is trite that registration of a document is a solemn act of parties and the recitals of a registered document are presumed to be valid unless such a presumption is rebutted by strong evidence to the contrary, vide Ishwar Dass Jain vs. Sohan Lal, (2000) 1 SCC 434.