Jha. The only line of cross-examination of this witness had been as if he did not carry out post-mortem examination of the dead bodies of the victim children and that he manipulated the report at the instance of police. We are unable E to find any substance or logic in this line of cross-examination. The fact that the dead bodies of the victim children were indeed retrieved from canal is hardly a matter of doubt and has indeed been established in the testimony of PW-18 SI Sunil Kumar, PW-17 Inspector Pratap Singh as also other private witnesses, including the relatives of the appellant and his wife. It had been too far-stretched to suggest that the medical officer F did not examine the dead bodies of the victim children, as sent to him by the investigating officer or his having manipulated the report. The evidence available on record, taken as a whole, leaves nothing to doubt that the victim children had been subjected to manual strangulation which resulted in their death. Obviously, their dead bodies were thereafter thrown in G the canal to project as if it were a case of drowning. 16.2. The fact that the deceased children, when alive, were lastly in the company of the appellant alone is also not of much doubt or debate. In this regard, even before looking at any other evidence, suffice it to 13 (2009) 9 SCC 152: (2009) 3 SCC (Civ) 638: (2010) 2 SCC (Cri) 1480. H 850 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A notice that PW-9 Sunita Yadav, wife of the appellant, who otherwise did not support the prosecution case, clearly stated the crucial factthat on the day of incident, the children were left by her with the appellant. She indeed stated that ‘on the day of incident, I went to the house of my maternal uncle as my Nani was ill leaving my both the sons with their father/accused’. She later on received the call from the police B station about demise of her sons. Therefore, it remains rather undeniable that the deceased children were lastly in the company of the appellant alone. 16.3. In regard to the chain of circumstances in the present case, the statements of three independent witnesses PW-1 Naresh Kaushik, C delivery boy at the Petrol Pump as also PW-4 Mahesh Kumar Sharma and PW-6 Komal Ram, the personnel in-charge at the Water Treatment Plant assume significance, who testified to the facts that the appellant did visit them immediately after the incident and specifically stated before them that his sons had accidentally fallen into the canal. There is nothing D on record to disbelieve the testimony of these witnesses. We have reproduced hereinbefore the statement of PW-1 Naresh Kaushik and it is noticeable that there had not been anything in his cross-examination which could create any doubt on his narration. Similar had been the position as regards the testimony of PW-4 and PW-6. In fact, PW-4 Mahesh Kumar Sharma was not cross-examined at all; and the cross- E examination of PW-6 had also essentially been of a suggestion as if the accused-appellant did not meet him on the given day.