On this ground also, in our opinion, the search conducted by PW 10 SI Qureshi is vitiated.” (Emphasis supplied) 29. Thus, from the oral evidence on record as discussed above it is evident that Section 50 of the NDPS Act stood violated for giving a third option of being searched before a police offi cer. 30. However, the important question that falls for our consideration is whether Section 50 of the NDPS Act is at all applicable to the present case? We have noticed few discrepancies in the oral evidence of PW 12 and PW 14 respectively and the fi nding recorded by the High Court. The High Court in its impugned has said in so many words that the appellant was searched in presence of the independent witnesses and the bag, which was on the shoulder of the appellant was also searched. But for the discrepancies, we could have considered applying the ratio as enunciated by this Court in the case of SK. Raju (supra) as well as Parmanand (supra). However, there is nothing in the oral evidence of the police offi cers on record to indicate that the search of the person of the appellant was also undertaken along with the bag. Therefore, we proceed on the assumption that it is only the bag which was searched which led to the recovery of the contraband. 31. The question, therefore, that requires consideration is what meaning should be assigned to the phrase “to search any person” occurring in Section 50 of the NDPS Act. Whether the phrase “to search any person” means (a) search of articles on the person or body of the person; (b) would include search of articles in immediate possession as such bag or other luggage RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 309 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] carried by him or in physical possession of the person to be searched; (c) would include search of bag or luggage which is presumed to be in possession of the person even though it may be lying in a house or railway compartment or at the airport; or (d) whether application of Section 50 could be extended to a case of search of a place, a conveyance or a house if the accused is physically present at the time of the search. 32. Section 50 of the NDPS Act is reproduced hereinbelow:- “Section 50. Conditions under which search of persons shall be conducted. (1) When any officer duly authorised under section 42 is about to search any person under the provisions of section 41, section 42 or section 43, he shall, if such person so requires, take such person without unnecessary delay to nearest Gazetted Officer of any of the departments mentioned in section 42 or to the nearest Magistrate. (2) If such requisition is made, the offi cer may detain the person until he can bring him before the Gazetted Offi cer or the Magistrate referred to in sub-section (1). (3) The Gazetted Offi cer or the Magistrate before whom any such person is brought shall, if he sees no reasonable ground for search, forthwith discharge the person but otherwise shall direct that search be made.