As held by this Court in Murray & Co. v. Ashok Kr. Newatia & Another, (2000) 2 SCC367 (paras 19 to 22), the language of Section 13 makes it clear that it is not enough there should be some technical contempt of court, but it must be shown that the act of contempt would otherwise substantially interfere with the due course of justice which has been equated with “due administration of justice”. 1088 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. (f) The High Court erred in imposing a sentence of imprisonment for civil contempt without assigning any reasons as to why such an exception had to be made more particularly overlooking the following: (i) A close scrutiny of Section 12(3) indicates that the legislature intended that in case of civil contempt a sentence of fi ne alone should be imposed except where the Court considers that the ends of justice make it necessary to pass a sentence of imprisonment also. Before passing an extreme sentence, the Court ought to assign special reasons after proper application of mind. There is absolutely no justifi cation or reason set out in the supporting a bare conclusion that imprisonment is justifi ed in the case. (ii) The High Court erred in overlooking the bona fi des of the Appellants which would have established that there was no wilful breach of the statement recorded in the dated 14.10.2015 and in any case, would certainly not justify imprisonment. In particular, the Court has overlooked that the appellant tendered his unconditional apology at the fi rst instance on 24.08.2018; explained the transaction with necessary documents immediately thereafter on 07.10.2018 without detracting from the apology; proposed remedial measures of keeping an equivalent area of land open and vacant till the fi ling of the petition by way of affi davit dated 04.01.2019; that additional land was off ered over and above the one proposed in the earlier affi davit vide affi davit dated 09.01.2019 and that the Appellants had personally remained present before the court at all hearings of the contempt application without seeking any exemption despite one of the contemnors being diagnosed and treated for advanced stage of cancer. (iii) The conduct of the Appellants subsequent to the impugned also shows their due deference to the s of the court. Each accused has deposited costs and fi ne with BALWANTBHAI SOMABHAI BHANDARI v. HIRALAL 1089 SOMABHAI CONTRACTOR (DECEASED) REP. BY LRS. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] the registry of the High Court. In compliance with the direction nos. (ii) and (iii) contained in para 63 directing the accused to restore the position prevailing prior to the statement recorded in the dated 14.10.2015, the appellants have also returned the consideration amount and requested the purchasers for compliance with the . (g) The High Court ought to have considered the fact that the Appellants had off ered to purge the alleged contempt, by off ering alternative land. In the affi davit dated 04.01.2009, the Appellants had off ered to deposit the sale consideration and also that since the sale is only of 1430.81 sq.