Delay reflects inactivity and D inaction on the part of a litigant “a litigant who has forgotten the basic norms, namely, “procrastination is the greatest thief of time” and second, law does not permit one to sleep and rise like a phoenix. Delay does bring in hazard and causes injury to the lis. ……A court is not expected to give indulgence to such indolent persons- E who compete with `Kumbhakarna’ or for that matter ‘Rip Van Winkle’. In our considered opinion, such delay does not deserve any indulgence and on the said ground alone the writ court should have thrown the petition overboard at the very threshold.” 28. In State of Jammu & Kashmir vs. R. K. Zalpuri and F others, (2015) 15 SCC 602, this Court considered the issue regarding delay and laches while initiating a dispute before the Court. It was opined that the issue sought to be raised by the petitioners therein was not required to be addressed on merits on account of delay and laches. The relevant paras thereof are extracted below:- G “27. The grievance agitated by the respondent did not deserve to be addressed on merits, for doctrine of delay and laches had already visited his claim like the chill of death which does not spare anyone even the one who fosters the idea and nurtures the attitude that he can sleep to avoid death and eventually proclaim “Deo gratias - thanks to God”. H 1068 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 28. Another aspect needs to be stated. A writ court while deciding a writ petition is required to remain alive to the nature of the claim and the unexplained delay on the part of the writ petitioner. Stale claims are not to be adjudicated unless non-interference would cause grave injustice. The present case, need less to emphasise, did not justify adjudication. It deserves to be thrown overboard at B the very threshold, for the writ petitioner had accepted the of dismissal for half a decade and cultivated the feeling that he could freeze time and forever remain in the realm of constant present.” 29. The aforesaid view was followed by this Court in Union of C India and others v. Chaman Rana, (2018) 5 SCC 798. 30. Subsequently, a Constitution Bench of this Court in Senior Divisional Manager, Life Insurance Corporation of India Ltd. and others v. Shree Lal Meena, (2019) 4 SCC 479, considering the principle of delay and laches, opined as under:- D “36. We may also find that the appellant remained silent for years together and that this Court, taking a particular view subsequently, in Sheel Kumar Jain v. New India Assurance Company Limited, (2011)12 SCC 197 would not entitle stale claims to be raised on this behalf, like that of the appellant. In fact the appellant slept E over the matter for almost a little over two years even after the pronouncement of the . 37. Thus, the endeavour of the appellant, to approach this Court seeking the relief, as prayed for, is clearly a misadventure, which is liable to be rejected, and the appeal is dismissed.” F 31.