H 37 (2007) 6 SCC 624, UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. v. COSMO FILMS LIMITED 227 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] that only few articles were enumerated when the FTP was published, is A no ground for the exporters to complain that other articles could not be included for the purpose of ‘pre-import condition’; as held earlier, that is the import of paragraph 4.03 (i). The numerous schemes in the FTP are to maintain an equilibrium between exporters’ claims, on the one hand and on the other hand, to preserve the Revenue’s interests. Here, what B is involved is exemption and postponement of exemption of IGST, a new levy altogether, whose mechanism was being worked out and evolved, for the first time. The plea of impossibility to fulfil ‘pre-import conditions’ under old AAs was made, suggesting that the notifications retrospectively mandated new conditions. The exporter respondents’ argument that there is no rationale for differential treatment of BCD and IGST under AA C scheme is without merit. BCD is a customs levy at the point of import. At that stage, there is no question of credit. On the other hand, IGST is levied at multiple points (including at the stage of import) and input credit gets into the stream, till the point of end user. As a result, there is justification for a separate treatment of the two levies. IGST is levied D under the IGST Act, 2017 and is collected, for convenience, at the customs point through the machinery under the Customs Act, 1962. The impugned notifications, therefore, cannot be faulted for arbitrariness or under classification. 70. The High Court was persuaded to hold that the subsequent E notification of 10.01.2019 withdrew the ‘pre-import condition’ meant that the Union itself recognized its unworkable and unfeasible nature, and consequently the condition should not be insisted upon for the period it existed, i.e., after 13.10.2017. This court is of the opinion that the reasoning is faulty. It is now settled that the FTPRA contains no power to frame retrospective regulations. Construing the later notification of F 10.01.2019 as being effective from 13.10.2017 would be giving effect to it from a date prior to the date of its existence; in other words the court would impart retrospectivity. In Director General of Foreign Trade & Ors. v Kanak Exports & Ors38 this court held that: “Section 5 of the Act does not give any such power specifically G to the Central Government to make rules retrospective. No doubt, this Section confer powers upon the Central Government to ‘amend’ the policy which has been framed under the aforesaid provisions. However, that by itself would 38 2015 (15) SCR 287. H 228 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A not mean that such a provision empowers the Government to do so retrospective.” 71. To give retrospective effect, to the notification of 10.01.2019 through interpretation, would be to achieve what is impermissible in law. Therefore, the impugned cannot be sustained on this score as B well. 72. This court recollects its recent decision, on the question of entitlement to refund, under the old tax regime, which was subsumed and resulted in some businesses being affected.