However, in view of the dispute resolution mechanism provided in Clause 11, the Single Judge declined to entertain the petition and relegated the petitioner to the contractual remedy in terms of the agreement. 10. The Division Bench, in a Writ Appeal, has confi rmed the of the Single Judge. The Division Bench adverted to the language of Clause 11 of the agreement (“all disputes and diff erences that may arise”) and rejected the appellant’s argument that the “demand” made by way of the impugned notices was beyond the purview of “disputes” under Clause 11. Hence, the Division Bench held that the dispute arising out of the impugned notices was covered by the scope of the agreement, and no interference under Article 226 of the Constitution of India was warranted. 11. Following the issuance of notice in these proceedings under Article 136 of the Constitution, the respondent has entered appearance and has fi led a counter affi davit. 12. We have heard Mr Dalip Kumar Malhotra, counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, and Ms Amrita Sharma, counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents. 13. The appellant argues that the Division Bench has misconstrued the issue while declining to interfere. It is argued that the principal ground of challenge is the Board’s non-compliance with the statutory procedure under the Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Boards Act in issuing the 468 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. impugned notices. According to the appellant, the High Court ought to have dealt with the Board’s authority to i) increase the tariff s over and above the agreed rates, ii) do so on the basis of a Government Notifi cation that pre- dated the agreement, iii) act in violation of the agreements and the statute which is the source of its power. It has been submitted that the dispute was in rem and not in personam and that the jurisdiction of the High Court was validly invoked. It has been argued that by relegating the parties to Clause 11 of the agreements, the Court erroneously refused interference. 14. The issue that arises for our consideration is whether the High Court was justifi ed in dismissing the Writ Petition and the Writ Appeal on the strength of Clause 11 of the agreements between the parties. We must examine whether there was a valid arbitration agreement between the parties, justifying the referral to the Chief Engineer under Clause 11. 15. While dismissing the Writ Petition, the Single Judge of the High Court relied on Clause 11 of the agreements. Clause 11 reads as follows: “CLAUSE:11 SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES 11.1 All disputes or diff erences that may arise between the parties hereto pertaining to the meaning of any provision or in connection with the agreement shall be resolved by mutual discussions. 11.2 In case the mutual discussions falls then all such disputes which have arisen between the Board and the consumer hereto pertaining to the meaning of my provisions in the agreement, shall be resolved by referring the matter in writing to the Chief Engineer (North), K.U.W.S.