Since no fragmentation of any site including the building was involved, there was no question of the violation of rule 14 of the Chandigarh Administration (Sale of Sites and Buildings) Rules, 1960. In the circumstances, it was not necessary to declare rule F 14 invalid as the High Court has done. To that extent, we set aside the of the High Court. It is made clear that the respondents before partitioning the building or making additions and renovations in the same will take permission of the Chandigarh Administration according to law. G The appeal is disposed of accordingly. There shall be no as to costs.” 82. This Court specifically set aside that part of the of the High Court which had held Rule 14 of the 1960 Rules to be H 646 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A unconstitutional. It could also be seen that, in the said case, the dispute was amongst the legal heirs of the original allottee. 83. It appears that, frustrated by the litigation, the brothers and sisters of Chander Parkash sold the property to R.B. Chahal and Mrs. Sukhraj Chahal. The final decree proceedings reached up to the High B Court by way of second appeal in the case of Sh. Chander Parkash Malhotra v. Sh. R.B.S. Chahal13. An application was made by R.B. Chahal and Mrs. Sukhraj Chahal for their impleadment since they had purchased shares of co-owners. The learned Single Judge, while disposing of second appeal vide its dated 1st December 1993, observed thus: C “6. As already noticed above, property cannot be partitioned according to bye-laws. The only alternative left is that the parties be permitted to bid among themselves and whosoever gives the highest bid, be allowed to purchase the property. In case this mode is not acceptable, the trial court should determine the market value D and given option to the appellant to purchase the share of the added respondents. In case he fails to do so within the time that the trial court may allow for the purpose, the added respondents be allowed to pay the price of the share of Chander Prakash-appellant.” E 84. In the case of Tilak Raj Bakshi (supra), the property situated in Chandigarh was owned by one Kripa Ram Bakshi. He had executed a registered will on 4th September 1974 in favour of the plaintiff, the first defendant and another son who was the 3rd defendant in the suit. The disputed house was transferred in favour of the aforesaid three persons by the Estate Officer. The plaintiff had filed a suit claiming that in view F of an agreement between the three brothers namely himself, the first defendant and the younger brother, the third defendant, without the concurrence of the plaintiff, the first defendant could not have sold the suit scheduled property to the second defendant. The second defendant, who was not a part of the family, contended that the plaintiff did not G have any preferential right and that he was a bona fide purchaser.