Such dubious conduct of the appellants goes to show that despite committing contempt and having shown no remorse, they are still trying to misguide this Court by producing such documents which from their very bare reading appear to be false, unreliable and fabricated. (g) In the course of the hearing of the appeals, Mr. Joshi, the learned senior counsel had suggested an alternate remedy of keeping aside the land of Survey No. 65, but in reality, the appellants have sold that very land also during the pendency of contempt proceedings in the year 2021. Thus, the contemnors have tried to misguide this court by making such false statements. 33. In support of his aforesaid submissions, the learned Senior Counsel relied on the decision of this Court in the case of T. Ravi (supra). 34. In such circumstances referred to above, it was prayed on behalf of the respondents that there being no merit in both the statutory appeals those may be dismissed. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANTS IN CIVIL APPEAL NO. 4869 OF 2023 35. The appellants are the purchasers of the plots from the contemnors. Mr. Shyam Divan, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the purchasers submitted that the High Court committed a serious error in declaring the sale deeds executed by the contemnors in favour of his clients as non est or void. According to Mr. Divan, assuming for the moment that the transfer was in wilful disobedience of the undertaking given by the contemnors, such transfers are not void transfers. In other words, the transfer of suit property pendente lite is not void ab initio. He would argue that his clients are bona fi de purchasers of the property for value without notice. In such circumstances, the High Court ought to have balanced the equities more particularly when the contemnors had off ered other alternative lands to protect the interests of the complainants. 36. It was argued that the High Court should have insisted for the presence of the purchasers in the contempt proceedings. Without giving any BALWANTBHAI SOMABHAI BHANDARI v. HIRALAL 1093 SOMABHAI CONTRACTOR (DECEASED) REP. BY LRS. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] opportunity of hearing to the purchasers, the High Court ought not to have declared the sale transactions as void. It was also argued that the appellants have further transferred the properties and that would make them vulnerable to further civil and criminal proceedings by such subsequent purchasers. 37. In such circumstances referred to above, Mr. Divan, the learned Senior Counsel prayed that this Court may tilt the equities and protect the bona fi de purchasers of the property for value without notice. 38. The aforesaid submission canvassed by Mr. Shyam Divan, the learned counsel appearing for the respondents suggests that the appellants (purchasers) have further transferred the properties and as on date they have no further interest in the subject properties. ANALYSIS 39. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the High Court committed any error in passing the impugned and ?