20500 of 2019, which came to be dismissed by this Court in limine, being as follows: - “ Delay condoned. The Special Leave Petition is dismissed” 55. In Shakeena (supra), while primarily dealing with the unamended provision of Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act, this Court also made certain pertinent observations in respect of the amended provision of Section 13(8), which are being reproduced hereunder: - CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 109 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] “15. Be it noted that on 1-9-2016 amendment to Section 13(8) of the 2002 Act came into force as a result of which the dues of the secured creditor together with all costs, charges and expenses incurred by him are required to be tendered to the secured creditor at any time before the date of publication of notice for public auction or inviting quotations or tender from public or private treaty for transfer by way of lease, assignment or sale of the secured assets. xxx xxx xxx 30. A fortiorari, it must follow that the appellants have failed to exercise their right of redemption in the manner known to law, much less until the registration of the sale certifi cate on 18-9-2007. In that view of the matter no relief can be granted to the appellants, assuming that the appellants are right in contending that as per the applicable provision at the relevant time [unamended Section 13(8) of the 2002 Act], they could have exercised their right of redemption until the registration of the sale certifi cate — which, indisputably, has already happened on 18-9-2007. Therefore, it is not possible to countenance the plea of the appellants to reopen the entire auction process. This is more so because, the narrative of the appellants that they had made a valid tender towards the subject loan accounts before registration of the sale certifi cate, has been found to be tenuous. Thus understood, their right of redemption in any case stood obliterated on 18-9-2007. Further, the amended Section 13(8) of the 2002 Act which has come into force w.e.f. 1-9-2016, will now stare at the face of the appellants. As per the amended provision, stringent condition has been stipulated that the tender of dues to the secured creditor together with all costs, charges and expenses incurred by him shall be at any time before the “date of publication of notice” for public auction or inviting quotations or tender from public or private deed for transfer by way of lease assessment or sale of the secured assets. …” (Emphasis supplied) 56. The Punjab & Haryana High Court while rendering its decision in Pal Alloys (supra), looked into the Report of the Joint Committee on the 2016 Amendment and the decision in Concern Readymix (supra), & concluded 110 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. that under the amended Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act, the right of redemption of mortgage would continue till the execution of conveyance or issuance of sale certifi cate. It further observed that the decision in Shakeena (supra) was not applicable inasmuch as it did not deal with the right of redemption under the Act 1882.