911 [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] be denied to them. While dealing with the offences under Chapters IV A and VI of the 1967 Act, we have referred to the materials available against them at this stage. These materials cannot justify continued detention of the appellants, pending final outcome of the case under the others provisions of the 1860 Code and the 1967 Act. 44.While forming our opinion over granting bail to the appellants, B we have taken into account the fact that that VG was once earlier convicted involving offences, inter-alia, under 1967 Act and there is also a pending criminal case against him on the allegations of similar line of activities. Hence, we propose to impose appropriate conditions in respect of both, which they shall have to comply with, while on bail. C 45.We accordingly set aside the impugned s and direct that the appellants be released on bail in respect of the cases(s) out of which the present appeals arise, on such terms and conditions the Special Court may consider fit and proper, if the appellants or any one of them are not wanted in respect of any other case. The conditions to be imposed D by the Special Court shall include:- (a) Vernon Gonsalves, appellant in Criminal Appeal No.639 of 2023 and Arun Ferreira, appellant in Criminal Appeal No.640 of 2023, upon being enlarged on bail shall not leave the State of Maharashtra without obtaining permission from the E Trial Court. (b) Both the appellants shall surrender their passports, if they possess so, during the period they remain on bail with the Investigating Officer of the NIA. (c) Both the appellants shall inform the Investigating Officer F of the NIA, the addresses they shall reside in. (d) Both the appellants shall use only one Mobile Phone each, during the time they remain on bail and shall inform the Investigating Officer of the NIA, their respective mobile numbers. G (e) Both the appellants shall also ensure that their Mobile Phones remain active and charged round the clock so that they remain constantly accessible throughout the period they remain on bail. H 912 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A (f) During this period, that is the period during which they remain on bail, both the appellants shall keep the location status of their mobile phones active, 24 hours a day and their phones shall be paired with that of the Investigating Officer of the NIA to enable him, at any given time, to identify the appellants’ exact location. B (g) Both the appellants shall report to the Station House Officer of the Police Station within whose jurisdiction they shall reside while on bail once a week. 46.In the event there is breach of any of these conditions, or any C of the conditions to be imposed by the Trial Court independently, it would be open to the prosecution to seek cancellation of the bail of each or any of the defaulting appellants without any further reference to this Court.