A behavior towards his children was abnormal as he withdraw both the children Jitesh and Sunny from the school…… xxxxxx By Ms. Sadhna Bhatia (Amicus Curie) for the accused Prem Singh. My statement was recorded by the police in PS on 03.05.2009 B in the evening. It is correct that my statement was recorded on 13.06.2009 after he was pointed out the date of statement recorded U/S 161 CRPc. I had stated to the police in my statement that Jitesh and Sunny were lived in our house before their death for about 2 years. Confronted from statement EX PW-8/DA where C it is not so recorded. I have stated to the police that after returning from the Naksh Mukti Kendr accused has given beatings to his both sons. Confronted from statement EX PW-8/DA where it is not so recorded. We have not made any complaint to the police regarding beating of my niece and her children. It is wrong to suggest that accused was not affectionate to his children and not D suspicion on the character of my niece. It is correct that my niece only informed about beating whenever she visited our house. It is correct that my niece and her sons were not beaten in my presence. It is wrong to suggest that I am deposing falsely.” *** *** *** E “PW5 -Statement of Bishan Singh S/O Sh. Girdhari Singh (recalled for further examination since deferred dt. 06.09.2010) ON SA The name of son of my brother Prem Singh is Jitesh and Sunny. F At the time of incident my brother Prem Singh was unemployed. His habits were normal but he used to take liquor. Previously he was having transport business and having 2 trucks but 4-5 year before he has sold his trucks and thereafter he was running poultary mills and he indulged in the business only for one year and thereafter he become unemployed. There was tension between G my brother and his wife and during those days he was taking drinks open. Some time we listen hitted conversation between my brother and his wife. I do not know the real cause of their strange relation. He was having normal relations with his children also. My brother Prem Singh was once admitted in Nasha Mukti Kendr H PREM SINGH v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 819 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] at Auchandi and he remained there for about one year. He was A released by my father Sh. Girdhari Singh from the Nasha Mukti Kendr on the assurance of Prem Singh to amend his habits and leave the habit of intoxication and also his condition was deteriorating….. I do not know what had happened with the children of Prem Singh. I listen from police person that my both B nephew were drowned in the Yamuna Canal. I was also went to hospital and after postmortem at BJRM Hospital. The dead body of my nephew Jitesh and Sunny was handed over to the relatives vide receipt EX PW-2/B signed by me at pt C. Police had recorded my statement at PP Prashant Vihar but I do not know the date when my statement was recorded.