It is not necessary for us to examine in any greater detail the factual matrix of the case since the disobedience, manipulation of procedure and violation of the schedule prescribed under the s of the Court is an admitted position. All that we have to examine is whether the apology tendered is bona fi de when examined in the light of the attendant circumstances and whether it will be in the interest of justice to accept the same. 9. The facts which will weigh with the Court while considering acceptance of an apology are the contemptuous conduct, the extent to which the of the Court has been violated, irresponsible acts on the part of the contemnor and the degree of interference in the administration of justice, which thereby cause prejudice to other parties. An apology tendered, even at the outset, has to be bona fi de and should be demonstrative of repentance and sincere regret on the part of the contemnor, lest the administration of justice be crudely interfered with by a person with impunity. The basic ingredients of the rule of law have to be enforced, whatever be the consequence and all persons are under a fundamental duty to maintain the rule of law. An apology which is not bona fi de and has been tendered to truncate the process of law with the ulterior motive of escaping the consequences of such fl agrant violation of s of the court and causes discernible disrespect to the course of administration 1130 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. of justice, cannot be permitted. The court has to draw a balance between cases where tendering of an apology is suffi cient, and cases where it is necessary to infl ict punishment on the contemnor. An attempt to circumvent the s of the court is derogatory to the very dignity of the court and administration of justice. A person who attempts to salvage himself by showing ignorance of the court's , of which he quite clearly had the knowledge, would again be an attempt on his part to circumvent the process of law. Tendering a justifi cation would be inconsistent with the concept of an apology. An apology which is neither sincere nor satisfactory and is not made at the appropriate stage may not provide suffi cient grounds to the court for the acceptance of the same. It is also an accepted principle that one who commits intentional violations must also be aware of the consequences of the same. One who tenders an unqualifi ed apology would normally not render justifi cation for the contemptuous conduct. In any case, tendering of an apology is a weapon of defence to purge the guilt of off ence by the contemnor. It is not intended to operate as a universal panacea to frustrate the action in law, as the fundamental principle is that rule of law and dignity of the court must prevail. ××× ××× ××× 14. From the above principle, it is clear that consideration of an apology as contemplated under Explanation to Section 12(1) of the Act is not a panacea to avoid action in law universally.