after 30 days of notifi cation shall be treated as received on the same day. The applications shall be disposed of by way of lottery. (vi) after the existing sub-rule (4), the following new sub-rule (5) shall be added, namely:- “(5) If a short term permit application is received from a contractor who has been awarded work for National/State Highway (road construction project) shall be given priority over an application of mining lease received within a period preceding 3 months from date of short term permit application subject to following conditions– (a) Short term permit application has been filed within 6 months from the date of award of contract; (b) the National/State Highway (road construction project) is not more than 100 km. away from the short term permit area applied for; and (c) short term permit shall be subject to the conditions of rule 63. Provided that this sub rule (5) shall remain in force till 31st March, 2012 & their after it will be reviewed again by the government.” 6. For the first time, the first appellant thought it fit to introduce the process of auction, while making it clear that the applications received prior to 27.01.2011 shall be disposed of as per the prevailing rules, in force earlier. 7. The Rules aforesaid went through further amendment by way of Notification dated 03.04.2013 by which all the pending applications are to be rejected, Rule 4 sub-rule (10): “(10) No mining lease in Government land, including the forest land for which diversion is granted by the Central Government under Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980, shall be granted on an application by the applicant unless the area is delineated and applications are invited by the Government. All the applications which are presented in Government Land upto 27-01-2011, except the application presented by person having preferential right under the THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ORS. v. 7 SHARWAN KUMAR KUMAWAT ETC. ETC [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] rule 3N or sub-rule (1) of rule 11, in respect of which lease deed as per rule 19 has not been executed shall be rejected.” Rule 7 sub-rule (1): “7. Procedure for grant of lease:- (1) In Government land, the mining lease shall be granted after the area is first delineated, plots suitably numbered and a notification inviting application is published in two daily newspapers, at least one of which is state level and other having wide publicity in the area where lease are being allotted. The notification shall be published at least 30 days before the intended date of inviting applications and shall contain the date or the period within which applications shall be received. Out of these delineated plots of committee constituted under sub-rule (3) of rule 23A shall reserve 50% of plots which shall be allotted by auction/tender and the remaining 50% shall be allotted by way of lottery to the following categories of persons as per percentage mentioned against each category:- (i) Persons who undertake to install a crusher/mineral based industry; 10% (ii) Manual workers and widows of manual workers belonging to Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes/ Other Backward Classes/Special Backward Class employed in Mines; 5% (iii) Manual workers and widows of manual workers other than Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes/Other Backward Class/Special Backward Class employed in mines; 5% (iv) Persons belonging to Scheduled Castes/Schedule Tribes/Other Backward Class/Special Backward Class; 20% (v) Persons identified as “Below Poverty Line”; 10% (vi) Freedom fighter/Ex-soldiers including members of para military forces belonging to Rajasthan who have 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R.