[2023] 1 S.C.R. 261 261 ELUMALAI @ VENKATESAN & ANR A v. M. KAMALA AND ORS. & ETC. (Civil Appeal Nos. 521-522 of 2023) B JANUARY 25, 2023 [K. M. JOSEPH AND HRISHIKESH ROY, JJ.] Release Deed – Effect of – Spes Successionis – Estoppel – C Warding off, of estoppel by heirs of the person whose conduct created the estoppel – Impropriety of – Dispute regarding self- acquired property of ‘S’ – ‘S’ had married twice – From the first marriage, a son ‘C’ was born, whose two children were the appellants – When one child of ‘C’ was minor and other was not born, he D executed a release deed for relinquishing his share in the property for valuable consideration in the year 1975 – It was also specified in the release deed that ‘C’ will not have any relation apart from blood relation with ‘S’ – ‘C’ predeceased his father in the year 1978 – Two children from the second marriage of ‘S’ filed suit for partition for self-acquired property of ‘S’ and contended to exclude the E children from the first marriage of ‘S’ on the basis of the release deed – Trial court found the release deed to be null and void since it was executed by ‘C’, when his father was alive – Thus, the property was divided between the children from both the marriages equally – On appeal, the High Court found the release deed to be a valid F document and excluded the appellants – High Court held that the release deed coupled with the consideration received by ‘C’ acted as an estoppel against the appellants – Appellants assailed the High Court on two grounds – Firstly, ‘C’, the father of appellants, at the time of the execution of release deed merely had a G right as spes successionis, and, thus, the release deed had no effect – Secondly, the father being a natural guardian did not have the power to bind the minor by a personal covenant – Held: On facts, the property in dispute was the self-acquired property of ‘S’ – Thus, H 261 262 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A at the time of execution of the release deed, ‘C’, the father of the appellants, did not possess any right in the property apart from being a spes successionis – Further, ‘S’, the father of ‘C’, paid valuable consideration in to secure the interest of the son from the second marriage, who used to be ill – Release deed by a B spes successionis would be incapable to convey or relinquish any interest in the property – However, on facts, execution of the release deed relinquished every other right apart from being a blood relative – Additionally, the conduct accompanied by receipt of valuable consideration estopped ‘C’, the father of appellants, from claiming C any right in the property – On the personal covenant, the limitation in s.8 of the Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act,1956 can only be applicable when the minor possessed any independent right in the property – On facts, it was not even the case of the appellants that they had any such independent right – Thus, the release deed cannot be interdicted as being a personal covenant by the natural D guardian which cannot bind a minor – Further contention that when the succession opened in 1988 on the death of their grandfather ‘S’, appellants being sons of ‘C’, the predeceased son of ‘S’, formed part of class-I heir category under the Hindu Succession Act, not acceptable – Appellants were claiming through their father ‘C’ and E cannot ward off the estoppel created by the conduct of ‘C’ under whom they were claiming right in the property – of High Court accordingly affirmed –Hindu Succession Act, 1956 – Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, 1956 – s.8 – Transfer of Property Act, 1882 – s.6(a) – s.8.