Neither this plea nor the statement made on oath recorded by the Commission would belie the stand of the appellants that they intended to purchase the offi ce space for their livelihood. In this scenario, the fi nding recorded by the Commission in Paragraph 8 of impugned is erroneous and contrary to the defi nition clause of the expression “consumer” as defi ned under section 2(1)(d). 14. It is an undisputed fact that respondent has agreed to sell the offi ce space in the Vipul Business Park to the appellants. Record would also disclose that in all the appellants paid Rs.51,10,117/- or respondent had received the said amount from the appellants. Though, a faint attempt has been made by the appellants to contend that there was unilateral change namely the respondent had agreed to sell the offi ce space 306 at third fl oor to offi ce space No.814 in 8th fl oor, we are not inclined to entertain the said plea in as much as the agreement has been duly signed by the appellants and in token of having accepted the same they have affi xed their signatures to the said agreement and it is too late in the day for the appellants to retrace their steps on this issue. The said contention stands rejected. 15. Clause 15 of the buyer’s agreement would clearly indicate that the possession of the premises was agreed to be delivered within 24 months from the date of agreement which undisputedly had not taken place, or in other words the allotted offi ce space was not delivered even after expiry of 24 months from the date of agreement. In fact, in the counter affi davit fi led by the respondent an evasive denial has been made by contending that permissive possession of the commercial space had been off ered 410 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. by the respondent to the appellants. However, it is not pleaded that the commercial space allotted to the appellants is ready for occupation. The statement of account dated 28.01.2014 forwarded to the appellants by the respondent would indicate the receipt of payment of Rs.51,10,117/- by the respondent. Though, respondent has received the payment towards service tax, same is not refl ected in the statement of account. Be that as it may. On account of inaction of the respondent in not complying with their demand, appellants got issued a legal notice calling upon the respondent to refund Rs.93,62,025/- which is inclusive of the principal amount of Rs.51,10,117/- and Rs.42,52,143/- towards interests accrued thereon calculated @ 18% per annum and also demanded compensation of Rs.50,000,00/- towards mental agony by terminating the agreement. 16. In the normal course, we would have remitted the matter back to the Commission for adjudicating the complaint on merits in the light of fi nding recorded hereinabove. However, we desist from this attractive proposition for reasons more than one. Firstly, the dispute relates back to the year 2006; secondly, the appellants have already repudiated the contract.