It is submitted that in a challenge to such a legislation, the Court does not adopt a doctrinaire approach. Reliance is placed on the decisions of Manish Kumar Vs. Union of India and Anr., (2021) 5 SCC 1 (Paras 169, 249-251); Swiss Ribbons Private Limited and Anr. Vs. Union of India and Ors., (2019) 4 C SCC 17 [(Paras 17-24, 25-28) [for objects of IBC] r/w Para 120]; Small Scale Industrial Manufacturers Association (Registered) Vs. Union of India and Ors., (2021) 8 SCC 511 (Paras 60-72). It is further submitted that as observed in a catena of decisions, a vested right under a statute can be taken away by another statute, in view of public interest and in view of it being an economic measure. D 3.16 On IBC and reasonable classification, Shri K.V. Viswanathan, learned Senior Advocate and Amicus Curiae has submitted that in the case of Swiss Ribbons Private Limited and Anr. (supra), this Court was concerned with a challenge to Constitutional Validity of several provisions of the IBC including the waterfall mechanism under Section E 53 of the IBC, even though it was at the instance of the Operational Creditors. It is submitted that after noting the objects and reasons for enactment of the IBC, this Hon’ble Court held that there existed an intelligible differentia for classification of financial creditors and operational creditors under the IBC. It is further submitted that Section F 53 of the IBC was also upheld from the perspective of this reasonable classification by placing reliance on the object sought to be achieved by the IBC 3.17 It is further submitted that in the case of Committee of Creditors of Essar Steel India Limited Vs. Satish Kumar Gupta G and Ors., (2020) 8 SCC 531, this Court was concerned with whether a resolution plan was to treat operational creditors on par with financial creditors and further with amendments made to the IBC that provided operational creditors with a minimum of liquidation value under the CIRP Process. It is submitted that this Court in the said decision held that the principle of “equality for all” cannot be stretched to treat financial and H MOSER BAER KARAMCHARI UNION THR. PRESIDENT MAHESH 103 CHAND SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA [M. R. SHAH, J.] operational creditors on par as this would defeat the entire objective of A the IBC. This Court also held that amendments made to the IBC that guaranteed a minimum of liquidation value to operational creditors was not ultra vires Article 14. 3.18 He has also further submitted that in the case of Ghanashyam Mishra and Sons Private Limited Vs. Edelweiss B Asset Reconstruction Company Limited, (2021) 9 SCC 657, this Court was concerned with whether the approved resolution plan was binding on the Government, whether before or after the Amendment made to Section 31 of IBC by Amendment Act, 2019. It is submitted that this Court categorically held that the amendment was clarificatory C in nature and that the approved resolution plan would be binding on the Government.