The question concerns all States in the federal setup and not merely Jammu and Kashmir.120 54. The power of the President under sub-clause (3) of Article 370 is unfettered because (a) Article 370 begins with a non-obstante clause “notwithstanding anything contained in the Constitution of India”; and (b) Sub-clause (3) of Article 370 begins with a non-obstante clause “notwithstanding anything in the foregoing provisions of this Article”. The exercise of powers by the President is, thus, not controlled either by any constitutional provisions including the provisions of Article 370.121 55. The replacement of the term “Constituent Assembly” with “Legislative Assembly” was necessary to democratize the decision-making process of the President.122 56. Parliament had to exercise the powers of the Legislative Assembly because:123 a. Of the Emergency under Article 356(1)(b); b. Considering the strategic signifi cance of the State from the point of view of the sovereignty and integrity of nation, it is desirable that every federal unit should, through its representatives, both at the Lok Sabha and at the Rajya Sabha, participate in the decision-making process; and c. The Constituent Assembly of India was exercising constituent power while the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir was exercising “legislative” power. 57. Clause (3) of Article 370 is an extraordinary, unique and unprecedented clause. A provision in the nature of Article 370(3) is not present in any constitutional document or any provision of the Indian Constitution. It is not possible to classify the power under clause (3) under a specifi c nomenclature. The power under clause (3) of Article 370 120 Written Submissions of Mr. Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India 121 Written Submissions of Mr. Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India 122 Written Submissions of Mr. Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India 123 Written Submissions of Mr. Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India 56 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. is a plenary Presidential power, specially designed for a “temporary” provision.124 58. The position as far as the State of Jammu and Kashmir is concerned, even prior to the coming in to force of Article 1 and the Constitution of India, was:125 a. By the IoA, the ruler surrendered his authority; and b. By the proclamation dated 25 November 1949, the ruler surrendered his absolute power in regard to the aff airs of the State. 59. The Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir was formed by a ruler who himself had surrendered his sovereignty. The document called the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir and the body framed for its creation cannot claim any equivalence with the Constitution of India and the Constituent Assembly of India. This is because the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir and the resultant Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir:126 a. Were formed in 1951 by the Proclamation of the Maharaja who had already acceded to India; b. Were formed after the Constitution of India already included the State of Jammu and Kashmir under the Schedule to Article 1 thereby making it a part of India, devoid of any sovereignty; c. Were not framed in their classical sense as documents for a new nation or for providing an independent model of governance.