The necessary consequence of the application of Article 1 is that Jammu and Kashmir became an integral part of ‘India that is Bharat’. 63. Clause (1)(d) speaks of extending ‘other provisions’ of the Constitution to the State, subject to exceptions and modifi cations specifi ed by the President. The fi rst proviso stipulates that for matters specifi ed in the IOA, consultation with the State Government is required, whereas for other matters concurrence would be necessary. Article 370(2) specifi es the procedure when the Constituent Assembly of the State is in existence, providing that concurrence provided under Article 370(b)(ii) or the second IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 353 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] proviso to Article 370(1)(d) shall be placed before such Assembly for further decision. Finally, Article 370(3) contained a procedure to bring the arrangement to an end by way of public notifi cation. However, a recommendation by the Constituent Assembly was stated to be necessary in this regard. 64. Article 370 thus contemplated the mechanism for extending the Parliament’s law-making power and the various provisions of the Constitution of India to the State, which show that Article 370 was meant to gradually bring the State bring on par with other States in this process of phased integration. We may note that this is evinced by the series of Constitutional s passed by the President in consultation or concurrence with the Government of the State, from time to time. Once the State was fi rmly a part of India under Article 1, only further integration remained to be undertaken over a period of time – by extending both the Parliament’s lawmaking powers to the State and various provisions of the Constitution of India. This leaves no manner of doubt that Article 370 was a temporary provision, meant to serve a specifi c function. 65. At this stage, we reject Mr. Dinesh Dwivedi, Learned Senior Counsel’s submission that the provision was temporary only until the State Constituent Assembly was dissolved. Other than the historical and textual reading alluded to above, this issue has been decided by a coordinate Bench of this Court in Sampat Prakash.110 There, the petitioner challenged COs 59 and 69 as ultra vires the power of the President under Article 370(1). The argument raised was that Article 370 was temporary and ceased to be operational after the State Constituent Assembly dissolved itself. The Court held otherwise, taking the view that the ‘special conditions’ necessitating the provision continued to exist, and the Constituent Assembly of the State had also not recommended that the provision cease to exist. 66. Nevertheless, we may note that the question of whether the power under 370(3) could be exercised after the dissolution of the State Constituent Assembly was not considered by the Court therein. That is a question that we are called to decide upon presently. 110 (supra) 354 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. C. The eff ect of Article 370(3) 67. Our discussion above has dealt with two aspects. First, the recognition of Jammu and Kashmir’s internal sovereignty through the mechanism of Article 370.