Interpretation of Statutes – An interpretation of the law that seeks to address the mischief, that is consistent with the Constitution C and promotes constitutional objectives and that which responds to the needs of the nation must be adopted. Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD : 1. Section 24 of the CPC is a general power of ‘transfer and withdrawal’ capable of being invoked by the High D Courts at any stage either suo motu without notice or on the application of any of the parties after notice, whereas section 25 confers exclusive power on the Supreme Court, on the application of either of the parties and after notice, to transfer suits, etc. from the Courts stated therein. While section 24 is part of the E general law, section 25 is the special law. Law is well-settled, and referring to the decision in Amarendra Pratap Singh vs. Tej Bahadur Prajapati, that a general law cannot defeat the provisions of a special law to the extent to which they are in conflict; else, an effort has to be made at reconciling the two provisions by homogenous reading. What, therefore, needs to be seen and F appreciated is whether there is any conflict or inconsistency between the general law (section 24) and the special law (section 25) for the former to yield to the latter, and ascertain whether the High Court still has the jurisdiction under the general law to an inter-State transfer notwithstanding the special law vesting G the Supreme Court with such power of transfer. There has to be an inconsistency between the two so as to apply the maxim generalia specialibus non derogant. The jurisdiction conferred on the Supreme Court pursuant to the amendment of section 25 of the CPC in 1976 though special, invocation of the jurisdiction of the High Court under section 24 may not come in conflict and H SHAH NEWAZ KHAN v. STATE OF NAGALAND 987 defeat section 25, if jurisdiction is still found available to be A exercised in a given case under the former without doing violence to the latter. [Para 37][1006-H; 1007-A, D-G] 2. A High Court ~ howsoever big or small, old or new ~ is as much a Constitutional Court as this Court is and enjoys wide ranging powers vested in it by law. No doubt, the power under B section 25 is a special power, but the common High Courts of the country ought not to read section 24 of the CPC in a manner as if the power of the Supreme Court under section 25 to an inter-State transfer is available to be exclusively exercised by it in all cases of inter-State transfer, thereby denuding the common C High Courts of the country of their jurisdiction by mere reference to involvement of an inter-State transfer and without anything more being looked at. [Para 42][1009-G-H; 1010-A-B] 3. In opinion of this Court, an approach to construe section 25 of the CPC has to be fair, pragmatic, reasonable and realistic.