Who can help being moved by the saga of crucifi ed Sherwani, Abdul Aziz, Brigadier Rajendra Singh, Prem Pal, Sardar Rangil Singh early militia boys like Poshkar Nath Zadoo, Somnath Bira Ismail, among scores of other named and unnamed heroes of the all communities. But we, through rich in human material, lacked war equipment and trained soldiers. When the raiders were fast approaching Srinagar, we could think of only one way to save the state from total annihilation-by asking for help from a friendly neighbour. The representative of the National Conference, therefore, fl ew to Delhi to seek help from the Government of India. But the absence of any constitutionalities between our State and India made it impossible for her to render us any eff ective IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 87 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] assistance in meeting the aggressor. As I said earlier, India had refused to sign a Stand Still Agreement with the state on the ground that she could not accept such a Agreement until it had the approval of the people. But now, since the people’s representatives themselves sought an alliance, the Government of India showed readiness to accept it. Legally the instrument of Accession had to be signed by the ruler of the state. This the Maharaja did. While accepting that accession, the Government of India said that she wished that “as soon as law and have been restored in the Kashmir and her soil cleared of the Invader, the question of the state’s accession should be settled by reference of the people.” 144. In the course of his address to the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir, Sheikh Abdullah highlighted the following reasons in support of acceding to India: a. The adoption of democracy, as a consequence of which “there is no danger of a revival of feudalism and autocracy” if Jammu and Kashmir were to accede to India; b. In the previous four years, the Government of India had made no attempt to interfere in the internal autonomy of Jammu and Kashmir; c. The Indian Constitution provided for a secular democracy based on the precepts of justice, freedom and equality; d. The Indian Constitution had repudiated the concept of a religious state by guaranteeing the equality of citizens irrespective of religion, colour, caste and class; e. The national movement in Jammu and Kashmir gravitated towards these principles of secular democracy; f. The economic advantages of aligning with India; and g. The potential of achieving land reforms under the Indian Constitution. 145. Sheikh Abdullah noted that the most powerful argument in favour of acceding to Pakistan was that the Pakistan was a Muslim state and a 88 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. large majority of the people in Jammu and Kashmir professed the religion. Repelling the argument, Sheikh Abdullah observed: “The most powerful argument which can be advanced in her favour is that Pakistan is a Muslim State, and a big majority of our people being Muslim the State must accede to Pakistan.