In any scheme of self-assessment it becomes the responsibility of the assessee to determine his liability of duty correctly. This determination is required to be made on the basis of his own and in a bonafide manner. B 24. The extent of disclosure that an assessee makes is also linked to his belief as to the requirements of law. In the present case the assessee who was required to self-assess his liability determined the assessable value on the basis of an interpretation given by CESTAT in its dated 28.7.2000. It could not have foreseen that the view taken by C CESTAT would be upset and overturned by the Supreme Court as it happened on 9.8.2005. The assessee’s conduct during the material period i.e. between 2000 to 2005 cannot be considered to be malafide when it merely followed the view taken by the Tribunal in IFGL’s case. On the question of disclosure of facts, as we have already noticed above the assessee had disclosed to the department its pricing policy by giving D separate letters. It is also not disputed that the returns which were required to be filed were indeed filed. In these returns, as we noticed earlier there was no separate column for disclosing details of the deemed export clearances. Separate disclosures were required to be made only for exports under bond and not for deemed exports, which are a class of E domestic clearances, entitled to certain benefits available otherwise on exports. There was therefore nothing wrong with the assessee’s action of including the value of deemed exports within the value of domestic clearances. 25. We also take note of the fact that in the show cause notice F itself it has been accepted by the revenue that the self-assesment procedure did not require an assessee to submit copies of all contracts, agreements and invoices. This being the admitted position in the notice we do not find any basis for agreeing with the findings of the Commissioner that certain relevant documents had not been filed and thereby suppressed from the scrutiny of the revenue officers. An assessee G can be accused for suppressing only such facts which it was otherwise required to be disclosed under the law. The counsel for the Revenue has, while pleading that facts was suppressed been unable to show us the provision or rule which required the assessee in this case to make additional disclosures of documents or facts. The assertion that there was suppression of facts is therefore clearly not tenable. H 1300 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 26. Insofar as the appeal No. 5744/2011 is concerned, we find that the same pertains to a different plant of the Assessee-Respondent where clearances were affected during the period January 2001 to November 2003. The Show Cause Notice in this case was issued on 29.12.2005 and sought to invoke the extended period of limitation by making similar allegations as in Civil Appeal No. 6033 of 2009. The B impugned in this appeal, however is an dated 4.4.2010 of the Gujarat High Court by which the Court had dismissed an appeal filed by the revenue against an of CESTAT, by holding that no question of law could be stated to arise from the of CESTAT.