In fact, if they had challenged, the same would not have been maintainable. The appropriate remedy was not filing a civil suit. Even the allotment of land to Reserve Bank of India was not challenged. 17. It was pleaded in the civil suit that the plaintiffs therein are in possession of certain portion of the government land on which they are F residing since 1965, hence, they have become owners thereof by way of adverse possession. The civil suit was filed with the following prayers: - “(a) Let it be declared that the Plaintiffs are in peaceful continuous and uninterrupted physical possession over ‘B’ Schedule property consisting of Plot No.1474 (Part) & Plot No. 1493 (Part) under G Khata No.1427 (GA) admeasuring an area of Ac.0.430 decimals as mentioned in Schedule ‘B’ with hostile animus to the true knowledge of Defendant and thereby perfected their title, by way of adverse possession, since from the year 1965 for more than statutory period. H STATE OF ORISSA & ANR. v. LAXMI NARAYAN DAS (DEAD) 1063 THR. LRS & ORS. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] (b) Let it be declared that the plaintiffs are the lawful owner in A possession having right title and interest over ‘A’ Schedule property and the Defendant, has no manner of right to interfere with the peaceful possession of the Plaintiffs not only over ‘A’ schedule property but also over ‘B’ schedule property. (c) Let the Defendant his henchmen contractor agents and officials B be restrained by way of permanent injunction, with direction not to interfere or part with the possession of the Plaintiffs over Plot No.1474 (Part) and Plot No.1493 (Part) under Khata No.1427 (GA) i.e.’B’ Schedule Property, which being amalgamated to the plots of the Plaintiffs mentioned in Schedule ‘A’ are very much C inside the boundary of the Plaintiffs. (d) …… (e) ……” 18. A perusal of the prayer (b) in the suit shows that the plaintiffs therein had not approached the court with clean hands. On the one hand, D it was admitted in the plaint, that part of the suit land, which is allegedly belonging to the plaintiffs therein, had been allotted by the GAD to the Reserve Bank of India and staff quarters had been constructed thereon but still it was sought to be declared that the plaintiffs are owners in possession of that portion of land and their possession need to be protected. E Furthermore, permanent injunction was also sought against the defendants from interfering in their possession. The Reserve Bank of India, which was admittedly in possession of the part of the land was not impleaded as a defendant in the suit. The aforesaid suit was dismissed as withdrawn on 28.07.2007. The Court passed the following :- “This arises out of the petition filed by the plaintiff to withdraw F the suit. Perused the petition, objection, plaint averment so also the W.S. filed by the defendant. I have already heard on the withdrawal petition from both the G sides. Considering the fact and circumstances of the case, the petition for withdrawal is party allowed.