185. The corollary of the doctrine of competence-competence is that courts may only examine whether an arbitration agreement exists on the basis of the prima facie standard of review. The nature of objections to the jurisdiction of an arbitral tribunal on the basis that stamp-duty has not been paid or is inadequate is such as cannot be decided on a prima facie basis. Objections of this kind will require a detailed consideration of evidence and submissions and a fi nding as to the law as well as the facts. Obligating the court to decide issues of stamping at the Section 8 or Section 11 stage will defeat the legislative intent underlying the Arbitration Act. 186. The purpose of vesting courts with certain powers under Sections 8 and 11 of the Arbitration Act is to facilitate and enable arbitration as well as to ensure that parties comply with arbitration agreements. The disputes which have arisen between them remain the domain of the arbitral tribunal (subject to the scope of its jurisdiction as defi ned by the arbitration clause). The exercise of the jurisdiction of the courts of the country over the substantive dispute between the parties is only possible at two stages: a. If an application for interim measures is fi led under Section 9 of the Arbitration Act; or b. If the award is challenged under Section 34. Issues which concern the payment of stamp-duty fall within the remit of the arbitral tribunal. The discussion in the preceding segments also make it evident that courts are not required to deal with the issue of stamping at the stage of granting interim measures under Section 9. IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1179 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] 187. One of the intervenors, the Singapore International Arbitration Centre, submitted that the decision in N N Global 2 (supra) reversed the prima facie standard by observing that the court may refer a dispute to the arbitral tribunal if objections as to its being duly stamped are “on the face of it, wholly without foundation.” We agree with this submission. 188. Once the arbitral tribunal has been appointed, it will act in accordance with law and proceed to impound the agreement under Section 33 of the Stamp Act if it sees fi t to do so. It has the authority to receive evidence by consent of the parties, in terms of Section 35. The procedure under Section 35 may be followed thereafter. In this manner, the competence-competence doctrine is given life and arbitration proceedings can continue to remain a faster alternative to suits before the trial courts or other, similar actions. b. The eff ect of the word “shall” in Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act 189. Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act use the word “shall.” While this ordinarily indicates that the provision is mandatory, it may be read as directory. In Sainik Motors v. State of Rajasthan,168 this Court held: “The word ‘shall’ is ordinarily mandatory, but it is sometimes not so interpreted if the context or the intention otherwise demands.” 190.