Site plan Exh.PP was prepared correctly. Statements of witnesses were recorded. Statement of Surender Kumar Marked X, now Exhibited as Exh.PQ and statement of Karam Singh marked Y now exhibited as Exh.PR have been correctly recorded by me as given by them. Nothing was left out and nor anything was added of my own in their statements. Memo of personal search Exh.PE was prepared and tickets Exh.PF for Delhi Bus was recovered from accused. Thereafter I with accused and case property came to police station. Case property, sample and NCB Form were submitted by me to SHO who sealed case property and sample with seal X. Parcels are Exh.P1 and Sample is Exh.P2. Accused was produced in the court on 24.8.98 and remand of accused obtained. During investigation, accused informed that charas has been RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 305 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] given to him by Nathan Ashley for taking the same to Delhi and that person is staying at Nest Guest House located near bus stand. We went to that Guest House but no person of this name was found there. On 25.8.98 I prepared special report and sent to SP through. constable Lakshman Dass and Exh.PC is copy of the same. After completing the investigation, documents and papers were given to SHO who (SHO) has prepared the challan.” 24. We also looked into the cross examination of the PW 14 by the defence counsel. We take notice of the fact that nothing substantial could be elicited from the PW 14 in his cross examination. We also take notice of the fact that except suggestions put to the witness, there is no other form of cross examination. 25. What is pertinent to note in the oral evidence of PW 12 and PW 14 respectively referred to above, is that the appellant herein was told or rather informed that if he so desired, he may get himself searched before the ASI or before the Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate. Thus, it is evident from the oral evidence of both PW 12 and PW 14 resply that three options were given to the appellant herein – fi rst to be searched before the ASI i.e. Assistant Sub-Inspector, second, before the Gazetted Offi cer and third, before any Magistrate. It is also pertinent to note that the appellant was not informed in so many words that it is his right under Section 50 of the NDPS Act to seek search before a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate. 26. So far as the issue of applicability of Section 50 of the NDPS Act is concerned, there are two aspects of the same. Even if we hold that Section 50 of the NDPS Act was not complied with, then the second question would be, whether Section 50 could at all be made applicable to the case on hand. 27. We have no hesitation in recording a fi nding that Section 50 of the NDPS Act was not complied with as the appellant could not have been off ered the third option of search to be conducted before the ASI.