G 66. Upon remand, the CERC passed dated 16th September 2019, thereby granting compensation on certain components on the ground of ‘Change in Law’ including carrying cost. 67. Contending that the passed by the CERC did not give effect to the ‘Change in Law’ components as directed by the learned H GMR WARORA ENERGY LTD. v. CENTRAL ELECTRICITY 213 REGULATORY COMMISSION (CERC) [B. R. GAVAI, J.] APTEL, an appeal being Appeal No. 423 of 2019 came to be preferred A by GKEL before the learned APTEL. 68. Bihar Discoms had also filed an appeal being Appeal No.173 of 2021, before the learned APTEL, being aggrieved by the benefits which were granted by the CERC. 69. By the impugned , the learned APTEL held that the GKEL B was entitled to recover expenditure involved in procurement of alternate coal due to shortfall in domestic coal supply corresponding to scheduled generation pertaining to the obligations under the Bihar PPA. The learned APTEL held that this was required to be done in to restore the appellant-GKEL to the same economic position as before as if no ‘Change C in Law’ event had occurred. 70. We have heard Ms. Anushree Bardhan, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant-Bihar Discoms and Mr. Maninder Singh, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of GKEL. 71. Ms. Anushree Bardhan submits that the learned APTEL ought D to have granted benefit of ‘Change in Law’ restricting it to shortfall for only 894.5 MW, which was the amount specified in the PPA, and not for the entire 1050 MW, which is the installed capacity. She further submits that the learned APTEL had also erred in granting add on premium on account of extension of tapering linkage by three years. 72. Shri Maninder Singh, learned Senior Counsel submits that E insofar as the first issue with regard to shortfall of coal supply is concerned, the same is squarely covered by the s of this Court in the cases of Energy Watchdog v. Central Electricity Regulatory Commission and others2, Jaipur Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Ltd. and others v. Adani Power Rajasthan Limited and another3(hereinafter F referred to as “Adani Rajasthan case”) and MSEDCL v. APML & Ors. (supra). 73. He further submits that the delay in operationalization of the captive mines was not on account of any reason attributable to GKEL. He submits that, since the allotment of coal blocks was cancelled on account of the of this Court in the case of Manohar Lal G Sharma v. The Principal Secretary & Ors.4, GKEL was also entitled for the benefit for the said period. 2 (2017) 14 SCC 80 3 2020 SCC Online SC 697 4 (2014) 9 SCC 516 and 2014 (9) SCC 614 H 214 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 74. Insofar as Busy Season Surcharge is concerned, he submits that there is a concurrent finding of fact. He submits that, in any case, the said charges are issued by the Railway Board by issuing Notifications/ Circulars. He submits that since the Railway is an instrumentality of the State, both the CERC and the learned APTEL have concurrently held that the Generator would be entitled to compensation on the ground of B ‘Change in Law’.