Ltd. & Ors.15 and Jai Mahal Hotels (P) Ltd. v. Devraj Singh & Ors.16, A held that even though Section 111(7) of the 1956 Act17seemingly enlarges the power of the CLB, the power of rectification continues to remain summary in nature and if any seriously disputed questions arise, the Company Court should relegate the parties to a forum which is more appropriate for investigation and adjudication of such disputed questions. B 22. In Kesha Appliances (P) Ltd. & Ors. v. Royal Holdings Services Ltd.& Ors.18, the High Court of Bombay has held that: “41. .....The contention of the learned counsel for the plaintiff that there was a pre-existing common law right under section 9 of the CPC and that pre-existing common law right is not C taken away by the provisions of Section 15Y and 20A also cannot be accepted. It is because the common law right of rectification which is sought to be enforced and exercised by the plaintiff in the present case arises out of the right conferred on the basis of Take Over Regulations and once the provisions D of the Take Over Regulations are invoked then the entire jurisdiction by virtue of the provisions of Section 15Y and 20A is exclusively conferred on the SEBI authorities. Learned counsel’s argument that under Section 15Y the only jurisdiction conferred on an adjudicating officer is to penalise the party and not for rectification also cannot be accepted because E the provisions of Section 15Y are to be read together with Section 20A of the SEBI Act which inter-alia confers a power on the board to pass any which includes direction as contemplated under Regulation 44 of the Takeover Regulations..... F … 43. I am of the opinion that on plain and simple reading of section 15Y read with section 20A of the Act all the cases 15(2006) 6 SCC 94 G 16(2016) 1 SCC 423 17Section 111(7) - On any application under this section, the Tribunal - (a) may decide any question relating to the title of any person who is a party to the application to have his name entered in, or omitted from, the register; (b) generally, may decide any question which it is necessary or expedient to decide in connection with the application for rectification. 18(2006) 1 Bom CR 545 H 546 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A arising out of the breach and Take Over Regulation must fall within the exclusive domain of SEBI and cannot be complained in the court of Law by virtue of express bar contained under section 15Y and section 20A of the SEBI Act. I am also of the further opinion that there is no doubt that there is a common law right in a shareholder to apply for rectification of the B share register even though it is not his own share in respect of which he is seeking rectification but still the said right if it flows from the provisions of Take Over Regulations then undoubtedly it would fall within the exclusive Jurisdiction of SEBI and not within the Jurisdiction of this court in view of C the express bar contained under the aforesaid statue.