However, her testimony is contradicted by at least three A prosecution witnesses with two of them, PW7 and PW-8 being her uncles, who maintained that there were strained relations of the appellant and his wife and that the appellant doubted the character of his wife as also the paternity of the children. Even PW-5, brother of the appellant, though attempted to depose against B the prosecution case but indeed testified to the fact that there had been strains in the relationship of the appellant and his wife. The submission that strained relationship of appellant with his wife may not provide sufficient motive for killing the children cannot be accepted for the reason that the motive projected in the present case had been that the appellant doubted the paternity C of the deceased children and suspected that they were not his sons. [Para 17.2][851-G-H; 852-A-C] 2.3. When the evidence on record unambiguously proves the guilt of the accused-appellant, the factor relating to motive cannot displace or weaken the conclusions naturally flowing from D the evidence. Moreover, the present case cannot be said to be of want of motive altogether. Differently put, when all the facts and circumstances are taken together, the present one is not a case where there had been any missing link in the chain of circumstances, leading only to the conclusion of the guilt of the E appellant. [Para 17.3][852-D] Plea of Mental Incapacity 3.1. The prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt that the accused has committed the offences of murdering the children and causing disappearance of evidence. The other F surrounding factors also show that prosecution has proved the requisite mens rea with reference to the manner of commission of crimes and projecting false narratives by the appellant. In the given set of facts and circumstances, on the submission as made as regards unsoundness of mind, the question in the present case is as to whether the accused-appellant has been able to establish G that he was insane at the time of committing the offence or anything has been projected on record for which even a reasonable doubt could be entertained as regards mens rea? The answer to this question could only be in the negative. [Para 22][856-D-E] H 804 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 3.2. The evidence on record, taken as a whole, at the most shows that the appellant was addicted to alcohol and was admitted to the rehabilitation centre for de-addiction. However, there is absolutely nothing on record to show that the appellant was medically treated as a person of unsound mind or was legally required to be taken as a person of unsound mind. Contrary to B the suggestions made on behalf of the appellant, the testimony of PW-3, manager of rehabilitation centre, had been clear and specific that during his stay in the centre, no mental illness was observed in the appellant nor was he treated for any mental illness. PW-3 stated in categorical terms that the behaviour of the appellant C ‘was normal during his said stay and he was never given any medicine for mental illness because neither any mental illness was observed in him nor his family members gave us any previous history of his suffering from any mental illness.’ In his cross-examination, this witness further removed any doubt in regard to the mental status of the appellant while maintaining that the appellant ‘was D mentally fit and sound during his stay at our centre and he was admitted only for de-addiction of his habit of consuming liquor.’ Hence, the appellant’s had only been a case of addiction to alcohol.