13 to 19 forms appraisal memorandum. PW4: Yes. DR: The application contains the off ers of the applicant and the appraisal contains the conditions of sanction by the sanctioning authority. Do you agree? PW4: The application cum interview form is containing information regarding the prospective borrower. Based on the information the FO in consultation with BM has to fi x the credit limits and stipulations in the appraisal memorandum. DR: On page 12 para 7. 2 though there is an off er, on pg. 18 para 9.2 there is no stipulation to the eff ect that the off er of the applicant should be taken as collateral security. Do you see? PW4: I do not know. DR: On pg.12 para 7.2 there is a mention of equitable mortgage of certain properties. Do you see? PW4: Yes. DR: On pg.18 para 9.2 under the stipulation the stipulation column is vacant. Do you see? PW4: Yes. DR: The taking of equitable mortgage of certain securities is not a condition stipulated by the sanctioning authorities i.e. BM at branch level in r/o PEX9, pg. 18, para 9.2 ‘stipulations’. STATE BANK OF INDIA v. A.G.D. REDDY 669 [K. V. VISWANATHAN, J.] PW4: Yes, DR: Hence the question of completion of the formalities of non- existent stipulation does not arise. Do you see? PW4: I do not know.” 28. What is signifi cant to note is PEX 9 pertains to the application for working capital in respect of M/s Saraswathi Fabricators together with the appraisal memorandum. It is clear from the deposition that the applicant for the loan had off ered collateral security in the form of land and building and that the formality of collateral security was not taken. It is further borne out that it is the Field Offi cer in consultation with the Branch Manager who has to fi x the credit limit and the stipulations. It appears from the records that no stipulation was put with regard to equitable mortgage so mentioned with regard to M/s Saraswathi Fabricators, even though the party had off ered equitable collateral security in the form of immovable property. 29. The explanation of the respondent is only that there was no stipulation in the sanction with regard to the taking of collateral security. The charge is that, with regard to M/s Saraswathi Fabricators, the formalities for creating equitable mortgage over immovable property off ered as collateral security were not completed. The evidence of PW-4 is that the stipulation for collateral security is so made by the Field Offi cer in consultation with the Branch Manager. 30. In the light of the above, the fi nding of the Enquiry Offi cer that the respondent, by his negligence, did not stipulate this in his recommendation to the Branch Manager and, as such, the advance could not be collaterally secured by creation of equitable mortgage cannot be said to be perverse or based on no evidence. 31. The answer given by the respondent in the writ petition that personal guarantee was available; that the sanction did not contain any condition regarding equitable mortgage of the property; that documents of title were traced only in September, 1988 after he left the Branch in June, 1988; that as required by the successor of the respondent and the then Branch Manager, the respondent had identifi ed the documents and suggested that they complete the work connected with the creation of equitable mortgage, are not matters on which the view of the Disciplinary 670 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R.