2.3. The CBI, feeling aggrieved by the of the Delhi High Court, has preferred the present appeal substantially on the ground that Section 6A(2) of DSPE Act would be applicable and not Section 6A(1) thereof. The High Court erred in holding that Section 6A(1) was applicable. 2.4. The said appeal is pending since 2007. During the pendency of the appeal Section 6A(1) of the DSPE Act was held to be invalid and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution by a Constitution Bench vide dated 06.05.2014 in the case of Subramanian Swamy (supra). Paragraph 99 of the said report which makes the above declaration is reproduced hereunder: “99. In view of our foregoing discussion, we hold that Section 6A(1), which requires approval of the Central Government to conduct any inquiry or investigation into any off ence alleged to have been committed under the PC Act, 1988 where such allegation relates to: (a) the employees of the Central Government of the level of Joint Secretary and above, and (b) such offi cers as are appointed by the Central Government in corporations established by or under any Central Act, government companies, societies and local authorities owned or controlled by the Government, is invalid and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. As a necessary corollary, the provision contained in Section 26(c) of Act 45 of 2003 to that extent is also declared invalid.” 3. What the Constitution Bench did not decide was whether the declaration of Section 6A(1) of the DSPE Act to be violative of Article 14 of the Constitution would have retrospective eff ect or it would apply prospectively. 4. The appeal was taken up on a number of occasions and argued from both sides. Relying upon the s regarding retrospective or prospective applicability of the said declaration, the appellant-CBI would submit that once Section 6A(1) has been declared to be violative of Article 14, the of the High Court deserves to be set aside and the prosecution should be allowed to continue with the proceedings from the stage of rejection of discharge application. On the other hand, the respondent would submit that the in the case of Subramanian Swamy (supra) could not have any retrospective operation and therefore, no fault could be found with the of the High Court and the appeal deserves to be dismissed. CBI v. R.R. KISHORE 9 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] 5. At a particular stage, this Court felt that the Union of India should be made a party and should be heard. It accordingly suo moto issued notices vide dated 27.04.2012 and the Union of India was required to fi le an affi davit. The Union of India fi led an affi davit dated 05.10.2012. However, the same was permitted to be withdrawn by dated 29.01.2013. Thereafter, the Union of India fi led another affi davit in February, 2013. The matter was thereafter taken up on 10.03.2016 when this Court, after recording the submissions advanced by the rival parties and considering the importance of the question and also the fact that the retrospectivity or prospectivity of the in the case of Subramanian Swamy (supra) could only be dealt with by a Constitution Bench, directed that the matter be placed before the Chief Justice of India on the administrative side for constituting an appropriate Bench.