It was dismissed by the High Court on the ground that the dispute was pending before a Judicial Authority, which is the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum (for short ‘District Consumer Forum’), where a complaint has been fi led by the other party to the agreement, who is a consumer and therefore the appellants have the option to move an application under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 for reference before Arbitration. Consequently, the appellants moved an application for referring the dispute for arbitration. The District Consumer Forum dismissed this application on the ground that the complainant has invoked a public law remedy before a “Judicial Authority”, under a benefi cial legislation for consumers, which is the Consumer Protection Act, 2019 (hereinafter referred to as ‘The 2019 Act”) and therefore under the facts and circumstances of this case, the dispute is non-arbitrable. Consequent to the dismissal of their application under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996, the appellants fi led a Review Application before the High Court for review of its earlier dated 19.05.2022. This Review Application was dismissed vide the second of the High Court dated 25.11.2022, (which is again impugned before this Court), on the ground that the appellants had already acted upon the dated 19.05.2022, and therefore is now estopped from seeking review of the dated 19.05.2022. It is these two s which are under challenge before this Court. 3. The facts as they stand today are that the complaint fi led by the consumer (the sole respondent before this Court), has already been allowed by the District Consumer Forum and the builders (i.e., the appellants before this Court), have been directed to handover the possession of the plot along with the constructed villa and pay a compensation of Rs.15,00,000/- (Rupees SMT. M. HEMALATHA DEVI & ORS. v. B. UDAYASRI 263 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] Fifteen Lakh Only) and a cost of Rs.1,00,000/- (Rupees One Lakh Only) with default stipulation. The fi ndings given by the District Consumer Forum disclose the reasons as to why the builder backed out of its promise and made a default: “ ….., the opposite party no. 3 had chosen to send the termination notices and sought for execution of cancellation deed knowing that the value of the plot had escalated to more than 10 times from the date of agreement and the opposite parties wanted to take the benefi t of such rise in price value. The opposite party no. 3 did not fi x any reasonable time for performance of his obligation though time for handing over the possession was agreed by the opposite party no.3 in the agreement of sale. The opposite party no. 3 had issued termination notice in the year 2020 though he failed to keep his promise of handing over the possession of the Villa by March, 2017. The failure of the developer, who is also the land owner in the present case, to hand over the possession of the residential property to the complainant-purchaser within the contractually stipulated time count as a defi ciency.