Rowlatt, J., relying on the observation of Lord Loreburn, L.C., in Strong & Co. v. Woodifield [(1906) AC 448] said at p. 452: D “but it seems to me that a penal liability of this kind cannot be regarded as a loss connected with or arising out of a trade. I think that a loss connected with or arising out of a trade must, at any rate, amount to something in the nature of a loss which is contemplable and in the nature of a commercial loss. I do E not intend that to be an exhaustive definition, but I do not think it is possible to say that when a fine which is what the penalty in the present case amounted to has been inflicted upon a trading body, it can be said that that is a ‘loss connected, with or arising out of’ the trade within the meaning of this rule”. F This statement of the law was approved in the Commissioners of Inland Revenue v. Alexander Von Glehn& Co. Ltd. [(1920) 2 KB 553] where also in similar circumstances by consent of the assessee penalty of £ 3,000 was paid and the penalty plus the costs were claimed as deduction in G arriving at the profits. The Special Commissioners had found that the penalty and costs were incurred by the assessee in the course of carrying on their trade and so incidental thereto and were admissible deductions. Rowlatt, J., on a reference held it to be a non-deductible item. This was affirmed on appeal by the Court of Appeal. Lord Sterndale, M.R., was of the opinion H THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX JAIPUR v. PRAKASH 113 CHAND LUNIA (D) THR. LRS. & ANR. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] that it was immaterial whether technically the proceedings were A criminal or not. The money that was paid was paid as a penalty and it did not matter if in the information it was called a forfeiture. It was argued by the assesses in that case that no moral obliquity was attributed to them and that it did not matter whether the expense was incurred in consequence of an infraction of the B law or whether it was a penalty for doing an illegal act. At p. 565 Lord Sterndale said: “Now what is the position here? This business could perfectly well be carried on without any infraction of the law. This penalty was imposed because of an infraction of the law, and that C does not seem to me to be, any more than the expense which had to be paid in Strong & Co. v. Woodifield [(1906) AC 448] appeared to Lord Davey to be, a disbursement or expense which was laid out or expended for the purpose of such trade….” D Warrington, L.J. said at p. 569: “It is a sum which the persons conducting the trade have had to pay because in conducting it they have so acted as to render themselves liable to this penalty.