In this background appellant herein fi led an application for substitution as legal representative of Urmila Devi and this application came to be fi led on 05.12.2011 along with application for condonation of delay and to set aside abatement, which was opposed by the legal representatives of the fi rst defendants by fi ling objections and contending that application fi led by Yashpal Jain is not maintainable. After hearing the learned Advocates appearing for the parties learned trial judge by a detailed dated 09.05.2012 condoned the delay and allowed the application of the appellant to be brought on record as legal representative of the deceased-plaintiff Urmila Devi. This came to be affi rmed by dated 13.12.2012 in Civil Revision No.4 of 2012 fi led by the legal representatives of Mangal Singh. 13. It is pertinent to mention at this juncture that during the life time of Urmila Devi an application came to be fi led under Section 137-A of U.P. Act No.1 of 1951 before Tehsildar/Assistant Collector, Pauri Garhwal YASHPAL JAIN v. SUSHILA DEVI & OTHERS 957 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] contending that the Bhumidari Sanad had been obtained by Mangal Singh, with reference to land comprising Nos.77, 3/16 Nalis, by adopting forgery, which came to be accepted. The appeal fi led by Mangal Singh before the Assistant Collector against the of Tehsildar did not yield any result, which gave rise to fi ling of a Second Appeal before the Revenue Board culminating in said appeal being allowed in favour of Mangal Singh. The Review Petition fi led against the of the Second Appellate Authority came to be allowed and this was challenged by Mangal Singh in WP (M/S) No.342 of 2005 (Old No.14655 of 1983). During the pendency of the said writ petition, as noticed earlier, Urmila Devi expired and an application for substitution came to be fi led by the very same legal representatives of Mangal Singh (who are Respondent Nos.1 to 5 herein) vide Annexure P-10, specially pleading thereunder to delete the name of Respondent No.4 (therein) Smt. Urmila Devi and substitute Yashpal Jain (appellant herein) in her place. This application came to be allowed by dated 24.02.2012 as refl ected in Annexure RA/2 annexed to the rejoinder affi davit of the appellant. In this view of the matter, it cannot be gain said by the respondents herein that the appellant is not to be substituted as legal representative of deceased Urmila Devi. It is for this cogent reason, the learned trial judge vide dated 09.05.2012 allowed the substitution and permitted the appellant herein to be substituted as legal representative of deceased plaintiff -Urmila Devi. Rightly so, this of the trial court came to be affi rmed by the Revisional Court vide dated 13.12.2012. It would be apt and appropriate to note at this juncture and at the cost of repetition that Manoj Kumar Jain, who had initially fi led an application for substitution which came to be allowed by the trial court by dated 24.02.2010, which was carried in Civil Revision No.2 of 2010 and in the said proceedings an application came to be fi led by said Manoj Kumar Jain stating thereunder that he does not intend to press the application fi led by him for being substituted as legal representative of Urmila Devi.