DAKSHIN GUJARAT VIJ COMPANY LTD. v. M/S. GAYATRI 387 SHAKTI PAPER AND BOARD LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] 54. Further, in Ramanlal Bhailal Patel54,while elaborating on the notion of an association of persons, the Court held that co-owners of a property do not automatically become an association of persons. Where such co-owners lack a common purpose and pursue co-ownership not by their own volition, each of such co-owners would constitute a diff erent person instead of being referred to as single person, as an association of persons/ body of individuals. The reasoning is reproduced: “29. Normally, where a group of persons have not become co- owners by their own volition with a common purpose, they cannot be considered as a “person”. When the children of the owner of a property succeed to his property by testamentary succession or inherit by operation of law, they become co-owners, but the co-ownership is not by volition of parties nor do they have any common purpose. Each can act in regard to his/her share, on his/her own, without any right or obligation towards the other owners. The legal heirs though co-owners, do not automatically become an “association of persons/ body of individuals”. When diff erent persons buy undivided shares in a plot of land and engage a common developer to construct an apartment building, with individual ownership in regard to respective apartment and joint ownership of common areas, the co-owners of the plot of land, do not become an “association of persons/body of individuals”, in the absence of a deeming provision in a statute or an agreement. Similarly, when two or more persons merely purchase a property, under a common sale deed, without any agreement to have a common or joint venture, they will not become an “association of persons/body of individuals”. Mere purchase under a common deed without anything more, will not convert a co-ownership into a joint enterprise. Thus when there are ten co-owners of a property, they are ten persons and not a “body of individuals” to be treated as a “single person”. But if the co-owners proceed further and enter into an arrangement or agreement to have a joint enterprise or venture to produce a common result for their benefi t, then the co-owners may answer the defi nition of a “person”.” 54 Supra note 52. 388 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 55. Thus, the connotation of the expression, “association of persons”, may vary in diff erent statutes based on the particular context in which an association of persons is used in that statute. It needs to be examined whether such association of persons is pursuing a common action to achieve a benefi t under the said statute. 56. In the context of the Act and Rules, companies or body corporates may come together and set up another company as a SPV, with a common purpose to achieve the common benefi t of becoming captive user(s) under the Act and Rules, thereby enjoy the advantages provided to captive users such as waiver of paying cross subsidy or additional surcharge, as applicable.