This court found the same D to be in . 64. Interestingly, sub-section (2) of Section 5 which empowers the Special Judge to tender a pardon, does not speak about the stage at which a Special Judge may tender pardon. This point can be appreciated if we go back once again to Sections 306 and 307 of the Code which E lays down the following rules:- (i) A Chief Judicial Magistrate or a Metropolitan Magistrate is empowered to tender pardon at any of the three stages; (ii) The Magistrate of first class is empowered to tender pardon at two stage; and F (iii) The Court to which commitment is made (meaning thereby either a Court of Session or a Court of Special Judge named in sub-clauses (i) and (ii) of clause (a) of sub-section (5) of Section 306) is empowered to tender pardon at only one stage namely the trial of the offence. Though the word trial, G used in Section 306(1) is not used in Section 307, the words appearing in Section 307, namely “at any time after commitment of a case but before is passed” can only indicate the stage of trial, in view of the fact that under sub-section (5) of Section 306, committal takes place after cognizance is taken. H A. SRINIVASULU v. THE STATE REP. BY THE INSPECTOR OF 51 POLICE [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] 65. In contrast, Section 5(2) of the PC Act does not speak about A the stage at which pardon may be tendered by a Special Judge. This is perhaps in view of the express provisions of sub-section (1) of Section 5 which empowers the Special Judge himself to take cognizance without the accused being committed to him for trial. But the second part of sub- section (2) of Section 5 of the PC Act creates a deeming fiction that the B pardon tendered by the Special Judge shall be deemed to be a pardon tendered under Section 307 of the Code. However, as rightly contended by the learned Senior Counsel for A-7, this deeming fiction is limited for the purposes of Sub-sections (1) to (5) of Section 308 of the Code. 66. It appears that before the advent of the Code of Criminal C Procedure, 1973, the Courts were taking a view that the Magistrates had the power to tender pardon even after the commitment of the case for trial to the Court of Session/Special Judge. This was because of the way in which Section 338 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 was worded. A comparison of Section 307 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 with Section 338 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 will D make the position more clear. Section 307 of the Code of Section 338 of the Code of Criminal Criminal Procedure, 1973 Procedure, 1898 307. Power to direct tender of 338. Power to direct tender of pardon.—At any time after pardon. - At any time after E commitment of a case but before commitment, but before is is passed, the Court to passed, the Court to which the which the commitment is made commitment is made may, with the may, with a view to obtaining at view of obtaining on the trial the the trial the evidence of any person evidence of any person supposed to supposed to have been directly or have been directly or indirectly indirectly concerned in, or privy concerned in, or privy to, any such F to, any such offence, tender a offence, tender, or the pardon on the same condition to committing Magistrate or the such person.