Whatever the documents have been produced before the Court regarding the date of birth of 21.04.1974 are either the letters of Principal or are Duplicate T.C. or Marksheets. Neither the prosecution has produced any such original documents in the Subordinate Court to this eff ect that when the admission form of accused was fi lled, what date of birth was mentioned by the accused in it, what was the date of birth in Roll Register of School, what date of birth was mentioned by accused in the Examination Form of Secondary, and nor after bringing the original records from the concerned witnesses, same were got proved in the evidence. In these circumstances, this fact becomes doubtful that date of birth of accused was 21.04.1974, and accused is entitled to receive it’s benefi t. In the considered opinion of this Court, the conviction made by the Ld. Subordinate Court merely on the basis of oral evidences and letters or duplicate documents, is not just and proper. It is justifi able to acquit the accused. Resultantly, on the basis of aforesaid consideration, the present appeal fi led by the Appellant/Accused is liable to be allowed.” [Emphasis supplied] RAM LAL V. STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ORS. 819 24. What is important to notice is that the Appellate Judge has clearly recorded that in the document Exh. P-3 – original marksheet of the 8th standard, the date of birth was clearly shown as 21.04.1972 and the other documents produced by the prosecution were either letters or a duplicate marksheet. No doubt, the Appellate Judge says that it becomes doubtful whether the date of birth was 21.04.1974 and that the accused was entitled to receive its benefi t. However, what we are supposed to see is the substance of the . A reading of the entire clearly indicates that the appellant was acquitted after full consideration of the prosecution evidence and after noticing that the prosecution has miserably failed to prove the charge [See S. Samuthiram (Supra).] 25. Expressions like “benefi t of doubt” and “honorably acquitted”, used in s are not to be understood as magic incantations. A court of law will not be carried away by the mere use of such terminology. In the present case, the Appellate Judge has recorded that Exh. P-3, the original marksheet carries the date of birth as 21.04.1972 and the same has also been proved by the witnesses examined on behalf of the prosecution. The conclusion that the acquittal in the criminal proceeding was after full consideration of the prosecution evidence and that the prosecution miserably failed to prove the charge can only be arrived at after a reading of the in its entirety. The court in judicial review is obliged to examine the substance of the and not go by the form of expression used. 26. We are satisfi ed that the fi ndings of the appellate judge in the criminal case clearly indicate that the charge against the appellant was not just, “not proved” - in fact the charge even stood “disproved” by the very prosecution evidence.