Symbols were accordingly brought into use. Symbols or emblems are not a peculiar fea-ture of the election law of India. … The object is to ensure that the process of election is as genuine and fair as possible and that no elector should suff er from any handicap in casting his vote in favour of a candidate of his choice. Alt-hough the purpose which accounts for the origin of symbols was of a limited character, the symbol of each political party with the passage of time acquired a great value because the bulk of the electorate associated the political party at the time of elections with its symbol. …” (emphasis supplied) And again in paras 40 and 41 it is observed thus : (Sadiq Ali case [Sadiq Ali v. Election Commission of India, (1972) 4 SCC 664] , p. 682) 11 Maintained as appearing in the SCC version available on SCC OnLine; should be read as ‘eff aced’. UNION TERRITORY OF LADAKH v. JAMMU AND KASHMIR 101 NATIONAL CONFERENCE [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] “40. … It would, therefore, follow that Commission has been clothed with plenary powers by the abovementioned Rules in the matter of allotment of sym-bols. … If the Commission is not to be disabled from exercising eff ectively the plenary powers vested in it in the matter of allotment of symbols and for issuing directions in connection therewith, it is plainly essential that the Commission should have the power to settle a dispute in case claim for the allotment of the symbol of a political party is made by two rival claimants. … Para 15 is intended to eff ectuate and subserve the main purposes and objects of the Symbols . The paragraph is designed to ensure that because of a dispute having arisen in a political party between two or more groups, the entire scheme of the Symbols relating to the allotment of a symbol reserved for the political party is not set at naught. … The Commission is an authority created by the Constitution and according to Article 324, the superintendence, direction and control of the elec-toral rolls for and the conduct of elections to Parliament and to the Legislature of every State and of elections to the offi ce of President and Vice-President shall be vested in the Commission. The fact that the power of resolving a dispute be-tween two rival groups for allotment of symbol of a political party has been vest-ed in such a high authority would raise a presumption, though rebuttable, and provide a guarantee, though not absolute but to a considerable extent, that the power would not be misused but would be exercised in a fair and reasonable manner. 41. … Article 324 as mentioned above provides that superintendence, direc-tion and control of elections shall be vested in Election Commission. …” (emphasis supplied) 40.This decision in Sadiq Ali [Sadiq Ali v. Election Commission of India, (1972) 4 SCC 664] has been followed in Kanhiya Lal Omar v. R.K. Trivedi [Kanhiya Lal Omar v. R.K. Trivedi, (1985) 4 SCC 628] and in para 10 thereof, the Court observed thus : (SCC pp.