In Jamiruddin Ansari (supra) the issue before a two-Judge Bench of this Court was whether Section 23(2) of the Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act, 199914 excludes the application of Section 156(3) of the CrPC. The MCOCA is a special law enacted by the state legislature to prevent and control crimes by organized crime syndicates or gangs. Section 23 of MCOCA begins with a non-obstante clause. Section 23(2) provides that the special judge cannot take cognizance of any off ence under the MCOCA without the previous sanction of a police offi cer not below the rank of the Additional Director General of Police. The relevant clause is extracted below: 23. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code,— (a) no information about the commission of an off ence of organised crime under this Act, shall be recorded by a police offi cer without the prior approval of the police offi cer not below the rank of the Deputy Inspector General of Police; (b) no investigation of an off ence under the provisions of this Act shall be carried out by a police offi cer below the rank of the Deputy Superintendent of Police. 14 “MCOCA” 308 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. (2) No Special Court shall take cognizance of any off ence under this Act without the previous sanction of the police offi cer not below the rank of Additional Director General of Police. 22. In Jamiruddin Ansari (supra), this Court held that the provisions of the MCOCA will prevail over the provisions of the CrPC. The Court held that a Special Judge is precluded from taking cognizance of a private complaint and a separate inquiry without the previous sanction of the police offi cer not below the rank of Additional Director General of Police: 67. We are also inclined to hold that in view of the provisions of Section 25 of MCOCA, the provisions of the said Act would have an overriding eff ect over the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code and the learned Special Judge would not, therefore, be entitled to invoke the provisions of Section 156(3) CrPC for ing a special inquiry on a private complaint and taking cognizance thereupon, without traversing the route indicated in Section 23 of MCOCA. In other words, even on a private complaint about the commission of an off ence of organised crime under MCOCA cognizance cannot be taken by the Special Judge without due compliance with sub-section (1) of Section 23, which starts with a non obstante clause. 23. In view of the stringent provisions of the MCOCA, Section 23 provides a procedural safeguard that no information of an off ence alleged under the MCOCA shall be recorded without the prior approval of an offi cer below the rank of the Deputy Inspector General of Police. No investigation can be carried out by an offi cer below the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police. Section 23(2) contains a specifi c bar against the taking of cognizance by a Special Judge without the previous sanction of a police offi cer not below the rank of Additional Director General of Police.