If the enterprise carries on business as aforesaid, the profi ts of the enterprise may be taxed in the other Contracting State but only so much of them as is attributable directly or indirectly to that Permanent Establishment.” Article 11 deals with dividends, which reads as follows: “ARTICLE 11 DIVIDENDS 1. Dividends paid by a company which is resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other Contracting State. PRINCIPAL COMMISSION ER OF INCOME TAX-10 v. M/S KRISHAK 595 BHARTI COOPERATIVE LTD. [PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, J.] 2. However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a resident and according to the laws of the State, but if the recipient is the benefi cial owner of the dividends, the tax so charged shall not exceed: (a) 10 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends if the benefi cial owner is a company which owns at least 10 per cent of the shares of the company paying the dividends; (b) 12½ per cent of the gross amount of the dividends in all other cases. This paragraph shall not aff ect the taxation of the company in respect of the profi ts out of which the dividends are paid. 3. The term “dividends” as used in this Article means income from shares or other rights, not being debt-claims, participating in profi ts as well as income from other corporate rights which is subjected to the same taxation treatment as income from shares by the laws of the Contracting State of which the company making the distribution is a resident. 4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the benefi cial owner of the dividends, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a resident, through a permanent establishment situated therein or performs in that other Contracting State independent personal services from a fi xed base situated therein, and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is eff ectively connected with such permanent establishment or fi xed base. In such case, the provisions of Article 7 or Article 16, as the case may be, shall apply. 5. Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting State derives profi ts or income from the other Contracting State, that other Contracting State may not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company except insofar as such dividends are paid to a resident of that other Contracting State or insofar as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is eff ectively connected with a permanent establishment or a fixed base situated in that other Contracting State, nor subject the company’s undistributed profi ts to a tax on the company’s undistributed profi ts, even if the dividends paid or the 596 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R.