The Stamp Act does not prescribe a bar on the entertainability of a lis. 17. The respondents largely contend that N N Global 2 (supra) is correct and is in line with the consistent position adopted by this Court in SMS Tea Estates (supra) and Garware Wall Ropes (supra), which ought not to be disturbed. The submissions of the learned counsel for the respondents and intervenors are summarized below. 18. Mr Shyam Divan, learned senior counsel, made the following submissions: a. The curative petition is not maintainable because none of the pleaded grounds meet the requirements set out in Rupa Ashok Hurra v. Ashok Hurra.13 Since the curative petition is not maintainable, the reference to a seven-Judge Bench is without jurisdiction; b. The examination by the court under Section 11(6A) of the Arbitration Act is not confi ned to mere facial existence of an arbitration agreement. The referral court has to prima facie examine both the existence and validity of an arbitration agreement; c. Section 33 of the Stamp Act casts a mandatory legal requirement on courts under Section 11 proceedings to impound an unstamped or insuffi ciently stamped instrument. Such an instrument cannot be admitted in evidence or otherwise acted upon until the stamp duty and requisite penalty is paid; and d. Section 5 of the Arbitration Act does not limit the operation of the mandatory provisions of the Stamp Act. 19. Mr. Nikhil Nayyar, learned senior counsel, made the following submissions: a. The expression “examination” used in Section 11(6A) contemplates the examination of the validity of an arbitration 13 (2002) 4 SCC 388 110 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. agreement, including the examination of suffi ciency of stamping; and b. The inclusion of Section 11(6A) in the Arbitration Act was not intended to overcome the eff ect of SMS Tea Estates (supra). 20. Mr Nakul Dewan, learned senior counsel, made the following submissions: a. The principle of separability contained in Section 16 of the Arbitration Act implies that an arbitration agreement can be treated as a distinct agreement only for the purpose of determining its validity or enforceability; b. The court exercising powers under Section 11 is not designated by the parties to receive evidence for the purpose of substantive adjudication of the rights and obligations of the parties; and c. Even if an instrument containing an arbitration agreement is unstamped or insuffi ciently stamped, such inadequacy or insuffi ciency should not derail the appointment of an arbitrator at the referral stage under Section 11(6A) of the Arbitration Act. 21. Ms Madhavi Divan, Mr Prashanto Chandra Sen, Mr Arvind Varma, Mr Ramesh Singh, Mr K Ramakant Reddy, Mr Rahul G. Tanwani, Mr Abir Phukan, Mr Tejas Karia, Mr Pallav Mongia, Mr Kunal Vajani, Ms Apporva Neral, Mr Varun K Chopra, Dr. P. V. Amamadha Prasad, Mr Gauhar Mirza, Ms Hiral Gupta, Mr George Poothan Poothicote, Ms Manisha Singh, Mr Shadan Farasat, Mr Saurav Agarwal, Mr Siddhant Buxy, Ms Priyanka Vora, Mr Debanshu Khettry, Mr Shivam Singh, Ms Diya Kapur and Mr Jatinder Kumar Sethi supplemented these submissions.