The plain and simple reading of this part makes it clear and unambiguous that the rules governing the retirement of Central Government employees as amended from time to time shall apply. - The second part of Clause 34 “or as desired by the Governing Body” is merely an enabling provision to enable the Governing Body to take a decision regarding retention of an employee beyond the prescribed age of superannuation. In other words, the ‘desire’ of Governing Body is to extend the age of an employee even beyond prescribed age if he continues to be physically fi t and effi cient and it is in the interest of the Council to retain him in service. 756 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. - Therefore, the second part of Clause 34 really gives power to the Governing Body to retain an employee even after the prescribed age of superannuation provided the conditions for grant of such retention is met. This power cannot be negatively read to clothe the Governing Body with power to prescribe less age of superannuation than what is prescribed by the Central Government from time to time. - While the age of superannuation of an employee of the Central Council shall be at par with the age of superannuation prescribed by the Central Government, the Governing body has the enabling power to retain the employee even beyond the age of superannuation in organisational interest. - It is submitted that Clause 34 cannot be read negatively to deny the age of increase given by the Cabinet to AYUSH Doctors by wrongly interpreting Clause 34. vii. That the terms and conditions of service of employees of the Council on all other aspects like Provident Fund/ GPF, Pension, Gratuity, Leave Rules, Scales of Pay, Conduct Rules, and other conditions of service are the same as applicable to Central Government employees as set out in Clauses 31, 32, 33, 42, 44, and 47 respectively of the Rules. Therefore, in the matter of age of superannuation the respondent No. 1 cannot be treated diff erently. viii. That the appellants on one hand claim that the AYUSH doctors working in autonomous bodies are not entitled to increase in age of superannuation up to 65 years whereas other AYUSH doctors working in the Ministry of AYUSH and other autonomous institutions have been granted extension of age up to 65 years. ix. That similarly, AYUSH doctors working in CGHS have been granted increase in age up to 65 years vide letter dated 24.11.2017. Therefore, the letter not to grant identical benefi t to the respondent No. 1 is not only arbitrary but it is discriminatory and hence it is unsustainable. h. This Court has dealt with the issue of extension of age of superannuation of similar AYUSH doctors working in the NDMC in Dr. Ram Naresh Sharma (supra), where in paras 23 and 24 it was held as follows: CENTRAL COUNCIL FOR RESEARCH IN AYURVEDIC 757 SCIENCES v. BIKARTAN DAS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] “23. The common contention of the appellants before us is that classifi cation of AYUSH doctors and doctors under CHS in diff erent categories is reasonable and permissible in law.