The provisions of Section 84 are in substance the same as those G laid down in the answers of the Judges to the questions put to them by the House of Lords, in M’Naughton’s case [(1843) 4 St Tr NS 847 (HL)]. Behaviour, antecedent, attendant and subsequent to the event, may be relevant in finding the mental condition of the accused at the time of the event, but not that remote in time. It is difficult to prove the precise state of the offender’s mind at the H PRAKASH NAYI @ SEN v. STATE OF GOA 833 [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] time of the commission of the offence, but some indication thereof A is often furnished by the conduct of the offender while committing it or immediately after the commission of the offence. A lucid interval of an insane person is not merely a cessation of the violent symptoms of the dis, but a restoration of the faculties of the mind sufficiently to enable the person soundly to judge the act; B but the expression does not necessarily mean complete or perfect restoration of the mental faculties to their original condition. So, if there is such a restoration, the person concerned can do the act with such reason, memory and as to make it a legal act; but merely a cessation of the violent symptoms of the dis is not sufficient.” C 14. This Court in a recent decision in Devidas Loka Rathod v. State of Maharashtra (2018) 7 SCC 718, has held that: “11. Section 84 IPC carves out an exception, that an act will not be an offence, if done by a person, who at the time of doing the D same, by reason of unsoundness of mind, is incapable of knowing the nature of the act, or what he is doing is either wrong or contrary to law. But this onus on the accused, under Section 105 of the Evidence Act is not as stringent as on the prosecution to be established beyond all reasonable doubts. The accused has only to establish his defence on a preponderance of probability, as E observed in Surendra Mishra v. State of Jharkhand (2011) 11 SCC 495 : (2011) 3 SCC (Cri) 232, after whichthe onus shall shift on the prosecution to establish the inapplicability of the exception. But, it is not every and any plea of unsoundness of mind that will suffice. The standard of test to be applied shall be of legal insanity F and not medical insanity, as observed in State of Rajasthan v. Shera Ram (2012) 1 SCC 602 : (2012) 1 SCC (Cri) 406, as follows: (Shera Ram, SCC p. 614, para 19) “19…Once, a person is found to be suffering from mental dis or mental deficiency, which takes within its ambit hallucinations, dementia, loss of memory and self-control, G at all relevant times by way of appropriate documentary and oral evidence, the person concerned would be entitled to seek resort to the general exceptions from criminal liability.” H 834 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R.