iii) The directions given by the learned arbitrator in the award will govern the fi eld. 6. It is very clear from the above that we have to fall back upon the terms of the agreement for the purposes of deciding the question regarding the date of conversion. 7. In the entire agreement, the relevant paragraphs dealing with the payments and advances and the payments of work in progress is laid down in paragraphs 31 and 32 and its sub-paragraphs. Paragraph 32.6 of the agreement states that payments against monthly account bills shall be made in Iraqi Dinars and US Dollars out of which 35 percent would be in Iraqi Dinars and 65 percent would be in US Dollars. Further, paragraph 32.8 defi nes the exchange rate for the purposes of conversion of Iraqi Dinars to US Dollars and the exchange rate being 01 Iraqi Dinar equivalent to 3.37778 US Dollars. 8. We do not fi nd any mention of payment being made in the Indian Currency i.e. INR from the agreement. Once there is no contract between the parties of making payment in Indian Currency INR, then, there would be no question of determining or fi nding out any date of conversion. 9. Next, we need to examine the award and directions issued therein whether the award contained any stipulation of making the payment in Indian currency. The operative portion of the award contains three directions: a) The present appellant NPCCL shall pay Iraqi Dinars of 2,23,777.14 to the respondent RCCPL along with the interest at the rate of 12 percent per annum from the date of commencement of arbitration proceedings i.e. 26.09.1988 to the date of payment. b) The second direction was that NPCCL to pay Rs. Twenty Lakhs to the RCCPL along with the interest of 12 percent 402 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. per annum from the date of encashment of Bank Guarantee upto the date of payment. c) The third direction was that the amount payable in Iraqi Dinars shall be convertible into US Dollars as per the original agreement dated 29.06.1982 and further all payments of settlements in foreign exchange shall be made as per the original agreement and Government Rules. 10. The agreement had stipulated that the Iraqi Dinar would be convertible to US Dollars at the following rate i.e. 1 Iraqi Dinar = 3.37778 US Dollars. The award does not permit or grant the liberty to the appellant to make the amount payable in Iraqi Dinars to be converted into Indian Currency (INR). 11. Apart from the amount of Bank Guarantee which had been encashed by the NPCCL of Rs.20 Lakhs, the other amount awarded is in Iraqi Dinars only. 12. The fi rst question to be considered is whether the agreement, award or the of this Court dated 24.02.2015 provided for payment of the awarded amount in Indian currency. In our considered view, perusal of the above material does not permit payment of the awarded amount in Indian currency except the amount of Rs.