Code. See also State of Punjab v. Barkat Ram and Badku Joti Savant v. State of Mysore. ××× ××× ××× 113. Though an authorised offi cer of Enforcement or Customs is not undertaking an investigation as contemplated under Chapter XII of the Code, yet those offi cers are enjoying some analogous powers such as arrest, seizures, interrogation etc. Besides, a statutory duty is enjoined on them to inform the arrestee of the grounds for such arrest as contemplated under Article 22(1) of the Constitution and Section 50 of the Code. Therefore, they have necessarily to make records of their statutory functions showing the name of the informant, as well as the name of the person who violated any other provision of the Code and who has been guilty of an off ence punishable under the Act, nature of information received by them, time of the arrest, seizure of the contraband if any and the statements recorded during the course of the detection of the off ence/off ences. ××× ××× ××× 116. It should not be lost sight of the fact that a police offi cer making an investigation of an off ence representing the State fi les a report under Section 173 of the Code and becomes the complainant whereas the prosecuting agency under the special Acts fi les a complaint as a complainant i.e. under Section 61(ii) in the case of FERA and under Section 137 of the Customs Act. To say diff erently, the police offi cer after consummation of the investigation fi les a report under Section 173 of the Code upon which the Magistrate may take cognizance of any off ence disclosed in the report under Section 190(1)(b) of the Code whereas the empowered or authorised offi cer of the special Acts has to fi le only a complaint of facts constituting any off ence under the provisions of the Act on the receipt of which the Magistrate may take cognizance of the said off ence under Section 190(1)(a) of the Code. After taking cognizance of the off ence either upon a police report or upon receiving a complaint of facts, the Magistrate has to proceed with the case as per the procedure prescribed under the Code or under the special procedure, if any, prescribed under the special Acts. V. SENTHIL BALAJI v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY 917 DEPUTY DIRECTOR AND ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] Therefore, the word ‘investigation’ cannot be limited only to police investigation but on the other hand, the said word is with wider connotation and fl exible so as to include the investigation carried on by any agency whether he be a police offi cer or empowered or authorised offi cer or a person not being a police offi cer under the direction of a Magistrate to make an investigation vested with the power of investigation. ××× ××× ××× 120. From the above discussion it cannot be said that either the Offi cer of Enforcement or the Customs Offi cer is not empowered with the power of investigation though not with the power of fi ling a fi nal report as in the case of a police offi cer.