While the pending appeal raises signifi cant legal and factual issues, it is exigent that the Appellant’s future not be left hanging in the balance solely due to the said conviction. In such instances, where the Appellant’s disqualifi cation and the State’s criminal proceedings intersect, it becomes incumbent upon the Court in which the appeal is pending, to hear the matter out of turn and expeditiously adjudicate the same. CONCLUSION AND DIRECTIONS 24. We, thus, deem it appropriate to partially allow this appeal and suspend the conviction awarded to the Appellant in Special Sessions Trial No. 980/2012 subject to the following conditions, clarifi cations and directions: i. The Ghazipur Parliamentary Constituency shall not be notifi ed for bye-election, in terms of Section 151 of the RPA, till the decision of the Appellant’s criminal appeal by the High Court; ii. The Appellant shall, however, not be entitled to participate in the proceedings of the House. He shall also not have the right to cast his vote in the House or to draw any perks or monetary benefi ts; iii. The continuance of MP led welfare schemes in the Ghazipur Parliamentary Constituency without the Appellant being associated for the release of grants for such schemes, is not an irrevocable consequence as all such Schemes can be given eff ect, even in the absence of the local parliamentary representative; iv. The Appellant shall not be disqualified to contest future election(s) during the pendency of his criminal appeal before 984 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. the High Court and if he is elected, such election will be subject to outcome of the First Criminal Appeal; and v. The High Court shall make an endeavour to decide the Appellant’s criminal appeal expeditiously and before 30.06.2024. 25. Consequently, we direct the Registrar General of the High Court to put up this before Hon’ble The Chief Justice of the High Court for immediate enlisting of the Criminal Appeal No. 5295 / 2023 with a request to the appropriate Bench, for an out of turn hearing and adjudication of the said appeal by 30.06.2024. The Appellant is directed to extend full cooperation to the High Court in this regard, failing which, this shall be liable to variance. 26. It is clarifi ed that we have not expressed any opinion on the merits of the case and the First Criminal Appeal shall be decided by the High Court on its own merits. 27. The present appeal is disposed of in the above terms. DIPANKAR DATTA, J. 1. The draft of the prepared by Hon’ble Surya Kant, J., speaking for His Lordship and Hon’ble Ujjal Bhuyan, J., is so well considered and supplemented with an enviable degree of articulation that it almost prompted my concurrence. However, with all the respect and humility at my command, I have not been able to be ad idem with the Hon’ble Judges in the majority. I believe that the importance of the question involved would compel me to tread the path of dissent en route a diff erent end.