Belgaum (Karnataka) 591201 ENDORSEMENT OF FAMILY JOINT NOTIFICATION 1. Refer to your letter No. N Ex CO/CED dated 22 May 99 2. Personal Occurrence regarding divorce of 1st wife Smt. Anusuya has been pub vide this Offi ce Pt II No. NE /021/0002/89 and further married to Smt. ‘Shirmabai’ (2nd Wife) has also been pub vide Pt. II No. NE/021/0003/99 and both case have been recorded in Service docu. Sd/- Capt. Record Offi cer For OIC Records” 10. On the demise of Subedar Bhave in the year 2001, when the appellant No. 1 approached the respondents claiming family pension, the said request was rejected only on the ground that her marriage with Late Subedar Bhave had taken place in February, 1981 whereas he and Anusuya, got divorced much later, in the year 1990. 11. It is no longer res integra that if a man and woman cohabit as husband and wife for a long duration, one can draw a presumption in their favour that they were living together as a consequence of a valid marriage. This presumption can be drawn under Section 114 of the Evidence Act that states as follows: “114. The Court may presume the existence of any fact which it thinks likely to have happened, regard being had to the common course of natural events, human conduct and public and private business, in their relation to the facts of the particular case.” 12. In this above context, we may refer to Andrahennedige Dinohamy and Another v. Wijetunge Liyanapatabendige Balahamy and Others27, where the Privy Council observed thus: “…..where a man and woman are proved to have lived together as man and wife, the law will presume, unless the contrary be clearly proved, 27 1927 SCC OnLine PC 51 138 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. that they were living together in consequence of a valid marriage and not in a state of concubinage. xxx xxx xxx “The parties lived together for twenty years in the same house, and eight children were born to them. The husband during his life recognized, by aff ectionate provisions, his wife and children. The evidence of the Registrar of the District shows that for a long course of years the parties were recognized as married citizens, and even the family functions and ceremonies, such as, in particular, the reception of the relations and other guests in the family house by Don Andris and Balahamy as host and hostess—all such functions were conducted on the footing alone that they were man and wife. No evidence whatsoever is aff orded of repudiation of this relation by husband or wife or anybody.” 13. In Mohabbat Ali Khan v. Muhammad Ibrahim Khan And Others28, it was again observing by the Privy council that: “….The law presumes in favour of marriage and against concubinage when a man and a woman have cohabited continuously for a number of years……” 14. Similarly, in Badri Prasad v. Dy. Director of Consolidation and Others29, this Court held as follows: “…….A strong presumption arises in favour of wedlock where the partners have lived together for a long spell as husband and wife.