This would be laying down a totally new procedure not contemplated under the Act. If bifurcation of the subject-matter of a suit was contemplated, the legislature would have used appropriate language to permit such a course. Since there is no such indication in the language, it follows that bifurcation F of the subject-matter of an action brought before a judicial authority is not allowed. 17. Secondly, such bifurcation of suit in two parts, one to be decided by the Arbitral Tribunal and the other to be decided by the civil court would inevitably delay the proceedings. The whole purpose of speedy disposal of dispute and decreasing the cost of litigation G would be frustrated by such procedure. It would also increase the cost of litigation and harassment to the parties and on occasions there is possibility of conflicting s and s by two different forums.” H 130 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 11. As explained by this Court in Ameet Lalchand Shah (supra), the amendment to Section 8 after the aforesaid decision in Sukanya Holdings could be seen in the background of the recommendations of 246th Law Commission Report in which, inter alia, it was observed that as per the proposed amendment, judicial authority would not refer the parties to arbitration only if it finds that there does not exist an arbitration B agreement or that it is null and void. If the judicial authority is of the opinion that prima facie the arbitration agreement exists, it would refer the dispute to arbitration and leave the existence of arbitration agreement to be finally determined by the Arbitral Tribunal. 12.All the relevant aspects of the matter came up for fuller C exposition by a 3-Judge Bench of this Court in the case of Vidya Drolia (supra). In the said case, basically, the reference came to be made to the bench of three judges when the ratio expressed in the case of Himangi Enterprises v. Kamaljeet Singh Ahluwalia:(2017) 10 SCC 706, to the effect that landlord-tenant disputes governed by the provisions D of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 were not arbitrable, was doubted. While dealing with the reference, the Court also dealt with the other interconnected aspects as to the meaning of non-arbitrability and when the subject-matter of the dispute would not be capable of being resolved through arbitration; and as to whether the question of non-arbitrability would be decided by the Court at the reference stage or by the Arbitral E Tribunal in the arbitration proceedings. The 3-Judge Bench of course overruled the decision in Himangi Enterprises (supra) and in that context, made various observations and enunciated the relevant principles. In the process, the decision in Sukanya Holdings (supra) was also taken into consideration. In that regard and with reference to the reliance F placed by learned counsel for the respective parties, we may refer to the following observations and enunciations of the Court, in the lead as also in the concurring opinion in the following passages:- “28.