(1) If any diffi culty arises in giving eff ect to the provisions of the Constitution as amended by this Act (including any diffi culty in relation to the transition from the provisions of the Constitution as they stood immediately before the date of assent of the President to this Act to the provisions of the Constitution as amended by this Act), the President may, by , make such provisions, including any adaptation or modifi cation of any provision of the Constitution as amended by this Act or law, as appear to the President to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing the diffi culty: Provided that no such shall be made after the expiry of three years from the date of such assent. (2) Every made under sub-section (1) shall, as soon as may be after it is made, be laid before each House of Parliament.” II. Facts 14. There are three batches of appeals, arising from separate special leave petitions fi led in this case. One batch relates to the State of Telangana. The facts in relation to that State are that the local VAT Act was amended – after the Amendment was introduced. The VAT amendment was through an Ordinance, and was brought into force on 17.06.2017, i.e. 13 days before 158 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. the time granted by the 101st Amendment Act, i.e. one year. The Amendment came into force on 16.09.2016. The ordinance sought to extend the period of limitation, and permitted to re-open assessments. This ordinance, continued till the State Legislature enacted it. The Governor then assented to the law, and it came into force on 02.12.2017. Feeling aggrieved many traders and VAT payers approached the Telangana High Court, challenging the amendments to the local VAT Act. By the impugned , the High Court accepted the challenge and struck it down, on various counts, including that the State had limited scope to amend its VAT Act, which in terms of Section 19 of the Amendment could have done it only to bring it in conformity with the amended Constitution. Other reasons included that the ordinance, could not have been confi rmed, as the state was denuded of legislative competence after 01.07.2017. 15. In the batch of appeals arising from the of the Bombay High Court, the parties were aggrieved by the fact that the Maharashtra VAT Amendment Act, which was initially made on 15.04.2017, was read down by a Division Bench , of the Bombay High Court. That position was sought to be reversed, through an amendment which was brought into force, on 15.04.2017 and later in an eff ort to reverse the eff ect of a , given retrospective eff ect. The writ petitions fi led by such aggrieved parties, were dismissed. Consequently, they are in appeal. 16. In the Gujarat batch of cases, Section 84A was introduced in the Gujarat Value Added Tax Act, 2003 (hereinafter referred to as “the Gujarat VAT Act”) by the Gujarat Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, 2018, gazetted on 06.04.2018 but with retrospective eff ect from 1.4.2006.