The following statement requires to be noticed: “45. Town and country planning involving land development of G the cities which are sought to be achieved through the process of land use, zoning plan and regulating building activities must receive due attention of all concerned. We are furthermore not oblivious of the fact that such planning involving highly complex cities 35(2006) 8 SCC 502 H 36(2007) 8 SCC 705 ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1093 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] depends upon scientific research, study and experience and, thus, A deserves due reverence. 46. Where, however, a scheme comes into force, although it may cause hardship to the individual owners as they may be prevented from making the most profitable use of their rights over property, having regard to the drastic consequences envisaged thereunder, B the statute should be considered in such a manner as a result whereof greater hardship is not caused to the citizens than actually contemplated thereby. Whereas an attempt should be made to prevent unplanned and haphazard development but the same would not mean that the court would close its eyes to the blatant illegalities C committed by the State and/or the statutory authorities in implementation thereof. Implementation of such land development as also building laws should be in consonance with public welfare and convenience. In United States of America zoning ordinances are enacted pursuant to the police power delegated by the State. Although in India the source of such power is not police power D but if a zoning classification imposes unreasonable restrictions, it cannot be sustained. The public authority may have general considerations, safety or general welfare in mind, but the same would become irrelevant, as thereby statutory rights of a party cannot be taken away. The courts must make an endeavour to E strike a balance between public interest on the one hand and protection of a constitutional right to hold property, on the other. 47. For the aforementioned purpose, an endeavour should be made to find out as to whether the statute takes care of public interest in the matter vis-à-vis the private interest, on the one hand, and the effect of lapse and/or positive inaction on the part of the State F and other planning authorities, on the other. 52. The courts should, therefore, strive to find a balance of the competing interests. Human rights issue G 53. The right to property is now considered to be not only a constitutional right but also a human right. Interpretation of the Act 57. The Act being regulatory in nature as by reason thereof the right of an owner of property to use and develop stands restricted, H 1094 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A requires strict construction. An owner of land ordinarily would be entitled to use or develop the same for any purpose unless there exists certain regulation in a statute or statutory rules. Regulations contained in such statute must be interpreted in such a manner so as to least interfere with the right to property of the owner of such land.