Interpretation of Statutes – A salutary rule for fiscal legislation interpretation is that words used in the statute must be given their D plain meaning and the court’s function is not to give a strained and unnatural meaning to the provision. Dismissing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1. According to the literature made available to the court, there are medicinal ingredients in Nycil prickly powder, E which is also manufactured under a Drug License. Yet, the State Legislature, in Entry 127, thought it fit to include, while dealing with cosmetics, such as shampoos, “talcum Powder including medicated talcum powder.” There can be no two opinions that talcum powder ipso facto is classifiable as a cosmetic. Yet, the expression “including” used in Entry 127 has the effect of bringing F in [or “pulling in”] an entirely different product, which ordinarily may not have been in the same class, i.e. medicated powder. To rule out any ambiguity, the legislature specifically referred to a sub class of medicated powders, i.e. medicated talcum powder. Such specific entries have not come up for consideration, before G this court; as noticed, predominantly, the courts have ruled that in the context of broad descriptions such as cosmetics or medications, if there are medical ingredients, in a product, which is meant as a curative or prophylactic product, it would be classifiable as drugs or medicines. However, the specificity employed by the legislature in this case, rules out that possibility. H HEINZ INDIA LIMITED v. THE STATE OF KERALA 427 Besides, “includes” has been construed as broadening the sweep A of a provision, and at the same time restricting its amplitude to the meanings ascribed in the statute. [Para 47][452-B-E] 2. The use of the term “includes” after talcum powder, followed by “medicated talcum powder” in this court’s opinion can lead to only one inference, which is that the clear legislative B intent was that all kinds of talcum powders, which contained medications (irrespective of the proportion, or at any rate, not containing predominant proportions) should necessarily be treated as cosmetics, falling under Entry 127. The pointed phraseology in fact concludes the issue, leaving no scope for the C court to interpret the Entry as including any class of goods, other than such as Nycil prickly heat powder, which is a talcum powder that is also medicated. A salutary rule for fiscal legislation interpretation is that words used in the statute must be given their plain meaning. The court’s function is not to give a strained and unnatural meaning to the provision. The intention of the D legislature, manifested in plain words, must be accepted. [Para 48][453-D-F] 3. In the present case, the clear legislative intent, of inserting a carefully worded entry, which was a “hybrid” one, i.e. describing an article that contained medicinal ingredients, as well E as those used for cosmetics, and yet placing such a creature (“neither beast nor fowl” so to say) in the category of cosmetics, ruled out altogether any interpretive scope of classifying it as a medicinal preparation, or drug or medicine.