To put a narrower construction on the word ‘posts’ would be to defeat the object and the underlying policy. Article 16(4), therefore, authorises the State to provide for the reservation of appointments as well as selection posts.” ***************** H RESERVE BANK OF INDIA & ORS. v. A.K. NAIR & ORS. 811 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 543. It has been pointed out earlier that the reservations A of the backward classes under Article 16(4) have to be made consistently with the maintenance of the efficiency of administration. It is foolhardy to ignore the consequences to the administration when juniors supersede seniors although the seniors are as much or even B more competent than the juniors. When reservations are kept in promotion, the inevitable consequence is the phenomenon of juniors, however low in the seniority list, stealing a march over their seniors to the promotional post. When further reservations are kept at every promotional level, the juniors not only steal march over their seniors in C the same grade but also over their superiors at more than one higher level. This has been witnessed and is being witnessed frequently wherever reservations are kept in promotions. It is naive to expect that in such circumstances those who are superseded, (and they are many) can work D with equanimity and with the same devotion to and interest in work as they did before. Men are not saints. The inevitable result, in all fields of administration, of this phenomenon is the natural resentment, heart-burning, frustration, lack of interest in work and indifference to the duties, disrespect to the superiors, dishonour of the E authority and an atmosphere of constant bickerings and hostility in the administration. When, further, the erstwhile subordinate becomes the present superior, the vitiation of the atmosphere has only to be imagined. This has admittedly a deleterious effect on the entire administration. F 544. It is not only the efficiency of those who are thus superseded which deteriorates on account of such promotions, but those superseding have also no incentive to put in their best in work. Since they know that in any case they would be promoted in their reserved quota, they G have no motivation to work hard. Being assured of the promotion from the beginning, their attitude towards their duties and their colleagues and superiors is also coloured by this complex. On that account also the efficiency of administration is jeopardised. H 812 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 545. With respect, neither the majority nor the minority in the Constitution Bench has noticed this aspect of the reservations in promotions. The later decisions which followed Rangachari [(1962) 2 SCR 586 : AIR 1962 SC 36] were also not called upon to and hence have not considered this vital aspect. The efficiency to which the B majority has referred is with respect to the qualifications of those who would be promoted in the reserved quota.” f. Sahai, J “622. But, inadequacy of representation is creative of C jurisdiction only.