Particularly, it is not prudent B to treat all cases where a statement made by a public functionary resulting in harm or loss to a person/citizen, as a constitutional tort, except in the context of the answer given to Question No. 4 above.” 67. In light of the above discussion as well as the answers given C to the questions referred, the following other conclusions are drawn: a) It is for the Parliament in its wisdom to enact a legislation or code to restrain, citizens in general and public functionaries, in particular, from making disparaging or vitriolic remarks against fellow citizens, having regard to the strict parameters of Article 19(2) and bearing in mind D the freedom under Article 19(1) (a) of the Constitution of India. Hence, I am not inclined to issue any guideline in this regard, but the observations made hereinabove may be borne in mind. b) It is also for the respective political parties to regulate and E control the actions and speech of its functionaries and members. This could be through enactment of a Code of Conduct which would prescribe the limits of permissible speech by functionaries and members of the respective political parties. F c) Any citizen, who is prejudiced by any form of attack, as a result of speech/expression through any medium, targeted against her/himor by speech which constitutes ‘hate speech’ or any species thereof, whether such attack or speech is by a public functionary or otherwise, may approach the G Court of Law under Criminal and Civil statutes and seek appropriate remedies. Whenever permissible, civil remedies in the nature of declaratory remedies, injunctions as well as pecuniary damages may be awarded as prescribed under the relevant statutes. H 802 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A However, answers given to Question Nos. 4 and 5 may have a bearing in the context of collective responsibility of government and Constitutional tort. Writ Petition (Crl.) No.113 of 2016 and Special Leave Petition (Civil) bearing Diary No.34629 of 2017 are directed to be listed before B an appropriate Bench after seeking s of Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India. Bibhuti Bhushan Bose Reference answered. (Assisted by : Sirgapoor Sahil Reddy, Shriya Chakravarthy and Mahendra Yadav, LCRAs) C D E F G H