We can also conclude that a person “claiming through or under” has inferior or subordinate rights in comparison to the party from which it is deriving its claim or right. Therefore, a person “claiming through or under” cannot be a “party” to an arbitration agreement on its own terms because it only stands in the shoes of the original signatory party. 138. An arbitration is founded upon the consent of the parties to refer their disputes to an alternative dispute resolution mechanism. Consequently, third parties typically cannot be compelled to arbitrate based on an agreement to which they have not consented. The phrase “claiming through or under” has not been used either in Section 2(1)(h) or Section 7 of the Arbitration Act. This is because those provisions are based on the concept of party autonomy and party independence, which requires the party to provide consent to submit their disputes to arbitration. On the contrary, a person claiming through or under a party to an arbitration agreement is merely standing in the shoes of the original party to the extent that it is merely agitating the right of the original party to the arbitration agreement. 139. The phrase “claiming through or under” has been used in Sections 8, 35, and 45 in their specifi c contexts. Section 8 contains a mandate that when an action is brought before a judicial authority which is the subject of an arbitration agreement, the dispute shall be referred to arbitration on an application made by a party or any person claiming through or under him. As mentioned above, the phrase “claiming through or under” was inserted in Section 8 to bring it in line with Section 45. Sections 8 and 45 are peremptory in nature mandating the court to refer the parties to arbitration if there is a valid arbitration agreement.118 In A Ayyasamy (supra), it was held 116 Black’s Law Dictionary (5th edn, 1979) 1328 117 P Ramanatha Aiyar’s, The Law Lexicon (1997) 331 118 Agri Gold Exims Ltd v. Sri Lakshmi Knits & Wovens, (2007) 3 SCC 686 704 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. that Section 8 imposes an affi rmative obligation on every judicial authority to “hold down parties to the terms of the agreement entered into between them to refer disputes to arbitration.”119 Thus, the legislative intent behind Sections 8 and 45 is to ensure that parties fulfi l their mutual intention of settling disputes arising between or among them by way of arbitration. 140. Section 35 of the Arbitration Act provides that an arbitral award shall be fi nal and binding on the parties and persons claiming under them respectively. In Cheran Properties (supra), this Court rightly observed that the expression “persons claiming under them” is “a legislative recognition of the doctrine that besides the parties, an arbitral award binds every person whose capacity or position is derived from and is the same as a party to the proceedings.” It was further observed that “[h]aving derived its capacity from a party and being in the same position as a party to the proceedings binds a person who claims under it.” Similarly, Section 73 also provides that a settlement agreement signed by the parties shall be fi nal and binding “on the parties and persons claiming under them respectively.” 141.