At the cost F of repetition, it must not be forgotten that the SARFAESI Act was enacted because the general laws were not found to be workable and efficient enough to ensure liquidity of finances and flow of money essential for any healthy and growth-oriented economy. The decision of this Court in Mardia Chemicals vs Union of India5, while outlawing only a part of the SARFAESI Act and upholding the rest, has traced the history of G this legislation and the objects that Parliament had in mind in sufficient detail. Apart from the law laid down in such decision, these are the other relevant considerations which ought to be borne in mind while examining a challenge to a forfeiture . 5 (2004) 4 SCC 311 H 1084 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 21. There is one other aspect which is, more often than not, glossed over. In terms of sub-rule (5) of rule 9, generally, forfeiture would be followed by an exercise to resell the immovable property. On the date an of forfeiture is in contemplation of the authorized officer of the secured creditor for breach committed by the bidder, factually, the position is quite uncertain for the former in that there is neither any guarantee of B his receiving bids pursuant to a future sale, much to the satisfaction of the secured creditor, nor is there any gauge to measure the likely loss to be suffered by it (secured creditor) if no bidders were interested to purchase the immovable property. Since the extent of loss cannot be immediately foreseen or calculated, such officers may not have any C option but to forfeiture of the amount deposited by the defaulting bidder in an attempt to recover as much money as possible so as to reduce the secured debt. That the immovable property is later sold at the same price or at a price higher than the one which was offered by the party suffering the forfeiture is not an eventuality that occurs in each and every case. Sections 73 and 74 of the Contract Act would not, D therefore, be sufficient to take care of the interest of the secured creditor in such a case and that also seems to be another reason for bringing in the provision for forfeiture in rule 9. Ordinarily, therefore, validity of an of forfeiture must be judged considering the circumstances that were prevailing on the date it was made and not based on supervening E events. 22. Does sub-rule (5) of rule 9, which is part of a delegated legislation, i.e., the Rules, have the effect of diluting section 73 and section 74 of the Contract Act? We have considered it necessary to advert to this question as it is one of general importance and are of the considered F opinion that the answer must be in the negative. While the Contract Act embodies the general law of contract, the SARFAESI Act is a special enactment, inter alia, for enforcement of security interest without intervention of court.