In this context, we may usefully extract the following observations made in Avatar Singh10 (supra) : – “29. The verifi cation of antecedents is necessary to fi nd out fi tness of incumbent, in the process if a declarant is found to be of good moral character on due verifi cation of antecedents, merely by suppression of involvement in trivial offence which was not pending on date of fi lling attestation form, whether he may be deprived of employment? There may be case of involving moral turpitude/serious off ence in which employee has been acquitted but due to technical reasons or giving benefi t of doubt. There may be situation when person has been convicted of an off ence before fi lling verifi cation form or case is pending and information regarding it has been suppressed, whether employer should wait till outcome of pending criminal case to take a decision or in case when action has been initiated there is already conclusion of criminal case resulting 13 (2012) 8 SCC 748 THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH AND OTHERS v. 447 BHUPENDRA YADAV [HIMA KOHLI, J.] in conviction/acquittal as the case may be. The situation may arise for consideration of various aspects in a case where disclosure has been made truthfully of required information, then also authority is required to consider and verify fi tness for appointment. Similarly in case of suppression also, if in the process of verifi cation of information, certain information comes to notice then also employer is required to take a decision considering various aspects before holding incumbent as unfi t. If on verifi cation of antecedents a person is found fi t at the same time authority has to consider eff ect of suppression of a fact that he was tried for trivial off ence which does not render him unfi t, what importance to be attached to such non-disclosure. Can there be single yardstick to deal with all kinds of cases? ××× ××× ××× 36. What yardstick is to be applied has to depend upon the nature of post, higher post would involve more rigorous criteria for all services, not only to uniformed service. For lower posts which are not sensitive, nature of duties, impact of suppression on suitability has to be considered by authorities concerned considering post/ nature of duties/services and power has to be exercised on due consideration of various aspects. ××× ××× ××× 38. We have noticed various decisions and tried to explain and reconcile them as far as possible. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we summarise our conclusion thus: 38.1. Information given to the employer by a candidate as to conviction, acquittal or arrest, or pendency of a criminal case, whether before or after entering into service must be true and there should be no suppression or false mention of required information. 38.2. While passing of termination of services or cancellation of candidature for giving false information, the employer may take notice of special circumstances of the case, if any, while giving such information.