We do not fi nd any discussion in the decision in Shakeena [(2019) 5 RCR (Civil) 689 (SC)] about the decisions of the apex court dealing with the right of redemption under Sec.60 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1872. So reliance on the said decision does not help the 1st respondent. xxx xxx xxx 96. Keeping in mind (i) the Report of the Joint Committee on the Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws and Miscellaneous Provisions (Amendment) Bill, 2016 discussed above, (ii) the law laid down by the Supreme Court in Mathew Varghese [(2014) 5 SCC 610] and (iii) the decision in M/s. Concern Readymix [(2019) 3 ALD 384 : Law Finder Doc Id # 1380151] of the Telangana and Andhra Pradesh High Court, with which we respectfully agree, we hold that the amended Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act merely prohibits a secured creditor from proceeding further with the transfer of the secured asset by way of lease, assignment or sale; a restriction on the right of the mortgagee to deal with the property is not exactly the same as the equity of redemption available to the mortgagor; the payment of the amount mentioned in Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act ties the hands of the mortgagee (secured creditor) from exercising any of the powers conferred under the Act; that redemption comes later; extinction of the right of redemption comes much later than the sale notice; and the right of redemption is not lost immediately upon the highest bid made by a purchaser in an auction being accepted. We also hold that such a right would continue till the execution of a conveyance i.e. issuance of sale certifi cate in favour of the mortgagee. … 97. It would, therefore, certainly be available to the petitioners herein before the issuance of sale certifi cate in favour of respondents No. 2 and 3. Point (a) is answered accordingly in favor of the petitioners and against the respondents.” (Emphasis supplied) 114 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 57. In S. Karthik (supra) a three-Judge Bench of this Court, made the following relevant observations given below: - “53. It could thus be seen that this Court in Mathew Varghese [Mathew Varghese v. M. Amritha Kumar, (2014) 5 SCC 610 : (2014) 3 SCC (Civ) 254] observed that the equity of redemption is not extinguished by mere contract for sale and that the mortgagor’s right to redeem will survive until there has been completion of sale by the mortgagee by a registered deed. This Court further observed that applying the principles stated with reference to Section 60 of the Transfer of Property Act in respect of a secured interest in a secured asset in favour of the secured creditor under the provisions of the SARFAESI Act and the relevant Rules applicable, a free hand is given to a secured creditor to resort to a sale without the intervention of the court or tribunal. It has, however, been held that under Section 13(8), it is clearly stipulated that the mortgagor i.e.