The Sessions Court vide the said and had convicted and sentenced the present appellanti.e., the accused nos. 1, 2 and 3 for the offences under Section 498A and Section F 306 read with Section 34 of IPC, and acquitted the accused no.4 Santosh Jangamshetti, son of Kallappa Jangamshetti, who happened to be the brother-in-law of the deceased Jayashree, from the said charges. 3. The deceased Jayashree had married the appellant no.3, Chandrashekhar about three years prior to the alleged incident. The G appellant nos.1 and 2 happened to be the mother-in-law and father-in- law of the said deceased respectively. Smt. Annapurna, wife of Sadashiv Limbikai, mother of the deceased lodged a complaint before the Bableshwar Police Station alleging inter alia that her daughter Jayashree was given in marriage to accused no.3, Chandrashekhar. After the H marriage, her parents-in-law,brother-in-law and her husband ill-treated KASHIBAI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF KARNATAKA 177 [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] Jayashree both physically and mentally on account of demand of dowry. A Her daughter Jayashree because of such harassment committed suicide on 07.02.2010 at about 11:00 am by jumping into an open well situated in a land bearing Survey Number 53/4 at the TiganiBidari village. The said complaint came to be registered against the accused for the offences under Section 498A and 306 read with Section 304 of IPC. The Sessions B Court conducted the trial and after appreciating the evidence on record, convicted the appellants for the said offences and sentenced them to undergo simple imprisonment for a period of two years and to pay a fine of Rs. 2,000/- each for the offences under Section 498A read with Section 34 of IPC, and to undergo simple imprisonment for a period of five years and to pay a fine of Rs.5,000/- each for the offences under Section 306 C read with Section 34 of IPC. The High Court confirmed the said conviction and sentence as per the impugned . 4. After having heard the learned counsels for the parties and thoroughly gone through the record of the case, it appears that the prosecution to bring home the charges levelled against the appellants- D accusedhad examined 21 witnesses and also adduced the documentary evidence.However out of the 21 witnesses, PW-10, PW-11, PW-12 and PW-14 had turned hostile and not supported the case of the prosecution. The case of the prosecution as such mainly depended upon the PW-1 and PW-4 who happened to be the parents of the deceased and PW-6 E who happened to be the uncle of the deceased.They all had deposed interalia about the demand of the dowry in the form of cash and gold,and about the harassment meted out by them to the deceased mentally and physically. PW-5 who happened to be the person known to both the sides and who was instrumental in arranging the marriage between the deceased and the appellant no. 3 also had deposed that there was a F demand for additional gold and cash made by the appellants-accused and that there was harassment caused by the appellants to the deceased Jayashree.The neighbours, PW-7 and PW-9 also had supported the case of the prosecution by deposing inter alia that the deceased was subjected to mental and physical harassment by the appellants-accused.