The investigation against Respondent No. 1, being an accused of demanding a bribe, did not require any previous approval of the Central Government. That apart, the accusation against Respondent No. 1 does not revolve around any recommendations made or decisions taken by him in his quasi-judicial or administrative capacity. H 496 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 35. It is true that cancellation of bail must be done only for cogent and overwhelming reasons. Nevertheless, setting aside an unjustified granting bail is distinct from cancellation of bail. This Court would not, invariably intervene into the judicial discretion exercised by the High Court while granting bail to an accused. All that to be ensured is that the High Court exercises its discretion judiciously, cautiously and strictly in B conformity with the basic principles laid down by this Court from time to time in a series of decisions. 36. The Constitution Bench in Sushila Aggarwal (supra) observed that: C “92.11. The correctness of an granting bail, can be considered by the appellate or superior court at the behest of the State or investigating agency, and set aside on the ground that the court granting it did not consider material facts or crucial circumstances.” SUMMATION D 37. Having considered the nature of allegations, material on record and the settled legal principles on grant of anticipatory bail, we are of the view that, howsoever hard or harsh it may be, the High Court ought to have refrained itself from extending protection against arrest to Respondent No. 1 in exercise of its discretionary jurisdiction under Section E 438 of the CrPC. 38. Assuming Respondent No. 1 had some valid apprehensions that the actions of ACB (State Police) were actuated with extraneous reasons, he can no longer say so once the investigation has been F transferred to CBI. We do not find any allegation of personal vendetta, victimisation, bias or ulterior motive against the Central Agency. In any case, CBI is expected to carry out a free, fair and dispassionate investigation with faithful observance to the rights of an accused, who is subjected to custodial interrogation. G 39. The appeals are, accordingly, allowed. The impugned and of the High Court dated 19th December, 2022 is set aside and the anticipatory bail application of Respondent No. 1 is dismissed. As a consequence thereto, the dated 30th December, 2022 passed by the Special Judge, CBI Court No. 3 partly allowing CBI’s application for remand is also set aside. H CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. SANTOSH 497 KARNANI & ANR. [SURYA KANT, J.] 40. We clarify that this Court has expressed only prima facie A opinion on the merits of the allegations for the limited purpose to refuse or grant pre-arrest bail. If Respondent No. 1 moves an application for grant of regular bail before an appropriate Court, the same shall be considered on its own merits and in accordance with law, uninfluenced by the observations made hereinabove. B 41. The appeals are disposed of in the above terms.