4. Being aggrieved by said , appeal came to be preferred on various grounds and primarily on the ground that deceased had suff ered burn injuries to the extent of 70-80% and she was not in a position to speak. It was also contended that Doctor PW-32 who had certifi ed that deceased was able to speak had not even recorded the blood pressure and pulse rate of the deceased in the case-sheet and the treated doctor PW-31 has also admitted that general condition of the deceased was poor at the time of admission to the hospital itself. It was also urged that evidence which was available before the trial court was not appreciated in proper perspective and mere dying declaration cannot be the sole basis of conviction unless it was corroborated. It was also contended that none of the prosecution witnesses supported the story of prosecution and they had turned hostile and as such learned Session Judge ought not to have convicted the accused persons. 5. The High Court by the impugned judgement having formulated points for its consideration vide paragraph 18 of the impugned , has answered the points formulated, in favour of the prosecution and against the accused by holding that dying declaration was recorded properly and same is proved by taking into consideration the contents of the same and the evidence of Tehsildar who recorded the same as well as the evidence of Doctor PW-31 who treated the deceased and had issued Ex.P-46 (case sheet of deceased Mahadevi). Hence, this appeal. 6. We have heard the arguments of the learned advocates appearing for the parties. Learned advocate appearing for the appellants contends that dying declaration is neither true nor voluntary statement of deceased as she was not physically or mentally fi t to make any declaration and undisputedly the parents of the deceased had not supported the case of the prosecution. He would also contend that doctor who had examined the deceased and treated her has clearly deposed that deceased was suff ering from breathlessness when brought to the hospital and he had also certifi ed that she had suff ered 70 to 80% burn injuries and thereby making her physically and mentally incapacitated to give any declaration or make any statement. 928 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 7. Per contra Shri V.N. Raghupathy, learned Standing Counsel appearing for the State by supporting the of both the courts would submit that there is no cogent material to displace the fi ndings recorded by the courts below. He would also contend that dying declaration cannot be brushed aside merely because deceased had suff ered 70% to 80% burn injuries and this cannot be a ground to set aside the conviction. He would submit that Doctor PW-31 had deposed in clear terms that deceased was mentally fi t to make statement and as such no doubt can be raised as regards the mental capacity of the deceased to make statement wherein she had assigned the reasons for her self-immolation.