H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 183 [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] RASTOGI, J. A 1. I have had the advantage of going through the penned by my brother K.M. Joseph, J. I entirely agree with the conclusions which my erudite Brother has drawn, based on the remarkable process of reasoning with my additional conclusion. I wish to add few lines and express my views not because the requires any further B elaboration but looking for the question of law that emerge of considerable importance. 2. For the purpose of analysis, the has been divided into following sections: C I. Reference II. Election Commission of India III. Why an independent Election Commission is necessary D A. Working a Democratic Constitution B. Right to vote C. Free and fair elections IV. Constitutional and statutory framework: The E Constitutional Vacuum V. The in TN Seshan VI. Reports of various Commissions on Manner of Appointment of Chief Election Commissioner and F Election Commissioners VII. Comparative framework - Foundational parameters VIII. Process of selection of other constitutional/statutory bodies IX. Constitutional silence and vacuum- power of the Court G tolay down guidelines X. Independence of Election Commissioners XI. Directions H 184 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A I. Reference 3. This case arises out of a batch of writ petitions, with the initial petition filed as a public interest litigation by Anoop Baranwal in January 2015. The petitioner raised the issue of the constitutional validity of the practice of the Union of India to appoint the members of the Election B Commission. It was argued in the petition that a fair, just, and transparent method to select the members of the Election Commission is missing. The petition also referred to several reports, which we will discuss in due course, to highlight the issue of bringing reforms in the selection of members of the Election Commission. It was further highlighted that since the appointment of the members of the Election Commission was C solely on the advice of the parliamentary executive of the Union, which leads to arbitrariness and is in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution. The petition has also suggested that the process of selection of members of the Election Commission (Chief Election Commissioner/Election Commissioner) should be transparent and with greater scrutiny, accountability and stability as it is for the other constitutional and legal D authorities including Judges of the Supreme Court and High Courts, Chief Information Commissioner, Chairpersons and Members of the Human Rights Commission, Chief Vigilance Commissioner, Director of Central Bureau of Investigation, Lokpal, Members of the Press Council of India. The writ petition made a prayer for issuing of mandamus to the Union E Government to make law for ensuring a transparent process of selection by constituting a neutral and independent committee to recommend the names of Chief Election Commissioner/Election Commissioners. Vide dated 23 October, 2018, a two Judge Bench of this Court emphasized on the importance of the matter, and referred the matter under Article 145(3) of the Constitution to the Constitutional Bench.