[SURYA KANT, J.] Municipal Corporation education department. Government is A passing now regarding same that, service in Zilla Parishad of primary teachers should be considered for pay fixing, seniority, retirement benefit, etc. in Municipal Council/Municipal Corporation service, who are transferred under rule in concerned Municipal Corporation/Municipal Council education board from concerned B Zilla Parishad for reasons mentioned above. but concerned Zilla Parishad should accept liability of service prior to classification of concerned primary teachers. government grant shall be passed for. Zilla Parishad at the rate fixed thereon. 2. This government resolution is passed under official approval of C town development department, village development department and finance department and under official reference - 1045 / number-cr-1045/ 86/ser-4, dated 18.8.1986 of finance department. xxx xxx xxx” D (sic.) 7. The GR reproduced above unambiguously provides that the services rendered by teachers in a ZP shall be taken into consideration when fixing pay, seniority, retiral benefits etc. on their permanent transfer to Municipalities. Despite the seeming clarity on this point, there arose a E dispute in respect to fixation of inter se seniority between the teachers who were initially recruited in the ZP and were later on absorbed into the PMC, as opposed to the primary teachers who had been part of the services of the PMC from the very beginning. There were a series of correspondence on this issue between the Chief Executive Officer of F the ZP and the Administrative Officer, Shikshan Mandal of the PMC, including two letters dated 11.10.1999 and 02.07.2011. These communications do not appear to us of any legal consequence given the fact that the GR dated 13.08.1990 has not been rescinded, modified or superseded by any subsequent government resolution. G 8. The Appellant is an Association formed by the primary teachers who were directly recruited by the PMC. Its members have an inter se seniority dispute with Respondent Nos. 5 to 79. A draft seniority list was circulated by the PMC which proposed to assign seniority to Respondent Nos. 5 to 79 from the dates they joined service in the ZP. The PMC, H 988 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A however, reversed its tentative decision vide letter on 04.02.2017 which stated that Respondent Nos. 5 to 79 would be assigned seniority only from the date of their absorption into PMC. The private respondents raised objections against the aforementioned decision, which resulted in the constitution of a committee of five officers of the PMC for consideration of those objections. On the recommendations of the B Committee a final seniority list was eventually issued on 20.02.2018 in which the seniority of Respondent Nos. 5 to 79 was fixed only from the date of their absorption into the PMC. For the sake of specificity, the outcome of the Committee’s recommendations was that the service rendered by Respondent Nos. 5 to 79 in their roles within the ZP stood C excluded from the length of their service. 9. Aggrieved, Respondent Nos. 5 to 79 approached the High Court and a Division Bench vide the impugned dated 1st October, 2021 has allowed their writ petition in the following terms: - “52.