“27. We do fi nd substance in what being submitted by the learned counsel for the appellant and in the fi rst place, it is to be noted that the trial Court, while awarding sentence to the appellant has not made any analysis of the relevant facts as can be discerned from the (page 96−97 of the paper book) dated 12th January, 1998. Even the High Court has not considered the issue of quantum of sentence. From the factual position which emerge from the record, it is to be noticed that they were young boys having no previous enmity and were collectively sitting and watching Jagjit Singh night. On some comments made to the girls sitting in front of the deceased, some altercation took place and they entered into a scuffl e and without any pre−meditation, the alleged unfortunate incident took place between two group of young boys and it is informed to this Court that the appellant has served the sentence of more than three years and fi ve months. Taking into consideration in totality that the incident is of June 1995 and no other criminal antecedents has been brought to our notice, and taking overall view of the matter, we fi nd force in the submission of the appellant that the quantum of sentence is excessive and deserves to be interfered by this Court.” 18. In the case of Deepak v. State of Uttar Pradesh reported in (2018) 8 SCC 228 it came to be noticed by this Court that incident had taken place in the heat of the moment and the assault was by a single sword blow in the rib cage was without any premeditation and incident had occurred at the spur of the moment, and thus inferred there was no intention to kill and as such the off ence was converted from Section 302 IPC to Section 304 Part II IPC and the appellant was ed to be released forthwith by sentencing them to the period of conviction already undergone. It was held: “7. On consideration of the entirety of the evidence, it can safely be concluded that the occurrence took place in the heat of the moment and the assault was made without premeditation on the spur of time. The fact that the appellant may have rushed to his house across the road and returned with a sword, is not suffi cient to infer an intention to kill, both because of the genesis of the occurrence and the single assault by the appellant, coupled with the duration of the entire episode for 1½ to 2 minutes. Had there been any intention to do away with the N. RAMKUMAR v. THE STATE REP. BY INSPECTOR 855 OF POLICE [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] life of the deceased, nothing prevented the appellant from making a second assault to ensure his death, rather than to have run away. The intention appears more to have been to teach a lesson by the venting of ire by an irked neighbour, due to loud playing of the tape rec.