SINGH v. PUNJAB NATIONAL BANK 899 last known address calling upon the employee to report for duty within 30 days of the notice stating inter alia, the grounds for the management coming to the conclusion that the employee has no intention of joining duties and furnishing necessary evidence, wherever available. Unless the employee reports for duty within 30 days or unless he gives an explanation for his absence satisfying the management that he has not taken up another employment for avocation and that he has no intention of not joining duties, the employee will be deemed to have voluntarily retired from the Bank’s service on the expiry of the said notice. In the event of employee submitting a satisfactory reply, he shall be permitted to report for duty thereafter within 30 days from the date of the expiry of the aforesaid notice without prejudice to the banks right to take any action under law or rules of service.” 10. A person aggrieved by the of transfer cannot sit at home and decide on his own that the is illegal or erroneous and he will not comply with the same. If the workman had any grievance, he could have availed of his remedy available against the same; otherwise, he was duty-bound to comply with the same. Failure to avail of any remedy also would mean that he had accepted the and was duty-bound to comply with the same. At a later stage, he could not take a plea that the being erroneous, no consequence would follow for its non-compliance. 11. On 20.12.1983, a letter was issued to the workman reminding him that despite his transfer to the Branch Offi ce, Bhagwantnagar, Unnao, he had not yet reported for duty. He was given ten days’ time to report for duty or latest by 05.01.1984. It was stated that otherwise, it shall be presumed that he was absenting unauthorisedly and disciplinary action would be taken against him in terms of the Bipartite Agreement. This was followed by another letter dated 05.01.1984. The workman was given ten days’ time to join the duty from the date of receipt of the letter or latest by 20.01.1984, whichever was earlier. Further, the intention of the workman was quite evident from the subsequent events which remained undisputed, namely, that he intended to join legal practice which he did, as admittedly in the year 1985, he got himself enrolled as an Advocate and is in active practice. The communication dated 30.01.1984 from the Bank to the workman shows that the workman had personally submitted a letter dated 24.01.1984 to the 900 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Regional Manager, Lucknow Region of the Bank. As per the direction of the Bank, the workman was given time upto 06.02.1984 for reporting for duty. It is evident from the communication dated 01.02.1984 addressed by the workman to the Bank that he was in the knowledge of all the developments and further, being a Law Graduate, he very well knew the consequences of failure to challenge an and not complying with the same.