151. The debates of the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir also reveal that sovereignty lay with the people of India (which included the people of Jammu and Kashmir) and not with the State or its people alone: a. Shri Kushuk Bakula stated: 162 “…That we are thus made an integral party of India, that great country of high ideas and glorious traditions to which the nation of the world look for guidance and which is the one potent factor for the maintenance of world peace at the present day cannot but be a matter for unlimited jubilation for all of us…”163 (emphasis supplied) b. Shri Kotwal Chuni Lal stated: “We again stand by the pledge of the National Conference that Kashmir is an inseparable part of India.”164 c. Mrs Isher Devi Mani stated: “The fi rst point I want to emphasis is that we all must be aware that Kashmir is an integral part of India. We have acceded to India of our own free will and I see no reason why we should not be happy and jubilant over this.”165 d. The President of the State Constituent Assembly, GM Sadiq stated: “We are an integral part of India and shall remain so forever. (Loud applause). You stick to your decision. Today we are 162 Shri Kushuk Bakula made his remarks in Bodhi. The Secretary of the Constituent Assembly read out an English version of his speech. 163 25 October 1956, Debates of the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir 164 7 November 1956, Debates of the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir 165 17 November 1956, Debates of the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir 92 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. not alone or unarmed today we are with India and 360 million Indians.”166 This is a reiteration of the understanding of the members of the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir that accession to India was complete and that sovereignty was surrendered. 152. There is a noticeable diff erence between the Preamble to the Indian Constitution167 and the Preamble to the Constitution of the State of Jammu and Kashmir which has been extracted above. The Preamble to the Indian Constitution states, “We the people of India, having solemnly resolved to constitute India into a sovereign, socialist, secular and democratic republic…” There is a clear absence in the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir of a reference to sovereignty. While the Constitution of India emphasises in its Preamble that the people of India resolved to constitute India into a sovereign, socialistic, secular, democratic, republic, the basic purpose of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir as set out in the Preamble is to defi ne further the relationship of the State with the Union though as an integral part of India. Section 2(a) of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir provides that “the Constitution of India means the Constitution as applicable in relation to this State”. Section 4 defi nes the territory of the State of Jammu and Kashmir to comprise of all the territories which on 15 August 1947 were under the sovereignty or suzerainty of the Ruler of the State.