This consideration, or premise, would equally apply in the case of the India-Switzerland DTAA and its amending Protocol; the requirement of notifi cation of the protocol and a separate amending Protocol, (like in the case of France and Netherlands) is necessary, by reason of Section 90 of the Act. Switzerland cannot claim an exception, based only on the language of the third Protocol. 64. It would be useful to end this discussion, with one more instance of India’s treaty practice, in regard to fulfi lling its obligations under DTAAs and their Protocols. India had entered into a DTAA with Canada on 30.10.1985 which was notifi ed on 25.09.1986 under Section 90. The DTAA contained provisions relating to rate of taxation, and treatment of royalties. It also contained a provision that in the event India entered into a subsequent DTAA with a member of the OECD, and conferred better terms, as compared with Canada, then the latter would be extended similar benefi ts. The India-Sweden DTAA was signed on 12.12.1988, which extended more favourable benefi ts, than what was given to Canada; Sweden was an OECD member when the DTAA was signed with India. This constituted the “trigger” event, impelling Canada to seek parity. The Protocol (of 1985) to the India-Canada DTAA contained the following stipulation: ASSESSING OFFICER CIRCLE (INTERNATIONAL TAXATION) 2(2)(2) 1189 NEW DELHI v. M/S NESTLE SA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] “With reference to paragraph 2 of article 13, in the event that pursuant to an Agreement or a Convention concluded with a State which is a member of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development after the date of signature of this Agreement, India would accept a rate lower than 30 per cent for the taxation of royalties or fees for technical services paid by a resident of India to a resident of that State, it is understood that such lower rate will automatically be applied for the taxation of royalties and fees for technical services paid by a resident of India to a resident of Canada where the royalties or fees for technical services are paid in respect of a right or property which is fi rst granted, or under a contract which is signed, after the date of entry into force of the fi rst-mentioned Agreement or convention.” 65. The amendment to the DTAA was on 24.06.1992, which was notifi ed under Section 90 on 28.10.1992; it reads inter alia, as follows: “Subsequent to the signing of the Agreement with Canada, India has entered into Agreements with other OECD countries, wherein the rate of taxation in respect of royalties and fees for technical services has been agreed at 20% of the gross amount. The revised Agreement with Sweden, which came into force on 12th December, 1988, is the fi rst of such Agreements. Accordingly, after consultation with the Canadian Government,”a notifi cation has been issued on 24th June, 1992 notifying that the rate of tax of 20% will be applicable to royalties and fees for technical services paid by a resident of India to a resident of Canada.