House of People and the Legislative Assemblies but also for disqualifi cation on conviction and other matters. Parliament in its wisdom having made a specifi c provision for disqualifi cation on conviction by enacting section 8, it was held that it is not for the Court to abridge or expand the same. Rama Narang (supra) and Ravikant S. Patil (supra) were referred to, which recognized the power possessed by the court of appeal to suspend or stay an of conviction. Such decisions having also laid down the parameters for exercise of such power, it was also held that it is not possible to hold, as a matter of rule, or, to lay down, that in to prevent any person who has committed an off ence from entering Parliament or the Legislative Assembly the of the conviction should not be suspended. It was reminded that the courts have to interpret the law as it stands and not on considerations which may be perceived to be morally more correct or ethical. 15. On behalf of the respondent, learned ASG cited Sanjay Dutt v. State of Maharashtra9 to contend that a mere bar to contest elections would not be suffi cient ground to stay the conviction. The relevant portion of the decision is excerpted below: “12. Despite all these favourable circumstances, we do not think that this is a fi t case where conviction and sentence could be suspended so that the bar under Section 8 (3) of the Representation of People Act, 1951 will not operate against the petitioner. Law prohibits any person who has been convicted of any off ence and sentenced to imprisonment for not less than two years from contesting the election and such person shall be disqualifi ed for a further period of six years since his release. In the face of such a provision, the power of the Court under Section 389 CrPC shall be exercised only under exceptional circumstances. *** 14. In the present case, no such circumstances are in favour of the petitioner. In view of the serious off ence for which he has been convicted by the Special Judge, we are not inclined to suspend the conviction and sentence awarded by the Special Judge in the present case….” (emphasis supplied) 9 (2009) 5 SCC 787 AFJAL ANSARI v. STATE OF UP 995 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 16. The vires of section 8(4) of the RoP Act came to be challenged in Lily Thomas v. Union of India10, a decision on which learned ASG placed heavy reliance. According to him, what fl ows from the said decision is that exercise of power to stay a conviction should be limited to very exceptional cases and the present case does not commend to be such an exceptional case so as to warrant any stay of conviction recorded against the appellant. 17. Sub-section (4), which was inserted in section 8 of the RoP Act by an amendment with eff ect from 15th March, 1989, provided for an automatic stay of disqualifi cation from membership if a convicted member of Parliament/Legislative Assembly brought an appeal/application for revision seeking setting aside of his conviction within three months thereof.