She also narrated in her statement in the enquiry report about the working of Prabhunath Singh and that he was again preparing to get her abducted. The honest and true version of Lalmuni Devi has been recorded above. In the report submitted by the Additional Director General of Police, he had condemned the report of D.I.G., Saran range, Chapra. He had concluded the report by observing that the investigation of the two cases was quite casual and the supervision and control of the investigation was also pitiable. He had also recorded the statements of Lalmuni Devi and Rama Rai which was again reproduced in the and the same is not being repeated as it is more or less the same as recorded above. Dr. Gautam in his report also commented that the sequence of events started only after the application under Section 311 CrPC was allowed and Lalmuni Devi was called as a court witness on 03.11.2006. 24. Further, according to the report of Dr. Gautam, after abduction of Lalmuni Devi, her son and daughter-in-law represented not only to the offi cer-in-charge, Panapur Police Station but also to the Superintendent of Police, the Director General of Police and the Home Secretary at Patna. The Director General of Police forwarded the petition given by the son and daughter-in-law to the Superintendent of Police, Chapra by fax for taking necessary action on 25.10.2006. The same was communicated and received in the offi ce of Superintendent of Police, Chapra on the same day but it remained unattended till 02.11.2006. It was only after the petition was instituted on 31.10.2006 that formal notice was taken of the said petition by the Superintendent of Police. The report further notices that from 24.10.2006 till 03.12.2006, the son of Lalmuni Devi had been running from pillar to post between Chapra, Patna and Bhagalpur but no public authority paid any heedto his complaints. Dr. Gautam stated that he had tried to put the investigation of the two cases back on the right track and also pointed out the glaring omissions and defi ciencies in the investigation. He had also observed in his report that the cases instituted against the witnesses and the attitude of the Police was another cause of grave concern. He also made a request to the Court to be spared from being involved in the matter any further as he had no machinery of his own by which he could conduct an independent and impartial investigation. 418 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 25. The Division Bench further proceeds to record the fi ndings of the Inspecting Judge given in his report dated 21.02.2007, which we have already reproduced in the earlier part of this . 26. The Division Bench further records the fi nding that the above facts and circumstances and the evidence placed on record clearly establish the connection between abduction of Lalmuni Devi at Chapra and the murder trial taking place before the Bhagalpur Court. Lalmuni Devi had been abducted to prevent her from deposing freely in the trial relating to the murder of her son.