758 SUPR[2E0M23E] C10O SU.RCT.R R. E7P5O8 R: T2S023 INSC 6[230023] 10 S.C.R. A SHATRUGHAN v. THE STATE OF CHHATTISGARH (Criminal Appeal No. 437 of 2016) B JULY 20, 2023 [VIKRAM NATH AND AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, JJ.] Penal Code, 1860: s. 302 – Culpable homicide amounting to murder – Conviction u/s. 302 – Correctness of – FIR against the appellant by the informant-uncle of deceased – Allegation that the C deceased had shouted that the appellant had assaulted him with a tabbal – Informant rushed to the place of incident and saw his nephew lying there with deep cut on the neck – Nephew later succumbed to his injuries – Conviction of the appellant u/s. 302 and sentenced to life imprisonment by the courts below – On appeal, D held: Prosecution failed to establish the charge – Prosecution story does not appear to be a probable story – Supporting evidence does not inspire confidence, rather there are material contradictions – Testimony of the informant not found to be reliable, thus could not form the basis of conviction – Medical evidence also does not support the prosecution case as the weapon of assault could not E have caused injury on the deceased – Further, no motive as to why the appellant would commit the murder of the deceased – Defence version that the deceased was under the influence of alcohol and could have tripped and fallen on a sharp object resulting into the ante-mortem injury reported in the post-mortem was quite possible, F and is clearly borne out from the record – Thus, the conviction and sentence of the appellant set aside. Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 None of the eye-witnesses had actually seen the occurrence of the appellant assaulting the deceased. [Para G 31][770-F] 1.2 According to the informant, he was the first person to arrive at the site along with his wife upon hearing the cry for help from the deceased that the appellant was assaulting him with a tabbal. When he reached the site he saw that the deceased was H 758 SHATRUGHAN v. THE STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 759 lying on the road and the appellant was moving towards his house A on a cycle along with tabbal. This is the FIR version. In his deposition the informant stated that when he rushed to the place of occurrence, he saw the accused running away and the tabbal was lying there. The deceased had fallen unconscious and there was deep cut on his neck with blood flowing from the injury. Upon B his call, the other neighbours and his daughter all came out from their houses. PW-14 stated that PW-1 only informed him that deceased had been assaulted and had been taken to the hospital. PW-1 did not inform PW-14 that it was the appellant who had assaulted. PW-14 stated that it was later on that others who informed about the appellant assaulting the deceased. The other C eye-witnesses did not state that they saw the appellant assaulting the deceased.