‘21. … The Judge had jurisdiction to correct his own error without entering into a discussion of the grounds taken by the decree- holder or the objections raised by the -debtors.’ ” ××××× 328. Reliance was placed on Neeraj Kumar Sainy v. State of U.P. [(2017) 14 SCC 136 : 8 SCEC 454] There, this Court observed that no one should suff er any prejudice because of the act of the court; the legal maxim cannot operate in a vacuum. It has to get the sustenance from the facts. As the appellants resigned to their fate and woke up to have control over the events forgetting that the law does not assist the non-vigilant. One cannot indulge in the luxury of lethargy, possibly nurturing the feeling that forgetting is a virtue. If such is the conduct, it is not permissible to take shelter under the maxim actus curiae neminem gravabit. There is no dispute with the aforesaid principle. Party has to be vigilant about the right, but the ratio cannot be applied. In the opinion, the ratio in the decision cannot be applied for the purpose of interpretation of Section 24(2).” 26. When a specialized forum is made available under a statute, a civil court should normally entertain a dispute which would otherwise not be amenable before the said forum. Therefore, rights and liabilities of the parties arising from an enactment ought to be adjudicated upon in tune with the mechanism provided thereunder. The reason being that the provisions of the enactment ought to be given eff ect to through such forums and therefore to the exclusion of a civil court whose jurisdiction is otherwise to be inferred. J. Willes in Wolverhampton New Waterworks Co. v. Hawkesford [1859] 6 C.B. (NS) 336, “One is where there was a liability existing at common law, and that liability is affi rmed by a Statute which gives a special and peculiar form of remedy diff erent from the remedy which existed at common law: there, unless the Statute contains words which expressly or by necessary implication exclude the common law remedy the party suing has his election to pursue either that or the statutory remedy. The second class of cases is, where the Statute gives the right to sue merely, but provides, no particular form of remedy: there, the party can only proceed by action at common law. But there is a third class, viz., where a liability not existing at common law is created by a Statute which at the same time gives a special and particular remedy for enforcing it ........ The remedy MUMTAZ YARUD DOWLA WAKF v. M/S BADAM 1015 BALAKRISHNA HOTEL PVT. LTD. & ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] provided by the Statute must be followed and it is not competent to the party to pursue the course applicable to cases of the second class.” (emphasis supplied) 27. As a principle of law, the powers of the civil court, being plenary in nature, the onus lies on the party who contends that it lacks jurisdiction.