38.9. In case the employee is confirmed in service, holding departmental enquiry would be necessary before C passing of termination/removal or dismissal on the ground of suppression or submitting false information in verification form. 38.10. For determining suppression or false information attestation/verification form has to be specific, not vague. D Only such information which was required to be specifically mentioned has to be disclosed. If information not asked for but is relevant comes to knowledge of the employer the same can be considered in an objective manner while addressing the question of fitness. However, in such cases action cannot be taken on basis E of suppression or submitting false information as to a fact which was not even asked for. 38.11 Before a person is held guilty of suppressio veri or suggestio falsi, knowledge of the fact must be attributable to him”. F 8. It may be noted that even after the guiding principles laid down in the case of Avtar Singh by the three-judge Bench, divergent views were expressed by the various benches of this Court. Therefore, this Court in case of Satish Chandra Yadav Vs. Union of India & Others.2, after taking into consideration the inconsistent views taken in the cases G of Union of India & Ors. Vs Methu Meda3; Union of India vs. Dilip Kumar Mallick4; Pawan Kumar vs. Union of India & Anr.5; 2 (2022) SCC Online SC 1300 3 (2022) 1 SCC 1 4 (2022) 6 Scale 108 5 (2022) SCC Online SC 532 H EX-CONST/DVR MUKESH KUMAR RAIGAR v. UNION OF 805 INDIA & ORS. [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited & Anr. vs. Anil A Kanwariya6; Mohammed Imran Vs. State of Maharashtra & Others7; etc., further laid down following principles: “89. The only reason to refer to and look into the various decisions rendered by this Court as above over a period of time is that the principles of law laid therein governing the B subject are bit inconsistent. Even after, the larger Bench decision in the case of Avtar Singh (supra) different courts have enunciated different principles. 90. In such circumstances, we undertook some exercise to shortlist the broad principles of law which should be made C applicable to the litigations of the present nature. The principles are as follows: a) Each case should be scrutinised thoroughly by the public employer concerned, through its designated officials-more so, in the case of recruitment for the police force, who are D under a duty to maintain , and tackle lawlessness, since their ability to inspire public confidence is a bulwark to society’s security. [See Raj Kumar (supra)] b) Even in a case where the employee has made declaration truthfully and correctly of a concluded criminal case, the E employer still has the right to consider the antecedents, and cannot be compelled to appoint the candidate. The acquittal in a criminal case would not automatically entitle a candidate for appointment to the post. It would be still open to the employer to consider the antecedents and examine whether the candidate concerned is suitable and F fit for appointment to the post.