Because in this incident deceased has died and it has come up in the evidence that deceased was living with accused Balvir Singh in Delhi, therefore charge under section 302 of Indian Penal Code against accused is proved and he is fi t to be convicted for the said charge. As prosecution could not prove that accused Shrimati Maheshwari Devi was at Delhi with Balvir Singh during the time of deceased’s death and no role of Maheshawari Devi is proved in deceased’s death, therefore no charge under section 302 of Indian Penal Code is proved against Shrimati Maheshwari Devi and therefore, she is fi t to be discharged of the above said charge.” 14. The appellants feeling dissatisfi ed with the and of conviction passed by the trial court went in appeal before the High Court. The High Court dismissed both the appeals and thereby affi rmed the and of the conviction passed by the trial court. The High Court while affi rming the and of conviction passed by the trial court held as under: “3. In the chargesheet it was clearly held out that the death, in the instant case, was by poisoning. No sooner, the death was reported, PW1, looking at the dead body, insisted for an inquest and the same was done. In course of inquest, he expressed doubt as to the cause of death and demanded post-mortem. Accordingly, post-mortem was done. The doctor, who conducted post-mortem, could not determine the reason for the death. He, accordingly, preserved a part of the heart and the viscera of the deceased for the purpose of analysis. Viscera was sent for analysis and Forensic Science Laboratory, Agra, to whom 830 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. the same was sent, reported that the same contained poison known as “Aluminium Phosphide”. All these facts were in the charge- sheet. The death, according to the chargesheet, had taken place at Delhi, when A1 alone was present with the victim. It is A1, who caused the dead body of the victim to be brought to Ratanpuri, Kotdwara. It was not the contention of A1 that the victim, at any point of time, had any suicidal tendency or that he suspects that the victim committed suicide. It was the contention of A1, as is evident from the trend of cross-examination of the prosecution witnesses, and, in particular, suggestions given to the prosecution witnesses that the victim was suff ering from heart disease, for that, matter required frequent treatment and administration of medicine. It was suggested that such medicine, so administered, turned into the aforementioned poison. That being an assertion on behalf of A1, it was he, who was required to establish the same by tendering adequate evidence, which he miserably failed. A dead person, whose cause of death was by poisoning, was, accordingly, found on the lap of A1. A1 had special knowledge pertaining thereto. He failed to disclose· anything in relation thereto. The Court below, in the circumstances, has taken adverse inference against A 1 under Section 114(g) of the Evidence Act.