That this Court has also held that DEPB also has a cost element E in so much as the cost of acquiring it is not nil because it is acquired by paying customs duty on the import content of the export product. It is submitted that the decision of this Court in the case of Topman Exports (supra) has been subsequently followed in the cases of ACG Associated Capsules Private Limited Vs. Commissioner of Income Tax, Central-IV, Mumbai (2012) 3 SCC 321; Vikas Kalra Vs. F Commissioner of Income Tax – VII, New Delhi, (2012) 3 SCC 611 and Nissan Export Vs. Commissioner of Income Tax, (2014) 14 SCC 152. 3.8 It is submitted that, therefore, and in view of the development of law in Meghalaya Steels Limited (supra) and the Topman Exports G (supra) DEPB/Duty Drawback are “profits and gains derived from any business” within the purview of Section 80-IB. 3.9 It is averred by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the assessee that various High Courts have taken the view that the “immediate source” of the income is not determinative. H 344 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 4. Shri Balbir Singh, learned ASG while opposing the present appeal has vehemently submitted that the issue involved in the present appeal is squarely covered against the assessee in view of the decision of this Court in the case of Liberty India (supra) and Sterling Foods, Mangalore (supra). It is submitted that therefore, relying upon and following the decisions of this Hon’ble Court in the aforesaid two B decisions, the High Court has not committed any error in holding that the assessee is not entitled to the deductions under Section 80-IB on the amount received by way of DEPB and Duty Drawback Schemes. 4.1 Insofar as the reliance placed by the assessee upon the decision of this Court in the case of Meghalaya Steels Limited (supra) is C concerned, it is submitted that in the case of Meghalaya Steels Limited (supra), this Court has not disagreed with or disapproved the decision in the case of Liberty India (supra) or Sterling Foods, Mangalore (supra). It is submitted that even otherwise, the said decisions shall not be applicable in case of receipt of the amount under DEPB and Duty D Drawback Schemes as the same cannot be said to be an income that falls under the head “profits and gains of business or profession”. 4.2 Shri Balbir Singh, learned ASG has taken us through the scheme of Section 28 and Section 80-IB of the Act, 1961. It is submitted that insofar as Section 28 is concerned, it speaks about the income that falls E under the head of “profit and gains of business or profession”. That earlier there used to be a dispute regarding the receipt by way of incentives from the Government being in the nature of cash assistance, Duty Drawback, profits on transfer of DEPB Scheme, as to whether these receipts were capital receipts or revenue receipts and would these be taxable.