11. In the light of these guiding principles, we have to examine the present case. D 12. The trial court has relied on the following circumstances: (i) Last seen together with the deceased; (ii) Recovery of the stolen material including jewellery from accused No.3-Boby; E (iii) Recovery of spade from accused No. 1-Shibu @ Shibu Singh; (iv) Recovery of the dead body at the instance of accused No. 3-Boby; F 13. The trial court had convicted accused Nos. 1 to 3 upon finding that the prosecution had proved the aforesaid circumstances against them. In appeal, the High Court found that the prosecution had failed to prove the case against Biju @ Babi (accused No. 2) and accordingly acquitted him. G 14. The learned Division Bench of the High Court, though found that the prosecution had failed to prove the case beyond reasonable doubt insofar as accused No.2 was concerned, held that, insofar as accused Nos. 1 and 3 were concerned, the prosecution had proved the case beyond reasonable doubt. H BOBY v. STATE OF KERALA [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 345 15. It could thus be seen that the trial court as well as the High A Court found the circumstance of the accused persons having been last seen in the company of the deceased on the basis of the evidence of PW-1, as the main incriminating circumstance. The High Court further found that, insofar as Boby (accused No.3/appellant herein) was concerned, there was an additional evidence with regard to the recovery B of the dead body and ornaments. Insofar as Shibu @ Shibu Singh (accused No. 1) was concerned, the High Court found that the recovery of spade which was used to dig the burial site where the dead body was concealed, was an additional circumstance which proved the guilt of Shibu @ Shibu Singh (accused No. 1). C 16. Insofar as last seen theory is concerned, it will be relevant to refer to the following observations of this Court in the case of State of U.P. v. Satish3: “22. The last-seen theory comes into play where the time-gap D between the point of time when the accused and the deceased were last seen alive and when the deceased is found dead is so small that possibility of any person other than the accused being the author of the crime becomes impossible. It would be difficult in some cases to positively establish that the deceased was last seen with the accused when there is a long gap and possibility of E other persons coming in between exists. In the absence of any other positive evidence to conclude that the accused and the deceased were last seen together, it would be hazardous to come to a conclusion of guilt in those cases. In this case there is positive evidence that the deceased and the accused were seen together F by witnesses PWs 3 and 5, in addition to the evidence of PW 2.” 17. It could thus clearly be seen that the last-seen theory comes into play where the time-gap between the point of time when the accused and the deceased were last seen alive and when the deceased is found dead is so small that possibility of any person other than the accused G being the author of the crime becomes impossible.