Gupta, Asuthosh Sharma, Ms. Gunjan Sharma, Virender Kr. Sharma, Arup Ratan Dutta Choudhury, Rajive Kumar Deora, Dharam Pal Saini, Abdul Gaffar, Mohan Singh, Saurabh Sharma, Ayush Panwar, K.K. Chauhan, Ms. Shalu Sharma, Brahm Shankar, Soumya Dutta, V. Elanchezhiyan, Venkita Subramoniam E T.R, Likhi Chand Bonsle, Rahat Bansal, Amit K. Nain, P. I. Jose, Ashok Mathur, Rohan Ganpathy, Aakarsh Kamra, Arunav Patnaik, Ms. Bhabna Das, Aaditya Mishra, Nilendu Vatsyayan, Chandra Bhushan Tiwari, Rajesh P., Manoranjan Sharma, Advs. for the appearing parties. The of the Court was delivered by F RASTOGI, J. CIVIL APPEAL NO(S).5352-5353 OF 2007 1. The assail in the present appeals by special leave is to and passed by the National Consumer Disputes Redressal G Commission (hereinafter “National Commission”) dated 3rd December, 2004, whereby the National Commission, while reversing the finding of the Gujarat State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (hereinafter “State Commission”), regarding maintainability of the complaint filed at the instance of the respondent under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 (hereinafter “Act, 1986”) held that a person who takes insurance policy H NATIONAL INSURANCE CO. LTD. v. HARSOLIA MOTORS 453 AND OTHERS [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] to cover the envisaged risk does not take the policy for the commercial A purpose. Policy is only for indemnification of an actual loss and is not intended to generate profits and finally held that the respondent (insured) was a consumer as defined under Section 2(1)(d) of the Act, 1986 and thecomplaint filed at his instance was maintainable and be examined by the State Commission on merits. B 2. Respondent no.1 (dealer in TATA vehicles) and respondent no.2 are the claimants. Respondent no.1 took out a fire insurance policy with the appellant for a cover of Rs.75,38,000/- and respondent no.2 for a cover of Rs.90 lakhs. That on 28th February, 2002, damage was caused to the goods of respondent nos.1 and 2 due to fire (during the course of C Godhra riots). The appellant denied the claim of respondent no.1, while admitting the claim of respondent no.2 to the extent of Rs.54,29,871/-. The respondents filed complaint before the State Commission. 3. Respondent no.1 M/s Harsolia Motors, a commercial entity engaged in the business of sale of vehicles, took fire insurance policy D from the appellant insurance company covering the office, showroom, garage, machinery lying in the showroom premises, etc. The grievance of the respondent was that their aforesaid premises were damaged during the Godhra riots on 28th February, 2002. A complaint was instituted by the respondent, M/s Harsolia Motors, a partnership firm, before the State Commission, for compensation of damage caused on the ground that E post-Godhra incident, which took place on 27th February, 2002, riots broke out resulting into complainant’s goods being destroyed by fire set up by rioters on 28th February, 2002 and the respondent/complainant was entitled to be indemnified the insured sum under the policy of insurance. 4. The State Commission held that the respondent is not covered F under the expression “consumer” as defined under Section 2(1)(d) of the Act, 1986 and held that the complainant being a company running a business from the premises to earn profits falls under the term “for commercial purpose” and the complaintis not maintainable under the provisions of the Act, 1986.