21. One of the important aspects that is to be noted is that as per sub- Section 9 of Section 10, it is clearly specifi ed that no person who is more than sixty years of age shall be appointed as Vice-Chancellor. But, when it comes to sub-Section 10 of Section 10, it is made explicit that the Vice- Chancellor shall hold offi ce for a term of four years from the date on which he enters upon his offi ce and shall be eligible for re-appointment. However, interdiction is made as per the proviso thereto, by making it clear that, a person shall not be appointed as Vice Chancellor for more than 2 terms. It is signifi cant to note that sub-Section 10 of Section 10 of Act, 1996 is conjunctive in nature and not distinctive. Which thus means, the statute itself has made a clear cut procedure with respect to the re-appointment and has made it clear that the Vice Chancellor who holds the offi ce for a term of 4 years consequent to the initial appointment, shall be eligible for re-appointment. 22. No doubt, if there is any manner of shortcomings on the part of the Vice Chancellor initially appointed, so as to aff ect the academic excellence, moral issues or otherwise to have any adverse consequence to hold the post of Vice Chancellor, it would be diff erent. But, this is a case where the appellants have not raised any sort of such allegations against the 4th respondent. Merely because a notifi cation DR. PREMACHANDRAN KEEZHOTH & ANR. v. THE 395 CHANCELLOR KANNUR UNIVERSITY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] was issued to conduct a selection, that by itself will not dissuade the Government/Chancellor to recommend and re-appoint the existing Vice Chancellor.” xxx xxx xxx 30. Therefore, after assimilating the factual and legal situations and understanding the issues, we are of the considered opinion that in the matter of re-appointment, the age bar prescribed under Section 10(9) for appointment of the Vice Chancellor would not come into play, because the Vice Chancellor who has appointed before attaining the age of 60 years, is entitled to continue for a term of four years and shall be eligible for re-appointment. 31. Taking into account all the above intrinsic aspects with regard to the appointment of the Vice Chancellor, eligibility, qualifi cation etc., and also the relevant inputs of the UGC Regulations, 2018, we have no hesitation to hold that the learned single Judge was right in dismissing the writ petition. Even though various contentions were advanced and several s were cited by the respective Senior Counsel in regard to the intricacies of issuance of a writ of quo warranto, we are not inclined to go into that question, since we fi nd that the re- appointment of the 4th respondent was made in accordance with law, and therefore he can never be said to be an usurper to the post. Having rendered the fi ndings as above, the arguments advanced strenuously by the learned Senior Counsel Sri.