Parliament has, in a calibrated manner, interposed a resolution professional before the adjudicatory stage under Section 100 bearing in mind the limited role of the resolution professional which is to gather information, examine the application submitted under Sections 94 or 95 and determine as to whether it meets the requirements of the statute; (vi) Section 99(3) which provides that the debtor shall not be entitled to dispute the validity of the debt where the debt has been registered with the information utility applies only to the examination by a resolution professional and does not impose a bar on the adjudicating authority; and (vii) Section 99(6) uses the expressions “examine”, “ascertain” and “satisfi es”. Sub-section (7) of Section 99 contemplates a recommendation by a resolution professional while sub-section (9) requires that the report should contain reasons. The debtor is involved at every stage of the process. The statute has provided for suffi cient compliance with the principles of natural justice. Moreover, there is a valid classifi cation in law between CIRP for the corporate debtors and the provisions of insolvency resolution process of individuals. Distinct provisions have been justifi ably made by Parliament bearing in mind that such a classifi cation is based on an intelligible diff erentia and, hence, it meets the requirement of Article 14 of the Constitution. 33. Mr Nakul Dewan, senior counsel has opposed the petitions based on the following submissions: (i) Plainly read and properly implemented, there is no signifi cant civil consequence on a debtor or personal guarantor before the stage of adjudication under Section 100. Therefore, there is no (cid:2) DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI (cid:3) 590 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. breach of natural justice under Chapter III of Part III of the IBC; and (ii) The procedure outlined under Chapter III serves the avowed purpose of the IBC to work towards rehabilitation. Liquidation (of a corporate debtor) or bankruptcy (of an individual debtor or partnership) is only a last resort if rehabilitation fails. 34. Buttressing the above submissions Mr Dewan urged that prior to the notifi cation of 15 November 2019, this Court had to determine whether insolvency proceedings could continue against a guarantor notwithstanding the discharge of a corporate debtor. This, it was urged, has been answered in the negative. 35. Mr Dewan has sought to draw a distinction between a moratorium under Section 14, on one hand, and an interim-moratorium under Section 96, submitting that the latter operates on the debt and not on the debtor. Consequently, the issuance of an interim-moratorium under Section 96 does not aff ect any right of the debtor. Moreover, it has been submitted that the insolvency resolution process under Part III can be instituted either by a creditor or a debtor and the IBC is meant to give equal protection whether it is the debtor or the creditor who has initiated the proceedings. It has been urged that unlike Section 96, Section 101(2)(c) targets the debtor by restraining the alienation of the property at the post adjudication stage.