OF NCT OF DELHI THR. THE SECRETARY, LAND AND BUILDING 243 DEPT. v. M/S. K.L. RATHI STEELS LTD. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] not operate to upset the binding nature of the decision on the parties to A an earlier lis. In that lis, the principle of res judicata would continue to operate. But in tax cases relating to a subsequent year involving the same issue as an earlier year, the Court can differ from the view expressed if the case is distinguishable or per incuriam. 43. Learned senior counsel for the petitioners relied upon the B following s in their arguments as well as reply arguments: (a) Mathura Prasad Sarjoo Jaiswal vs. Dossibai N.B. Jeejeebhoy(supra) was a question related to jurisdiction of a Court which cannot be deemed to have been finally determined by an erroneous decision of the court. It was C observed that if by an erroneous interpretation of the statute the court holds that it has no jurisdiction, the question would not, operate as res judicata. Similarly, by an erroneous decision if the court assumes jurisdiction which it does not possess under the statute, the question cannot operate as D res judicata between the parties, whether the cause of action in the subsequent litigation is the same or otherwise, because if those decisions are considered as conclusive, it will assume the status of a special rule of law applicable to the parties relating to the jurisdiction of the court in derogation of the rule declared by the Legislature. Reliance on the said decision E is placed as the controversy involved therein, was in the context of the doctrine of res judicata, wherein, it was observed that the previous decision on a matter in issue alone is res judicata. When it is said that a previous decision is res judicata, it is meant that the right claimed has been F adjudicated upon and cannot again be placed in contest between the same parties. It was further observed that a previous decision on a matter in issue is a composite decision: the decision on law cannot be dissociated from the decision on facts on which the right is founded. A decision on an issue of law will be a res judicata in a subsequent G proceeding between the same parties, if the cause of action of the subsequent proceeding is the same as in the previous proceeding, but not when the cause of action is different, nor when the law has since the earlier decision been altered by a competent authority, nor when the decision relates to H 244 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A the jurisdiction of the Court to try the earlier proceeding, nor when the earlier decision declares valid a transaction which is prohibited by law. Therefore, if a subsequent proceeding is initiated between the parties in these cases, then the decision arrived at in terms of the impugned in these review petitions would be binding on the parties. This B does not mean that a decision rendered between the parties in Pune Municipal Corporation or decision following Pune Municipal Corporationcan be reviewed or recalled by filing review petitions on the ground that subsequently in Indore Development Authority, Pune Municipal Corporation has C been overruled and sought to be contended by the learned counsel for the petitioners.