In response, this court observed : “[…] learned Additional Solicitor General should indicate a practical method for the operationalization of the Central Monitoring Committee. That Committee comprises of more than 20 members 109 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. and has apparently not met for the last three years. The record also discloses that in the last ten years, the Committee has met seven times”. 9. The Amicus submitted that Article 15, 17, 23 and 24 of the Constitution form an emancipatory Code. He submitted that the content of these fundamental rights must per force include the right for the oppressed classes to break away from oppressive structures and move to alternative sources of dignifi ed employment. In other words, the aforesaid Articles form a fundamental right to emancipation from oppressive structures. He contended that the emancipatory code is referrable to the preambular principle of fraternity and hence capable of horizontal application of fundamental rights. The 2013 Act is in furtherance of this emancipatory code, and thus attains constitutional status. 10. After going through the scheme of the 2013 Act, the Amicus Curiae submitted that the 1993 Act as well as the 2013 Act were both made in furtherance of the right to dignity of the individual. He made reference to the emancipatory nature of the Act in its identifi cation, prohibition, criminalization of manual scavenging and the rehabilitation provisions for manual scavengers. 11. In so far as institutions created under the 1993 Act, 2013 Act and the NCSK Act are concerned, he pointed to the factual position that the most of the institutions are non/sub functional. These institutions, he submitted, are at the National, State, District and Sub-district level. 12. The Amicus Curiae submitted that the survey envisioned under the 2013 Act is inextricable from the emancipatory nature of the Act, in that without a survey there cannot be any identifi cation and rehabilitation of manual scavengers. He submitted, with reference to the s of the High Court of Bombay in Vimla Govind Chorotiya and Others v. State of Maharashtra3 and High Court of Karnataka in All India Council of Trade Unions v. Union of India4, that a survey must be conducted in accordance with the provisions of the 2013 Act and the Rules made thereunder. 3 (2021 SCC OnLine Bom 3002) 4 (2020 SCC OnLine Kar 2420) DR. BALRAM SINGH v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 1095 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 13. The surveys conducted in 2013 and 2018, he contended, were not in accordance with the 2013 Act and Rules and thus cannot be considered as surveys. More specifi cally, he urged that the NCSK itself in its annual report has stated that till date, no reliable fi gure is available with the Government about the manual scavenging in the country and the fi gure is varying at various places. He also linked the absence of institutions under the 2013 Act and Rules to the inadequacies of the Survey process by contending that when the institutions for a Survey have not been put in place, there is no question of a Survey being conducted in terms of the Act and Rules.