Section 32 of SICA clearly provides that a scheme framed by the BIFR shall prevail and have effect over any other law for the time being in force notwithstanding the same. 6.9 It is submitted that the entire purpose of formulating a scheme B under SICA is to rehabilitate the sick company. If the sick company is wound up, then the unsecured creditors would get nothing. Hence is the very scheme that ensures that all creditors get some of their property, albeit to a reduced extent. 7. Shri P.S. Sudheer, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the C respondent – Continental Carbon India Ltd. – unsecured creditor has vehemently submitted that the Hon’ble High Court after examining various provisions of the SICA, 1985 and various s has answered the question and has held that the unsecured creditor has the option not to accept the scaled down value of its dues and may wait till the scheme D of rehabilitation of the sick company has worked itself out with the option to recover its debt post such rehabilitation, which is not required to be interfered with by this Court. 7.1 It is submitted that there is no provision under the SICA to compel an unsecured creditor to accept the scaled down value of its E dues. In absence of any such provision, the unsecured creditor – respondent cannot be compelled to accept a lesser amount, which would tantamount to taking the right to property in the goods without appropriate consideration and would be violative of Article 300A of the Constitution of India. 7.2 It is submitted that the scheme under the SICA, 1985 provides F for preparation and sanction of the scheme for rehabilitation under Section 18. It is submitted that sub-clause (e) of sub-section (1) of Section 18 of the SICA provides for preventive, ameliorative and remedial measures as may be appropriate, while Section 19 of the SICA deals with rehabilitation by giving financial assistance qua such preventive, G ameliorative and remedial measures. The same would apply to a class of creditors which did not include unsecured creditors and, therefore, there is no specific provision in the SICA which authorized the BIFR to deprive the unsecured creditor of its full value of unsecured debt. H 1048 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 7.3 It is submitted that even if Section 18/19 are interpreted as the provisions providing for deprivation of property of an unsecured creditor in the form of sacrifices and that no consent for said sacrifice is required, then also there is no provision in the SICA, 1985 which provides for making an unsecured creditor, in the first place, to be a part of the scheme without his consent. It is submitted that in other words, once an unsecured B creditor is ready to be part of the scheme then even if no consent of his is required before asking him to sacrifice does not mean that he has to be forced to become a part of the scheme.