It must also be borne in mind that while for the exercise of the constitutional power under Articles 72 and 161, the 9 See Rajan and Ram Chander (ibid). 10 [2015] 14 SCR 613 [hereafter referred to as ‘Sriharan’]. 494 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. Executive Head will have the benefi t of act and advice of the Council of Ministers, for the exercise of power under Section 432(1)CrPC, the appropriate Government will get the valuable opinion of the judicial forum, which will defi nitely throw much light on the issue relating to grant of suspension or remission.” The court then proceeded to approve the following reasoning in Sangeet v. State of Haryana11 on this point (Sangeet SCR pp. 119-120): “63. It appears to us that an exercise of power by the appropriate Government under sub-section (1) of Section 432CrPC cannot be suo motu for the simple reason that this sub-section is only an enabling provision. The appropriate Government is enabled to “override” a judicially pronounced sentence, subject to the fulfi lment of certain conditions. Those conditions are found either in the Jail Manual or in statutory rules. Sub-section (1) of Section 432CrPC cannot be read to enable the appropriate Government to “further override” the judicial pronouncement over and above what is permitted by the Jail Manual or the statutory rules. The process of granting “additional” remission under this section is set into motion in a case only through an application for remission by the convict or on his behalf. On such an application being made, the appropriate Government is required to approach the Presiding Judge of the court before or by which the conviction was made or confi rmed to opine (with reasons) whether the application should be granted or refused. Thereafter, the appropriate Government may take a decision on the remission application and pass s granting remission subject to some conditions, or refusing remission. Apart from anything else, this statutory procedure seems quite reasonable inasmuch as there is an application of mind to the issue of grant of remission. It also eliminates “discretionary” or en masse release of convicts on “festive” occasions since each release requires a case-by-case basis scrutiny.” (emphasis supplied) 11 [2012] 13 SCR 85[hereafter referred to as ‘Sangeet’] RAJO @ RAJWA @ RAJENDRA MANDAL v. THE STATE 495 OF BIHAR & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 11. This court, in various s, has outlined the parameters to be considered, when considering grant of remission. In Jagdish (supra) this court held: “38. At the time of considering the case of premature release of a life convict, the authorities may require to consider his case mainly taking into consideration whether the off ence was an individual act of crime without aff ecting the society at large; whether there was any chance of future recurrence of committing a crime; whether the convict had lost his potentiality in committing the crime; whether there was any fruitful purpose of confi ning the convict any more; the socio-economic condition of the convict’s family and other similar circumstances.” (emphasis supplied) This was based on an earlier (though not expressly cited in Jagdish) - Laxman Naskar v. State of W.B12 which prescribed fi ve guiding factors.