The contract awarded to the appellant’s son was really in the nature of a proxy benefit. E Here, we may note that there is also some controversy surrounding the translated version of the Gram Panchayat’s resolution dated 26.01.2020. The version adduced by the appellant inter alia states that “So also, when the said work will be sanction and when the said work will be completed, the Gram Panchayat is ready and willing to bear the expenses F incurred for supervision and repairs of the said work, such resolution was unanimously resolved.” [sic]. Respondent no. 3’s case was that this portion was not present in the original resolution. In any case, the fact remained that in either eventuality the funds flowed to the Gram Panchayat through Zilla Parishad, which in turn received them from the State Government. This was also the stand taken by the Zilla Parishad G in its counter affidavit. 14. Respondent no. 3 relied on the in Zelia M. Xavier Fernandes E. Gonsalves v. Joana Rodrigues & Ors.4. Here, this 3 (2012) 4 SCC 407. H 4 (2012) 3 SCC 188. VIRENDRASING v. THE ADDITIONAL COMMISSIONER AND 799 ORS. [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] Court had distinguished Gulam Yasin’s case5 on the premise that it did A not pertain to the disqualification of a member of the local self-government on the ground of direct or indirect pecuniary benefit. It was contended that Zelia M. Xavier’s6 case was of greater relevance as it dealt with Section 10 of the Goa Panchayat Raj Act, 1994, which was analogous to Section 16(1)(i) of the said Act. B Our View: 15. We must begin with the objective of the said Act; which is to introduce local self-governance and administration at the grassroots, and to entrust Zilla Parishads with the execution of works and developmental schemes of the State Government. It is in this conspectus that the said C Act provides for the disqualification of elected representatives. Having been conferred with major financial responsibilities, the statute maintains a system of checks and balances to ensure transparency in local contracts and to obviate the possibility of elected representatives exercising undue influence. It is no doubt true that elected representatives should not be D disqualified on flimsy grounds. However, we are equally bound by the statutory mandate, whereby activities which tend to defeat the objective of transparency should not be permitted to prevail. 16. The legislature in its wisdom has defined the grounds for disqualification in expansive terms under Section 16(1)(i) of the said E Act. Thus, the use of the terminology – ‘directly or indirectly’, ‘by himself or by his partner’, ‘any share or interest in any work done’, ‘by of Zilla Parishad or in any contract with’, and ‘by or on behalf of the Zilla Parishad’. All eventualities where the councillor can be said to have any financial connection with the work of the Zilla Parishad were sought to be included, with the object of discouraging the practice of financial F patronage that is inherently beneficial to the elected representatives.