G 15. At this juncture, in to appreciate the real object and purport of the phrase “material facts”, particularly with reference to election law, it would be appropriate to notice the distinction between the phrases “material facts” as appearing in clause (a) and “particulars” as appearing in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of H 822 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Section 83. As stated above, “material facts” are primary or basic facts which have to be pleaded by the petitioner to prove his cause of action and by the defendant to prove his defence. “Particulars”, on the other hand, are details in support of the material facts, pleaded by the parties. They amplify, refine and embellish material facts by giving distinctive touch to the basic contours of a picture B already drawn so as to make it full, more clear and more informative. Unlike “material facts” which provide the basic foundation on which the entire edifice of the election petition is built, “particulars” are to be stated to ensure that the opposite party is not taken by surprise. C 16. The distinction between “material facts” and “particulars” and their requirement in an election petition was succinctly brought out by this Court in Virender Nath Gautam v. Satpal Singh [(2007) 3 SCC 617] wherein C.K. Thakker, J., stated thus: (SCC pp. 631-32, para 50) D “50. There is distinction between facta probanda (the facts required to be proved i.e. material facts) and facta probantia (the facts by means of which they are proved i.e. particulars or evidence). It is settled law that pleadings must contain only facta probanda and not facta probantia. The material facts on which E the party relies for his claim are called factap robanda and they must be stated in the pleadings. But the facts or facts by means of which facta probanda (material facts) are proved and which are in the nature of facta probantia (particulars or evidence) need not be set out in the pleadings. They are not facts in issue, but only relevant facts required to be proved at the trial in to F establish the fact in issue.” 17. Now, before examining the rival submissions in the light of the aforestated legal position, it would be expedient to deal with another submission of the learned counsel for the appellant that the High Court should not have exercised its power either under G 6 Rule 16 or 7 Rule 11 of the Code to reject the election petition at the threshold. The argument is twofold viz. : (i) that even if the election petition was liable to be dismissed ultimately, it should have been dismissed only after affording an opportunity to the election petitioner to adduce evidence in support H of his allegation in the petition, and KANIMOZHI KARUNANIDHI v. A. SANTHANA KUMAR 823 [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] (ii) since Section 83 does not find a place in Section 86 of the Act, A rejection of the petition at the threshold would amount to reading into sub-section (1) of Section 86 an additional ground.