OF DELHI 769 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] are concerned, we have already doubted their conduct in setting up A disclosure statements. Moreover, the place from where recovery is made is accessible to all and sundry. Otherwise also, its incriminating value is extremely limited because, firstly, there is no forensic evidence connecting the knife with the crime; secondly, the knife is a common knife which could easily be available; thirdly, the wounds found on the body of the B deceased were of different dimensions giving rise to possibility of use of more weapon than one; and, fourthly, the entire exercise of recovery does not inspire our confidence, particularly, because the first attempt to recover had failed. 82. For all the reasons above, we hold that the circumstances with regard to making of disclosure statements and consequential C discoveries/recoveries were not proved beyond reasonable doubt. In our view, the two courts below have not properly appreciated and scrutinised the evidences, particularly the testimony of PW15, as noticed and analysed above, to test whether the said circumstances were proved beyond reasonable doubt. Hence, findings to the contrary returned by D the two courts below are set aside. As a resultthereof, the forensic report with regard to presence of human blood on the clothes recovered has no incriminating value qua the two accused. Likewise, the opinion that the knife recovered could have caused injuries as were found on the body of the deceased carries no incriminating value qua the accused. E Circumstance (j) — Re: failure to render plausible explanation 83. In a case based on circumstantial evidence, false explanation or non-explanation can only be used as an additional circumstance when the prosecution has proved the chain of circumstances leading to a definite conclusion with regard to the guilt of the accused. Therefore, before F addressing circumstance (j), we would first examine whether the incriminating circumstances that stood proved constitute a chain so far complete as to infer that in all human probability it were the accused who had committed the crime. 84. As discussed above, the incriminating circumstance that stood G proved beyond reasonable doubt as against Santosh was that the deceased had died a homicidal death in the flat/apartment which stood in his tenancy. Insofar as Neeraj is concerned there is no admissible evidence connecting him with either Santosh or the deceased. There is also no admissible evidence to show that Neeraj resided in that apartment either as a co- tenant or sub-tenant thereof. The allegation that the suicide letter was H 770 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A written by Neeraj has already been held not proved beyond reasonable doubt, therefore, in our view, there is no worthwhile evidence against Neeraj. Hence, his acquittal by the High Court calls for no interference. 85. Insofar as Santosh is concerned barring the tenancy of that apartment being with him, rest of the circumstances relied by the prosecution have not been found proved beyond reasonable doubt. In B our view, mere tenancy of that apartment being with Santosh, by itself,would not constitute a chain so far complete as to logically infer that in all human probability the deceased was killed by Santosh and no one else, because— a) The accommodation from where body was recovered was C found open.