In the instant case, Srikant Mantri did not convert himself into a corporate entity but instead, transferred his membership card of CSE to an existing company and became a director therein. The Regulations do not provide for exemption in such cases. The company before us was an H 744 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A existing company and therefore, when it became a member of CSE on the transfer to membership card from Srikant Mantri it could not claim the benefit under paragraph 4. It could claim such a benefit only if Srikant Mantri had formed himself into a company and continued his broking business. Since that was not the case, we are clearly of the view that the company could not claim the B benefit of paragraph 4. In this view of the matter, we have no hesitation in upholding the passed by the Board rejecting the claim of the appellant.” 20. It remains uncontroverted that when Srikant Mantri transferred his membership card of CSE to the Company, he was not a whole time C Director but was only a Director. Neither CSE nor its internal auditors, were clear of the exact date on which Srikant Mantri had acquired 40% shareholding in the appellant Company. At the same time, it was informed by the Board to the CSE vide letter dated 18th March, 1998 that Srikant Mantri was holding less than 40% of the paid-up capital of the corporate D entity. It was also recorded by the Tribunal that from the true copies of annual returns provided by the appellant Company, it was revealed that the details of the Directors provided by them nowhere indicate Srikant Mantri as a whole time Director for any of the relevant years. The designation of Srikant Mantri has been indicated as “Director” in all the relevant years’ Annual Return. It was also established from the copy E retrieved from ROC’s office in respect of AGM dated 28th April, 1997 and 19th May, 1999. 21. At the same time, appellant Company was granted registration after para 4 was put in place by notification dated 21st January, 1998 and the appellant Company failed to satisfy that it fulfilled the conditions of F para 4 to Schedule III pursuant to which the appellant has claimed his entitlement of fee continuity benefits. 22. After going through the material on record, we are satisfied that the appellant Company failed to fulfil the conditions as referred to under Para 4 of Schedule III appended to the Regulations of which a G reference has been made. 23. Consequently, the appeal is without any substance and accordingly dismissed. No costs. 24. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. H GPSK CAPITAL PVT. LTD. (FORMERLY KNOWN AS MANTRI FIN. LTD.) v. 745 THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] Civil Appeal No. 5636 of 2007 A 25. This appeal is preferred by the Board against the self-same impugned dated 9th August, 2007 as in Civil Appeal No.