State Wakf Board11 F and Mohd. Habbibuddin Khan vs. Jagir Administrator, Government of Andhra Pradesh12; (viii) that the State was made party to the suit as defendant No.53 only after defendant No.1 filed a written statement indicating that Item Nos.37 to 40 of the Plaint Schedule IV were taken G over by the State; 9 AIR 1956 SC 319 10 AIR 1962 SC 996 11 2022 SCC OnLine SC 159 H 12 (1974) 1 SCC 82 M/s TRINITY INFRAVENTURES LTD. & ORS. ETC. v. M. S. 335 MURTHY & ORS. ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] (ix) that as held by this Court in Rangammal vs. A Kuppuswami13, a suit for partition is not a suit for declaration or determination of title; (x) that the findings recorded as though the properties are Mathruka properties, were a product of collusion on the part of the defendants who originally opposed the suit but B who later entered into a compromise; (xi) that as held by the High Court in the impugned , the preliminary decree itself was vitiated by fraud and hence no findings recorded therein can be relied upon; C (xii) that even the proceedings before the Atiyat Court were not with respect to declaration of title but only for the apportionment of shares in the compensation; (xiii) that the State in fact paid compensation; and (xiv) that the land which vested in the State by virtue of Jagir D Abolition Regulations, cannot be gifted away either to the decree holders or to the claim petitioners. Part-IV: Issues arising for consideration E 100. A careful consideration of the of the learned Single Judge and that of the Division Bench impugned herein and a consideration of the rival contentions, would show that the following issues arise for our consideration: - (i) Whether the Division Bench of the High Court was right F in declaring that the preliminary decree dated 28.06.1963 was vitiated by fraud and consequently null and void, especially when there was no pleading and no evidence let in? (ii) Whether the concurrent findings of the Single Judge and G the Division Bench of the High Court that Khurshid Jah did not leave behind any Mathruka property, goes contrary to the finding recorded in the and preliminary decree that has attained finality? 13 (2011) 12 SCC 220 H 336 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (iii) Whether the finding recorded in the and preliminary decree that the lands in Hydernagar are Mathruka property is binding upon third parties? (iv) What is the scope of the enquiry under XXI Rules 97-101, CPC ? B (v) Whether the claims of the claim petitioners stood established? and (vi) Whether the State of Telangana has any legitimate claim and whether any such claim would still survive after a series of setbacks to the State Government in the Court room? C Issue No. (i) and (iv): (i) Whether the Division Bench of the High Court was right in declaring that the preliminary decree dated 28.06.1963 was vitiated by fraud and consequently null and void, especially when there was no pleading and no evidence let in?