G 28. In the instant case, the request was made and received by the appellants in the appeal concerned much before the 2015 Amendment Act came into force. Whether the application was pending for appointment of an arbitrator or in the case of rejection because of no claim as in the instant case for appointment of an arbitrator including change/substitution of H 350 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A arbitrator, would not be of any legal effect for invoking the provisions of the 2015 Amendment Act in terms of Section 21 of the principal Act, 1996. In our considered view, the applications/requests made by the respondent contractors deserve to be examined in accordance with the principal Act, 1996 without taking resort to the 2015 Amendment Act which B came into force from 23-10-2015.” In the case of Parmar Construction Company (supra), this Court heavily relied upon para 16 of the decision in the case of S.P. Singla Constructions Private Limited (supra). C iv) Then comes the decision of this Court in the case of Pradeep Vinod Construction Company (supra). In the said case, a three Judge Bench of this Court has followed the decision in the case of Parmar Construction Company (supra) and in the said decision it is specifically observed that unamended 1996 Act, i.e., prior to Amendment Act, 2015 for appointment of arbitrator shall D be applicable where the request to refer the dispute to arbitration was made before 2015 amendment came into effect. v) In the case of Ssangyong Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd. (supra), in which the decision in the case of BCCI (supra) was followed, it is observed and held that section 34, as amended, will E apply to only section 34 applications that have been made to the Court on or after 23.10.2015 irrespective of the fact that the arbitration proceedings may have commenced prior to that date. (See para 19). However, it is required to be noted that in the case of Ssangyong Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd. (supra), this Court F has followed the decision in the case of BCCI (supra) (See para 17). 8. It is the case on behalf of the appellant that therefore in the case of BCCI (supra), the decision which has been subsequently followed in the case of Ssangyong Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd. G (supra) and other decisions, it has been specifically observed and held that the Amendment Act, 2015 is prospective in nature. It is the case on behalf of the appellant that while taking a contrary view in the cases of Parmar Constructions Company (supra) and Pardeep Vinod Construction Company (supra), this Court had not noticed and/or considered the binding decision of this Court in the case of BCCI (supra) H M/S. SHREE VISHNU CONSTRUCTIONS v. THE ENGINEER IN 351 CHIEF MILITARY ENGINEERING SERVICE [M. R. SHAH, J.] and therefore the decisions of this Court in the cases of Parmar A Constructions Company (supra) and Pardeep Vinod Construction Company (supra) are per incuriam.