Payment of licence fee has certain 386 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. ingredients and is like lease rent which is payable from time to time to be able to use the licence. 35. The licence acquired was initially for 10 years and the term was extended under the 1999 policy to 20 years but this itself does not justify treating the licence fee paid on revenue sharing basis under the 1999 policy as a capital expense made to acquire an asset. As observed in Empire Jute Co. Ltd. (supra), the enduring benefi t test has limitation and cannot be mechanically applied without considering the commercial or business aspects. Practical and pragmatic view and considerations rather than juristic classifi cation is the determinative factor. The payment of yearly licence fee on revenue sharing basis is for carrying on business as cellular telephone operator. It is a normal business expense. 36. Read in this manner, the licence granted by the Government/ authority to the assessee would be a capital asset, yet at the same time, the assessee has to make payment on yearly basis on the gross revenue to continue, to be able to operate and run the business, it would also be revenue in nature. Failure to make stipulated revenue sharing payment on yearly basis would result in forfeiting the right to operate and in turn deny the assessee, right to do business with the aid of the capital asset. Non-payment will prevent and bar an assessee from providing services.” vi. In paragraph 36, it was observed that the licence granted by the Government or the concerned authority to the assessee would be a capital asset and yet, since the assessee had to make the payment on a yearly basis on the gross revenue to continue to be able to operate and run the business, it would also be in the nature of revenue expenditure. Having opined thus, the High Court decided to apportion the licence fee as partly revenue and partly capital and divided the licence fee into two periods, that is, before and after 31 July, 1999 and observed that the licence fee that had been paid or was payable for the period upto 31 July, 1999 i.e. the date set out in the Policy of 1999, should be treated as capital expenditure and the balance amount payable on or after the said date should be treated as revenue expenditure. The reasons for the same were C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 387 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] stipulated in paragraphs 43 to 46 of the said which reads as under: “43. Licence fee was payable for establishment, maintenance and operation of cellular telephone service. Establishment and set up took place in the initial years and thereafter the payments made were/are for operation or maintaining the cellular telephone service. Initial outlay and payment, therefore, is capital in nature, whereas the outlays and payments made subsequently are to operate and maintain the service. 1999 policy in the form of letter dated 22 July, 1999 also refers to one time entry fee which is chargeable and had to be calculated as licence fee dues payable upto 31 July, 1999 and licence fee was thereafter payable on percentage share of gross revenue.