The Section 100, CPC jurisdiction is not akin to the jurisdiction conferred under Section 96 of CPC wherein it is open for the Court to consider both questions of fact and law. This jurisdiction is exercisable only when the Court is convinced that the dispute at hand involves a substantial question of law, and proceeding under this jurisdiction sans framing questions of such nature renders the proceedings to be “patently illegal.” [Umerkhan v. Bismillabi5 (two-Judge Bench) 10. Recently, a Bench of two learned Judges in Singaram v. Ramanathan6 held as under: “This is undoubtedly subject to various well known exceptions which, however, cannot permit the Second Appellate Court to interfere with the fi ndings of fact as a matter of course. Such restrictions are placed on the High Court in that there is fi nality to litigation at a particular level in the hierarchy of Courts. The limitation on the exercise of power by the High Court in the Second Appeal interfering with the of the First Appellate Court is premised on high public policy. This limitation is sought to be secured by insisting upon the requirement that a Second Appeal is considered only when there is a substantial question of law. Therefore, the existence of substantial question of law and the which revolves around answering the substantial questions of law are not mere formalities. They are meant to be adhered to.” (Emphasis supplied) 11. In view of the principles laid down in the above stated judgements, the impugned judgement must be faulted with for not complying with the well-established contours of Section 100, CPC. 12. We have hitherto observed that the instant litigation has continued for a considerable period of time, i.e., four decades. Prudence would not be served by sending this matter back to the court below for consideration in light of the above discussion and, therefore, with an aim to put an end to the matter, this Court proceeds to examine the claim of adverse possession on its own merits, as is so argued across the bar. 5 (2011) 9 SCC 684 6 Civil Appeal No. 4939 of 2021 GOVERNMENT OF KERALA & ANR. v. 273 JOSEPH AND OTHERS [SANJAY KAROL, J.] 13. Thus, this Court is required to consider as to whether the claimants have perfected their title over the property, subject matter of dispute,by adverse possession. 14. It is contended by the State that a question of adverse possession does not arise, on two grounds –one, that the land is undisputedly Government land and two, that the respondents had possession of such land only for a period of 15 years which is less than required period of 30 years, after which adverse possession could be claimed against the State. Further, it is submitted that Section 20 of the Act bars any suit or other legal proceedings against the Government in respect of any action taken by it under this Act in respect of unauthorised occupation of land, and,since the notice which initiated the present proceedings under the instant act, the proceedings that it gave rise to, were barred by law.