fi ve paise by ignoring two paise or less and counting more than two paise as fi ve paise.] NHPC LTD. v. STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH 29 SECRETARY & ORS.[B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Explanation:- When (1A) Notwithstanding anything passengers are contained in sub-section (1), carried and goods when passengers are carried are transported by and goods are transported by a a motor vehicle and motor vehicle and- no fare or freight, i. No fare or freight, whether whether chargeable chargeable or not has been or not has been charged, or charged the tax shall ii. fare or freight has been be levied and paid charged at a concessional rate, as if such passengers The tax at the rates as directed by were carried or good notifi cation by the Government transported at the under sub-section (1), shall be normal rate prevalent levied, charged and paid as if on the route. the passengers were carried or (2) Where any fare or goods were transported either freight charged is a lump on fares and frights fi xed by the sum paid by a person on competent authority under the account of a season Motor Vehicles Act for diff erent ticket or as subscription classes of roads and motor or contribution for vehicles in the State or on the any privilege, right fares and freights, for diff erent or facility which is classes of roads and motor combined with the vehicles, specifi ed in Schedule- I right of such person to this Act, whichever is higher: being carried or his Provided that the State Government goods transported by a may, by notification, amend motor vehicle, without Schedule-I, and thereupon the any further payment Schedule-1, shall stand amended or at a reduced charge, accordingly: the tax shall be levied Provided further that every on the amount of such notifi cation amending Schedule-1, lump sum or on such shall be laid on the Table of the amount as appears to Legislative Assembly.] the prescribed authority (2) Where any fare or fright to be fair and equitable charged is a lump sum paid by 30 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. having regard to the a person on account of a season fare or freight fi xed by ticket or as subscription or a competent authority contribution for any privilege, under the Motor right or facility which is combined Vehicles Act, 1939. with the right of such person being (3) Where passengers carried or his goods transported are carried or goods by a motor vehicle, without any transported by a motor further payment or at a reduced vehicle from any place charge, the tax shall be levied on outside the State [or the amount of such lump sum or from any place outside on such amount as appears to the the State to any place prescribed authority to be fair and outside the State but equitable having regard to the fare through the State or or frieght fi xed by a competent from any place within authority under the Motor Vehicles the State to any other Act, 4 [1988].