A plain reading of the note extracted above shows that parts and parts of accessories cannot apply to specified articles, including items classifiable under 8401-79, 8481-82, and to some extent, 8483. In the present case, in this Court’s view, the error committed by the CESTAT is that each of the excluded items has been treated as a separate part and not integral to the functioning of a Cutter Dredger. Without the G compressors and the pipes necessary to pump the dredged material, the cutter dredger would cease to function as such. The other items, likewise, are integral parts of the Cutter Dredger, even though they might independently be utilized, for other purposes. The test is not whether multiple uses are possible but whether these parts are essential for the H M/S DHARTI DREDGING AND INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. COMM’R OF 747 CUSTOMS AND CENTRAL EXCISE, GUNTUR [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] purpose of dredging in a Cutter Dredger. So viewed, the revenue’s A reliance on Note 2 in the present case is insubstantial. 13. As far as the reliance upon the judgement in Steel Authority of India Ltd. (Supra) is concerned, the Court undoubtedly held that the Guide Cars could not be treated as part of the Coke Oven Plant. Apart from making general observations with respect to Guide Cars being not B essential for the functioning of the Coke Oven Battery, what are the other essential functions of the coke oven battery and whether the guide car is an integral part of that, was an aspect which the Court went into. In the opinion of this Court, that decision cannot provide guidance in resolving the classification dispute posed in this case i.e., whether the C items excluded and denied the benefit of exemption notification are integral parts of a Cutter Dredger. As held earlier, each of the units which the CESTAT excluded (to which benefit had been granted by the Appellate Commissioner) are integral for the functioning of a Cutter Dredger. For this reason, it is held that the ratio of the judgement in Steel Authority of India Ltd. (Supra) could not be applicable in the present D case. 14. As far as the exclusion of generators is concerned, this Court notices that concurrently the in appeal, as well as the of the CESTAT, have excluded it from the benefit of the exemption notification. The Court finds no reason to interfere with those findings. E 15. For the above reasons, the impugned is hereby set aside. The of the Appellate Commissioner is accordingly restored. The appeal is allowed in these terms without on costs. 16. Hence, the Civil Appeal is allowed in part. Pending application(s), if any, is/are disposed of. F Divya Pandey Appeal partly allowed. (Assisted by : Anirudh Agarwal and Shevali Monga, LCRAs) G H