Undoubtedly, by operation of the proviso to Section 167(2) of the Code, the accused is entitled to bail due to default by the investigating officer in completing the investigation and laying the charge-sheet within the prescribed period of 90/60 days C and not on merits. The fiction of law under the proviso applying the provisions in Chapter XXXIII is to serve the purpose of law, namely not only the release of the accused on taking the requisite bond and conditions to be incorporated therein as envisaged in the said Chapter, but also the power of the court to cancel the bail D and to take the accused into detention for the grounds mentioned under the relevant provisions in Sections 437(5) and 439(2) of the Code. The Legislature is aware of the pre-existing practice of not filing the charge-sheet within 15 days as envisaged under sub- section (2) of Section 167 of the old Code and the consequences as well. The doubtful procedure of seeking further detention on E securing of remand under Section 344 of the old Code and Section 309 of the present Code was to be put to an end to, while preserving the power to the court to cancel the bail, if circumstances warrant to take the accused into custody. At the earliest this Court in Matabar Parida case [(1975) 2 SCC 220] also took note of F the fact that even under Section 167(2) proviso, it might not be possible to complete the investigation into grave crimes within the outer limit of the time set out in the proviso. In the light of the statutory animation to have the accused released from detention on expiry of 90/60 days if the accused shall be prepared to and does furnish bail, the consequences are inevitable and the release G is a statutory paradise to the criminals not by judicial fiat but legislative mandate. 40. The purpose of interpretation is to sustain the law. The court must interpret the words or the language in the statute to promote public good and misuse of power is interdicted. Criminal H 754 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A law primarily concerns social protection and prescribes rules of behaviour to be observed by all. Law punishes for deviance, transgression, violation or omission. Liberty of the individual and security and in the society or public are delicate and yet paramount considerations. Undue emphasis on either would impede harmony and hamper public good as well as disturb social B weal and peace. To keep the weal balanced, must be the prime duty of the Judiciary. The purpose of the proviso to Section 167(2) read with Chapter XXXIII of the Code is to impress upon the need for expeditious completion of the investigation by the police officer within the prescribed limitation and to prevent laxity in that C behalf. On its default the Magistrate shall release the accused on bail if the accused is ready and does furnish the bail. At the same time during investigation or trial the power of the court to have the bail cancelled and have the accused taken into custody are preserved.