Section 8 of the Act which casts an obligation on the State to consider the representation affords the detenu all the rights which are guaranteed by Article 22(5). The Government considers the representation to ascertain essentially whether the is in B conformity with the power under the law. The Board, on the other hand, considers whether in the light of the representation there is sufficient cause for detention. Principles of natural justice are an element in considering the reasonableness of a restriction where Article 19 is C applicable. At the stage of consideration of representation by the State Government, the obligation of the State Government is such as Article 22(5) implies. Section 8 of the Act is in complete conformity with Article 22(5) because this section follows the provisions of the Constitution. If the D representation of the detenu is received before the matter is referred to the Advisory Board, the detaining authority considers the representation. If a representation is made after the matter has been referred to the Advisory Board, the detaining authority will consider it before it will send representation to the Advisory Board.” E 28. Subsequently, in the case of Francis Coralie Mullin v. W.C. Khambra & Ors.5, a Division Bench of this Court considered the principles laid down in the of Jayanarayan Sukul (Supra), and while it agreed with the principles of the above mentioned case, it however made an observation stating that when it was said that the F Government must decide on the representation before forwarding it to the advisory board, the emphasis was not on time, but on the onus of the Government to decide the representation Independently. This essentially meant that the Government must act independently of the Advisory Board, the relevant paragraphs from the said are being extracted herein: G “We have no doubt in our minds about the role of the Court in cases of preventive detention : it has to be one of eternal vigilance. No freedom is higher than personal freedom and no duty higher than to maintain it unimpaired. The Court’s H 5 (1980) 2 SCC 275 PRAMOD SINGLA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 809 [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] writ is the ultimate insurance against illegal detention. The A Constitution enjoins conformance with the provisions of Article 22 and the Court exacts compliance. Article 22(5) vests in the detenu the right to be provided with an opportunity to make a representation. Here the Law Reports tell a story and teach a lesson. It is that the principal enemy of the detenu B and his right to make a representation is neither high- handedness nor mean-mindedness but the casual indifference, the mindless insensibility, the routine and the red tape of the bureaucratic machine. The four principles enunciated by the Court in Jayanarayan Sukul v. State of W.B. [Jayanarayan Sukul v. State of W.B., (1970) 1 SCC 219 : 1970 SCC (Cri) C 92] as well as other principles enunciated in other cases, an analysis will show, are aimed at shielding personal freedom against indifference, insensibility, routine and red tape and thus to secure to the detenu the right to make an effective representation.