B. PARDIWALA, J.] drawer must fail to make payment of the amount within 15 A days of the receipt of a notice, again making it clear that the real object of the provision is not to penalise the wrongdoer for an offence that is already made out, but to compensate the victim.” (Emphasis supplied) B 84. In Narinder Garg and Others v. Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. and Others reported in (2022) SCC OnLine SC 517, this Court held that: “3. In P. Mohanraj v. Shah Brothers Ispat Private Limited, C (2021) 6 SCC 258, a Bench of three-Judges of this Court considered the matter whether a corporate entity in respect of which moratorium had become effective could be proceeded against in terms of Sections 138 and 141 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (“the Act” for short). 4. A subsidiary issue was also about the liability of natural D persons like a Director of the Company. In paragraph 77 of its , this Court observed that the moratorium provisions contained in Section 14 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 would apply only to the corporate debtor and that the natural persons mentioned in Section 141 E of the Act would continue to be statutorily liable under the provisions of the Act. 5. It is submitted by Mr. Gopal Sankaranarayanan, learned Senior Advocate that the resolution plan having been accepted in which the dues of the original complainant also figure, the F effect of such acceptance would be to obliterate any pending trial under Sections 138 and 141 of the Act. 6. The decision rendered in P. Mohanraj is quite clear on the point and, as such, no interference in this petition is called for.” G (Emphasis supplied) 85. Thus, the upshot of all the decisions referred to above is where the proceedings under Section 138 of the NI Act had already commenced with the Magistrate taking cognizance upon the complaint and during the pendency, the company gets dissolved, the signatories/directors cannot H 1052 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A escape from their penal liability under Section 138 of the NI Act by citing its dissolution. What is dissolved, is only the company, not the personal penal liability of the accused covered under Section 141 of the NI Act. 86. I may draw my final conclusions as under: B (a) After passing of the resolution plan under Section 31 of the IBC by the adjudicating authority & in the light of the provisions of Section 32A of the IBC, the criminal proceedings under Section 138 of the NI Act will stand terminated only in relation to the corporate debtor if the C same is taken over by a new management. (b) Section 138 proceedings in relation to the signatories/ directors who are liable/covered by the two provisos to Section 32A(1) will continue in accordance with law. 87. In view of the aforesaid discussion, the appeal fails and is D hereby dismissed. 88. The connected appeals also fail and are hereby dismissed.