In this background, the diff erence between ‘chewing tobacco’ and ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’ if attempted to be ascertained from the defi nition found in the glossary of Bureau of Indian Standards, particularly in terms of defi nition and preparation, it is classifi ed as under: “2.27 ‘Chewing Tobacco¬’- Chewing tobacco, as its name suggests is a tobacco preparation for chewing purpose, also taken with paan (betel leaf). Gutka, surti, zarda, quiwam and dokta are some of the diff erent types of chewing tobacco preparations. 2.184 ‘Zarda’- A chewing tobacco product made of highly scented and fl avoured tobacco fl akes. Chewed along with betel nut and paan (betel leaf).” 66. A careful perusal of the meaning allocated to the concerned products, ‘Chewing Tobacco’ and ‘Zarda’ leads to formulation of the following distinction based on the diff erent parameters as under: “Preparation and Form Chewing Tobacco: Chewing tobacco typically comes in loose leaf or twist form. It consists of cured and fermented tobacco leaves. Chewing tobacco is usually taken by placing a portion of it between the cheek and gum, where it releases nicotine over time as it’s slowly chewed. Zarda Tobacco: Zarda, on the other hand, is a specifi c type of chewing tobacco that is fi nely chopped or shredded and highly scented and fl avoured. It is often sweetened and can be brightly coloured. Zarda is known for its strong and distinct aroma and fl avour. It is often consumed by placing it in the mouth, similar to other chewing tobacco products, and is sometimes chewed along with betel nut and paan. COMMR. OF CEN. EXC. AHMEDABAD v. M/S URMIN 615 PRODUCTS P. LTD. AND OTHERS [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] Flavour and Aroma Chewing Tobacco: Chewing tobacco can come in various fl avours, but it may not always be as strongly scented or fl avoured as Zarda. The fl avours can range from natural tobacco fl avours to menthol, wintergreen, or other fruit and spice fl avours. Zarda Tobacco: Zarda is specifi cally known for its highly scented and fl avoured nature. It is often infused with strong spices and sweeteners, giving it a distinct and potent aroma and taste. The fl avours in Zarda are often more pronounced and intense compared to regular chewing tobacco. Use with Betel Nut and Paan Chewing Tobacco: While chewing tobacco can be used alongside betel nut and paan, it is not exclusive to this combination. Chewing tobacco can be used independently as well. Zarda Tobacco: Zarda is more commonly associated with being used in combination with betel nut and paan. This combination is often considered a traditional practice in some South Asian cultures.” 67. At this juncture, it may be relevant to draw a distinction between the facts of the instant case and the facts in the case of Urmin supra. In the present factual scenario, there has been a consistent and clear classifi cation provided by the assessee, which was accepted by the Revenue, prior to the dispute arising from the audit objection raised by the concerned assessing offi cer.