He also denied the suggestion that earlier he had stated that CRPF had also fi red in retaliation. He also denied the suggestion that under the infl uence of the accused he is hiding the true facts. During cross-examination by the defence, whatever was not stated earlier to protect the accused was stated in this round of statement. He stated that all three of them, after receiving injuries, had become unconscious and were not in a position to speak anything. He further stated that the Police Inspector did not record their statement at the hospital as he was throughout with the injured. He further goes on to state that Lalmuni Devi was not accompanying them when they were returning after casting their vote when the incident took place. He also goes on to state that Lalmuni Devi was not there even 426 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. during the course of the treatment. He, however, admits that his leader was Lalu Yadav and he was a worker of his party. 45. Rest of the witnesses did not come forward to give their statement pursuant to the directions of the High Court. However, they fi led their affi davits stating that they have nothing further to add and would only reiterate their earlier statements. 46. PW-8 and PW-9 were the security personnel who were on duty at the Polling Station. They only stated that they heard the sound of fi ring. They did not know who had fi red and who had been injured. 47. PW-10 is Dr. Sudhir Kumar, who had examined the injuries of three injured and had proved the injury report which was marked as Ex.2 (Smt. Devi), Ex.2/1 (Daroga Rai) and Ex.2/2 (Rajendra Rai). In the cross- examination, he states that all the injured were in sensitive condition and were badly injured so he immediately referred them to the Chapra Hospital for better treatment. He further states that no police person came to his hospital and recorded statement of any of the three injured persons. Again, he was re-examined on 24.09.2008 on the request of the Public Prosecutor in which statement he further strengthened the case of the defence by repeatedly stating that all the three injured were unconscious (at least three times). 48. PW-11 is Dr. Ashok Kumar Gada, who had conducted the post- mortem on the body of Daroga Rai, proved the post-mortem report that it was under his signature which was marked as Ex.3. 49. CW-1 Lalmuni Devi, in her original statement dated 03.11.2006,had stated that she had come to depose on her own; nobody has brought her; that she did not know anything about the case; that the Police had not recorded her statement at the Patna Medical College; that she did not put her thumb impression or signature on any document. 50. It would also be worthwhile to briefl y refer to the proceedings before the Trial Court after the judgement of the High Court dated 13.03.2007. a) Actual proceedings started on 13.06.2008 before the Trial Court at Patna.