135 10 AIR 1961 AP 502 RAHIMAL BATHU & OTHERS v. ASHIYAL BEEVI 705 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] that review application, he fi led a revision under Section 115 of the CPC. While rejecting the objection that revision is not maintainable against an rejecting a review application, the High Court held that as there is no right of an appeal against rejection of a review application, the jurisdiction under Section 115 of the CPC can be invoked. (xi) Arya Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Lala Channoolal11. In this case it was held by the Allahabad High Court that the CPC does not provide for an appeal against refusal of a review though an appeal under XLlII, Rule 1(w) from an granting a review is maintainable. However, an rejecting the review may be brought into question in a revision. [Note: In this case the of which review was sought was not a decree but an striking off defence and directing the suit to proceed ex parte.] (xii) Thakur Singh v. Bhaironlal12. In this case an ex parte decree was passed in a suit. Instead of fi ling an appeal or an application to set aside the ex parte decree a review was fi led, which was rejected. Against rejection of the review, a revision was fi led. Although the revision was dismissed but, while deciding the same, preliminary objection as to its maintainability was overruled. DISCUSSION 16. We have considered the rival submissions and have perused the record. 17. The short question which arises for our consideration in this appeal is: Whether a revision under Section 115 of the CPC is maintainable against an of the subordinate Court rejecting on merits an application for review of an appealable decree passed in a civil suit? 11 AIR 1957 All 400 12 AIR 1956 Raj 113 706 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 18. To appropriately address the aforesaid issue, it would be apposite to have an overview of the relevant provisions of the CPC. An application seeking a review of a and decree passed in a civil suit is maintainable under XLVII Rule 1 of the CPC. Rule 4 of XLVII provides that where it appears to the Court that there is not suffi cient ground for a review, it shall reject the application. Sub rule (2) of Rule 4 provides that where the Court is of opinion that the application for review should be granted, it shall grant the same. Rule 7 of XLVII provides that an of the Court rejecting the application shall not be appealable; but an granting an application may be objected to at once by an appeal from the granting the application or in an appeal from the decree or fi nally passed or made in the suit. In fact, XLIII Rule 1 (w) supplements XLVII Rule 7 by providing that an appeal would lie against an under Rule 4 (2) of XLVII granting an application for review. Rule 9 of XLVII provides that no application to review an made on an application for a review or a decree or passed or made on a review shall be entertained.