15.3 Further, although, sub-section (1) of Section 26 states that every Bank note shall be legal tender at any place in India, it acquires legal sanctity because the Central Government F has guaranteed the bank note which has legal tender. Thus, a bank note statutorily has dual characteristics when it is issued by the Bank, namely, being a legal tender coupled with the guarantee of the Central Government and the said qualities go hand in hand. This would mean that it is only when the Bank which has the sole right to issue a currency G note in India, issues the note and the same has been guaranteed by the Central Government, that such a note is legal tender. Therefore, the Issue Department of the Bank is not subject to any liabilities other than the liabilities under Section 34 of the Act. Section 34 of the Act states that an H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 191 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] amount equal to the total of the amount of the currency A notes of the Government of India and bank notes for the time being in circulation, would be the liability of the Issue Department. This would imply that as long as the bank notes issued by the Bank are in circulation, the liability of the Government of India would continue. The said liability is B owing to the guarantee given by the Central Government in sub-section(1) of Section 26 which is in the nature of a statutory guarantee. 15.4 While considering sub-section (1) of Section 26 of the Act, the first question that would arise is, whether, a bank note C which has ceased to be a legal tender on the issuance of a notification by the Central Government would also cease to have the guarantee of the Central Government. In other words, whether the guarantee by the Central Government, would continue despite the bank note ceasing to be a legal tender. The answer is in the affirmative, for, a bank note D may cease to be a legal tender between citizens but cannot cease to have the guarantee of the Central Government, so long as the liability of the Issue Department continues. The liability of the Issue Department of the Bank is co-extensive with the time period within which a bank note which has E ceased to be a legal tender is exchanged at a notified bank. It is because of this reason that a bank note of any denomination which is demonetised or is declared to have ceased to be a legal tender, can be exchanged as indicated in the notification issued by the Central Government so that the bearer of the bank note receives an equivalent amount F as that expressed in the note which has ceased to be a legal tender or demonetised. Therefore, even though such demonetised currency would cease to be legal tender, the same could be exchanged in a bank specified by the Reserve Bank owing to the guarantee of the Central Government.