Whereas the former is a mandatory provisions stipulated in the RTI Act, the latter was introduced vide OM date 15.04.2013 and is directory. 20. Thus, it is respectfully submitted that those public authorities which have not obtained an audit of their proactive disclosure packages by a third party cannot be construed to be in violation of Section 4 of the RTI Act.” 18. On the other hand, the written submission fi led on behalf of the petitioner disclosed that only 33% of the public authorities have got transparency audits conducted in the last four years. It is stated that the poor implementation of third-party audit is adversely commented upon even by the Department in its O.M. dated 14.09.2022. It is further averred that apart from the poor implementation of third-party audit, 33% of public authorities which had their transparency audits conducted performed badly, clearly evidences 210 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. that quality and quantity of proactive disclosure were not in accordance with Section 4 of the Act. 19. From the information made available to us, one thing is evident. The system needs the concerned authority’s complete attention, followed by strict and continuous monitoring. It is in this context that the functioning and duties of the Central and State Information Commissions assume utmost importance. 20. It is necessary to take note of the statutorily incorporated ‘monitoring and reporting’ mechanism in section 25 of the Act. This is an important feature of ‘accountability’ of statutory authorities. “25. Monitoring and reporting. (1) The Central Information Commission or State Information Commission, as the case may be, shall, as soon as practicable after the end of each year, prepare a report on the implementation of the provisions of this Act during that year and forward a copy thereof to the appropriate Government. (2) Each Ministry or Department shall, in relation to the public authorities within their jurisdiction, collect and provide such information to the Central Information Commission or State Information Commission, as the case may be. as is required to prepare the report under this section and comply with the requirements concerning the furnishing of that information and keeping of records for the purposes of this section. (3) Each report shall state in respect of the year to which the report relates,— (a) the number of requests made to each public authority; (b) the number of decisions where applicants were not entitled to access to the documents pursuant to the requests, the provisions of this Act under which these decisions were made and the number of times such provisions were invoked; (c) the number of appeals referred to the Central Information Commission or State Information Commission, as the case may be, for review, the nature of the appeals and the outcome of the appeals; (d) particulars of any disciplinary action taken against any offi cer in respect of the administration of this Act; (e) the amount of charges collected by each public authority under this Act; (J) any facts which indicate an eff ort by the public authorities to administer and implement the spirit and intention of this Act; (g) recommendations for reform, including KISHAN CHAND JAIN v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS.