Where the title of the plaintiff is under a cloud or in dispute and he is not in possession or not able to establish possession, necessarily the plaintiff will have to fi le a suit for declaration, possession and injunction. 14. We may, however, clarify that a prayer for declaration will be necessary only if the denial of title by the defendant or challenge to the plaintiff ’s title raises a cloud on the title of the plaintiff to the property. A cloud is said to raise over a person’s title, when some apparent defect in his title to a property, or when some prima facie right of a third party over it, is made out or shown. An action for declaration, is the remedy to remove the cloud on the title to the property. On the other hand, where the plaintiff has clear title supported by documents, if a trespasser without any claim to title or an interloper without any apparent title, merely denies the plaintiff ’s title, it does not amount to raising a cloud over the title of the plaintiff and it will not be necessary for the plaintiff to sue for declaration and a suit for injunction may be suffi cient. Where the plaintiff , believing that the defendant is only a trespasser or a wrongful claimant without title, fi les a mere suit for injunction, and in such a suit, the defendant discloses in his defence the details of the right or title claimed by 218 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. him, which raise a serious dispute or cloud over the plaintiff ’s title, then there is a need for the plaintiff , to amend the plaint and convert the suit into one for declaration. Alternatively, he may withdraw the suit for bare injunction, with permission of the court to fi le a comprehensive suit for declaration and injunction. He may fi le the suit for declaration with consequential relief, even after the suit for injunction is dismissed, where the suit raised only the issue of possession and not any issue of title.” (underlines supplied) 16. It is obvious that there was no issue involved about the title of the plaintiff and his father. It is not as if the respondents had set up a title in themselves or were claiming through somebody who was claiming the title. Their plea was of adverse possession against the appellant, which presupposes that the appellant was the owner. When in a suit simpliciter for a perpetual injunction based on title, the defendant pleads perfection of his title by adverse possession against the plaintiff or his predecessor, it cannot be said that there is any dispute about the title of the plaintiff . Hence, the plaintiff need not claim a declaration of title in such a case as the only issues involved in such a suit are whether the plaintiff has proved that he was in possession on the date of the institution of the suit and whether the defendant has proved that he has perfected his title by adverse possession.