[DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Canada, considerations based on the facts of the case and on broader A questions of principle have to be assessed. The Court has to consider if non-disclosure would render the issue non-justiciable, the relative relevancy of the material - on whether the material is ‘crucial’ or ‘necessary’, or is the essence of the case against the claimant, among others. On questions of principles, the Court shall consider the impact of B non-disclosure on other constitutional rights such as the freedom of press. J. Public interest immunity or sealed cover: the less restrictive means 143. The court must follow the structured proportionality standard, modified on the basis of the content of Section 124 of the Evidence Act, C to assess claims of public interest immunity. Under the structured proportionality standard, the court places the burden of proof on the party opposing disclosure of documents to prove the claim of public interest in non-disclosure. The proportionality test prescribes a strict standard to test the reasonableness of an action. As opposed to the D structured standard of proportionality which must be used by the court to assess public interest immunity claims, the exercise of power by courts to secure material in a sealed cover has rather been ad-hoc and extemporaneous. 144. Article 145 of the Constitution grants the Supreme Court the E power to make rules for regulating the practice and procedure of the Court. In pursuance of its power under Article 145, the Supreme Court Rules 1966110 were notified. These Rules did not contain any provision on disclosure of documents to the court in a sealed cover. The 1966 Rules were substituted by the Supreme Court of India Rules 2013. XIII Rule 1 of the Supreme Court Rules 2013 stipulates that a party to a F proceeding in the Supreme Court shall be entitled to apply for and receive certified copies of all pleadings, s, decrees or s, documents and deposition of witnesses made or exhibited in the proceeding. Rule 7 provides an exception to the rule. The rule stipulates that no person has a right to documents that are (i) confidential; (ii) directed to be placed in a sealed cover by the court or the Chief Justice; and (iii) the disclosure G of which is not in public interest. The rule states that documents that fall within any of the above clauses can be disclosed only with the permission of the court or the Chief Justice. XIII Rule 7 is extracted below for reference: 110 “1966 Rules” H 698 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A “7. Notwithstanding anything contained in this , no party or person shall be entitled as of right to receive copies of or extracts from any minutes, letter or document of any confidential nature or any paper sent, filed or produced, which the Chief Justice or the Court directs to keep in a sealed cover or considers to be of confidential nature or the publication of which is considered to be B not in the interest of the public, except under and in accordance with an made by the Chief Justice or by the Court.” 145.