This ratio is F somewhat expressed by this Court in Association of Leasing and Financial Service Companies v. Union of India and Others16, wherein in the context of levy of service tax by Section 65(105)(zm) read with section 65(12) of the Finance Act, 1994, as amended, banking and financial services were brought to tax. In the context of the said G enactment, this Court deemed it appropriate to distinguish between financial lease and operating lease and held that the services rendered in the former case would be taxable, whereas the latter would fall out of the tax net. In this context, it was observed that non-banking financial companies are essentially loan companies, but they could, in addition H 16(2011) 2 SCC 352. M/S. MUTHOOT LEASING AND FINANCE LIMITED v. 333 COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] thereto, be in the business of equipment leasing, hire- purchase finance A and investment. In case of bailment termed as “hire”, the bailee receives both possession of the chattel and the right to use it in return for remuneration. On the other hand, equipment leasing is long-term financing which helps the borrower to raise funds without outright payment in the first instance. Here, the “interest” element cannot be compared to B consideration for lease/hire, which is in the nature of remuneration (consideration) for hire. 19. Findings of fact generally recorded by the ITAT are treated as conclusive. The High Court can interfere with the findings of fact while deciding a substantial question of law when the findings are not C supported by the material on record, so as to be treated as perverse.17 For this, however, the High Court must frame a separate substantial question of law and only then interfere with the findings of fact by the ITAT, while applying the strict parameters. In the present case, the High Court did not frame a specific substantial question of law and thus, the D interference with the findings of fact is unwarranted. This is not to say that the tax authorities are not entitled to examine the surrounding facts and circumstances to ascertain the true character and nature of the transaction, regardless of the nomenclature given by the parties. 20. Given the aforesaid legal position, we may have even remanded E the matter to the assessing officer for fresh adjudication and to re- examine all the transactions in light of the aforesaid ratio and reasoning, keeping in mind the dictum laid in Sahara India Savings and Investment Corporation Limited (supra) and State Bank of Patiala Through General Manager (supra) to rule out cases where camouflage F or subterfuge has been adopted to avoid payment of interest tax. This would have entailed not only looking at the documents but also several other factors, which would have meant getting information and ascertainment of facts in detail from the assessee and the hirer. However, at this distinct point of time, we do not think that it would be appropriate to pass an of remand. It is to be also noted that the Act has ceased G to operate with effect from 31st March 2000.