8. The transfer of an incumbent Director, CBI in an extraordinary situation, including the need for him to take up a C more important assignment, should have the approval of the Selection Committee. 9. The Director, CBI shall have full freedom for allocation of work within the agency as also for constituting teams for investigations. Any change made by the Director, CBI in the Head D of an investigative team should be for cogent reasons and for improvement in investigation, the reasons being recorded. 10. Selection/extension of tenure of officers up to the level of Joint Director (JD) shall be decided by a Board comprising the Central Vigilance Commissioner, Home Secretary and Secretary E (Personnel) with the Director, CBI providing the necessary inputs. The extension of tenure or premature repatriation of officers up to the level of Joint Director shall be with final approval of this Board. Only cases pertaining to the appointment or extension of tenure of officers of the rank of Joint Director or above shall be referred to the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) F for decision. 11. Proposals for improvement of infrastructure, methods of investigation, etc. should be decided urgently. In to strengthen CBI’s in-house expertise, professionals from the Revenue, Banking and Security sectors should be inducted into G the CBI. 12. The CBI Manual based on statutory provisions of the CrPC provides essential guidelines for the CBI’s functioning. It is imperative that the CBI adheres scrupulously to the provisions in the Manual in relation to its investigative functions, like raids, seizure H and arrests. Any deviation from the established procedure should DR. JAYA THAKUR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 553 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] be viewed seriously and severe disciplinary action taken against A the officials concerned. 13. The Director, CBI shall be responsible for ensuring the filing of charge-sheets in courts within the stipulated time-limits, and the matter should be kept under constant review by the Director, CBI. B 14. A document on CBI’s functioning should be published within three months to provide the general public with a feedback on investigations and information for redress of genuine grievances in a manner which does not compromise with the operational requirements of the CBI. C 15. Time-limit of three months for grant of sanction for prosecution must be strictly adhered to. However, additional time of one month may be allowed where consultation is required with the Attorney General (AG) or any other law officer in the AG’s office. D 16. The Director, CBI should conduct regular appraisal of personnel to prevent corruption and/or inefficiency in the agency. II. ENFORCEMENT DIRECTORATE 1. A Selection Committee headed by the Central Vigilance Commissioner and including the Home Secretary, Secretary E (Personnel) and Revenue Secretary, shall prepare a panel for appointment of the Director, Enforcement Directorate. The appointment to the post of Director shall be made by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) from the panel recommended by the Selection Committee. F 2. The Director, Enforcement Directorate like the Director, CBI shall have a minimum tenure of two years.