“118. *** A time has come that Parliament must make law to ensure that persons facing serious criminal cases do not enter into the political stream. It is one thing to take cover under the presumption of innocence of the accused but it is equally imperative that persons who enter public life and participate in law making should be above any kind of serious criminal allegation. It is true that false cases are foisted on prospective candidates, but the same can be addressed by Parliament through appropriate legislation. The nation eagerly waits for such legislation, for the society has a legitimate expectation to be governed by proper constitutional governance. The voters cry for systematic sustenance of constitutionalism. The country feels agonised when money and muscle power become the supreme power. Substantial eff orts have to be undertaken to cleanse the polluted stream of politics by prohibiting people with criminal antecedents so that they do not even conceive of the idea of entering into politics. They should be kept at bay.” (emphasis supplied) 42. In such a context, the unequivocal provision within the RoP Act that mandates automatic disqualifi cation upon the recording of a conviction vividly refl ects the deliberate legislative intent of the Parliament to keep away any tainted parliamentarian from continuing in offi ce until, of course, he secures a stay of the conviction under the governing procedural law. In the light of the foregoing discussion, it may not be proper for the Courts to deviate from this straightforward course set up by the Parliament and grant a stay of the conviction as a matter of routine, thereby paving the way for the parliamentarian/legislator to represent his constituency till such time his appeal is decided. 43. One cannot be oblivious that the parliamentarians themselves are instrumental in enacting the central laws, including the RoP Act. Once they have laid down a standard under the RoP Act by which an individual parliamentarian’s actions are to be judged, those standards ought not to be relaxed simply on the consideration that the electorate would stand deprived of its representation in the Parliament. In fact, it is expected of a parliamentarian to meet a higher standard due to the position of trust and responsibility held by him. The integrity of this process hinges on the consistent application of the law, ensuring that no one, not even the AFJAL ANSARI v. STATE OF UP 1011 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] architects of the statute themselves, can alter the measuring stick once it has been chosen. This steadfast adherence to standards upholds the principles of justice, accountability, and the rule of law, which are the cornerstones of a just and democratic society. 44. Looked at through an altogether diff erent lens, what is found from diff erent central enactments is this. The Chairperson/members of the National Green Tribunal constituted under the National Green Tribunal Act, 2010 (“the NGT Act”, hereafter), the Chairperson/members of the National and State Human Rights Commissions constituted under the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993 (“the Human Rights Act”, hereafter), and advocates enrolled in terms of the Advocates Act, 1961, stand the risk of being removed from public offi ces held by them or removed from the rolls of advocates upon conviction being recorded on a criminal charge involving moral turpitude.