As a matter of fact, the water availability for a E thermal power station of this magnitude on regular, reliable and uninterrupted basis is essential and is a vital input for successful operation of the plant. It is noticed that the report of WAPCOS supplied to bidders at the time of bidding was deficient in ensuring adequate water supplies throughout the year uninterrupted and if F the same would have been taken for construction and implementation, the same could have resulted into huge loss to the Respondent procurers being deprived of power supply for some period of the year due to less/ non-availability of water during the lean period. It is not in dispute that Sasan UMPP is supplying power to the Respondent procurer at one of the most competitive G tariff in the country. It is noted from the contentions of the Respondent procurers that such an issue has not been dealt with either in the PPA or in the competitive bidding guidelines issued by Ministry of Power under Section 63 of the Act, however, in view of the criticality of such situation, we opine that the matter H needs afresh re-look for suitable redressal. While the Central HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 31 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Commission has correctly concluded that it does not qualify as A change in law under Articles 13.1.1 of the PPA, it, however, needs to be addressed on the basis of settled principles of law and equity also, in the light of the Hon’ble Supreme Court findings in its at Para 19 in Energy Watchdog vs. CERC dated 11.04.2017. Thus, we are of the considered view that this issue B involving substantial additional expenditure basically arising out of erroneous report of the consultants needs to be re-examined afresh by the Central Commission. Hence, this issue is answered in favour of the Appellant.” (18) In regard to the complaint relating to the O.M. dated C 17.06.2011 forming change in law, we note the following findings: “14.5 We have considered the submissions of the learned counsel for the Appellant and learned counsel for the Respondents along with the consideration of the Central Commission on this issue pertaining to the claims of the Appellant regarding compensation D on account of additional payment towards custom duty on mining equipment. After careful consideration and critical evaluation of the same, the key question arises for consideration, whether the equipment required for captive coal mines allocated to UMPP should be considered at par with the equipment required for setting up the power plants as far as exemption from the custom duty is E concerned. The contention of the Appellant that the captive coal mines allocated to Sasan UMPP are integral & essential part of the project as a whole and as such, the exemption of custom duty was applicable to all equipments being imported for the entire project i.e. captive coal mines as well as power plants. It is not in F dispute that the captive coal mines were allotted for UMPP for its exclusive use for power generation and in no way, meant for commercial utilization elsewhere.