Accordingly, the qualifications for recruitment/ promotion in the case of CTOs are higher than that of the JDOs; (ii) The probation period in case of CTOs is longer than that of JDOs; F (iii) The duties and responsibilities attached to the posts of CTOs are more onerous, varied and challenging as compared to that of JDOs; (iv) The post of CTOs also exists in other streams like R&D in the revised pay scale of Rs. 7500-12000. These posts could G not be given the lower pay scale of Rs. 7450-11500, as the feeder post of foreman exists in the said pay scale. (v) As the post of CTOs in different streams within the Naval Armament Inspection Organizations were already in the higher pay scale of Rs. 7500-12000, the same pay scale H UNION OF INDIA v. INDIAN NAVY CIVILIAN DESIGN 535 OFFICERS ASSOCIATION [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] had to be extended to the CTOs (Design) as well, whereas A no such exigency existed in case of the post of JDOs. (vi) The pay scales for the posts of the JDOs and CTOs were fixed on the basis of the specific recommendations of the Fifth Central Pay Commission, and therefore the Tribunal as well as the High Court had committed gross error in B interfering with the same and in upgrading the pay scale of JDOs to put them at par with CTOs (Design). 7. Mr. R. Bala Subramanyam has also placed on record the chart showing the promotional hierarchy of CTOs and JDOs in different CPCs:- C Promotional hierarchy of CTO and JDO in different CPCs D E F G *New grade of PTO(D) created in the cadre restructuring on 29 Oct. 2020. #The posts of D’Man in NAI cadre has been abolished in the cadre restricting on 29 Oct. 2020. - Grade/Posts doesn’t exists in cadre. H 536 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 8. Per contra, learned senior advocate Mr. Salman Khurshid appearing for the respondent-Association made the following submissions- (i) The Fifth Pay Commission had ignored the fact that from the very beginning, the posts of JDOs and CTOs (Design) B carried the same pay scales, as they were having the same duties and responsibilities. (ii) The post of Senior Foreman was granted the pay scale of Rs. 7450-11500, which was the pay scale granted to the JDOs, though the JDOs in the course of their duties had to C supervise the work of Chief Draughtsman and Senior Foreman. (iii) The department itself had strongly supported the case of JDOs by putting a note dated 16.02.2005 recorded by the Joint Director who had recommended upgradation of the pay scale of JDOs and for putting them at par with CTOs D (Design). (iv) Up to the Fourth Pay Commission, both the posts were carrying the same pay scale. (v) There would not have been any cascading effect if the pay E scale of JDOs was upgraded, as the post of JDOs did not exist in the other organizations like EME, MES, and Air Force etc.