A sewerage worker who had died while performing his duties. Dismissing the case, this Court held that since the deceased had died due to insensitivity on the part of the State apparatus, to the safety and well- being of its employees, the State would be liable to pay compensation to the family of the deceased. This Court invoked Article 142 of the Constitution to enhance the amount of compensation payable. B 64. At this juncture, it may be apposite to sound a word of caution as regards the approach of the Courts in granting monetary compensation as a means for vindication of fundamental rights. It is to be noted that in the absence of a clear, cogent and comprehensive legal framework based on judicial precedent, which would clarify what harm or injury is C actionable as a constitutional tort, such a device is to be resorted to only in cases where there are brutal violations of fundamental rights, such as the violations that were involved in Rudul Sah and Chandrima Das. This Court has acknowledged such a view in Sebastian M. Hongray, by noting that compensation was being awarded in the said case having D regard to “torture, the agony and the mental oppression” which the family of the victim therein had to endure due his death by an encounter. Similarly, this Court, in Bhim Singh stated that the compensation was awarded by taking note of the “bizzare acts” of police lawlessness. As already highlighted, compensation was awarded in Delhi Jal Board, by exercising power under Article 142. Thus, the remedy provided is on a E case to case basis on an evolution of the concept of constitutional tort through judicial dicta. 65. While it is true that the Courts must mould their tools to deal with particularly extreme and threatening situations, and the device of a ‘constitutional tort’ has evolved through such an exercise, it must be F borne in mind that the tool of treating an action as a constitutional tort must not be wielded only in instances wherein state lawlessness and indifference to the right to life and personal liberties have caused immense suffering. The law would have to evolve in this regard, in respect of violation of other Fundamental Rights apart from issuance of the prerogative writs. G 66. Therefore, it is observed that presently invocation of writ jurisdiction to grant damages, by treating acts and omissions of agencies of the State as Constitutional torts, must be an exception rather than a rule. The remedy before a competent court or under criminal law is, in any case available as per the existing legal framework. H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 801 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] In light of the aforesaid discussion, Question No. 5 is answered A as follows: “A proper legal framework is necessary to define the acts or omissions which would amount to constitutional tort and the manner in which the same would be redressed or remedied on the basis of judicial precedent.