This Court has held on many occasions that the term ‘regulate’ is to be given a wide interpretation allowing the performance of everything necessary for the D organised implementation, development, and conduct of business. In Deepak Theatre v. State of Punjab38 a three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court held that the power to regulate implies the power to prescribe and enforce all such proper and reasonable rules necessary for conduct of business. It was held: E “3. It is settled law that the rules validly made under the Act, for all intents and purposes, be deemed to be part of the statute. The conditions of the licence issued under the rules form an integral part of the statute. The question emerges whether the word regulation would encompass the power to fix rates of admission and classification of the seats. The power to regulate may include F the power to license or to refuse the licence or to require taking out a licence and may also include the power to tax or exempt from taxation, but not the power to impose a tax for the revenue in rule making power unless there is a valid legislation in that behalf. Therefore, the power to regulate a particular business G or calling implies the power to prescribe and enforce all such proper and reasonable rules and regulations as may be deemed necessary to conduct the business in a proper and ly manner. It also includes the authority to prescribe the reasonable rules, regulations or conditions H 38 1992 Supp (1) SCC 684 K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 687 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] subject to which the business may be permitted or A conducted. A conjoint reading of Section 5, Section 9, Rule 4 and condition 4-A gives, therefore, the power to the licensing authority to classify seats and prescribe rates of admission into the cinema theatre.” (emphasis supplied) B 76. In K Ramanathan v. State of Tamil Nadu39 a three-judge Bench of this Court held that the word “regulation” does not have a rigid or inflexible meaning. This Court observed that “power to regulate carries with it full power over the thing subject to regulation and in absence of restrictive words, the power must be regarded as plenary over the entire C subject.” The Constitution Bench in V S Rice and Oil Mills v. State of Andhra Pradesh40 also observed that the word “regulate” is of wide import. 77. The above analysis must guide the interpretation of Section 49 read with Section 79(j) of the 1948 Act which empowered the Board D to enact such terms and conditions as the Board thinks fit. This power of the Board would extend to enacting conditions providing for recovery of dues of the erstwhile owner from the new owner as a precondition for supply of electricity. Further, this Court has consistently upheld the Conditions of Supply providing for recoupment of arrears of a previous E owner from the new owner as a pre-condition for supply of electricity.