He further stated that the accused started shooting at Ram Kishan inside the house. His sons Rizwan and Rihan tried to defend Ram Kishan. However, they also shot at his sons Rizwan and Rihan, who were trying to protect Ram Kishan. He stated that Ram Kishan fell down on the spot. He stated that he took Rizwan and Rihan to Dr. Bora’s hospital in Shamli. However, after seeing them, the doctor declared them dead. He also narrates somewhat about the fi rst incident. But he cannot be said to be an eye witness with regard to the fi rst incident. His evidence was sought to be attacked on the ground that after such a gruesome incident had happened, he had not lodged any report with the police. However, in his cross-examination itself, he has explained thus: “Lokendra of my village told me that he would lodge the report at the Police Station. There is no need for you to go, so I did not feel the need 788 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. to go to the Police Station and for lodging Report. When I reached the village, by that time the Police had not come to the village. When I was going to Shamli, then Lokendra went to the Police Station Babri to lodge the Report.” 33. Irshad Khan (PW-7) has specifi cally denied in his cross-examination that at the time of incident, he had stayed upstairs on the terrace. 34. It is further to be noted that the testimony of Lokendra (PW-1) and Irshad Khan (PW-7) is consistent inasmuch as even Lokendra (PW-1) stated that he had gone to the house of Rizwan after Ram Kishan followed by the accused persons went to the house of Rizwan. This is corroborated by the testimony of Irshad Khan (PW-7) who stated thus: “In our house, Lokendra came after the incident. I told Lokendra about the incident. I told Lokendra that these people have killed my sons in front of me.” 35. PW-10 is Harpal Singh. He stated that on the day of incident, he was on his way from his house towards the crime scene to look for labourers. He stated that Rashid’s son was going towards Mustafa’s house. He further stated that Ram Kishan and Lokendra (PW-1), Sunil, Satendra, Sukhpal Singh (PW-2), Jai Singh (PW-8) were coming 4-5 steps behind him. He stated that all of a sudden, accused persons started fi ring. He stated that Rambhajan, Ramveer, Kawarpal, Madan, Rajveer, Ompal, Neetu, Sudesh were among those who fi red. He fairly admitted that he cannot attribute which weapon was used by which accused. He stated that Satendra, Sunil and Sukhpal Singh (PW-2) were shot when the accused opened fi re. He further stated that after going ahead, when Masooq Ali came out of his house, he was also shot. He stated that thereafter Ram Kishan ran towards the house of Deputy Pradhan Rizwan. However, he cannot be an eye witness to the second incident. He stated that he had taken cover of a wall.