The first proviso to G sub-clause (b) only makes reference to the time limit applicable to the company in respect of which the appeal or reference or enquiry or any such proceeding thus stood abated under the said sub-clause. Going by the said proviso, such a company may make reference to NCLT under IBC within 180 days from the commencement of IBC and in accordance H SABARMATI GAS LIMITED v. SHAH ALLOYS LIMITED 203 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] with the provisions thereof. Subsequently, the stated amendment was A notified by the Central Government under S.O. 3569 (E) dated 25.11.2016. It is thus clear that on account of repeal of SICA under Repeal Act (1 of 2003) w.e.f. 01.12.2016, any pending proceeding or enquiry under SICA, initiated by an industrial company would get abated and the prescription of such period of 180 days became applicable only to such a company. A B scanning of the stated sub-clause (b) and the provisos would not reveal or indicate prescription of any such specific time limit as regards the opposite parties in the abated reference, inquiry or proceeding for proceeding with their available remedy under IBC. In the said circumstances, if such an opposite party falls within the expression ‘operational creditor’, under IBC, it could only be taken that it should be C governed by the provisions under the IBC in regard to the period of limitation for approaching the Adjudicating Authority. In this context, it is also relevant to note that as relates the company whose reference or inquiry or any proceeding got abated, as mentioned, it need not pay any fee for making reference under IBC, in terms of the second proviso to D the substituted sub-clause (b) of Section 4 of the SICA Repeal Act. Needless to say, that this exemption is not available to other parties to the abated proceedings, or reference or inquiry concerned. 18. Section 6, IBC provides that where any corporate debtor commits a default, a financial creditor, an operational creditor or the E corporate debtor itself may initiate CIRP in respect of such corporate debtor in the manner provided under Chapter II of IBC. Section 8, which falls under Chapter II, deals with insolvency resolution by operational creditor. It provides that an operational creditor may, on the occurrence of default, deliver a demand notice of unpaid of operational debt or copy of an invoice demanding payment of the amount involved in the default F to the corporate debtor in such form and manner as may be prescribed. It is apposite to note that a seemingly printing error had occurred in Section 8 (1), IBC inasmuch as instead of ‘a demand notice of unpaid operational debt’ it is printed as ‘a demand notice of unpaid operational debtor.’ Evidently, this must have occurred as in the Gazette Notification G also the word ‘debtor’ is following the words ‘unpaid operational’. The word ‘debtor’ used therein has to be split into ‘debt’ and ‘or’ so as to serve the purpose and to give the intended meaning to Section 8 (1) and this view would get support from sub-section (2) of Section 8 itself.