Ultimate use of the goods is irrelevant for the consideration for exemption from trade tax. Different goods can be used for same thing. However, this does not mean that the nature of the goods is the same. It is submitted that even mere fact that both the goods are commonly known as “Corks” is also C not a relevant factor for determining if the goods are different goods. 4.6 The learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant has drawn our attention to the difference in earlier product and the subsequent product. In support of his submission that the new product is altogether a different product than that of the earlier product, he has also drawn our attention to the difference in process of manufacturing D of both the products. 4.7 It is submitted that both, the Trade Tax Tribunal and the High Court have erroneously introduced a new criterion that the use of both products is the same. It is submitted that the criteria of use of goods is neither provided in the section nor in the notification. Section 4-A(5) and E the notification only requires the nature of goods to be different. It is submitted that as per the settled position of law, an exemption notification is required to be given a literal meaning. Reliance is placed on the decisions of this Court in the case of Hansraj Gordhandas Vs. H.H. Dave, Assistant Collector of Central Excise Customs, Surat and Ors., AIR 1970 SC 755; Parle Biscuits (P) Ltd. Vs. State of Bihar F and Ors., (2005) 9 SCC 669 and Assistant Commissioner (CT) LTU and Anr. Vs. Amara Raja Batteries Limited, (2009) 8 SCC 209. 4.8 Making above submissions and relying upon the above decisions, it is prayed to allow the present appeal. G 5. Present appeal is vehemently opposed by Shri Bhakti Vardhan Singh, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents. 5.1 It is submitted that in the present case, the appellant established a unit for manufacture of the “Spun Line Crown Corks” used as one of the packing materials of the glass bottles, to be sold to the glass bottlers. It is submitted that after ‘modernisation’, the appellant manufactured H AMD INDUSTRIES LTD. v. COMMISSIONER OF TRADE TAX, 1041 LUCKNOW & ANR [M. R. SHAH, J.] “Corks” also used as one of the packing materials of the glass bottles. A 5.2 It is submitted that under Section 4-A(5) of the Act and the notification, exemption from trade tax shall be available to a unit, which has undertaken “expansion, diversification or modernization” and manufactures the different goods from those manufactured earlier by such undertaking. It is submitted that therefore, the issue involved in the B present appeal is as to whether the investment of the appellant can be said to be in the unit, having undergone “diversification” or is in a unit having undergone “modernization” and whether the goods manufactured by the appellant’s unit has undergone “diversification” or “modernization”? 5.3 It is submitted that therefore under Section 4-A(5) of the Act, the requirement for availing the benefits under the head of C “diversification” therefore is that the “goods of different nature is required to be produced”.