vii. Section 9 has been inserted, which provides for validation of assessments made under the Act of 1955. viii. Schedule I has been added to the Act, which stipulates the fares on which tax would be leviable, for diff erent categories of motor vehicles and class of roads. NHPC LTD. v. STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH 25 SECRETARY & ORS.[B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 9. For easy reference, as submitted by Sri Yashraj Singh Deora, learned counsel, a comparative table of the relevant provisions of the Act of 1955 and the amendments introduced to such provisions, by way of the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997, is provided hereinunder: Parameters The Himachal The Himachal Pradesh Pradesh Passengers Passengers and Goods Taxation and Goods Taxation (Amendment and Validation) Act, 1955 Act, 1997 Preamble An Act to provide An Act to provide for levying a tax for levying a tax on on passengers and goods carried passengers and goods by road in motor vehicles. carried by road in certain motor vehicles. Defi nition 2(a) “business” 2[(aa) “business” includes:- of the term means the business of i. The business of carrying ‘business’ carrying passengers passengers and goods by motor and goods by motor vehicles; vehicles. ii. Any trade, commerce or manufacture, or any adventure or concern in the nature of trade, commerce, or manufacture whether or not such trade, commerce manufacture, adventure or concern is carried on with a motive to make gain or profi t and whether or not any gain or profi t accrues from such trade, commerce, manufacture, adventure or concern; and iii. Any transaction in connection with, or incidental or ancillary to, such trade, Commerce, manufacture, adventure or concern. 26 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. Defi nition 2(c) “fare” includes 2(c) “fare” or “freight includes of the term sums payable for a sums fixed by the competent ‘fare’ season ticket or in authority under the Motor respect of the hire of a Vehicles Act for the hire of contract carriage; motor vehicles for carriage of passengers and the transport of goods therein and includes the sum payable for a season ticket, and where no such fare or freight has been fi xed, also includes such sum as specifi ed in Schedule-1: Defi nition 2(e) “motor vehicle” 2(d) “motor vehicle” means of the term means a public any transport vehicle, which ‘motor service vehicle or is mechanically propelled and vehicle’ public carrier, or adapted for use upon roads private carrier or a whether the power of propulsion trailer when attached is transmitted thereto from an to any such vehicle; external or internal source, or a trailer when attached to any such vehicle and includes- (i) A motor vehicle used for carriage of passengers or goods or both for hire or reward in contravention of the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act; and (ii) A maxi cab, which is constructed or adapted to carry more than six passengers, but not more than twelve passengers;] (ea) Motor Vehicles Act” means the Motor Vehicle Act, 1939 (4 of 1939) and the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988), as the case may be:] NHPC LTD. v. STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH 27 SECRETARY & ORS.[B.