On the other hand, the Department reiterated the findings of the Adjudicating Authority in opposition to the appeal. 7.2. The Tribunal summarised the substance of the passed by the Adjudicating Authority as follows: - “6. We find that the adjudicating authority has mainly confirmed F demand on the ground that since the AHAHO is not prescribed by a medical practitioner for the purpose of curing any disease and it is available in the medical shops as well as general stores and any persons desirous using it can purchase across the counter, hence the same is not Homeopathic medicine. He also held that G the label does not indicate the condition of sale by the authorized medical distributor or retailer under prescription from medical practitioner even though it is mandatory requirement under section 97 (1) of the Drugs & Cosmetic Act, 1940. It also does not contain 11 Being Appeal No. E/30050/2016. H 308 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A the dosage to be used or that the dosage as directed by the physician. That it does not contain any that it can cure any particular disease like alopecia (loss of hair) or insomnia (sleep loss). Further he also held that previous s passed by the Appellate Authority were on the basis of tariff entry before 2012 and after the said period the entries has changed hence needs relook.” B 7.3. Having taken note of the background aspects of the case, the findings of the Adjudicating Authority, and various decisions cited by the parties in support of their respective contentions, the Tribunal found no reason for which the classification of the product in question was sought to be changed by the Adjudicating Authority. C 7.4. In the course of its analysis, the Tribunal, inter alia, observed and held that only for the reason of being sold over the counter and not on a medical prescription would not take the product out of the category of medicine; that when different branches of medicine and licensing authority recognized baldness or hair fall as disease, the Adjudicating D Authority was not entitled to take a different view; that the product clearly mentioned its use for other ailments like sleep loss; that the contents of its label clearly mentioned the product as homeopathic medicine and the same was understood as such by its users and traders; and that the product in question indeed passed the common parlance E test. The Tribunal further referred to the four homeopathic medicines as being the ingredients of products and the same being covered by Serial No. 35 of Schedule K to the Rules of 1945, which only related to drugs and not cosmetics. The Tribunal yet further observed that the Adjudicating Authority had not been adopting a uniform approach and referred to the fact that the respondent had been issued show-cause notices in the past F too and the Adjudicating Authority, upon examining the common parlance test as also the contents and usage of product, had accepted AHAHO as a homeopathic medicine.