Sub- section (6) to (7) deal with situation where, in a scheme of amalgamation, demerger, etc. as to how the provisions of sub-section (2), (3) and (4) of Section 35ABB would not apply but the provisions of this Section shall, as far as may be, apply to the amalgamated company or to the demerged company, apply to the resulting company as they would have applied to the amalgamating company if the latter had not transferred the licence or to the demerged company if the latter had not transferred the licence, as the case may be. Sub-section (8) states that where a deduction for any previous years under sub-section (1) is claimed and allowed in respect of any expenditure referred to in that sub-section, no deduction shall be allowed under the sub-section (1) of Section 32 for the same previous year or any subsequent previous year. 11.3. The salient aspects of Section 35ABB (1) of the Act may be read as under: (i) Purpose and nature of expenditure - Capital expenditure incurred for the purpose of obtaining licence to operate telecommunication services. (ii) Mode of amortisation of expenses - For each year of the relevant previous years, a deduction equal to the appropriate fraction of the amount of such expenditure, shall be allowed. (iii) Conditions to be satisfi ed for applicability of the Provision – (a) The expenditure must be capital in nature; (b) The expenditure must be incurred by an assessee for the purpose of acquisition of the right to operate telecom services; (c) The said expenditure may be incurred before the commencement of business to operate telecommunication services, or thereafter at any time during any previous year; (d) The expenditure must represent the payment actually made to obtain a licence. C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 407 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 12. Since the variable licence fee paid by the respondents-assessees to the DoT under the Telecom Policy of 1999 is stated to be imposed and collected on the strength of the Telegraph Act, the relevant provisions of the said Act are extracted hereinunder for immediate reference: “4. Exclusive privilege in respect of telegraphs, and power to grant licences:- (1) Within India, the Central Government shall have the exclusive privilege of establishing, maintaining and working telegraphs: Provided that the Central Government may grant a licence, on such conditions and in consideration of such payments as it thinks fi t, to any person to establish, maintain or work a telegraph within any part of India: Provided further that the Central Government may, by rules made under this Act and published in the Offi cial Gazette, permit, subject to such restrictions and conditions as it thinks fi t, the establishment, maintenance and working- (a) of wireless telegraphs on ships within Indian territorial waters and on aircraft within or above India, or Indian territorial waters, and (b) of telegraphs other than wireless telegraphs within any part of India. Explanation.-- The payments made for the grant of a licence under this subsection shall include such sum attributable to the Universal Service Obligation as may be determined by the Central Government after considering the recommendation made in this behalf by the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India established under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act, 1997 (24 of 1997).