In particular, it was submitted that Section 3 stipulates that “no person shall so drive a transport vehicle other than the motor cab or motor cycle hired for his own use or rented under any 2 “Act” 246 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. scheme made under sub-section (2) of Section 75 unless his driving licence specifi cally entitles him so to do”. Apart from this, the referral notes that the two-Judge Bench was also of the view that other provisions, including Sections 4(1), 7 and 14 of the Act and Rules 5 and 31 of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules 1989, were not noticed in Mukund Dewangan(supra). 5. The Union of India was not a party to the proceedings before this Court when the referral was passed on 8 March 2022. 6. On 20 July 2023, the Constitution Bench heard arguments on behalf of the insurance companies and on behalf of the claimants. This Court observed as follows: “3. During the course of the hearing, one of the principal submissions of the respondents has been that the of the three-Judge Bench of this Court in Mukund Dewangan v Oriental Insurance Company Limited was accepted by the Union government by issuing notifi cations dated 16 April 2018 and 31 March 2021 in the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, as a result of which the Rules were amended to bring them in conformity with the of this Court. 4. We are of the considered view that having regard to the above background, the position of the Union government in the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways would be necessary. We request the Attorney General for India to assist the Court in the matter.” 7. As noted in the above extract, the letter dated 16 April 2018 and notifi cation dated 31 March 2021 in the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways were pressed in aid on behalf of counsel for the claimants to urge that the Union Government has, in fact, amended the Rules to bring them in conformity with the in Mukund Dewangan (supra). 8 Mr R Venkataramani, Attorney General for India, has appeared in response to the request of the Court and submitted a written note. The note submitted by the Attorney General indicates that: (i) Application of the ratio in Mukund Dewangan (supra) enables a person holding a licence for a light motor vehicle to drive M/S. BAJAJ ALLIANCE GENERAL INSURANCE CO LTD. 247 v. RAMBHA DEVI AND ORS. a transport vehicle on the strength of that licence without a separate transport vehicle licence; and (ii) This interpretation of the provisions of the statute and the Rules in Mukund Dewangan (supra) does not appear to be in accord with the legislative intent. 9. The note also indicates that the letter dated 16 April 2018 was issued by the Union government taking note of the in Mukund Dewangan (supra) as the law declared by this Court. Resultantly, the notifi cation dated 31 March 2021 was issued to further amend the Rules to bring them in conformity with the .