Therefore, the fact that the Company Court originally directed sale of the assets of the Company in three lots has no relevance for deciding these petitions because second petitioner, admitted1y, purchased the assets of F the company as one lot only, in the open auction held by the Company Court, but not as three different lots . 6. It is no doubt true, as per the proviso to Sectiön 47A(6) of the, Stamp Act, instruments executed by or on behalf .of the Central Government or the State Government or any authority or body G incorporated by or under any law for the time being in force and wholly owned by Central/State Government, the market value of the property shall be the value shown in such instrument. This provision, far from helping the petitioners, would go against their contention that sale deed can be executed for Lot l only, inasmuch H THE SUB REGISTRAR, AMUDALAVALASA & ANR. v. M/S 1113 DANKUNI STEELS LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] as assets of the company were advertised for sale in three lots, A because all the three assets of the company were purchased by the second petitioner only as one lot, but not in three different lots, and since there is nothing in the sale deed in question to show the exact value of the Land, Building and Civil works. The file produced by the official liquidator shows that there was correspondence B between him and the petitioners with regard to the contents etc. of the sale deed to be executed by him i.e. official liquidator. Here, I am constrained to observe that the official liquidator does not seem to have acted fairly while executing the sale deed in question, and seems to have made an attempt to favour the petitioners by suppressing certain fact: and incorporating the undermentioned C highlighted portion in page 3 of the sale deed in question reading - “AND WHEREAS the total sale consideration is Rs.8.35 crores for the entire assets of the company comprising of land, building, Civil works, plant & machinery and current assets, etc., An amount of Rs.1,01,05,000/- is taken as the value of the land, building and D civil works basing on the offer received by the official liquidator when the assets were put for sale individually and the purchaser has agreed to pay the stamp duty/registration fees/transfer fees as per the value derived by the sub registrar.” obviously that statement, mentioning the value of the building etc. as E Rs.1,01,05,000/- is made on the basis of the offers received by him (official liquidator) on 04-12-2003 whereat M/s.Bhagya Nagar Metals Ltd., offered Rs”101.05 lakhs for Lot No.1 and Rs.301.00 lakhs for Lot No.2, and M/s.MahavirGhantakaram Enterprises offered Rs.29.50 lakhs for Lot No.3. So, it is clear that the total value of the offers for the three lotreceived by the official liquidator, F on 04-12-2003, was Rs.431.55 lakhs. But, on 30-12-2003, M/ s.ConcastIspat Ltd., which (as per the letter dated 13-08-2004 of the Genera!