Its prayer therein was to declare Sections 4 and 9 of the Act of 2007 ultra vires as these provisions did not distinguish between minority educational H institutions and other educational institutions and, in consequence, did ICON EDUCATION SOCIETY v. STATE OF MADHYA 731 PRADESH & OTHERS [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] not exempt minority educational institutions from fee-fixation. A further A direction was sought to exempt the appellant society, being a minority educational institution, from the application of Section 9 of the Act of 2007, thereby permitting it to fix its own fees. 7. By dated 19.11.2020, a Division Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court at Indore dismissed the writ petition. The Division B Bench noted that the validity of the Act of 2007 had already been upheld in Modern Dental College and Research Centre (supra). The High Court then relied upon Sk. Md. Rafique Vs. Managing Committee, Contai Rahamania High Madrasah and others [(2020) 1 SCT 627(SC)], wherein this Court referred to its earlier edict in Ahmedabad C Saint Xaviers College Society and another Vs. State of Gujarat and another [(1974) 1 SCC 717] that the right under Article 30(1) of the Constitution is not absolute or above other provisions of law and the essence of Article 30(1) was to ensure equal treatment between majority and minority institutions. It was further held that the laws of the land, D including rules and regulations, must apply equally to majority institutions as well as minority institutions. In his concurring opinion, H.R.Khanna J had held that a balance must be kept between the two objectives – one, to ensure the standard of excellence of the institution and the other, preserving the right of minorities to establish and administer educational institutions. In the light of Modern Dental College and Research Centre E (supra) and Sk. Md. Rafique (supra), the High Court concluded that no grounds were made out to interfere with the s passed by the AFRC. 8. Heard Mr.Dama Seshadri Naidu, learned senior counsel, appearing for the appellant society; and Mr.P.V.Yogeshwaran, learned F AAG, appearing for the State of Madhya Pradesh. 9. Section 4 in Chapter 2 of the Act of 2007 deals with the constitution and establishment of the AFRC. Section 4(1) provides that the State Government shall, by notification in the official gazette, constitute a committee to be called the ‘Admission and Fee Regulatory G Committee’, for the supervision and guidance of the admission process and for the fixation of fees to be charged from candidates seeking admission in a private professional educational institution. Section 4(8) provides that the AFRC may require a private aided or unaided professional educational institution or a deemed university to furnish, H 732 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A by the prescribed date, information as may be necessary for enabling the AFRC to determine the fees that may be charged by the institution in respect of each professional course and the fees so determined shall be valid for such period as may be notified by the State Government.