He submitted that it is for the appellant/accused to explain what exactly happened on the date of the incident. He would submit that if something happens within the four walls of the house, then only the appellant/accused can explain, as it could be said to be something within his special knowledge. 13. He further pointed out that the weapon of offence i.e. the bloodstained knife, was also recovered from the house itself at the instance of the appellant/accused. The learned counsel took support of Section 106 of the Evidence Act, 1872 (for short “the Act, 1872”) and submitted that where some facts are within the knowledge of any person, the burden of proving that fact is upon him. If the defence taken by the accused is found to be false then it would be an additional circumstance going against the convict. 14. In such circumstances referred to above, he prays that there being no merit in the present appeals, the same may be dismissed. ANALYSIS: - 15. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the High Court committed any error in passing the impugned and . 16. We take into consideration the following circumstances emerging from the record of the case :- 1. The deceased was the wife of the appellant – Wazir Khan. It appears that the marital relations of the appellant – Wazir Khan with the deceased were strained. 44 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 2. The appellant – Wazir Khan has not disputed his presence in the house at the time of the incident. However, he has put forward a defence that robbers got into his house and killed his wife. He has also gone to the extent of saying that while his wife was being attacked by the robbers, he too suff ered injuries. 3. In the aforesaid context, we may only say that there is nothing on record to indicate that the appellant – Wazir Khan had suff ered any injuries. The entire defence put forward by the appellant – Wazir Khan , could be termed as false defence. 4. There were as many as 17 incised wounds on the body of the deceased. On the next day, when the police brought the appellant – Wazir Khan at the scene of the occurrence, he pointed out the place where the knife was left behind. The weapon of off ence was recovered from the place of incident itself. 17. Here is a case, wherein the prosecution could be said to have laid the legal foundation for the purpose of invoking Section 106 of the Act, 1872. Undoubtedly, the burden is on the prosecution to prove the guilt of the appellant – Wazir Khan beyond reasonable doubt. If the prosecution fails to discharge its initial burden beyond reasonable doubt, the appellant – Wazir Khan has to be acquitted. It is settled law that the prosecution cannot take recourse of Section 106 of the Act, 1872 without laying any foundational facts.