However, it was urged on behalf of the petitioner that Article 35(c) which was inserted by the CO of 1954 was in excess of the powers conferred on the President by Article 370. Rejecting the argument, the Constitution Bench held: “8. … It is manifest that Article 370(1)(c) and (d) authorizes the President by to specify the exceptions and modifi cations to the provisions of the Constitution (other than Articles 1 and 370) subject to which the Constitution shall apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Clause (c) as indicated above has been added to Article 35 of the Constitution only so far as the State of Jammu and Kashmir is concerned. Section 8 of the Act is not in excess of or inconsistent with the provisions of clause (c) so added to Article 35 of the Constitution. That being so the s as served upon the petitioner are not inconsistent with or in excess of such provisions of Part III of the Constitution as apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. It must therefore be held that the petitioner was not entitled to know the grounds upon which he had been detained beyond what is disclosed in the itself.” 337. The Constitution Bench, therefore, held that a. Article 370(1) empowered the President to apply the provisions of the Constitution to the State of Jammu and Kashmir with modifi cations and exceptions with the concurrence of the State government; IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 205 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] b. The C.O of 1954 was issued in exercise of the power conferred by Article 370(1); c. Article 35(c) was inserted by the CO of 1954 pursuant to the exercise of that power; d. The denial of the grounds for detention in terms of the proviso to Section 8 was valid; and e. In view of the provisions of Article 35(c) as inserted by the CO of 1954, the challenge to Section 8 of the State legislation on the ground that it was inconsistent with Articles 21 and 22 of the Constitution could not be sustained. 338. Puranlal Lakhanpal II v. The President of India251 involved a challenge to the constitutional validity of the Constitution (Application to Jammu and Kashmir) 1954 made by the President under Article 370(1). The petitioner was registered as an elector in the Parliamentary Constituency of Delhi and claimed a right to stand for election from any Parliamentary Constituency in the country. The State of Jammu and Kashmir had six seats in the Lok Sabha. Ordinarily, under Article 81(1), election to these seats would have taken place by a direct election from the territorial constituencies in the States. However, in relation to the State of Jammu and Kashmir, Article 81(1) was modifi ed by Paragraph 5(c) of CO of 1954 to indicate that the representatives of the State in the Lok Sabha would be appointed by the President on the recommendation of the Legislature of the State. The challenge was to the substitution of a direct election to the Lok Sabha by nomination made by the State Legislature.