Bills of Exchange, cheques, promissory notes, bills of lading, letters of credit, policies of D insurance, transfer of shares, debentures, proxies and receipts) are levied by the Union Government. Similarly, the stamp duties on instruments other than those mentioned in Entry 91 of the Union List above are levied by the States as per Entry 63 of List II(State List) of the Schedule VII. Provisions other than those relating to rates of duty fall within the E legislative power of both the Union and the States by virtue of Entry 44 of the List III(Concurrent List). However, the stamp duties on all the instruments are collected and kept by the concerned States. 32. The term ‘Instrument’ has been defined under Section 2(14) of the Act, 1899 and the ‘Instrument chargeable to Duty’ is provided under Section 3 whereas Section 17 provides that all instruments F chargeable with duty and executed by any person in India has to be stamped. 33. Sections 2(14), 3 and 17 of the Act, 1899 are extracted hereunder: - G “2(14) ¯Instrument”. — instrument includes every document by which any right or liability is, or purports to be, created, transferred, limited, extended, extinguished or recorded: 3. Instruments chargeable with duty. —Subject to the provisions of this Act and the exemptions contained in Schedule I, H 398 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A the following instruments shall be chargeable with duty of the amount indicated in that Schedule as the proper duty therefore respectively, that is to say— (a) every instrument mentioned in that Schedule which, not having been previously executed by any person, is executed in B [India] on or after the first day of July, 1899; (b) every bill of exchange [payable otherwise than on demand] or promissory note drawn or made out of [India] on or after that day and accepted or paid, or presented for acceptance or payment, or endorsed, transferred or otherwise negotiated, in C [India]; and (c) every instrument (other than a bill of exchange, or promissory note) mentioned in that Schedule, which, not having been previously executed by any person, is executed out of [India] on or after that day, relates to any property situate, or to any matter or thing done or to be done, in [India] and is D received in [India]: Provided that no duty shall be chargeable in respect of— (1) any instrument executed by, or on behalf of, or in favour of, the Government in cases where, but for this exemption, the Government would be liable to pay the duty chargeable in respect E of such instrument; (2) any instrument for the sale, transfer or other disposition, either absolutely or by way of mortgage or otherwise, of any ship or vessel, or any part, interest, share or property of or in any ship or vessel registered under the Merchant Shipping Act 1894, Act No. F 57 & 58 Vict. c. 60 or under Act XIX of 1838 Act No. or the Indian Registration of Ships Act, 1841, (CX of 1841) as amended by subsequent Acts.