There is only an unexhibited copy of the FSL Report of the alleged blood D stained clothes of the Appellant which stands not proven by anyone. Also none has come forward to depose that the accused had kept the keys of the shop with himself, for afterall, it is not the case of the prosecution that the shop belonged to the accused. 21. The substratum of the evidence, that is the extra judicial E confessional statement of the Appellant, apart from being hit by Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, we find it not to have been supported by Ramkripal Soni (PW-1) and Gopal Yadav (PW-7), who as is evident, was himself a suspect. He admits it to be “...correct to say that the Inspector had detained me and some villagers where the dead body was F laying...” and “...it is correct to say that I did not disclose the statement made by accused Pradeep to any other person before 4 o’clock...” We have already noticed his wife Radhika (PW-13) to have supported this statement. Now, if this witness was himself a suspect, his testimony cannot be said to be unimpeachable or free from blemish. Still further, deposition of PW-7 reveals the witness not to have deposed truthfully G and the prosecution to have introduced another theory as according to him the accused had immediately, after the incident confessed the crime with him. This was in the night intervening first and second October, 2003. But then, he does not disclose such fact to anyone. We may remind the prosecution that he is a co-villager. His version also appears to be H 692 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A false for he admits voices and noises were audible from the place of the occurrence of the incident and that he heard none on the fateful day. He admits that there are houses of other persons including Ramsanehi, closer to the spot of crime. He did not bother to make inquiries for ascertaining the truth from any of the co-villagers, including all those named by him. This witness, in our considered view, cannot be said to be reliable and B trustworthy and this we say so for the reason, that as according to his deposition, he received information of the death of deceased at 7:00- 8:00 AM, the following morning and yet he did not visit the spot of the crime until the police reached, which was at 10:00 AM and only much later, got his statement recorded at about 4:00 PM. His stoic silence, in C not informing or meeting any of the family members of the deceased, neighbours or Police is unexplainable. 22. Dealing with the star witness of the prosecution which is the Investigation Officer, I. Tirkey (PW-19), we find his testimony to be wholly unworthy of any credence: unbelievable; and the witness to be D unreliable. This we say so for the reasons that he did not record the statement of Gajadhar Chowdhary (PW-10) or Gopal Yadav (PW-7) in respect any prior animosity between the deceased and the accused.