2. That the respondents herein were initially appointed in the Animal Husbandry Department either as Animal Husbandry Extension Officer or Veterinary Assistant Surgeon in the year 1971. That all of them were subsequently selected after following the due selection process between G 1976 to 1978 in the Dairy Federations. That as per the relevant G.O. and the relevant Rules, the respondents continued to have the lien with the parent department / State Government. That the names of the respondents appeared in the seniority list of the Dairy Federations and all of them were promoted in the year 1983 or 1989 in the Dairy H 120 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Federations. All of them retired as employees of the Dairy Federations between 1999 to 2003. All of them received the retirement benefits from the Dairy Federations. 2.1 Thereafter, after a period of approximately six to nine years, from the date of superannuation from the Dairy Federations and after B receiving all the retirement benefits from the Dairy Federations, the respective respondents filed the writ petitions before the learned Single Judge of the High Court claiming the pensionary benefits from the State Government treating their lien to be continuing with the State. That the learned Single Judge allowed the writ petitions. C 2.2 At this stage, it is required to be noted that the lien of the respective respondents came to be terminated subsequently in the year 1988/1993 w.e.f. the date on which they were absorbed / made permanent in the Dairy Federations. 2.3 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the and D passed by the learned Single Judge, the State preferred the present appeals before the Division Bench. By the impugned (s) and (s), the Division Bench of the High Court has dismissed the said appeals. Hence the present appeals. 3. Dr. Manish Singhvi, learned senior counsel has appeared on E behalf of the State and Shri Uday Gupta, learned counsel has appeared on behalf of the respective respondents – original writ petitioners. 4. Dr. Manish Singhvi, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the State has vehemently submitted that all the respective respondents were selected after following the selection process between 1976 and F 1978 in the Dairy Federations. It is submitted that all of them were absorbed permanently in the Dairy Federations and they continued to work in the Dairy Federations as employees of the Dairy Federations till they attained the age of superannuation and retired. 4.1 It is submitted that as per G.O. dated 30.01.1976, the respective G respondents, who joined the Dairy Federations, their lien was kept for a period of two years or their confirmation in the Corporation / Union, whichever is earlier. It is submitted that therefore, on and after they got confirmed in the Dairy Federations, the respective respondents were not entitled to have any lien elsewhere. It is submitted that therefore the lien could not have been extended beyond a period of two years. H STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ORS. v. DR. HAMIR SINGH 121 CHOUHAN (DEAD) BY LRS & ORS.