It was held that frustration of a substantive legitimate expectation by public authorities would be unfair and amount to abuse of power. Importantly, it was held that abuse of power constitutes a ground for the courts to exercise judicial review of executive actions. 28. In Nadarajah v. Secretary of State for the Home Department,17 the Court of Appeal added another facet to the doctrine of substantive legitimate expectation by grounding it in the principles of good administration. Importantly, the court identifi ed that consistency and probity are tenets of a good administration. Laws LJ explained the principles underlying the doctrine of legitimate expectation in the following terms: “68. The search for principle surely starts with the theme that is current through the legitimate expectation cases. It may be expressed thus. Where a public authority has issued a promise or adopted a practice 16 [2001] QB 213 17 [2005] EWCA Civ 1363 692 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. which represents how it proposes to act in a given area, the law will require the promise or practice to be honoured unless there is good reason not to do so. What is the principle behind this proposition? It is not far to seek. It is said to be grounded in fairness, and no doubt in general terms that is so. I would prefer to express it rather more broadly as a requirement of good administration, by which public bodies ought to deal straightforwardly and consistently with the public.” (emphasis supplied) Moreover, Laws LJ held that a public authority can resile from its promise or future conduct if its decision: (i) is in pursuance of a legal duty; or (ii) is a proportionate response having regard to the legitimate aim pursued by the public body in the public interest. 29. The decision of the Court of Appeal in Coughlan (supra) marked a gradual shift in the formulation of the doctrine of legitimate expectation in the common law. In Schmidt (supra) and Council of Civil Service Unions (supra), the application of the doctrine was justifi ed on the grounds of fairness in decision-making by public authorities. However, the gradual shift towards a more nuanced aspect of the doctrine began when the English courts started requiring public authorities to honor their promises or practices as a requirement of good administration. Good administration was characterized by consistent, regular, and straight-forward conduct on behalf of the public authorities. Further, the concept of unfairness in decision-making as an abuse of power was fi rmly established by the court in Coughlan (supra). Thus, the requirement of good administration and preventing an abuse of power came to underpin the administrative actions of public authorities.18 30. The above developments in the common law also had an infl uence on the Indian law. In Ram Pravesh Singh v. State of Bihar,19 this Court explained the concept of legitimate expectation as a reasonable, logical, and valid expectation of certain benefi t, relief, or remedy: 18 R v. Department of Education and Employment, [2000] 1 WLR 1115 19 (2006) 8 SCC 381 SIVANANDAN C T AND OTHERS v. HIGH COURT OF KERALA AND 693 OTHERS [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] “15.