Also, the appellants of LPA/respondents herein did not invite any further in SCA No. 16266 of 2013 due to the said undertaking. (b) The undertaking given by Sr. Adv. "That the property qua the subject matter of this entry and the petition shall not be sold out till the main petition is heard and decided" clearly falls within section 2(b) of Act 1971. The undertaking given by learned counsel is completely binding on the appellants. BALWANTBHAI SOMABHAI BHANDARI v. HIRALAL 1091 SOMABHAI CONTRACTOR (DECEASED) REP. BY LRS. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] (c) Despite such clear undertaking, the appellants sold the plots between 2015 and 2018. If the appellants wanted to sell the plots under certain compelling circumstances, they could have approached the High Court for modifi cation or variation of the which they did not deem fi t to do. Further, as a clear continuing act of contempt, even after the execution of the sale deeds the appellants failed to bring the said aspect to the notice of the High court. (d) The appellants continued to commit contempt even during the pendency of contempt proceedings. They sold the shop bearing no. 7 on 30.10.2018 i.e., 9 months after the notice of contempt was issued. They also sold the land bearing Survey No. 65 on 09.09.2021 with the consideration amount of Rs. 51,93,00,000/- which is also on record of the contempt proceedings of the High Court. (e) The appellants have not produced any authenticated documents in support of their case of having put the buyers in possession in the year of 2012 (income tax return, bank statement etc.). The cash receipt which they have produced is issued by S. K. Industries Service Society and not by the present appellants and also all of those documents are unauthenticated, forged and fabricated. The High Court has duly taken notice of this fact in its impugned (para 35 at page 38). As per law, the sale is deemed to have been completed on the date when the sale deed is registered, which in the instant case are admittedly after the undertaking given by Sr. Advocate in the SCA No. 16266 of 2013 as recorded in the dated 14.10.2015 of the High Court. (f) The apology given by the appellants is a farce. Apology from the appellants did not come at the fi rst instance. If they were really sorry, they should have cancelled the sale deeds executed during the pendency of the contempt proceedings, which they have not done. It is only in the present proceedings that they have tried to show that they attempted to cancel the sale deeds by way of sending letters to the plot holders. Thus, they have tried to show that they made an eff ort to comply with the of the High 1092 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. court, but no proof has been produced as to when and in what manner the notices were sent or executed i.e., by way of post or email or courier etc.