Respondent No.1 being aggrieved by the passed by the High Court fi led a Review Petition8 before the High Court. However, the same was dismissed by the High Court vide dated 12.03.2010. 2.2 The appellants-Management fi led an application before the Labour Court for correction of the factual error annexing documents, showing that even in the returns fi led with the Employees State Insurance Corporation and Life Insurance Corporation etc., more than 100 workmen were shown to be employed with the appellants-Management. Reply was fi led by the respondents-workmen to the application, objecting to the documents placed on record by the appellants-Management along with the application for correction of the error. The Labour Court vide dated 30.06.2010 dealing with the objections raised by the respondents-workmen, issued notice in the application and allowed the appellants-Management to fi le the documents in support of its claim. 2.3 Again, objection was raised by the respondents-workmen regarding maintainability of the application before the Labour Court. However, the same was also rejected vide dated 12.08.2010. Subsequently, an application was fi led by the appellants-Management for summoning of offi cial records and the witnesses. The same was allowed by the Labour Court vide dated 06.10.2010. At that stage, the objection, raised by the respondents-workmen for summoning of witnesses, was rejected as they would have a clear opportunity of cross-examining them. 2.4 Being aggrieved, the respondents-workmen challenged the aforesaid three s of the Labour Court before the High Court by fi ling 8 Review Petition No.46 of 2010. 428 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. a Writ Petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India. The passed therein by the High Court has been challenged in the present appeal. ARGUMENTS 3. Learned counsel for the appellants-Management submitted that a preliminary objection was raised by the appellants before the Labour Court regarding maintainability of the reference since the appellants- Management all along had employed more than 100 workmen. In view of Section 10 of the ID Act, in cases where claim is made regarding wages and allowances as provided in the Third Schedule of the ID Act with reference to an establishment where there are more than 100 workmen employed, the reference of dispute has to be made to the Industrial Tribunal. In the case in hand, ignoring this fact, the Labour Commissioner made the reference of dispute to the Labour Court. The Labour Court while adjudicating the claims ignored the admission on the part of the representative of the respondents-workmen that there were more than 100 workmen employed with the appellants-Management. The appellants-Management had placed before the High Court clinching material to establish that there were more than 100 workmen in the establishment, which was in the form of certifi cates from the Employees State Insurance Corporation and Life Insurance Corporation from whom the appellants-Management had taken a group gratuity policy for its workmen. Though there was some lapse in leading evidence before the Labour Court, the same was on account of the fact that in his cross-examination, the representative of the respondents- workmen had admitted that there were more than 100 workmen employed in the establishment.