Article 77 is a directory provision. Article 77(1) refers to the form in which the decision taken by the executive is to be expressed. This is evident from the phrase “expressed to be taken” in clause (1) of Article 77. It does not have any bearing on the process of decision- making itself. The public or the citizenry would stand to suffer most from the consequences of declaring an that is not expressed in the E name of the President null and void. Hence, the appellants’ reliance on Dattatraya Moreshwar Pangarkar (supra) is misplaced. 108. The appellants also seek to rely on State of Uttaranchal v. Sunil Kumar Vaish38, where a two-judge bench of this Court observed: “23. … unless an is expressed in the name of the President F or the Governor and is authenticated in the manner prescribed by the rules, the same cannot be treated as an on behalf of the Government.” In this case, no reference is made to the decision of the Constitution Bench in Dattatraya Moreshwar Pangarkar (supra), which would be G binding on the two-judge bench in Sunil Kumar Vaish (supra). As noted above, Dattatraya Moreshwar Pangarkar (supra) held that the provisions of Article 166 were directory and not mandatory. This would 38 (2011) 8 SCC 670 H 798 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A apply squarely to the provisions of Article 77 as well. The decision in Sunil Kumar Vaish (supra) is of no assistance to the appellants’ case. 109. Finally, the appellants have relied on Gulf Goans Hotel Co. Ltd. v. Union of India39 to support their case. However, the decision in this case does not support the position urged by the appellants because it, too, holds that the consequence of non-compliance with Article 77(1) B is that it deprives the Union Government of the immunity conferred by Article 77(2). It also notices that executive action exercised pursuant to powers conferred under a statute stands on a different footing from executive action taken independent of a statute: “19. Article 77 of the Constitution provides the form in which the C Executive must make and authenticate its s and decisions. Clause (1) of Article 77 provides that all executive action of the Government must be expressed to be taken in the name of the President. The celebrated author H.M. Seervai in Constitutional Law of India, 4th Edn., Vol. 2, 1999 describes the consequences of government s or instructions not being in D accordance with clauses (1) or (2) of Article 77 by opining that the same would deprive the s of the immunity conferred by the aforesaid clauses and they may be open to challenge on the ground that they have not been made by or under the authority of the President in which case the E burden would be on the Government to show that they were, in fact, so made. In the present case, the said burden has not been discharged in any manner whatsoever. The decision in Air India Cabin Crew Assn.