Section 370 Imprisonment for life or imprisonment for By Court of Session (3) 10 years with fi ne. Section 370 Imprisonment for life or imprisonment for By Court of Session (4) 10 years with fi ne. Section 370 Imprisonment for life or imprisonment for By Court of Session (5) 14 years with fi ne. Section 370 Imprisonment for life with fi ne. By Court of Session (6) Section 370 Imprisonment for life with fi ne. By Court of Session (7) Section 371 Imprisonment for life or imprisonment for By Court of Session 10 years with fi ne. Section 376 RI for not less than 10 years but which may By Court of Session extend to imprisonment for life with fi ne. Section 376A RI for not less than 20 years but which By Court of Session may extend to imprisonment for life which shall mean imprisonment for the remainder of that person's natural life, or with death. AMANDEEP SINGH SARAN v. STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 451 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] Section RI for a term which shall not be less than By Court of Session twenty years, but which may extend to 376AB imprisonment for life, which shall mean imprisonment for the remainder of that person's natural life, and with fi ne or with death. Section 376D RI for a term which shall not be less than By Court of Session twenty years, but which may extend to life which shall mean imprisonment for the remainder of that person's natural life, and with fi ne. Section Imprisonment for life, which shall mean By Court of Session imprisonment for the remainder of that 376DA person's natural life, and with fi ne. Section Imprisonment for life, which shall mean By Court of Session imprisonment for the remainder of that 376DB person's natural life, and with fi ne, or with death. Section 376E Imprisonment for life which shall mean By Court of Session imprisonment for the remainder of that person's natural life, or with death. Section 395 Imprisonment for life, or with RI for a term By Court of Session which may extend to ten years, and fi ne. Section 396 Punishable with death, or imprisonment for By Court of Session life, or RI for a term which may extend to ten years, and fi ne. Section 400 Imprisonment for life, or with RI for a term By Court of Session which may extend to ten years, and fi ne. Section 412 Imprisonment for life, or with RI for a term By Court of Session which may extend to ten years, and fi ne. Section 413 Imprisonment for life, or with imprisonment By Court of Session of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and fi ne. Section 436 Imprisonment for life, or with imprisonment By Court of Session of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and fi ne. 452 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Section 438 Imprisonment for life, or with imprisonment By Court of Session of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and fi ne.