137. Social acceptance is an important aspect of the matrimonial relationship, but that is not the only reality; even in the exercise of choice by the parties to a marriage, there may be no acceptance at all, by members of their respective families; others too may shun them. Yet, their relationship has the benefi t of the cover of the law, since the law would recognize their relationship, and aff ord protection, and extend benefi ts available to married persons. This however eludes those living in non-heterosexual unions, who have no such recognition in all those intersections with laws and regulations that protect individual and personal entitlements that are earned, welfare based, or compensatory. The impact, therefore, is discriminatory. 138. Does the existence of such discriminatory impacts, in these intersections with the state, and arising out of a variety of regulations and laws, impel this court to fashion a remedy, such as a declaration, which enjoin legislative activity, or instruct the executive to act in a specifi ed manner, i.e., achieving non-heterosexual couple marriage? This aspect cannot be viewed in isolation, but in the context of our constitution’s entrenchment of separation of powers, which according to Kesavananda Bharati (supra), Indira Gandhi119 and other s constitutes an essential feature of the Constitution. It is one thing for this court, to commend to the state, to eliminate the discriminatory impact of the intersections with laws and publicly administered policies and institutions, upon non-heterosexual couples, and entirely another, to indirectly hold that through a confl ation of positive obligations cast on the State, that such individuals’ right to choice to cohabit and form abiding relationships, extends to the right (or some entitlement) to a legally recognised union that must be actualized by State policy/legislation. 119 Indira Nehru Gandhi v. Raj Narain, (1975) Supp. SCC 1 150 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 139. The petitioners relied on three s specifi cally, to argue that this court could issue directions, to fi ll the legal lacunae: Common Cause (supra), Vishaka & Ors v. State of Rajasthan (hereafter, “Vishaka”)120 and NALSA (supra). We have briefl y summarized why these were in a context diff erent from the case before us. 140. In Common Cause (supra), the court elaborated on the theme of liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution and the façade of dignity inherent in it. The Court relied on Port of Bombay v. Dilipkumar Raghavendranath Nadkarni121, Maneka Gandhi (supra), and State of A.P. v. Challa Ramkrishna Reddy122. The court also relied on K.S. Puttaswamy (supra), NALSA (supra) and Shabnam v. Union of India123 to underline the intrinsic value of dignity and further stated that life is not confi ned to the integrity of physical body. Having said that, the Court formulated the right under Article 21 to include the right to die with dignity, of a dying or terminally ill person and approved the application of only passive euthanasia. The Court further went on to approve the idea of individual autonomy and self-determination, underlining the context expanded and built upon the directions which had been granted in the earlier in Aruna Ramchandra Shanbaug v. Union of India (hereafter, “Aruna Shanbaug”)124.