[…] It is clear from the above that where the plaint does not E disclose a cause of action, the relief claimed is undervalued and not corrected within the time allowed by the court, insufficiently stamped and not rectified within the time fixed by the court, barred by any law, failed to enclose the required copies and the plaintiff fails to comply with the provisions of Rule 9, the court has no other option except to reject the same. A reading of the above F provision also makes it clear that power under 7 Rule 11 of the Code can be exercised at any stage of the suit either before registering the plaint or after the issuance of summons to the defendants or at any time before the conclusion of the trial. 11. This position was explained by this Court in Saleem Bhai v. G State of Maharashtra [(2003) 1 SCC 557], in which while considering 7 Rule 11 of the Code, it was held as under: (SCC p. 560, para 9) “9. A perusal of 7 Rule 11 CPC makes it clear that the relevant facts which need to be looked into for deciding an H PREM KISHORE & ORS. v. BRAHM PRAKASH & ORS. 651 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] application thereunder are the averments in the plaint. The A trial court can exercise the power under 7 Rule 11 CPC at any stage of the suit—before registering the plaint or after issuing summons to the defendant at any time before the conclusion of the trial. For the purposes of deciding an application under clauses (a) and (d) of Rule 11 of 7 B CPC, the averments in the plaint are germane; the pleas taken by the defendant in the written statement would be wholly irrelevant at that stage, therefore, a direction to file the written statement without deciding the application under 7 Rule 11 CPC cannot but be procedural irregularity touching the exercise of jurisdiction by the trial court.” C It is clear that in to consider 7 Rule 11, the court has to look into the averments in the plaint and the same can be exercised by the trial court at any stage of the suit. It is also clear that the averments in the written statement are immaterial and it is the duty of the Court to scrutinize the averments/pleas in the D plaint. In other words, what needs to be looked into in deciding such an application are the averments in the plaint. At that stage, the pleas taken by the defendant in the written statement are wholly irrelevant and the matter is to be decided only on the plaint averments. These principles have been reiterated in Raptakos E Brett & Co. Ltd. v. Ganesh Property [(1998) 7 SCC 184] and Mayar (H.K.) Ltd. v. Vessel M.V. Fortune Express [(2006) 3 SCC 100].” 30. Similarly, in Soumitra Kumar Sen v. Shyamal Kumar Sen, (2018) 5 SCC 644, an application was moved under 7 Rule 11 F of the CPC claiming rejection of the plaint on the ground that the suit was barred by res judicata.