It was urged that the court took note of the fact that the assessee was a licensee under the Drugs Act and that cosmetics within the meaning of the provisions were not covered in the Schedule to the exemption notification. It was pointed out that this court had held that while interpreting an entry in a taxing statute, the court’s role is to consider the effect of the law, upon considering it from different G angles. Different tests are laid down for the interpretation of an entry in a taxing statute namely dictionary meaning, technical meaning, users point of view, popular meaning etc. While the purpose of a statute i.e. of 11 (1995)3 SCR 1235 H 438 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A collection of tax is important, yet that itself would not mean that an assessee would be made to pay tax although he is not liable therefor, or to pay a higher rate of tax when he is liable to pay at a lower rate. The court held that Vaseline was a drug, in that case. Learned senior counsel also relied on Union of India v Vicco Laboratories12 where the claim was that ‘ViccoVajrudanti’ and ‘ViccoTermeric’ (dental powder and B turmeric powder) were ‘ayurvedic medicines’. The issue had been decided by the Supreme Court in favour of the assessee, initially, which was sought to be re-opened. The court held that to be impermissible, as the goods had been declared as drugs. 17. Learned senior counsel relied heavily on Commissioner of C Central Excise v Hindustan Lever Ltd13 (hereafter “Hindustan Lever”) and urged that merely because a particular product is substantially for the care of skin and simply because it contains subsidiary pharmaceutical or antiseptic constituents or is having subsidiary curative or prophylactic value, it would not become medicament and would still D qualify as the product for the care of the skin. It was stressed that the onus is on the revenue that the classification sought by it (if it claims the product not to be a drug or medication, but a cosmetic), to discharge it with proof. 18. It was urged, lastly by relying on Collector of Central Excise E vWockhardt Life Sciences Ltd14., (hereafter “Wockhardt Life Sciences Ltd”) that the “common parlance test” or the “commercial usage test” is most appropriate. Learned counsel relied on the following observations: “33. There is no fixed test for classification of a taxable commodity. This is probably the reason why the ‘common F parlance test’ or the ‘commercial usage test’ are the most common (see A. Nagaraju Bros. v. State of A.P. [1994 Supp (3) SCC 122] ). Whether a particular article will fall within a particular tariff heading or not has to be decided on the basis of the tangible material or evidence to determine how such G an article is understood in ‘common parlance’ or in ‘commercial world’ or in ‘trade circle’ or in its popular sense meaning. It is they who are concerned with it and it is the 12 2007 (12) SCR 534 13 2015 (10) SCC 742 H 14 (2012) 5 SCC 585 HEINZ INDIA LIMITED v. THE STATE OF KERALA 439 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.]