In the said case, the Court has observed as thus – “12. …..After all money is what money buys. What the claimants could have bought with the compensation in 1977 cannot do in 1988. Perhaps, not even one half of it. It is a common experience that the purchasing power of rupee is dwindling. With rising infl ation, the delayed payment may lose all charms and utility of the compensation. In some cases, LOONKARAN GANDHI (D) THR. LR. v. STATE OF 181 MAHARASHTRA AND ORS.[J. K. MAHESHWARI, J.] the delay may be detrimental to the interests of claimants. The Indian agriculturists generally have no avocation. They totally depend upon land. If uprooted, they will fi nd themselves nowhere. They are left high and dry……..” 34. If we take clue from the above referred s and the observations made, the principles as enunciated squarely applies in the case on hand. For the sake of clarity and at the cost of repetition, looking to the records before us, it is clear that the preliminary notifi cation was published on 12.07.1962 followed by fi nal notifi cation on 16.01.1969. The possession of the subject land was taken in 1970 and the road was constructed which is in public use since then. In the case of other land owners, award was passed on 22.09.1986, discriminating the land owner/appellant herein. Even after directions of the High Court in dated 29.09.2009 to pass an award by 30.04.2010, it was passed ‘ex-parte’ after three years on 30.04.2013 during pendency of this appeal without adhering to the mandate of Section 12(2) of the LA Act. Consequently, appellant could not get compensation of the land since last fi ve decades. In view of the said conduct, we are of the considered view that the value of the land which may be on the date of preliminary notifi cation cannot be equated on the date of passing of ‘ex-parte’ award. As per Section 48-A of LA Act, which is legislatively applicable as per the Schedule of NIT Act, it is clear that if the award is not passed within a period of two years from the date of fi nal notifi cation, compensation for the damages suff ered due to delay is required to be determined as prescribed therein. Therefore, in the peculiar facts of this case and to meet the ends of justice, we deem it appropriate to mould the relief and direct that the SLAO shall pass a fresh award taking market value as on the date when the ‘ex-parte’ award was passed, i.e., 30.04.2013. Needless to observe that, other statutory benefi ts shall be reckoned and payable from the date of preliminary notifi cation as per the provisions of the LA Act. We are also of the fi rm view that the appellant shall be entitled for compensation for damages due to delay as specifi ed under Section 48-A of the LA Act within a period of four months. 35. Accordingly, in view of the foregoing discussion, the appeal is allowed in part with the following directions – 1.