Afjal became very furious on us. They started using abusive language against us. We requested them to stop uttering abusive language. It is at that time all these persons assaulted us with their hands and fi sts for a long time. It is thereafter they on a point of pistol put on my forehead, they took away Rs. 2 lakh kept in my pocket forcefully. Thereafter, all these people stated that if we would talk of this to any one, they would kill all the members of our family. It is then Iqbal told me to sign the stamp paper. After terrorizing and threatening us, they compelled we both brothers to put our signatures on the stamp papers. We being robbed, we returned silently to our home. We thereafter communicated the present fact before our family members. It is however due to fear of these persons, none of the members of our family supported us against these persons. After thinking a lot and mustering courage, I have come down before your police station for lodging the present report. Applicant Sd/-Rajkumar 19.09.2022-Ram Kumar s/o Sadhuram r/o Kasimpusr, P.S. Mirjapur, District Saharanpur, M.No. 9758031420.” (Emphasis supplied) 4. Thus the FIR as aforestated reveals that the fi rst informant is a resident of village Kasimpur, Mirzapur, District Saharanpur. His name has been recorded as a tenure holder of agricultural land bearing Khasra No. 256/1 situated at village Mayapur, District Saharanpur. He has alleged that the appellants herein alongwith few other co-accused have been putting forward wrong claim of being the owners of the land bearing Khasra No. 256/1. It is his case that sometime in the year 2021, he along with his brother namely Rajkumar had visited the house of the appellant No. 2 herein situated at Mirzapur to request him not to interfere with their lawful possession and ownership of the land in question. It is his case that at that point of time the appellants herein and other co-accused hurled abuses to the fi rst informant and his brother Rajkumar and all the accused thereafter assaulted the fi rst informant and his brother with hands and fi sts. It is further alleged that at that point of time the accused persons on the point of a gun forcibly took away Rs. 2 Lakh from the pocket of the fi rst informant. The accused persons are also alleged to have threatened the fi rst informant that if he would talk to anyone about the incident, then all his family members would be killed. In the last, the fi rst informant has alleged that the accused persons forcibly 320 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. obtained signatures of the fi rst informant and his brother on a plain stamp paper. After the alleged incident, the fi rst informant and his brother Rajkumar left the house of the appellant No. 2 herein. 5. It is pertinent to note that for the incident alleged to have occurred in the year 2021, the FIR was lodged in the year 2022.