The report noted: “The Hindu Marriage Act, however, has already adopted the third view it would be a retrograde step if it now reverts to the second view. That apart, the third view is absolutely more fair to the innocent off -spring of the marriage, and more in harmony with modern social notions. We are, therefore, of the opinion that there is no justifi cation for reverting to the second view.” Section 16 was amended by Act 68 of 1976. As amended, Section 16 provides as follows: “16. Legitimacy of children of void and voidable marriages.—(1) Notwithstanding that marriage is null and void under section 11, any child of such marriage who would have been legitimate if the marriage had been valid, shall be legitimate, whether such child is born before or after the commencement of the Marriage Laws (Amendment) Act, 1976 (68 of 1976), and whether or not a decree of nullity is granted in respect of that marriage under this Act and whether or not the marriage is held to be void otherwise than on a petition under this Act. REVANASIDDAPPA & ANR. v. MALLIKARJUN & ORS. 333 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (2) Where a decree of nullity is granted in respect of a voidable marriage under section 12, any child begotten or conceived before the decree is made, who would have been the legitimate child of the parties to the marriage if at the date of the decree it had been dissolved instead of being annulled, shall be deemed to be their legitimate child notwithstanding the decree of nullity. (3) Nothing contained in sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) shall be construed as conferring upon any child of a marriage which is null and void or which is annulled by a decree of nullity under section 12, any rights in or to the property of any person, other than the parents, in any case where, but for the passing of this Act, such child would have been incapable of possessing or acquiring any such rights by reason of his not being the legitimate child of his parents.” 12. In Kalliani Amma (supra), a two judge Bench held that Section 16 as it was originally enacted ‘discriminated between two groups of illegitimate children in the matter of conferment of status of legitimacy’ and was hence violative of Article 14. The Court noted that in its earlier form, Section 16 was linked with Sections 11 and 12. While holding that the substituted Section 16 is constitutional, the Court analysed the impact of the non- obstante provision in sub-section 1. The Court held: “78. The words “notwithstanding that a marriage is null and void under Section 11” employed in Section 16(1) indicate undoubtedly the following: (a) Section 16(1) stands delinked from Section 11. (b) Provisions of Section 16(1) which intend to confer legitimacy on children born of void marriages will operate with full vigour in spite of Section 11 which nullifi es only those marriages which are held after the enforcement of the Act and in the performance of which Section 5 is contravened.