A copy of the balance sheet as on 31-3-1997 is also produced before us. If the amount borrowed by the respondent is shown in the balance sheet, it may amount K. HYMAVATHI v. THE STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH & 419 ANR. [A. S. BOPANNA, J.] to acknowledgment and the creditor might have a fresh period of limitation from the date on which the acknowledgment was made. However, we do not express any fi nal opinion on all these aspects, as these are matters to be agitated before the Magistrate by way of defence of the respondent. 6. This is not a case where the cheque was drawn in respect of a debt or liability, which was completely barred from being enforced under law. If for example, the cheque was drawn in respect of a debt or liability payable under a wagering contract, it could have been said that that debt or liability is not legally enforceable as it is a claim, which is prohibited under law. This case is not a case of that type. But we are certain that at this stage of the proceedings, to say that the cheque drawn by the respondent was in respect of a debt or liability, which was not legally enforceable, was clearly illegal and erroneous.” 10. From a perusal of the legal position enunciated, it is crystal clear that this Court keeping in perspective the nature of the proceedings arising under the NI Act and also keeping in view that the cheque itself is a promise to pay even if the debt is barred by time has in that circumstance kept in view the provision contained in Section 25(3) of the Contract Act and has indicated that if the question as to whether the debt or liability being barred by limitation was an issue to be considered in such proceedings, the same is to be decided based on the evidence to be adduced by the parties since the question of limitation is a mixed question of law and fact. It is only in cases wherein an amount which is out and out non-recoverable, towards which a cheque is issued, dishonoured and for recovery of which a criminal action is initiated, the question of threshold jurisdiction will arise. In such cases, the Court exercising jurisdiction under Section 482 CrPC will be justifi ed in interfering but not otherwise. In that light, this Court was of the view that entertaining a petition under Section 482 CrPC to quash the proceedings at the stage earlier to the evidence would not be justifi ed. 11. Notwithstanding the above, the learned Amicus Curiae would submit that the decisions referred to hereinabove would have to be viewed diff erently keeping in view the subsequent decision of a Constitution Bench 420 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. of this Court in the case of the Expeditious trial of Cases under Section 138 of NI Act, 2021 SCC Online SC 325 to contend that in the said decision the power of the Magistrate under Section 322 of CrPC being an aspect to be taken into consideration was considered.