[2023] 14 S.C.R. 123 : 2023 INSC 958 CASE DETAILS PRADEEP MEHRA v. HARIJIVAN J. JETHWA (SINCE DECEASED THR. LRS.) & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 6375 of 2023) OCTOBER 30, 2023 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL AND SUDHANSHU DHULIA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Matter pertains to the delay being caused to the execution proceedings u/ord. XXI CPC, and the process being abused in the execution proceedings, to the peril of the decree holder. Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – s. 47 – Questions to be determined by the court executing decree – Scope and ambit of: Held: All questions between the parties can be decided by the executing court – These questions are limited to the execution of the decree – Executing court can never go behind the decree – Under s. 47 the executing court cannot examine the validity of the of the court which had allowed the execution of the decree unless the court’s is itself without jurisdiction – Appellate court, the second appellate court and the revisional court do not have the same powers, as the powers of the executing court, which are extremely limited. [Para 5] Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – s. 47 – Execution of decree – Four years after the pronouncement of the of execution of decree which had attained fi nality, the debtors fi led an application before the executing court challenging the execution of decree – Decree holder challenged the maintainability of the application and the same was allowed – In revision, the said was set aside – Decree holder then fi led a writ petition on the ground that the revisional court erred in holding that the application moved by the debtors for setting aside the of execution comes within the purview of the power of the executing court u/s 47; and that the said attained fi nality and 123 124 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. res judicata would apply against the debtors – Dismissed by the High Court – Correctness: Held: Executing court rightly allowed the objections of the decree holder and dismissed the application fi led by the judgement debtors – An execution proceeding works in diff erent stages and if the debtors have failed to take an objection and have allowed the preliminary stage to come to an end and the matter has moved to the next stage, the debtors cannot raise the objection subsequently, and revert back to an earlier stage of the proceeding – Executing court gave the said reasons in its – Merely, because it did not specifi cally refer to the principle of res judicata would not make any diff erence – High Court though found substance in the arguments of res judicata, nevertheless refused to interfere in the petition – High Court erred by not interfering in the matter – passed by the appellate court and by the High Court not sustainable thus, set aside while the of the executing court is upheld – Res judicata. [Para 8] Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – s. 47 – Exercise of power under – Execution of a decree – Inordinate delay and slow process in the execution of a decree – Concern expressed by the Supreme Court – Direction to the executing court to complete execution within six months.