This is not just a matter of detriment to the state but to genuine aspirants to the reserved seat who would be ousted. We are of the considered view that the Division Bench ought to have condoned the delay in the facts of this D case. 15. The first respondent obtained employment with the appellant against a post which was reserved for the Scheduled Caste. She did so on the strength of a caste certificate. The caste certificate has been invalidated by the Tehsildar by relying upon the decisions of this Court in E Valsamma Paul (supra) and Anjan Kumar (supra). 16. In Valsamma Paul (supra), the appellant belonged to a forward caste but claimed that she had become a member of the reserved community by marriage. The appellant’s selection for the post of lecturer as a reserved candidate was challenged by another candidate. The question before a two Judge Bench was whether a person of a forward F caste becomes entitled to claim reservation under Articles 15(4) or 16(4) of the Constitution by marrying a person belonging to the reserved community. This Court held that a person from a forward caste who is transplanted in the backward caste by adoption, marriage or conversion will not be entitled to reservation: G 34. […] A candidate who had the advantageous start in life being born in Forward Caste and had march of advantageous life but is transplanted in Backward Caste by adoption or marriage or conversion, does not become eligible to the benefit of reservation either under Article 15(4) or 16(4), as the case may be. Acquisition H BHUBANESWAR DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY v. MADHUMITA 595 DAS [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] of the status of Scheduled Caste etc. by voluntary mobility into A these categories would play fraud on the Constitution, and would frustrate the benign constitutional policy under Articles 15(4) and 16(4) of the Constitution. 17. In Anjan Kumar (supra), the question before this Court was whether a person born from a marriage between a tribal wife and a non- B tribal husband could claim the status of Scheduled Tribe. This Court held that such a person cannot claim tribal status, unless they show that they have suffered social, economic, and educational disabilities. This Court referred to a catena of decisions, including Valsamma Paul (supra), to observe that a condition precedent for granting a tribe certificate is that C one must suffer disabilities from where one belongs. 18. In the dated 16 August 2011, the Tehsildar observed that the first respondent did not claim that she suffered disability or disadvantage as a result of her marriage. Therefore, the Tehsildar was correct in invalidating the caste certificate of the first respondent on the D ground that she did not belong to a Scheduled Caste by birth and her marriage to a person belonging to a Scheduled Caste would not entitle her to the benefit of the reservation for persons belonging to the caste of her spouse. 19. The Single Judge of the High Court directed the appellant to E reconsider the claim of the first respondent for reinstatement on the basis of the decisions of this Court in Kavita Solunke (supra) and Shalini (supra).