It is the case of the ED that he refused to receive the summons in relation to the second ECIR and he was arrested at 06.00 pm on 14.06.2023. Pankaj Bansal received the summons and appeared but as he did not divulge relevant information, the Investigating Offi cer arrested him at 10.30 pm on 14.06.2023. 20. This chronology of events speaks volumes and refl ects rather poorly, if not negatively, on the ED’s style of functioning. Being a premier investigating agency, charged with the onerous responsibility of curbing the debilitating economic off ence of money laundering in our country, every action of the ED in the course of such exercise is expected to be transparent, above board and conforming to pristine standards of fair play in action. The ED, mantled with far-reaching powers under the stringent Act of 2002, is not expected to be vindictive in its conduct and must be seen to be acting with utmost probity and with the highest degree of dispassion and fairness. In the case on hand, the facts demonstrate that the ED failed to discharge its functions and exercise its powers as per these parameters. PANKAJ BANSAL v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 731 [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] 21. In this regard, we may note that, though the appellants did not allege colourable exercise of power or malafi des or malice on the part of the ED offi cials, they did assert in categorical terms that their arrests were a wanton abuse of power, authority and process by the ED, which would tantamount to the same thing. On that subject, we may refer to the observations of this Court in State of Punjab vs. Gurdial Singh4: - ‘The question, then, is what is malafi des in the jurisprudence of power? Legal malice is gibberish unless juristic clarity keeps it separate from the popular concept of personal vice. Pithily put, bad faith which invalidates the exercise of power — sometimes called colourable exercise or fraud on power and oftentimes overlaps motives, passions and satisfactions — is the attainment of ends beyond the sanctioned purposes of power by simulation or pretension of gaining a legitimate goal. If the use of the power is for the fulfi lment of a legitimate object the actuation or catalysation by malice is not legicidal. The action is bad where the true object is to reach an end diff erent from the one for which the power is entrusted, goaded by extraneous considerations, good or bad, but irrelevant to the entrustment. When the custodian of power is infl uenced in its exercise by considerations outside those for promotion of which the power is vested the court calls it a colourable exercise and is undeceived by illusion. In a broad, blurred sense, Benjamin Disraeli was not off the mark even in law when he stated: “I repeat . . . that all power is a trust — that we are accountable for its exercise — that, from the people, and for the people, all springs, and all must exist”.