It is therefore clear that if on a date fixed, one of the parties remain absent and for that party no evidence has been examined upto that date the Court has no option but to proceed to dispose of the matter in accordance F with 17 Rule 2 in any one of the modes prescribed under 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure. It is therefore clear that after this amendment in 17 Rules 2 and 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure there remains no doubt and therefore there is no possibility of any controversy. In this view of the matter it is clear G that when in the present case on 30th October 1985 when the case was called nobody was present for the defendant. It is also clear that till that date the plaintiffs evidence has been recorded but no evidence for defendant was recorded. The defendant was only to begin on this date or an earlier date when the case was adjourned. It is therefore clear that upto the date i.e. 30th October, H 1985 when the trial court closed the case of defendant there was PREM KISHORE & ORS. v. BRAHM PRAKASH & ORS. 665 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] no evidence on record on behalf of the defendant. In this view of A the matter therefore the explanation to 17 Rule 2 was not applicable at all. Apparently when the defendant was absent 17 Rule 2 only permitted the Court to proceed to dispose of the matter in any one of the modes provided under 9. 7. It is also clear that 17 Rule 3 as it stands was not applicable B to the facts of this case as admittedly on the date when the evidence of defendant was closed nobody appeared for the defendant. In this view of the matter it could not’ be disputed that the Court when proceeded to dispose of the suit on merits had committed an error. Unfortunately even on the review application, C the learned trial Court went on in the controversy about 17 Rules 2 and 3 which existed before the amendment and rejected the review application and on appeal, the High Court also unfortunately dismissed the appeal in limine by one word.” (Emphasis supplied) D 49. Thus the dictum as laid by this Court in Prakash Chander Manchanda (supra) is that it will be within the discretion of the Court to proceed under Rule 3 even in the absence of evidence but such discretion is limited only in cases where a party which is opposing has led some evidence or has examined substantial part. E 50. Let us apply the aforesaid dictum as laid by this Court to the facts of the present case. In the case on hand, after the first eviction petition was instituted, the defendants therein filed their written statement denying the relationship of landlord and tenant. After the written statement came on record, no further evidence was led by the plaintiffs. All that was on record was in the form of pleadings in the plaint.