We, in fact, queried Smt. Archana Pathak Dave, learned counsel for the first G respondent as to whether this was the basis.She did not appear to support the decision on the basis that it forms the basis for the decision. We may notice further, the following pleading of the first respondent which has been adverted to by the NGT in their reply affidavit before the NGT even: H K.T.V. HEALTH FOOD PVT. LTD. v. UNION OF INDIA AND 281 ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] “5. It is submitted that the said activity under scrutiny is a A permissible activity and regulated under para No. 8 (I) (i) (b), para No. 8 (I) (ii) (f) and para No. 8. II. (vi) of the CRZ Notification, 2011.” 57. Paragraph-8 (I) (i) (b), undoubtedly, related to permitting of pipelines being constructed in CRZ-I. Paragraph-8 (I) (ii) related to CRZ- B I.The further reference is only to paragraph 8 (II) (vi) which permits the activity in question ‘in’ notified ports.The aspect relating to buildings being permitted on the landward side of the existing road dealt with in paragraph 8 (II) (i) was not the basis for the decision even according to the counter affidavit. This is apart from the fact that impugned decision C of the first respondent does not proceed on the basis of paragraph 8 (II) (i). This is also apart from noticing the contention of Respondent No.5 that storage facility being specifically dealt with, ‘building’ under paragraph-8 (II) (i), would not include storage facility. We would therefore, think that we must not be persuaded to allow the appellants or allow them to lean on paragraph 8 (II) (i) of the 2011 Notification. D 58. Another argument, which has been raised by Shri Dhruv Mehta, appears to stem from the law relating to contemporanea expositio. The authorities are experts. They have applied their minds.Their understanding should govern. At least, it should be given the weight that is due to them. This forms the premise. Moreover, he refers to the E of this Court in K. P. Varghese v. ITO13. K. P. Varghese (supra) involved the interpretation of Section 52 (2) of the Income Tax Act, 1961. This Court took the view inter alia that to invoke Section 52(2), it was not enough only to show that the fair market value of the capital asset as on the date of the transfer exceeded the full value of the F consideration declared by the assessee by not less than 15 per cent of the value so declared. This Court eschewed a purely literal interpretation on the basis that it led to manifestly unreasonable and absurd consequences. It was found that Parliament did not intend to target bona fide transactions, where the assessee had truthfully declared the actual consideration. This Court drew upon the speech of the Finance Minister, G the Heydon’s Rule or the Mischief Rule and the importance of the word ‘declared’ figuring in Section 52 (2) and the fact that soon after the introduction of the provision, the Central Board of Direct Taxes issued statutory circulars under Section 119 of the Income Tax Act explaining 13(1981) 4 SCC 173 H 282 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R.