Regarding suggestion received that PPA of electricity component should be a fixed price long term contract (without escalation) since Commission has assumed fixed price while determining REC price bands in its methodology, it is clarified that the price band is subject to periodic revision; hence fixed F APPC or long-term contract without escalation might affect viability of RE Projects. In any case proposed amendment provides that APPC would be determined by the Appropriate Commission” 29. Counsel appearing for the association submitted that in terms G of the regulatory framework, PPAs executed by generating companies and distribution licensees have to be approved by the appropriate commission; and that the PPA in question was never approved by State Commission nor did the appellants approach the State Commission for such approval. It was further submitted that floor price and forbearance H 692 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A price are to be determined guided by various principles, inter alia, variations in APPC across the states, (which is revised on an annual basis). Hence, the APPC cannot be a static concept else variation in floor price or forbearance price would lead to under recovery to generators. 30. It was further contended that APPC along with REC pricing, B together, are the tariff determined and approved for the supply of power. That is to say that APPC and REC pricing are two halves of the same whole which constitutes the overall tariff which a generating company registered under the REC mechanism is entitled to receive. APPC along with REC pricing is what was intended to be incorporated as part of the C tariff clause in the PPA. If either of the components is pegged or capped artificially, and without the approval of the State Commission, it would lead to a skewed application of the REC mechanism to the detriment of generating company, leading to under-recovery and unviability of the RE generator. D 31. It was argued that Regulation 9(2) of REC Regulations 2010 provides for the determination of the floor price (minimum price) and the forbearance price (maximum price) within which the RECs can be traded in power exchanges. The floor price and the forbearance are to be determined by CERC for the entire country guided by various principles, inter alia, variations in APPC across the States, which is E revised on an annual basis. Therefore, if APPC is made static then variation in Floor Price/ Forbearance price would lead to under recovery to generators. 32. The APPC to be taken into consideration under the REC mechanism must be dynamic and must be revised on a regular basis. F When APPC is increased, the floor price of REC comes down and vice versa and the same is subject to change every year. The APPC along with REC pricing, together, are the tariff determined and approved for the supply of power. In other words, the APPC and REC pricing are two halves of the same whole, which constitute the overall tariff which a generating company registered under the REC mechanism is entitled G to receive.