Hence, it is necessary to go into the question as to, whether, the appellant herein has been so declared as a state co-operative bank. This question would need not detain us for long as the Kerala High Court in A.P. Varghese had categorically stated that the “Kerala State Co-operative Bank” is a “state co-operative bank” as defi ned under the NABARD Act, 1981. Therefore, the appellant bank has not been declared as a state co- operative bank under the provisions of NABARD Act, 1981. Further, in the case of Mavilayi Service Co-operative Bank, this Court observed that a co-operative bank would engage in banking business on obtaining a licence under Section 22(1b) of the BR Act, 1949. In the instant case, the appellant herein is nota co-operative bank having regard to the aforesaid conspectus of the provisions so as to require a licence under the aforesaid provision for carrying on banking business. In the circumstances, the question could still arise as to whether the appellant herein is entitled to benefi t of deduction under Section 80P of the Act. 14.2. In Mavilayi Service Co-operative Bank, it has been observed that Section 80P of the Act is a benefi cial provision which was enacted in to encourage and promote the growth of the co-operative sector generally in the economic life of the country and therefore, has to be read liberally in favour of the assessee. That once the assessee is entitled to avail of deduction, the entire amount of profi ts and gains of business that are attributable to any one or more activities mentioned in sub-section (2) of KSCARDB v. THE ASSESSING OFFICER, TRIVANDRUM 361 AND ORS. [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Section 80P must be given by way of deduction vide Citizen Co-operative Society. This is because sub-section (4) of Section 80P is in the nature of a proviso to the main provision contained in sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 80P. The proviso excludes co-operative banks, which are co-operative societies which must possess a licence from the Reserve Bank of India to do banking business. In other words, if an entity does not require a licence to do banking business within the defi nition of banking under Section5(b) of the BR Act, 1949, then it would not fall within the scope of sub-section (4) of Section 80P. 14.3. While analysing Section 80P of the Act in depth, the following points were noted by this Court: i) Firstly, the marginal note to Section 80P which reads “Deduction in respect of income of co-operative societies” is signifi cant as it indicates the general “drift” of the provision. ii) Secondly, for purposes of eligibility for deduction, the assessee must be a “co-operative society”. iii) Thirdly, the gross total income must include income that is referred to in sub-section (2). iv) Fourthly, sub-clause (2)(a)(i) speaks of a co-operative society being “engaged in”, inter alia, carrying on the business of banking or providing credit facilities to its members. v) Fifthly, the burden is on the assessee to show, by adducing facts, that it is entitled to claim the deduction under Section 80P.