Section 9C relied upon by the respondents did not clothe the authority with power to make rules. Equally,Section 17 would not come to the aid of the respondents. Therefore, the rule was not law within the meaning of Article 300A. There is no law made by the competent legislature C empowering deprivation of the property of the appellants. 16. Even a law made by the legislature could not result in the deprivation of property in the manner which is purported to be achieved through what is described as a rule which in fact is not a statutory rule. It is his contention that the survey of the Act would reveal that wherever D the land is reserved, the lawgiver has contemplated that the land should be acquired. The concept of acquisition is traced to Entry 42 of List III of Part VII of the Constitution. In other words, unless land is acquired under the relevant law which undoubtedly involves payment of compensation there would be no justification in law to compel a person topart with his property by what is described as a compelled gift. There E is no compensation payable under the gift admittedly. Therefore, this amounts to the execution of the gift which is a direct result of the rule which so mandated the execution of the gift. It is clearly expropriatory. The law at any rate, it is contended that is, the impugned rule, is palpably and manifestly arbitrary. Similar arguments have, no doubt, been addressed F by the other learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of both the appellants and the writ petitioner.There are various other ancillary submissions which had been taken up. 17. There is also a further case that the rule falls foul of Article 14 for another reason. It is complained that the rule produces classification G which is not permitted under Article 14. In other words, it is pointed out that for layout upto 3,000 sq. metres, there is no requirement to execute a gift. In respect of layout which is in excess of 3,000 sq. metres and which is less than 10,000 sq. metres, there is no such requirement and in place of a gift, it is open to the proponent of the project to give the equivalent value. It is without any rational basis, and therefore,attracting H ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1045 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] the vice of class legislation or unreasonable classification resulting in A equals being treated differently, that in respect of projects involving more than 10,000 square metres, the builder is bound to execute a gift in favour of the authority. SUBMISSIONS OF SHRI N. SUBRAMANIYAN, ADVOCATE IN C.A. 7334 OF 2013 [KEYARAM HOTELS B P. LIMITED] 18. In this case, the appellant is the owner and continues to be the owner of the layout area. The gift was effected as per an undertaking given to the High Court but subject to the Writ Petition. Secondly, there is no laches or delay.