Further, the BCI Rules in Chapter I of the said Section II provide that the Senior Advocates in the matter of their practice of the F profession of law mentioned in Section 30 of the 1961 Act would be subject to certain restrictions. One of such restrictions contained in clause (cc) reads as under: “(cc) A Senior Advocate shall, however, be free to make concessions or give undertaking in the course of arguments G on behalf of his clients on instructions from the junior advocate.” 27. Further, the “Code of Ethics” prescribed by the Bar Council of India, in recognition of the evolution in professional and ethical standards within the legal community, H 82 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A provides for certain rules which contain canons of conduct and etiquette which ought to serve as general guide to the practice and profession. Chapter III of the said Code provides for an “Advocate’s duty to the client”. Rule 26 thereunder mandates that an “advocate shall not make any compromise or concession without the proper and specific instructions of B his/her client”. It is pertinent to notice that an advocate under the Code expressly includes a group of advocates and a law firm whose partner or associate acts for the client. 28. Therefore, the BCI Rules make it necessary that despite the specific legal stream of practice, seniority at the Bar or C designation of an advocate as a Senior Advocate, the ethical duty and the professional standards insofar as making concessions before the Court remain the same. It is expected of the lawyers to obtain necessary instructions from the clients or the authorised agent before making any concession/ D statement before the court for and on behalf of the client. 29. While the BCI Rules and the Act, do not draw any exception to the necessity of an advocate obtaining instructions before making any concession on behalf of the client before the court, this Court in Periyar & Pareekanni Rubber Ltd. v. State of E Kerala [(1991) 4 SCC 195] has noticed the sui generis status and the position of responsibility enjoyed by the Advocate General in regard to the statements made by him before the courts. The said observation is as under: (SCC p. 209, para 19) “19. … Any concession made by the Government Pleader F in the trial court cannot bind the Government as it is obviously, always, unsafe to rely on the wrong or erroneous or wanton concession made by the counsel appearing for the State unless it is in writing on instructions from the responsible officer. Otherwise it would place undue and G needless heavy burden on the public exchequer. But the same yardstick cannot be applied when the Advocate General has made a statement across the Bar since the Advocate General makes the statement with all responsibility.” H PRASANTA KUMAR SAHOO & ORS. v. CHARULATA SAHU 83 & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] (See: Joginder Singh Wasu v. State of Punjab [(1994) 1 A SCC 184] .)