19. We direct that CLAT shall, in the future, formulate the modalities in a manner consistent with its formulation which was placed on the record before this Court so as to obviate any inconvenience to PwD candidates. The consortium shall also take due steps to ensure that its guidelines are consistent with the Offi ce Memorandum dated 10 August 2022 issued by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Department of Persons with Disabilities. This Court has been apprised of the fact that the consortium also makes arrangements to provide a scribe to any candidate with disabilities who is unable to secure a scribe on his own so as to ensure that no candidate would unable to appear in the entrance test. 20. The guidelines which have been prescribed by the Consortium stipulate that the scribe who is engaged by a candidate should not (a) qualifi ed above the 11th standard or (b) affi liated to any test-preparatory organization or examination coaching centre. The above guideline is sought to be challenged on the ground that the Offi ce Memorandum dated 10 August 2022 issued by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment stipulates only that if the examination body provides a scribe, it shall be ensured that qualifi cation of the scribe is not more than the minimum qualifi cation criteria of the examination. However, the Offi ce Memorandum provides that the qualifi cation of the scribe should always be matriculate or above. The Offi ce Memorandum also states that in case the candidates are allowed to bring their own scribe, the qualifi cation of the scribe should be one step below the qualifi cation of the candidate taking the examination. 21. Mr. Nikhil Nayyar, senior counsel submitted that the restriction which has been imposed by the Consortium to the eff ect that the scribe ARNAB ROY v. CONSORTIUM OF NATIONAL LAW 475 UNIVERSITIES [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] should not be above the 11th standard or be affi liated to any test-preparatory organisation or coaching centre is irrational. 22. On the other hand, Mr. Siddharth Aggarwal, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the consortium, emphasised the circumstances in which such a restriction has been imposed. Senior counsel submitted that the entire examination consists of Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs). In this backdrop, it is necessary, in to maintain the integrity and sanctity of the examination, that the scribe does not provide independent answers to the MCQs based on their own knowledge or experience and hence the twofold restriction has been imposed. Moreover, it has been submitted that in any event, if a candidate has any diffi cult in engaging a scribe, the Consortium is ready and willing to provide a scribe so that the candidate is not prevented from appearing for the entrance test. 23. The affi davit which has been fi led on behalf of the Consortium indicates that at the CLAT which was conducted on 18 December 2022, 292 candidates belonged to the PwD category. Of these candidates 211 appeared for the under graduate-CLAT while 81 candidates appeared for the post graduate-CLAT.