Thus the prosecution has brought to the notice of the Court that in Ex.P5, the calls were actually found for 71 seconds at 9.22 P.M. and 43 C seconds at 9.25 P.M. are found in Ex.P5, and another call which was made is also found therein which was from M.O.4 cellphone which was recovered from the appellant/A-1. Out of these three cell phones one cell phone was with the SIM card and the other two cell phones without SIM card. Now the documentary evidence D produced by the prosecution would go to show that three calls were made namely two calls to P.W.8 at 9.22 and 9.25 P.M. respectively and after ascertaining the number of P.W.1, the third call was made to P.W.1. All the documentary evidence were placed before the trial Court. Thus it would be quite clear that the evidence of P.W.8 that the appellant/A-1 wanted to know the number of E P.W.1, and then he made a call to P.W.8 and came to know about the number, and thereafter, he made a call at about 9.39 P.M. to P.W.1 as could be found in the evidence of P.W.1. Even if Ex. P5, being the CDR, is not relied upon by this Court in the above paragraph, the case of the prosecution is not weakened F as it merely corroborates the documentary evidence and witness testimonies that remain unblemished regardless. From the above discussion, it is clear that there is no reason to doubt the guilt of the petitioner. 53. Therefore, even though none of the grounds raised by the G petitioner amount to errors apparent on the face of the record, in view of the above analysis, it can also be conclusively said that all the grounds on merits fail to raise any reasonable doubt in the prosecution’s case. 54. Accordingly, we see no reason in the review jurisdiction to interfere with the concurrent findings of the Trial Court, High Court and H 1050 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A this Court vis-à-vis the guilt of the petitioner for kidnapping and murdering the victim. 55. The counsel for the petitioner has also pressed upon this Court to reconsider the quantum of the sentence in terms of the capital punishment which has been ed by the Trial Court and confirmed in appeal in of the High Court and this Court. B E. Sentencing & Mitigation 56. The counsel for the petitioner argued at length that the death sentence was passed without a proper mitigation exercise regarding the circumstances of the petitioner. C E.1. Lingering Doubt Theory 57. The counsel for the petitioner submitted that the sentence of death cannot be imposed in such cases where the conviction is based on circumstantial evidence as a ‘lingering doubt’ regarding the guilt of the accused persists. 58. However, in Shatrughna Baban Meshram v State of D Maharashtra16, a three judge Bench of this Court has ruled out the theory of ‘lingering doubt’/ ‘residual doubt’. The Court held: 77. When it comes to cases based on circumstantial evidence in our jurisprudence, the standard that is adopted in terms of law laid down by this Court as noticed in Sharad Birdhichand Sarda and E subsequent decisions is that the circumstances must not only be individually proved or established, but they must form a consistent chain, so conclusive as to rule out the possibility of any other hypothesis except the guilt of the accused.