& Ors.29 referred to a number of earlier s on the issue, including D. Stephen Joseph30, Satpal Antil v. Union of India31, Anil Kumar Gupta32, A.K. Raghumani Singh v. Gopal Chandra Nath33 and Pramod K. Pankaj v. State of Bihar34and quoted with approval of the E last of these s. The principle laid down is that in the absence of any statutory provision or rule made thereunder or under the proviso appended to Article 309 of the Constitution of India, once an incumbent is appointed to the post according to rules, their seniority has to be counted from the date of appointment. F 23. In Shailendra Dania & Ors.35 case, it was noticed in para 36 that the past practice would be a relevant aspect while construing the service rule. The aforementioned distinguished itself from D. Stephen Joseph36 case on the ground that the interpretation of the rules 29 (supra) G 30 (supra) 31 (1995) 4 SCC 419 32 (supra) 33 (2000) 4 SCC 30 34 (2004) 3 SCC 723 35 (supra) H 36 (supra) T. VALSAN (D) THR. LRS. & ORS. v. K. KANAGARAJ & ORS. 467 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] would be determined on a case-to-case basis, and the wordings of the A rules as well as past practices are important criteria. Similarly, in the present case, the Electricity Department has a past practice of considering the years of service prior to the acquisition of the degree. 24.The principle of past practice being of significance has also been noticed in M.B. Joshi37 case. This also discusses the B aspect where there are two channels for promotion (as in the present case) and illustrates that if the total time period of service was not to be counted, then there could not be said to be any incentive to acquire the higher degree except as an academic pursuit. The incentive is that if you acquire a higher degree as compared to a diploma, you come into a C channel which entitles consideration, albeit on merit, in a fast lane with less number of years of service required in the cadre. 25.In our view, one of the important aspects is the wording of the Rule itself. According to the Rules, 50 percent of the promotion quota is from Junior Engineers with three years of regular service in the grade D “and” possessing a degree in Electrical Engineering. The Rule does not say from which date the time period of regular service has to be counted, but there is a twin requirement of three years of regular service as also a degree. As against this, the second scheme of 50 percent promotion from Junior Engineers uses the word “with” seven years of regular service in the grade and possessing a diploma in Electrical Engineering. E Thus, the distinction is between the diploma holder and the degree holder and the period of service rendered as a Junior Engineer without any distinction between the years served prior to or after having obtained the degree.