However, we shall also examine whether these appeals must succeed on a second count, i.e., whether there exists any scheme in the State of West Bengal, governing compassionate appointment vis-à-vis municipal employees dying in harness. C 16. In to determine the question as to whether there exists any scheme in the State of West Bengal, governing compassionate appointment vis-à-vis municipal employees dying in harness, it would be useful to refer to the content of the relevant State Government Notifications issued in this regard. The relevant Circulars are: 301-Emp., 302-Emp. and 303-Emp. all dated 21stAugust, 2002; 97-Emp. dated D 6thJune, 2005 and 142-Emp. dated 1stNovember, 2007. The relevant portions of each of such Circulars are extracted hereinunder for easy reference: No. 301-EMP/lM-10/2000-21st August, 2002: E “In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (a) of section 3 of the West Bengal Regulation of Recruitment in State Government Establishments and Establishments of Public Undertakings, Statutory Bodies. Government Companies and Local Authorities Act, 1999 (West Bengal Act XIV of 1999), the Governor is pleased to declare the following categories of persons F as exempted categories for the purpose of the aforesaid Act:- 1. Dependents of employees dying in harness: A solely dependent wife/son/daughter/near relation of an employee who dies in harness leaving his family in immediate need of assistance. G A near relation of the deceased employee may be considered for employment on compassionate ground only when the son/daughter/wife of the deceased employee cannot be considered for employment owing to minor age or other disabilities. In such a case the employment of a H THE STATE OF WEST BENGAL v. DEBABRATA TIWARI & 639 ORS. ETC. ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] near relation of the deceased employee may be considered A only for providing assistance immediately needed by the family, left behind by the deceased. xxx This supersedes all earlier circulars and executive s issued B from time-to-time by the Government of West Bengal in the Labour Department relating to employment of persons belong to the Exempted Categories.” No. 302-EMP/1M-10/2000- 21st August, 2002: “In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (b) of section C 3 of the West Bengal Regulation of Recruitment in State Government Establishments and Establishments of Public Undertakings, Statutory Bodies, Government Companies and Local Authorities Act, 1999 (West Bengal Act XIV of 1999), the Governor is pleased to that of the local vacancies arising in D a year under any appointing authority, other than the vacancies which are required to be filled up either on the recommendations of- (a) the Public Service Commission, West Bengal, or (b) the West Bengal College Service Commission, or E (c) the West Bengal School Service Commission, or (d) the Municipal Service Commission, or (e) the Co-operative Service Commission Or by promotion, or by absorption of persons declared surplus by the State Government F or by absorption of such categories of casual workers and other workers as the State Government may by notification specify from time to time, 30% shall be treated as reserved to be filled up by persons falling within the exempted categories notified under sub- section (a) of section 3 of the aforesaid Act.” G No.