It is equally well- settled that the classification in to be reasonable must satisfy two tests: (i) the classification must be founded on intelligible differentia and (ii) the differentia must have a E rational relation with the object sought to be achieved by the legislation in question. In this connection it must be borne in mind that the object itself should be lawful. The object itself cannot be discriminatory, for otherwise, for instance, if the object is to F discriminate against one section of the minority the discrimination cannot be justified on the ground that there is a reasonable classification because it has rational relation to the object sought to be achieved. What can be reasonable classification for the purpose of G determining compensation if the object of the legislation is to compulsorily acquire land for public purposes? It would not be disputed that different principles of compensation cannot be formulated for lands acquired on the basis that the owner is old or young, healthy or ill, tall or H 468 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A short, or whether the owner has inherited the property or built it with his own efforts, or whether the owner is politician or an advocate. Why is this sort of classification not sustainable? Because the object being to compulsorily acquire for a public purpose, the object is equally achieved whether the land belongs to one type of owner or another type.” B 59. In our opinion, a bare reading of the abovementioned makes it amply clear that the classification made by the GNOIDA authority for the purposes of awarding differential compensation is bad in law, and it is precisely this kind of classification that has been barred. C When the purpose of the acquisition of the land is for the benefit of the public at large, then the nature of the owner of the said land is inconsequential to the purpose. If such a classification on the basis of the nature of owner is allowed, then on the same grounds, there might be a possibility of future classifications where powerholding members of the society may get away with a larger compensation, and the D marginalized may get lesser compensation. This is precisely what this Court in the abovementioned predicted,and to pre-empt such arbitrary classification, clarified the position in law. 60. The Land Acquisition Act does not distinguish between classes of owners, and uniformly provides compensation to all class of E landowners. The classification made between Pushtaini landowners and Gair-pushtaini landowners, on the basis of the reasoning mentioned above, is violative of the law laid down in the Nagpur Trust case (Supra) and Article 14 of the Constitution. Conclusion F 61. In light of the above-mentioned reasoning, we are of the opinion that the classification made by both the executive actions is bad in law, and is liable to be set aside. The Land Acquisition Act does not envisage any differential compensation on the basis of such classification, and G hence, this Court must infer the compensation to be provided by the executive actions within the confines of Section 23 of the Act.