mtr. 10% of the total area consisting of 1164 sq. mtr. was reserved for use as OSR. A gift was executed on 10.02.1994 under the DCR. The CMDA was either to maintain the OSR area on its own or to permit the appellant Association to maintain the same. 180 families residing in the campus do D not have any park and any recreational facility despite the OSR. Thereafter, there is reference to attempts being made by some persons to encroach on the said OSR area for some other purposes. Several loads of earth was dumped in the OSR area. The case on the other hand of the respondents as can be seen from the writ appeal is that at the time E of construction, the land owners earmarked the portion of the land, that is, 11836 sq. feet, as open space regulation (OSR area) for road and park and gifted the same as per the gift deed.The second respondent Corporation has formed road in that land during the year 2003 itself and was maintaining the same. It is their case that the appellant Association was blocking the said road. The said road is a shortest link from West F Vellachery to East Vellachery - Vijay Nagar and this road gives access to Venkateshwara Nagar, MGR Nagar and Devikarumariamman Nagar etc., where one lakh people are living in Vellachery. 47. Now, it is necessary to notice the actual terms of the gift deed which was executed on 18th February, 1994. The relevant terms read as G follows: - “GIFT DEED This indenture made on this 18th day of February 1994. between H 1076 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 1. Shri K.S. Dasarathan, Hindu, aged about 48 years. 2. Smt. D. Inbanayagi, Hindu, aged about 40 years, wife of Shri K.S.Dasarathan. both residing at 84, Dr. Natesan Road, Mylapore, Madras-4. B 3. Shri G.T. Murugesan, Hindu, aged about 45 years. 4. Smt. M. Jayalakshmi, Hindu, aged about 40 years, wife of Shri G.T.Murugesan. both residing at No.35, Nainar Nadar Road, Mylapore, Madras- 4. C All represented by their Power Agent Shri M.S. Rajamanickam, son of ShriM. Sivagnanam, aged about 42 years, residing at 75, C.P. Ramasamy Road, Alwarpet, Madras, hereinafter called “THE DONOR” of the one part; and D The Madras Metropolitan Development Authority, represented by itsMember Secretary, having their office at No.8, Gandhi Irwin Road,”Thalamuthu Natarajan Building”, Egmore, Madras, hereinafter called”THE DONEE” on the other part; E WHEREAS the “DONOR” is well sufficiently entitled, free from allencumbrances, the piece of lands for roads and parks hereunderdescribed and intended to be hereby granted conveyed and assigned. WHEREAS the DONOR is the absolute GPA holder of the property bearing S.No.379/1 (Part) and 380 / 4 (part) of Velacherry F Village andsubmitted a proposal for development of the land in the above S.Nos. for residential purposes.To comply with the rules and regulations prevailingnow, the DONOR in the interest of public has agreed to transfer the roadsand parkand other open space hereunder described through a gift deedin favour of DONEE and G DONEE has agreed to accept the same.