Hence the right to admission to such seats should be primarily available to Indian citizens instead of foreigners including OCI Cardholders. It is contended that the right to claim the protection under Article 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution are not available to a person who is not a citizen, more particularly in G matters of education and is limited to the privilege bestowed through a notification issued under the Act. The respondent No.1 therefore seeks to justify and sustain the notification dated 04.03.2021, a portion of which is under challenge. H 256 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 7. In the light of the above we have heard Mr. P. Chidambaram and Mr. K.V. Viswanathan learned senior counsels for the respective petitioners as also Mr. Kunal Cheema and the other learned counsels appearing for the respective petitioners. We have also heard Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, learned Additional Solicitor General for the respondents. In that light, we have perused the petition papers and all the documents B made available to us. 8. The summary of the arguments on behalf of the petitioners is as hereunder; This Court vide dated 8.11.2021 in WP 1397 of 2020 passed C a general applicable to all eligible candidates who are similarly situated to appear for counselling in General at par with Indian citizens and same was made applicable to a variety of courses stated therein. Many of the Petitioners in WP No.891 of 2021, who were all NEET-2021 aspirants, appeared for NEET 2021 and also qualified D and have secured admissions and are pursuing their academic courses. They would be in their 2nd year of studies. There would be other OCIs also who are not part of the writ petitions, but would have taken the benefit of the dated 08.11.2021 passed by this Hon’ble Court, which was a general applicable to E all. The OCIs have been equated with NRIs all along since 2005 as regards various rights conferred under Section 7B(1) of the Citizenship Act and more particularly rights regarding education. That vide notification dated 05.01.2009, OCIs F were permitted to carry out various professions in India as enumerated therein. That in view of the various rights having been given and more particularly education rights and right to work in India and also because many OCIs have their grandparents/families/roots in G India, they came back to India long back and have been residing and working here and contributing to the nation like any other citizen in the form of taxes etc. The span of living here ranges as long as about 16 to 17 years. H ANUSHKA RENGUNTHWAR & ORS. v. UNION OF INDIA & 257 ORS. That till up to 04.03.2021 (impugned notification), OCIs were A entitled to seek admission to all seats like NRIs were (who are still entitled to) and not restricted to only NRI seats or supernumerary seats, but pursuant to the said portion of the impugned notification, OCIs are now entitled to only seats reserved for NRI i.e.