304 Part II of the IPC. Penal Code, 1860 – s. 304 Part-I – Applicability of – Section C 304 of the IPC will apply to the following classes of cases: (i) when the case falls under one or the other of the clauses of Section 300, but it is covered by one of the exceptions to that Section, (ii) when the injury caused is not of the higher degree of likelihood which is covered by the expression ‘sufficient in the ordinary course of nature D to cause death’ but is of a lower degree of likelihood which is generally spoken of as an injury ‘likely to cause death’ and the case does not fall under Clause (2) of Section 300 of the IPC, (iii) when the act is done with the knowledge that death is likely to ensue but without intention to cause death or an injury likely to cause death. E Penal Code, 1860 – Intention to kill – Intention to kill is not the only intention that makes a culpable homicide a murder – The intention to cause injury or injuries sufficient in the ordinary cause of nature to cause death also makes a culpable homicide a murder if death has actually been caused and intention to cause such injury F or injuries is to be inferred from the act or acts resulting in the injury or injuries. Penal Code, 1860 – s.299 and s.300 – discussed. Criminal Law – Intent and knowledge – discussed. G Partly allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1. Few important principles of law may be summed up thus:- (1) When the court is confronted with the question, what offence the accused could be said to have committed, the true H ANBAZHAGAN v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY THE 1093 INSPECTOR OF POLICE test is to find out the intention or knowledge of the accused in A doing the act. If the intention or knowledge was such as is described in Clauses (1) to (4) of Section 300 of the IPC, the act will be murder even though only a single injury was caused. To illustrate : ‘A’ is bound hand and foot. ‘B’ comes and placing his revolver against the head of ‘A’, shoots ‘A’ in his head killing B him instantaneously. Here, there will be no difficulty in holding that the intention of ‘B’ in shooting ‘A’ was to kill him, though only single injury was caused. The case would, therefore, be of murder falling within Clause (1) of Section 300 of the IPC. Taking another instance, ‘B’ sneaks into the bed room of his enemy ‘A’ while the latter is asleep on his bed. Taking aim at the left chest C of ‘A’, ‘B’ forcibly plunges a sword in the left chest of ‘A’ and runs away. ‘A’ dies shortly thereafter. The injury to ‘A’ was found to be sufficient in ordinary course of nature to cause death. There may be no difficulty in holding that ‘B’ intentionally inflicted the particular injury found to be caused and that the said injury was D objectively sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.