Despite reluctance of my daughter on 09.05.07 Balvir left his son at Kotdwar in healthy condition and took my daughter Sudha at Mangolpuri, Delhi forcibly. Before leaving, my daughter expressed her unwillingness to go to Delhi, to my younger brother Harender over telephone. 5. That on 13.05.07 at about 1.30 o’clock in the night my younger brother Harender Singh received information from Delhi over phone that my daughter Sudha has left for her heavenly abode all of a sudden in Mangolpuri. Balvir Singh did not give this information to any of our family member rather some neighbour gave this information to the younger brother of Harender Singh; Shivcharan, who resides in Delhi. Shivcharan visited Mangolpuri in the night, where he came to know that my daughter was in good health on that night and Balvir Singh after the death of my daughter, took her dead body to his home at Ratanpur, Kotdwar by private ambulance without giving information to anyone. When we came to know about this fact, then we informed the police of Police Station Kotdwar but we could not provide all details at that time. As reddish injury marks were apparent on the neck of my daughter, Police initiated inquest proceedings and arranged postmortem of her dead body. Sir, I have reason to believe that the said Maheshwari Devi and her son Balvir Singh have killed BALVIR SINGH v. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 823 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] my daughter having hatched a conspiracy and have also induced her little child also in their favour. 6. That her mother-in law and her husband Balvir Singh caused inhuman harassment to my daughter which amounts to a heinous crime. Photocopies of her letters are being annexed herewith. I had lodged report at Police Station and Deputy District Magistrate also that she has been killed, but no fi rst information report has not been registered till now. Therefore, it is prayed to please police of Police Station Kotdwar to register First Information Report and get the off enders punished for the off ence committed by them. Dated : 02.06.07. Applicant - Sd/- Virendra Singh son of late Mohan Singh, resident of Village Mawasa, Patti –Ajmer Palla, Tehsil – Kotdwar, District –Pouri Garhwal. Note: I, HC 14 Kabool Singh Prajapati do hereby certify that copy of formal report has been recorded word to word which is clearly legible. Sd/- HC 14 Kabool Singh Police Station Kotdwar Dated : 09.06.07” 5. Upon registration of the FIR, the investigation was carried out. The dead body of the deceased on being brought from Delhi to Kotdwar, was sent for post mortem. The inquest panchnama was drawn in presence of the independent panch witnesses. The statements of various witnesses were recorded by the investigating offi cer under Section 161 of the CrPC. The viscera collected during the course of the post mortem was sent to the forensic science laboratory. Both the appellants herein were arrested and remanded to judicial custody. 6. Upon conclusion of the investigation, chargesheet was fi led for the off ences enumerated above.