Therefore, according to him, any one series of bank notes of a G denomination could be demonetised and not all series of notes of a particular denomination or all series of bank notes of all denominations, by issuance of an executive notification. He contended that if the Section is read down, then, it would be saved from the vice of unconstitutionality; otherwise, the power of the Central Government to demonetise all series H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 161 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] of bank notes of all denominations would be arbitrary and A an excessive power, which is devoid of any guidance. That such power if vested with the Central Government, would be contrary to the provisions of the Act. He further contended that exercise of discretion by the Central Government could be only to the extent of demonetisation B of particular series of bank notes of any particular denomination that too on the recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank. Such vast powers so as to recommend demonetisation of all series of bank notes of any or all denominations, cannot also be vested with the Bank. C 8.6 Learned senior counsel, Shri Shyam Diwan appearing for the petitioner, namely, Malvinder Singh in Writ Petition (Civil) No.149 of 2017, submitted that apart from the guarantee given by the Central Government with regard to every bank note as a legal tender at any place in India, such notes are also the liabilities of the Issue Department of the Bank under D Section 34 of the Act to the extent of an amount equal to the total of the value of the currency notes of the Government of India and bank notes for the time being in circulation. 8.7 Learned senior counsel submitted that in the absence of a E specific duty with regard to mitigating the long-lasting effects of demonetisation on the Indian economy, the decision of the Central Government to demonetise about 86.4% of the total currency in circulation is vitiated on account of manifest arbitrariness. F 8.8 The learned senior counsel further contended that by applying the test of proportionality, the impugned notification dated 8th November, 2016, is liable to be set aside. 8.9 Reliance was placed on K.S. Puttaswamy (Retired) (Aadhaar) vs. Union of India (2019) 1 SCC 1 to contend G that the classical equality test can be applied to the present case to come to the conclusion that the decision of demonetisation had no nexus to the objective sought to be achieved. H 162 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 8.10 It was further contended that the circular dated 31st December, 2016, is discriminatory, insofar as it prescribed no upper monetary limit applicable to Resident Indiansfor submission and exchange of Specified Bank Notes, which were declared to have ceased to be legal tender;however, the monetary limit of Rs. 25,000/- per individual was fixed B for Non-Resident Indians (NRIs), depending on when the notes were taken out of India in accordance with the FEMA Rules.