Section 27 E makes that part of the statement which is distinctly related to the discovery admissible as a whole, whether it be in the nature of confession or not.…” 79. In Mohd. Inayatullah v. State of Maharashtra27, following the decision of the Privy Council in Pulukuri Kottaya (supra), this court F elaborately laid down the law with regard to the extent to which a disclosure information provided by the accused to the police is admissible under Section 27 of the IEA, 1872. The relevant portion of the is extracted below: “12.… only “so much of the information” as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered is admissible. The rest of the G information has to be excluded. The word “distinctly” means “directly”,“indubitably”, “strictly”, “unmistakably”. The word has been advisedly used to limit and define the scope of the 26 AIR 1962 SC 1788 27 (1976) 1 SCC 828 H 768 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A provable information. The phrase “distinctly relates to the fact thereby discovered” is the linchpin of the provision. This phrase refers to that part of the information supplied by the accused which is the direct and immediate cause of the discovery. The reason behind this partial lifting of the ban against confessions and statements made to the police, is that B if a fact is actually discovered in consequence of information given by the accused, it affords some guarantee of truth of that part, and that part only, of the information which was the clear, immediate and proximate cause of the discovery. No such guarantee or assurance attaches to the rest of the C statement which may be indirectly or remotely related to the fact discovered.” After laying down the extent to which the disclosure statement is admissible under Section 27, the Court proceeded to test the admissibility of the following statement: D “I will tell the place of deposit of the three chemical drums which I took out from the Haji Bunder on first August.” The Court held: “ …only the first part of the statement viz. “I will tell the place of deposit of the three chemical drums” was the immediate E and direct cause of the fact discovered. Therefore, this portion only was admissible under Section 27. The rest of the statement, namely, “which I took out from the Haji Bunder on first August”, constituted only the past history of the drums or their theft by the accused; it was not the distinct and proximate cause of the discovery and had to be ruled out of evidence F altogether.” 80. In light of the discussion above, even if the disclosure statements were accepted, the statement therein that one of the two trousers was of Santosh and the other was of co-accused Neeraj, which they were wearing at the time of the incident, is not one which distinctly G relates to the fact discovered, therefore, the same was not admissible under Section 27 of the IEA, 1872. 81. As regards recovery of knife at the instance of Neeraj, the same has been denied by Neeraj and there appears no independent witness to support it, inasmuch as PW13, touted as a public witness, turned out to be a special police officer and insofar as the other police witnesses H SANTOSH @ BHURE v. STATE (G.N.C.T.)