75. In terms of the aggravating circumstances that were taken note of by this Court in appeal, our attention has been drawn to the E following circumstance: 30. […] (vii) The choice of kidnapping the particular child for ransom, was well planned and consciously motivated. The parents of the F deceased had four children – three daughters and one son. Kidnapping the only male child was to induce maximum fear in the mind of his parents. Purposefully killing the sole male child, has grave repercussions for the parents of the deceased. Agony for parents for the loss of their only male child, who would have carried further the family lineage, and is expected to see them G through their old age, is unfathomable. Extreme misery caused to the aggrieved party, certainly adds to the aggravating circumstances. We wish to note that the sex of the child cannot be in itself considered as an aggravating circumstance by a constitutional court. H 1058 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A The murder of a young child is unquestionably a grievous crime and the young age of such a victim as well as the trauma that it causes for the entire family is in itself, undoubtedly, an aggravating circumstance. In such a circumstance, it does not and should not matter for a constitutional court whether the young child was a male child or a female child. The murder remains equally tragic. Courts should also not indulge in furthering B the notion that only a male child furthers family lineage or is able to assist the parents in old age. Such remarks involuntarily further patriarchal value judgements that courts should avoid regardless of the context. 76. In Rajendra Pralhadrao Wasnik v State of Maharashtra28, a three judge bench of this Court took note of the line of cases of this C Court which underline the importance of considering the probability of reform and rehabilitation of the convicted accused before sentencing him to death. The court observed: 43. At this stage, we must hark back to Bachan Singh and differentiate between possibility, probability and impossibility of D reform and rehabilitation. Bachan Singh requires us to consider the probability of reform and rehabilitation and not its possibility or its impossibility. […] 45. The law laid down by various decisions of this Court clearly E and unequivocally mandates that the probability (not possibility or improbability or impossibility) that a convict can be reformed and rehabilitated in society must be seriously and earnestly considered by the courts before awarding the death sentence. This is one of the mandates of the “special reasons” requirement of Section F 354(3) CrPC and ought not to be taken lightly since it involves snuffing out the life of a person. To effectuate this mandate, it is the obligation on the prosecution to prove to the court, through evidence, that the probability is that the convict cannot be reformed or rehabilitated. This can be achieved by bringing on record, inter alia, material about his conduct in jail, his G conduct outside jail if he has been on bail for some time, medical evidence about his mental make-up, contact with his family and so on.