but in the very nature of things, it is a weak piece of evidence. Reliance A in this respect could be placed on the of this Court in the case of Sahadevan and Another v. State of Tamil Nadu2. This Court, in the said case, after referring to various earlier s on the point, observed thus: “16. Upon a proper analysis of the abovereferred s of B this Court, it will be appropriate to state the principles which would make an extra-judicial confession an admissible piece of evidence capable of forming the basis of conviction of an accused. These precepts would guide the judicial mind while dealing with the veracity of cases where the prosecution heavily relies upon an C extra-judicial confession alleged to have been made by the accused: (i) The extra-judicial confession is a weak evidence by itself. It has to be examined by the court with greater care and caution. (ii) It should be made voluntarily and should be truthful. D (iii) It should inspire confidence. (iv) An extra-judicial confession attains greater credibility and evidentiary value if it is supported by a chain of cogent circumstances and is further corroborated by other prosecution evidence. E (v) For an extra-judicial confession to be the basis of conviction, it should not suffer from any material discrepancies and inherent improbabilities. (vi) Such statement essentially has to be proved like any other F fact and in accordance with law.” 16. As already discussed hereinabove, the trial court found the testimonies of PWs 10 to 12 not to be reliable so as to base the conviction solely on the basis of such testimonies. Unless such a finding was found perverse, an interference therewith would not be warranted. G 17. The Division Bench of the High Court has relied on the recovery of the blood-stained clothes and the weapon which is alleged to have been used by the appellant in commission of the crime. 2 (2012) 6 SCC 403 H 28 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 18. The trial court disbelieved the recovery of clothes and weapon on two grounds. Firstly, that there was no memorandum statement of the accused as required under Section 27 of the Evidence Act, 1872 and secondly, the recovery of the knife was from an open place accessible to one and all. We find that the approach adopted by the trial court was in accordance with law. However, this circumstance which, in our view, B could not have been used, has been employed by the High Court to seek corroboration to the extra-judicial confession. 19. The scope of interference in an appeal against acquittal is very well crystalised. Unless such a finding is found to be perverse or illegal/impossible, it is not permissible for the appellate Court to interfere C with the same. 20. Recently, a three-Judges Bench of this Court in the case of Rajesh Prasad v. State of Bihar and Another3 has considered various earlier s on the scope of interference in a case of acquittal.