The arbitration law recognizes this aspect by granting autonomy to the parties to adopt a procedural mechanism for the appointment of arbitrators. Party autonomy has also been expressly recognized by international arbitration covenants as well as national arbitration legislations. For instance, Article 11(2) of the Model Law states that parties to an arbitration agreement are free to agree on a procedure for appointing the arbitrator or arbitrators. In a situation where the agreed procedure of the parties fails, the Model Law * Ed. Note: PART H 132 (2022) 1 SCC 712 IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1157 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] permits the national courts to appoint arbitrators on a request of a party. The recourse to judicial appointment of arbitrators is often invoked as a last resort by the parties when their agreed procedure becomes unworkable. The power of appointment of arbitrators is vested with national courts to resolve the deadlock in appointment of an arbitrator.133 134. As discussed in the preceding segments of this , Section 5 of the Arbitration Act disallows a judicial authority from intervening unless expressly provided under Part I. In the present proceedings, the exercise of the powers by the courts or judicial authorities as provided under Section 8 and 11 becomes particularly relevant for our consideration. 135. According to Fouchard, an arbitration agreement has both a positive and negative eff ect. The positive eff ect is that the parties ought to honor their undertaking to submit to arbitration any disputes covered by their arbitration. On the fl ip side, the negative eff ect of the arbitration agreement is that courts are prohibited from hearing such disputes.134 Most international covenants have recognised the principle that courts lack jurisdiction to hear disputes covered by an arbitration agreement. For instance, Article II(3) of the New York Convention states that “[t]he court of a Contracting State, when seized of an action in a matter in respect of which the parties have made an agreement within the meaning of this article, shall, at request of one of the parties, refer the parties to arbitration, unless it fi nds that the said agreement is null and void, inoperative or incapable of being performed.” 136. In the Indian context, Section 8 provides that when an action is brought before a judicial authority in a matter which is the subject of an arbitration agreement, such judicial authority shall refer the parties to arbitration on an application made by a party to the arbitration agreement or any person claiming through or under him not later than the date of submitting their fi rst statement on the substance of the dispute. Section 8 mandates the judicial authority to refer the parties to arbitration “unless it fi nds that prima facie no valid arbitration agreement exists.” Section 8 is based on Article 8 of the Model Law which provides that a “court” before 133 Digest of Case Law on the Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration (2012) 60 134 Fouchard (n 116) 402 115 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R.