D G. “Subject to the provisions”: A limitation? 65. It has been emphasized by the Union of India that Article 239AA not only restricts the powers of the Legislative Assembly of NCTD through the phrase “insofar as any such matter is applicable to Union Territories” but also through the restrictive phrase of “Subject to E the provisions of this Constitution”. 66. The phrase “Subject to the provisions of this Constitution” is not unique to Article 239AA. It has been used in twenty-two provisions of the Constitution. Notably, the phrase has also been used in the provisions dealing with the legislative power of Parliament and the State F Assemblies (Article 245)17 as well as in the provisions dealing with the executive power of the Union (Article 73(2))18 and of the States (Article 162(3))19. The phrase is used to indicate that the legislative power and 16 See Justice Chandrachud’s opinion in the 2018 Constitution Bench 17 245. Extent of laws made by Parliament and by the Legislatures of States - (1) Subject G to the provisions of this Constitution, Parliament may make laws for the whole or any part of the territory of India, and the Legislature of a State may make laws for the whole or any part of the State. […] 18 73. Extent of executive power of the Union - (1) Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, the executive power of the Union shall extend – […]. 19 162. Extent of executive power of State - Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, the executive power of a State shall extend to the matters with respect to which the H Legislature of the State has power to make laws: […] GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 539 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] competence exercised by a legislature must be within the limits A circumscribed by the Constitution. Those boundaries may differ on a case to case basis. For instance, a law made by a legislature cannot violate the fundamental rights of citizens. Another instance is that Parliament can only enact laws on subjects within its legislative competence. Furthermore, any law made by Parliament or a State B Legislature shall be subject to the power of judicial review under Article 32 or Article 226. A Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Rajendra Diwan v. Pradeep Kumar Ranibala20 held: “Parliament and the State Legislatures derive their power to make laws from Article 245(1) of the Constitution of India and such C power is subject to and/or limited by the provisions of the Constitution. While Parliament can make law for the whole or any part of the territory of India, the State Legislature can only make laws for the State or any part thereof, subject to the restrictions in the Constitution of India… D While Parliament has exclusive power Under Article 246(1) of the Constitution to make laws with respect to the matters enumerated in the Union List, the State Legislature has exclusive power to make laws with respect to matters enumerated in the State List, subject to Clauses (1) and (2) of Article 246.