This is also the mandate of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India. It has been so held by three judges Bench of the Hon’ble Apex Court in the case of Government E Branch Press Vs. D.B. Belliappa reported in [(1979) 1 SCC 477]. The law is very clear that seniority is an incidence of service and where service rules prescribe the method of its computation, it must be adhered to strictly. 12. In the facts of this case, the vacancies were relating to F different years and vacancies were to be filled up by a common requisition with regard to direct recruits and the promotes, therefore, the selection made by the commission was made in a particular year for vacancies of different years. Before issuing appointment to the promote officers the G recommendations regarding direct recruits were also lying with the respondents and no explanation could be furnished by learned counsel for the respondents as to why compliance of Section 17 was not made and appointment letters for promotes were issued. Therefore, the compliance of Section 17, in our considered opinion, was necessary and only after preparing H SUSHIL PANDEY v. STATE OF U.P. THR. PRINCIPAL 215 SECRETARY (HOME) [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] the combined select list, the appointment ought to have been A made and seniority was to be determined in accordance with Rule 22 of the Rules, that has not been done in the present case.” (quoted verbatim from the paperbook) B 6. As regards reflection of the names of superannuated officers and the officers who had expired in the combined selection list, the Division Bench found:- “13. The other blunder that has been committed is that the names of the superannuated/dead officers were removed from C the seniority list and in their place the other promote officers were pushed up, this exercise is absolutely unheard in the service jurisprudence. This mistake, by itself, made the seniority list unsustainable under law. If this exercise of the Respondents is permitted to prevail, then it would result in great injustice to the officers who on their merit join the D services at an early age because in that situation, the officers who were senior to them and are older in age shall stand superannuated and in their place the officers who are junior to them shall be pushed up making them juniors to officers, who were subsequently appointed or were appointed in the E vacancies of the following years. The vacancies so fallen by the superannuation or by the death of the officers were to be filled up by way of fresh selection process, therefore, the impugned seniority list is unsustainable under law and deserves to be quashed.” (quoted verbatim from the paperbook) F 7. After delivery of the aforesaid , the fresh selection list was prepared on 25th October 2013. This seniority list had been unsuccessfully assailed by the appellants before the High Court. Main argument of the writ petitioners therein was that the directives contained in the of the Court delivered on 12th September 2012 were not G complied with.