If the court feels on a perusal of such a report that the alleged offences have in F fact been committed by some persons the court has the power to ignore the contrary conclusions made by the investigating officer in the final report. Then it is open to the court to independently apply its mind to the facts emerging therefrom and it can even take cognizance of the offences which appear to it to have been committed, in exercise of its power under G Section 190(1)(b) of the Code. The third option is the one adumbrated in Section 173(8) of the Code. … 16. Although the said sub-section does not, in specific terms, mention about the powers of the court to further investigation, the power of the police to conduct further H 160 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A investigation envisaged therein can be triggered into motion at the instance of the court. When any such is passed by a court which has the jurisdiction to do so, it would not be a proper exercise of revisional powers to interfere therewith because the further investigation would only be for the ends of justice. …” B 55. In Union Public Service Commission v. S. Papaiah and Others reported in (1997) 7 SCC 614, it was held in Para 13: “The Magistrate could, thus in exercise of the powers under Section 173(8) CrPC direct the CBI to “further investigate” the case and collect further evidence keeping in view the C objections raised by the appellant to the investigation and the “new” report to be submitted by the investigating officer would be governed by sub-sections (2) to (6) of Section 173 CrPC.”. 56. This Court in Hasanbhai (supra) held thus: D “12. Sub-section (8) of Section 173 of the Code permits further investigation, and even dehors any direction from the court as such, it is open to the police to conduct proper investigation, even after the court took cognisance of any offence on the strength of a police report earlier submitted. All the more so, E if as in this case, the Head of the Police Department also was not satisfied of the propriety or the manner and nature of investigation already conducted. 13. In Ram Lal Narang v. State (Delhi Admn.) [(1979) 2 SCC 322 : 1979 SCC (Cri) 479 : AIR 1979 SC 1791] it was observed F by this Court that further investigation is not altogether ruled out merely because cognisance has been taken by the court. When defective investigation comes to light during course of trial, it may be cured by further investigation, if circumstances so permitted. It would ordinarily be desirable and all the more so in this case, that the police should inform the court and G seek formal permission to make further investigation when fresh facts come to light instead of being silent over the matter keeping in view only the need for an early trial since an effective trial for real or actual offences found during course of proper investigation is as much relevant, desirable and H necessary as an expeditious disposal of the matter by the STATE THROUGH CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. 161 HEMENDHRA REDDY & ANOTHER.