A doctor at the government hospital positioned to meet this State obligation is, therefore, duty bound to extend medical assistance for preserving life. Every doctor whether at a government hospital or otherwise has the professional obligation to extend his services with due F expertise for protecting life. No law or State action can intervene to avoid/delay the discharge of the paramount obligation cast upon members of the medical profession. The obligation being total, absolute and paramount, laws of procedure whether in statutes or otherwise which would interfere with the discharge of this obligation cannot be sustained and must, therefore, give G way.…” That the State has an obligation to help preserve life, guaranteed under Article 21 was spelt out clearly in Pt. Parmanand Katara. What applies to life applies equally to personal liberty. This is because there may be cases involving both the right to life as well as liberty. H 688 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 96. For instance, in Suchita Srivastava & Anr. vs. Chandigarh Administration98,this Court had an occasion to consider the reproductive rights of a mentally-challenged woman. This right was read as part of the right to life and liberty under Article 21. In Devika Biswas vs. Union of India.99, this Court considered certain issues concerning the entire range of conduct and management, under the auspices of State B Governments, of sterilization procedures, either in camps or in accredited centres and held that the right to health and reproductive rights of a person are part of the right under Article 21. While doing so, this Court quoted with approval the decision in Bandhua Mukti Morcha where the obligation of the State to ensure that the fundamental rights of weaker C sections of society are not exploited, was underlined. 97. Tapping of telephones in exercise of the power conferred by Section 5(2) of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 became the subject matter of challenge in People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) vs. Union of India100. This Court held that conversation on telephone is an important D facet of a man’s private life and that tapping of telephone would infringe Article 21. Technological eavesdropping except in accordance with the procedure established by law was frowned upon by the Court. This was at a time when mobile phones had not become the of the day and the State monopoly was yet to be replaced by private players such as intermediaries/service providers. Today, the infringement of the right to E privacy is mostly by private players and if fundamental rights cannot be enforced against non-State actors, this right will go for a toss. 98. In District Registrar and Collector, Hyderabad & Anr. vs. Canara Bank & Ors.101, what was under challenge was an amendment made to The Indian Stamp Act, 1899 by the State of Andhra Pradesh, F empowering a public officer to inspect the registers, books, papers and documents kept in any premises, including a private place where such registers, books etc., are kept. Taking cue from the decision in R. Rajagopal and Maneka Gandhi, this Court held in paragraphs 55 and 56 of the decision as follows:- G “55.