01.03.1988. Thereafter, a notice was issued to the establishment and after aff ording an opportunity of hearing, an was passed by the Commissioner9 on 23.09.2005, under Section 7-A of the EPF Act, assessing the amount of contributions to be made by the appellant under various schemes of the EPF Act. The aforesaid was challenged by the appellant through statutory appeal before the Tribunal, which was dismissed vide dated 24.12.2010. Thereafter, the appellant fi led a Writ Petition challenging the passed by the Tribunal before the High Court, which was dismissed by the learned Single Judge vide dated 10.06.2011. In writ appeal, the of the learned Single Judge was upheld by the Division Bench of the High Court. 3. Learned counsel for the appellant, submitted that the impugned s passed by the Commissioner, the Tribunal, as well as the High Court are not legally sustainable. The appellant submitted that both the Institutes, namely, Ideal Institute and Arts College are independent from each other and are merely being managed by the same Society. There is no fi nancial integrity between the two Institutes and both the Institutes are off ering diff erent courses, having permission/affi liation from diff erent authorities. The Ideal Institute is getting 100% grant-in-aid, whereas the Arts College is getting 70% grant-in-aid from the Government of Karnataka. The Ideal Institute was set up in the year 1965, whereas the Arts College was set up in the year 1985-86. Furthermore, the appellant submitted that, since both the Institutes are independent from each other and are not employing 20 or more persons, their clubbing for coverage under the provisions of the EPF Act,is totally illegal and deserves to be set aside. In support of his arguments, reliance was placed by the appellant upon Management of Pratap Press, New Delhi v. Secretary, Delhi Press Workers’ Union Delhi etc., AIR 1960 SC 1213. 9 The Assistant Provident Fund Commissioner. 542 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 4. On the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent submitted that, if the tests laid down by this Court in L.N. Gadodia& Sons v. Provident Fund Commissioner, (2011) 13 SCC 517,are applied in the present case, it will be evident that there is no error in the s passed by the Commissioner, the Tribunal or the High Court, directing coverage of both the Institutes run by the Society, under the EPF Act. The respondent submitted that it is a case in which neither the appellant nor the Ideal Institute or the Society, which is managing the aff airs of the Institutes, had placed any material before the Commissioner, the Tribunal or even the High Court to dislodge the facts found by the Enforcement Offi cer and established that both the Institutes are independent and have no common management. The audit report which has been placed on record before this Court is for the year ending March 2011, which was fi nalised on 16.08.2011. The same was not even placed on record before the High Court, though the appeal was decided on 30.09.2011.