The legislature after all has the affirmative responsibility. The courts have only the power to destroy, not to reconstruct. When these are added to the complexity of economic regulation, the uncertainty, the liability F to error, the bewildering conflict of the experts, and the number of times the judges have been overruled by events - self- limitation can be seen to be the path to judicial wisdom and institutional prestige and stability.” 27. In case of Bhavesh D. Parish and others vs. Union of India and another, (2000) 5 SCC 471, the challenge was to the G validity of section 9 of Reserve Bank of India Act as amended by the Amendment Act 1997 on the ground that it was violative of Article 14 and Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. This Court dismissed the challenge to the said provision in paragraph 26 of the report. It observed that matters of economic policy should be best left to the H 906 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A wisdom of the legislature. Further, it went on to state that in the context of a changed economic scenario the expertise of the people dealing with the subject should not be lightly interfered with. It was also observed that while dealing with economic legislation, this court would interfere only in those few cases where the view reflected in the legislation is not possible to be taken at all. B 28. In the case of Indian Oil Corporation Limited vs. State of Bihar and another, (2018) 1 SCC 242, provisions of the Bihar Tax on Entry of Goods into Local Areas for Consumption, Use or Sale therein Act 1993, was under challenge. Justice Nariman speaking for the Bench observed in paragraph 25 that when it comes C to taxing statute, the law laid down by this Court is clear that it can be said to be breach only when there is perversity or gross disparity resulting in clear and hostile discrimination without any rational justification for the same. SPECIAL ROAD TAX IS REGULATORY OR D COMPENSATORY IN NATURE 29. The arguments raised before the High Court by the respondent Transport operators (original writ petitioners before the High Court) was that the fine imposed by Section 3(A)(3) was in the nature of a penalty and the State Legislature had no power to impose E a penalty. The High Court had accepted the said contention and accordingly struck down the said provision. 30. The object and reasons for offending enactment is already reproduced in the earlier part of this . At the cost of repetition, it is stated that the appellant State being a hilly State, the roads and bridges are its lifeline. The State has to allocate sizeable part of its F budget for the construction, development, repair, upkeep and maintenance of roads and bridges. It was with this object in the background that the offending provisions were brought in by way of amendments in 1999 and 2001 which are described as special road tax.