23. Private agreements cannot be enforced in Slum Rehabilitation Schemes as against the statutory mandate of the SRA. In the case of Lokhand wala Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. and Another v. State of Maharashtra and others reported in 2011 SCC OnLine Bom 118, the Bombay High Court had held as follows: 9. A Slum Rehabilitation Scheme which is implemented under DCR 33(10) read with Appendix IV does not lie in the realm of a purely private contractual agreement. Undoubtedly, the scheme postulates a co-operative housing society of slum dwellers. Appendix IV of DCR 33(10) clarifi es that the provisions will apply to redevelopment/ construction of accommodation for hutment/pavement dwellers through owners/developers/co-operative housing societies of hutment/ pavement dwellers or by public authorities or by nongovernmental organisations within the limits of Brihan Mumbai. The Scheme regulates the rights of hutment dwellers, the grant of building permission for a Slum Rehabilitation Project, rehabilitation and freesale components in the total fl oor space index, the construction of temporary transit 740 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. camps, the relaxation in building and other requirements, development plan reservations and payments to be made inter alia to the Slum Rehabilitation Authority. The Development Control Regulations, it is well settled, constitute subordinate legislation enacted with reference to the provisions of section 22(m) of the Maharashtra Regional Town Planning Act, 1966. Slum Rehabilitation Schemes have a public law element. 10. The execution of Slum Rehabilitation Schemes is impressed with a public character. The lands on which the Scheme is sought to be sanctioned and implemented may be lands belonging to the Municipal Corporation or to the State of Maharashtra or, for that matter, its instrumentalities such as the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority. The title to the land does not vest in the society or in its members at the stage when the Scheme is propounded and subjected for sanction. Where it owns the land, the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai is the authority responsible for issuing a certifi cation of Annexure II containing the list of eligible occupants who can participate in the Scheme. The interest of the Municipal Corporation as the owner of the land is recognized by conferring upon the Municipal Corporation the role of verifying and authenticating who are the actual and genuine occupants of the land as on 1 January, 1995. Public land is sought to be utilized in to further the object of providing dignifi ed accommodation to those living in slums. The co-operative societies of slum dwellers and developers through whom the Slum Rehabilitation Scheme is sought to be implemented facilitate the implementation of the Scheme. The agreements or arrangements that may be arrived at between them cannot be treated at par with purely private or contractual agreements entered into in respect of land belonging to private individuals. The State as the owner of the and upon which a slum is situated has a vital public interest in ensuring that the object for which the land is utilized subserves the purpose of rehabilitation of the slum dwellers.