Such a course of action would constitute a serious infraction of Articles 14 and 16 and must be avoided. 71.3. To reiterate, the submission of the appellant which we are inclined to accept is not that Rule 7(2) is invalid but that a harmonious interpretation of Rules 7(1) and (2) must be adopted that is consistent with the Article 142 directions in Malik Mazhar Sultan (3) [Malik Mazhar Sultan (3) v. U.P. Public Service Commission, (2008) 17 SCC 703 : (2010) 1 SCC (L&S) 942] to bring the rules in accord with the governing principles of constitutional jurisprudence in matters of public employment.” 21. Appointments cannot be made over and above the vacancies which have been advertised, except in an emergency situation or for some unforeseen reasons, in public interest or when a policy decision is taken by the State Government in this regard, as held by this court in Gujarat State Dy. Executive Engineers’ Assn. v. State of Gujarat (1994) Supp 2 SCC 591. 22. In Hoshiyar Singh v. State of Haryana (1993) Supp. 4 SCC 377, this Court had held that Public Service Commission cannot recommend 634 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. more names than what have been advertised and any appointment, which is made in excess to the vacancies, which have been advertised would be arbitrary. The reason being that such selection/appointment would deprive those candidates who are not eligible for appointment at the time these posts were advertised but had become eligible in the subsequent year would be deprived of competing against such posts. This decision has been followed in a catena of other s by this Court. Reference may be made here to some of these decisions, such as State of Bihar v. Secretariat Asstt. Successful Examinees’ Union (1994) 1 SCC 126 and State of Bihar v. Madan Mohan Singh (1994) Supp 3 SCC 308. 23. The common thread that runs in all the above s is that appointments cannot be made over and above the vacancies which were advertised i.e., clear and anticipated vacancies, even though the Public Service Commission may have prepared a longer merit list than it was required to do. 24. In Malik Mazhar-2, this Court had directed that a waiting list of candidates should also be prepared. Evidently in the present selection process there was no “waiting list”. There ought to have been one. However, the absence of a waiting list has not caused any diffi culty as all the eight candidates who were selected gave their joining and were consequently appointed. The purpose of a waiting list is that when selected candidates are unable to join the post for any reason whatsoever, the post should not remain vacant and this shortfall of candidates can be met from the candidates who are in the waiting list. The candidates who are in the waiting list have also qualifi ed the examination in every respect, but they are just lower down in the merit and for this reason they could not make it to the fi nal select list of candidates.