This Court recognised that the right under Article 21 of the Constitution is violated if the State does not build roads for eff ective communication and transportation. Thus, even in the absence of a law which requires the State to build roads, such a duty was imposed on the State on an interpretation of Part III of the Constitution. Moreover, in the precent 283 WP (Civil) No. 196/2001 284 (1986) 2 SCC 68 141 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. case, the petitioners are demanding equal access to something which does exist (i.e., the entitlements which fl ow from the right to form an abiding cohabitational union). In fact, my learned brother himself recognizes this when he holds that the actions of the state have the eff ect of discriminating against queer couples. The example under Article 19(1)(a) is unconvincing for similar reasons. 330. Bhat, J. holds that: (i) the legal dimension of marriage in USA is diff erent from the legal dimension of marriage in India; (ii) the legality of a marriage in USA is solely dependent on a validly obtained license; (iii) in India, the legal status of a marriage stems from personal law and customs; and (iv) the terms of marriage are set, to a large extent, independently of the state. While there is no doubt that marriage predates the state and the existence of what we now consider ‘law’, I am unable to agree with the conclusion of my learned brother that the status of a marriage in India stems only from personal law and customs and that the terms of marriage are largely set independently of the state, for two reasons: First, the legal status of a married couple stems from statute. Once the state began regulating marriage, the validity (and consequently, the ‘status’) of marriage is traceable to law. While law may provide that a marriage is valid if it was performed in accordance with custom, it is beyond cavil that the only reason that a custom is relevant (for the purposes of law) is because of law itself. Therefore, it is law (through statutes) that accords signifi cance to personal law and customs and it is statutes that may (and often do) deviate from personal law and customs. Second, the number of legislations which govern marriage as well as the detailed framework which they set out makes it immediately evident that the terms of marriage are not set independently of the state, but by the state itself. From divorce to custody to maintenance to domestic violence and off ences, almost every aspect of marriage is regulated by the state. I have discussed the manner in which marriage has evolved (through state regulation) in detail in Section D(iii)(b) of my . Thus, marriage as an institution cannot anymore be viewed as solely traceable to customs and traditions after the State’s interference to regulate the institution. The State’s reformation of the institution has slowly but evidently changed the nature of the institution itself. Under the Constitution, the state is empowered to reform social institutions including marriage in line with constitutional values.