B does not go to England C within the term prescribed. His interest in the farm ceases. 17. All that Section 32 of the Transfer of Property Act provides is that “in that a condition that an interest shall cease to exist may be valid, it is necessary, that the event to which it relates be one which could legally constitute the condition of D the creation of an interest”. If the condition is invalid, it cannot be set up as a condition precedent for crystallization of the interest created. The condition that the industrial unit shall be established within a specified period failing which the interest shall cease, is a valid condition. Clause 7 of the agreement between the parties is, therefore, valid and is E binding on the parties thereto.” 20. The decision in Hari Om in this court’s opinion, does not in any manner assist the appellant. In that case, the court had dealt with several appeals. In the main appeal, the allotment was offered on 20.12.2001; however actual possession was handed over on 08.12.2003. F The appellant applied for approval of building plan, thereafter, which was given by HSIDC on 20.03.2004. The construction of the industrial unit was completed in May 2005. In the meanwhile, alleging non compliance with the terms of allotment, the plot was resumed on 03.03.2005. Having regard to these facts, the High Court had set aside the resumption . This court repelled the HSIDC’s argument that G writ proceedings were not maintainable, and held in the facts and circumstances, that the setting aside of the resumption was justified. 21. The idea behind development of industrial plots and allotting them to deserving applicants is to act as a catalyst to promote economic growth; this aspect was underlined in Hari Om in the following manner, H while describing the functions of HSIDC: AMAN SEMI- CONDUCTORS (PVT.) LTD v. HARYANA STATE 141 INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORP. LTD. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] “4. […] Its principal function is allotment of industrial plots A belonging to the State of Haryana. It was set up as a catalyst for promoting economic growth and accelerating the pace of industrialization. It not only provides financial assistance to the industrial concerns by way of term loans; it also develops infrastructure for setting up of industrial units. The B Corporation also invests money in developing the industrial estates at strategic locations. In exercise of its functions, it also allots industrial plots to entrepreneurs for setting up their industries on “no profit no loss” basis. The entrepreneurs, according to the Corporation, must be the deserving ones. For the said purpose, it keeps in mind the principle that C allotment of land should not be made to speculators who invest in property for getting high returns on escalation of price.” 22. In the present case, as discussed earlier, the facts are stark; the appellant never made any genuine effort to start its unit. There is no material to disclose that upon receipt of no less than three show cause D notices, the appellant showed any sense of urgency in taking steps to live up to the bargain, (of setting up an industrial unit).