Points for consideration: (i) Whether the of this Court in Mohd. Ekram Khan calls for reconsideration in terms of the Reference dated 05.12.2019? In other words, whether the aforesaid F case has been correctly decided or not? (ii) What ? 12. At the outset, it is necessary to read the relevant provisions of the Act: G Sections 4 and 5 of the said Act read as under: “4. Sale and agreement to sell. – (1) A contract of sale of goods is a contract whereby the seller transfers or agrees to transfer the property in goods to the buyer for a price. There may be a H contract of sale between one part-owner and another. M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1309 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] (2) A contract of sale may be absolute or conditional. A (3) Where under a contract of sale the property in the goods is transferred from the seller to the buyer, the contract is called a sale, but where the transfer of the property in the goods is to take place at a future time or is subject to some condition thereafter to be B fulfilled, the contract is called an agreement to sell. (4) An agreement to sell becomes a sale when the time elapses or the conditions are fulfilled subject to which the property in the goods is to be transferred. C 5. Contract of sale how made. – (1) A contract of sale is made by an offer to buy or sell goods for a price and the acceptance of such offer. The contract may provide for the immediate delivery of the goods or immediate payment of the price or D both, or for the delivery or payment by instalments, or that the delivery or payment or both shall be postponed. (2) Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force, a contract of sale may be made in writing or E by word of mouth, or partly in writing and partly by word of mouth or may be implied from the conduct of the parties.” 12.1. Section 4 defines the expression sale. In to apply the said definition, four essential elements are necessary, namely, (i) parties F competent to contract; (ii) mutual assent; (iii) passing of property; and (iv) price to be paid. 12.2. While understanding the said Section, the terms defined under Section 2, clauses (7), (13), (11), (1) and (10) respectively are necessary as the said clauses define the terms “goods”, “seller”, “property”, “buyer” G and “Price”. Thus, to constitute a sale, in the legal sense, there must be a contract in pursuance of which the transfer of property, which transfer need not necessarily be by the owner himself, takes place on payment of a price, though there are exceptions to this rule enshrined under Sections 19 to 24 of the Act. The contract may be oral or in writing, or it H 1310 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R.