It is rooted in not operating in a democratic manner because if it was, then courts may be swayed by considerations which govern and guide electoral democracy.79 By vesting the judicial branch with the power to review the actions of other institutions of governance (including the legislature and the executive) on the touchstone of constitutional values, the Constitution assigns a role to the judiciary.80 The institutions of governance place a check on the exercise of power of the other institutions to further constitutional values and produce better, more democratic outcomes. 80. Courts contribute to the democratic process while deciding an issue based on competing constitutional values, or when persons who are unable to exercise their constitutional rights through the political process knock on its doors. For instance, members of marginalized communities who are excluded from the political process because of the structural imbalance of power can approach the court through its writ jurisdiction to seek the enforcement of their rights. ii. Is queerness ‘un-Indian’? Who is an Indian? What practices are Indian? a. Queerness is a natural phenomenon which is known to India since ancient times 81. The question of whether homosexuality or queerness is unnatural is no longer res integra, in view of the decision in Navtej Singh Johar 79 Robert M Cover, ‘The Origins of Judicial Activism in the Protection of Minorities’, 1982 Yale law journal, Vol 1(7) June 1982 80 Mathew EK Hall, Judicial Review as a Limit on Government Domination: Reframing, resolving, and replacing the counter-majoritarian diffi culty, 2016 Perspectives on politics, Volume 14(2) June 2016 , 391 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1295 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (supra) where this Court held that it is innate and natural. The contention of the Union of India that heterosexual unions precede law while homosexual unions do not cannot be accepted in view of the decision in Navtej Singh Johar (supra) where this Court held that queer love has fl ourished in India since ancient times. 82. The respondents have also averred that homosexuality or gender queerness is not native to India. This contention does not hold any water. In India, persons with a gender queer identity who do not fi t into the binary of ‘male’ and ‘female’ have long been known by diff erent names including hijras, kothis, aravanis, jogappas, thiru nambis, nupi maanbas and nupi maanbis. In fact, the term ‘transgender person’ as it is understood in English or the ‘third gender’ does not always fully or accurately describe the gender identity of those who are known by some of these terms. Additionally, the social structure of the communities of transgender persons in India is unique and does not mirror ‘western’ structures. It is native to our country. The of this Court in NALSA (supra) also explored the presence of the transgender identity and other forms of gender queerness in Indian lore. 83. In With Respect to Sex: Negotiating Hijra Identity in South India,81 Gayatri Reddy documents the diff erent manifestations of kinship in hijra communities, including the guru-chela (or teacher-disciple) relationship, the mother-daughter relationship, and the ‘jodi’ (or bond) with a husband.