138. In this regard, in Sadiq Ali (supra), this Court held that: “35. …The allotment of a symbol to the candidates set up by a E political party is a legal right and in case of split, the Commission has been authorised to determine which of the rival groups or sections is the party which was entitled to the symbol. The Commission in resolving this dispute does not decide as to which group represents the party but which group is that party. If it were a question of representation, even a small F group according to the Constitution of the organisation may be entitled to represent the party. Where, however, the question arises as to which of the rival groups is the party, the question assumes a different complexion and the numerical strength of each group becomes an important and relevant factor. It cannot G be gainsaid that in deciding which group is the party, the Commission has to decide as to which group substantially constitutes the party.” (emphasis supplied) 52 V S Rama Devi and S K Mendiratta, How India Votes (3rd edition, 2014), at 621-622 H 942 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A c. The test(s) applicable to disputes under Paragraph 15 of the Symbols 139. Paragraph 15 stipulates that the ECI must take into account all the available facts and circumstances of the case and hear representatives of the rival groups and other persons who wish to be B heard. However, neither Paragraph 15 nor the other provisions of the Symbols specify the test which is to be applied by the ECI in arriving at its decision as to who the political party is. Similarly, no test is excluded from application by the ECI. This means that the ECI is free to fashion a test which is suited to the facts and complexities of the specific case before it. C 140. In Sadiq Ali (supra), this Court had occasion to consider a few of the different tests that were capable of being applied in proceedings under Paragraph 15. In that case, two rival groups, Congress O and Congress J, emerged from the INC. While adjudicating their competing claims under Paragraph 15, the ECI considered the following tests: D a. A test analysing the provisions of the constitution of the party; b. A test assessing which of the two rival groups adhered to the aims and objects of the party as incorporated in its constitution; and E c. A test evaluating which of the two rival groups enjoyed a majority in the legislature (i.e., the Houses of Parliament as well as the Legislative Assemblies of States) and in the organisational wing of the party. F 141. The ECI declined to apply the first test detailed above because each group had expelled members from the other group. It was of the opinion that the second test was not suited to the facts of that case because neither Congress O nor Congress J had “openly repudiated” the aims and objects of the constitution of the party.