F Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – XXI, rr.97- 101 – Enquiry under – Scope of – Held: In an enquiry under XXI, rr. 97 to 101, CPC, the Executing Court cannot decide questions of title set up by third parties (not claiming through or under the parties to the suit or their family members), who assert independent title in themselves – All that can be done in such cases at the stage of G execution, is to find out prima facie whether the obstructionists / claim petitioners have a bona fide claim to title, independent of the rights of the parties to the partition suit – If they are found to have an independent claim to title, then the holder of the decree for partition cannot be allowed to defeat the rights of third parties in H these proceedings. M/s TRINITY INFRAVENTURES LTD. & ORS. ETC. v. M. S. 285 MURTHY & ORS. ETC. Suit – Partition suit – Preliminary decree – Effect of – Held: A A preliminary decree in a suit for partition merely declares the shares that the parties are entitled to in any of the properties included in the plaint schedule and liable to partition – On the basis of a mere declaration of the rights that take place under the preliminary decree, the parties cannot trade in, on specific items of properties or specific B portions of suit schedule properties – Since there are three stages in a partition suit, namely (i) passing of a preliminary decree in terms of XX Rule 18(2); (ii) appointment of a Commissioner and passing of a final decree in terms of XXVI Rule 14(3); and (iii) taking possession in execution of such decree under XXI Rule 35, no party to a suit for partition, even by way of C compromise, can acquire any title to any specific item of property or any particular portion of a specific property, if such a compromise is struck only with a few parties to the suit – Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – XX, r.18(2); XXVI, r.14(3) and XXI, r.35. Suit – Partition suit – Held: In a suit for partition, the Civil D Court cannot go into the question of title, unless the same is incidental to the fundamental premise of the claim. Disposing of the appeals, the Court HELD: 1. The way in which the suit claim has been valued E and court-fee paid, demonstrates very clearly that it was not a suit for declaration of title to any property. It was only a suit for partition. All the suit schedule properties have been valued at a particular rate and court- fee was paid on the value of the share, of which the plaintiff was seeking partition. If it was a suit containing a prayer for declaration of title, the court-fee was liable F to be paid on the whole value of the property and not on the share sought to be partitioned. Therefore, the preliminary decree dated 28.06.1963 could not have determined the claim to title made by the legal heirs seeking partition, as against third parties.