18. Punishment for conspiracy, etc.—Whoever conspires or E attempts to commit, or advocates, abets, advises or incites, directs or knowingly facilitates the commission of, a terrorist act or any act preparatory to the commission of a terrorist act, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine. F 18A. Punishment for organising of terrorist camps.—Whoever organises or causes to be organised any camp or camps for imparting training in terrorism shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also G be liable to fine. 18B. Punishment for recruiting of any person or persons for terrorist act.—Whoever recruits or causes to be recruited any person or persons for commission of a terrorist act shall be H 892 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine. 20. Punishment for being member of terrorist gang or organisation.—Any person who is a member of a terrorist gang B or a terrorist organisation, which is involved in terrorist act, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine. 38. Offence relating to membership of a terrorist C organisation.—(1) A person, who associates himself, or professes to be associated, with a terrorist organisation with intention to further its activities, commits an offence relating to membership of a terrorist organisation: Provided that this sub-section shall not apply where the person charged is able to prove— D (a) that the organisation was not declared as a terrorist organisation at the time when he became a member or began to profess to be a member; and (b) that he has not taken part in the activities of the E organisation at any time during its inclusion in the First Schedule as a terrorist organisation. (2) A person, who commits the offence relating to membership of a terrorist organisation under sub-section (1), shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten F years, or with fine, or with both. 39. Offence relating to support given to a terrorist organisation.—(1) A person commits the offence relating to support given to a terrorist organisation,— (a) who, with intention to further the activity of a terrorist G organisation,— (i) invites support for the terrorist organization, and (ii) the support is not or is not restricted to provide money or other property within the meaning of section 40; or H VERNON v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA & ANR. 893 [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] (b) who, with intention to further the activity of a terrorist A organisation, arranges, manages or assists in arranging or managing a meeting which he knows is— (i) to support the terrorist organization, or (ii) to further the activity of the terrorist organization, or B (iii) to be addressed by a person who associates or professes to be associated with the terrorist organisation; or (c) who, with intention to further the activity of a terrorist organisation, addresses a meeting for the purpose of encouraging support for the terrorist organisation or to C further its activity.