Lastly, it was held that exporters, who have to import inputs, would face impossibility in fulfilling the ‘pre-import condition’, because the normal cycle of import of inputs and export of finished products would be for a period of six F months, whereas the period, which the regime permits, would work out to three months. 56. It would be necessary to first analyse the introduction of the ‘pre-import condition’. The FTP, inter alia, facilitated AAs for duty- free import of input, which is physically incorporated in export product, G making normal allowance for wastage (paragraph 4.03 of the FTP). No doubt, the rationale or object behind this was to smoothen and facilitate export trade, ensuring that finished goods, meant for export, did not suffer a competitive price disadvantage. However, the concept of ‘pre-import condition’ was not alien – Appendix-4J (mentioned in paragraph 4.13 (ii) of the FTP) listed several articles, such as spices, penicillin and its salts, H 218 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A tea, coconut oil, silk, drugs from unregistered sources, precious metals, etc. as articles for which the ‘pre-import condition’ was applicable, prior to the GST regime. Furthermore, by paragraph 4.13 of the FTP, the DGFT could impose ‘pre-import conditions’ on articles other than those specified: B “(i) DGFT may, by Notification, impose “pre-import condition” for inputs under this Chapter.” 57. The retention of the power to impose ‘pre-import conditions’ on articles other than those specified in Appendix-4J, meant that the DGFT could exercise it, in relation to any goods. The High Court has not C discussed this aspect, and proceeded on the assumption that only specified goods were subject to the ‘pre-import condition’. The existence of paragraph 4.13 (i) reserving the power to insist upon the ‘pre-import condition’, meant that the policy was capable of change, depending on the exigencies of the time. This omission, together with the High Court’s failure to notice paragraph 4.27 (d) of the HBP are serious infirmities in D the impugned . 58. Now, coming to the notifications dated 13.10.2017 (No. 79/ 2017, issued under the Customs Act, 1962) and No. 33 (issued in exercise of Section 5 of the FTDRA read with Para 1.02 of the FTP) the exemption from payment of IGST at the time of import of input materials E under AA was granted. The exemption was, however, not absolute. The conditions incorporated in the Notification (No. 79/2017), were one, that the exemption could only be extended so long as exports made under the AAs were physical exports in nature and the other that to avail such benefit, one was to follow the ‘pre-import condition’. F 59. ‘Physical export’ is defined in paragraph 4.05(c) and paragraph 9.20 of the FTP read with Section 2(e) of the FTDRA as follows: (e) “import” and ‘export” means respectively bringing into, or taking out of, India ang goods by land, sea or air” Essentially, therefore, export involves taking goods out of India. G AAs can be issued either to a manufacturer exporter or merchant exporter tied to supporting manufacturer (as per paragraph 4.05).