We are in agreement with these findings too. 14.3. In fact, the submissions of the aforesaid nature, attempting to find fault with the proceedings of arbitration on such hyper-technical but baseless grounds only show an attempt on the part of the State to somehow question the award and seek interference, irrespective of the D principles laid down by this Court. 14.4. In regard to the aforesaid procedural aspects of the matter, the High Court has cautiously taken note of the record of proceedings and has proceeded only within the confines of its jurisdiction to reject these contentions. E 15. The question, however, is as to whether the High Court remained within those confines while dealing with the other points of challenge pertaining to the items of claim and consideration of the Arbitral Tribunal in that regard. We may examine the point-wise consideration of the High Court with reference to the applicable principles. F The award relating to variable charges on use of alternate fuel 16. The claimant has assailed the of the High Court by which it has set aside the award towards variable charges of Rs. 24.66 crore. It is the case of the claimant that the ground on which the High G Court has set aside the award was not at all an issue before the Arbitral Tribunal; that in any case, the State has referred to such clauses of the PPA which were not applicable to supply of electricity by using RLNG as alternate fuel; and that these clauses were applicable only for supply of electricity using ‘Naphtha’ as fuel. Per contra, it has been argued on H behalf of the State that the Arbitral Tribunal has approached the entire RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 427 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] case from an altogether wrong angle; and when the Tribunal adverted to A wrong questions, the result has been of wrong answers. This, according to the learned Attorney General, has been a gross illegality and perversity on the part of the Arbitral Tribunal. 16.1. We find it difficult to accept the submission of the learned Attorney General. In our view, on the issue of entitlement to raise invoices B based on fluctuating price of fuel and rate of dollar, the Arbitral Tribunal has held in favour of the claimant after thorough examination of the documentary evidence before it and while focusing on core issue raised before it. 16.2. After taking note of relevant submissions and after having C examined the entire documentary evidence, the Arbitral Tribunal returned a clear finding on facts in the following terms: - “41. The facts noticed above which are based entirely on the documentary record placed before the Tribunal clearly establish that the proposal made by the Claimant under its letter dated 21st D of March 2013 was an offer for supply of energy at a rate based on the formula contained in the aforesaid communication. It was clearly mentioned that the entire PPA and all other terms and conditions shall remain unchanged except for change in calculation of Variable charges in Monthly Tariff.