The penalty for an instrument which is not “duly stamped” D is provided in Section 62 of the Stamp Act, 1899. In this discussion, we must be conscious that the Stamp Act, 1899 was enacted nearly 125 years ago and the lawmakers could not have contemplated the march of law and the myriad issues which would crop up through the advent of technology and also the new enactments such as the Arbitration Act, 1996. The legal framework pertaining to e-contracts is still at a nascent E stage in India. 80.5. Richard Susskind in his book65, “The End of Lawyers? Rethinking the Nature of Legal Services,” suggests that new technologies and processes, such as artificial intelligence and blockchain, may be able to simplify and streamline the arbitration process in the F future. We now have the phenomenon of smart contracts and metaverse in the sphere of commercial transactions where technology and artificial intelligence are integrated. The developments in the legal framework must attune to such developing trends in technology and be conscious of their implications today and for the future. G 80.6. Noticing the emerging trends, the Chief Justice of India in a recent conference observed66 that legal professionals across the globe 65 Richard Susskind, The End of Lawyers? Rethinking the Nature of Legal Services, Oxford University Press, 2010 66 Dr D.Y. Chandrachud, International Conference: Arbitration in the Era of Globalization H (4th Edn., Dubai, 19-3-2022). M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 477 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] are recommending smart contract arbitration. Describing smart contracts A and how arbitration can be used to resolve disputes, Chief Justice DY Chandrachud commented: “Technology and artificial intelligence are integrated into commercial transactions. One such example of integration of technology and contracts is a smart contrAct, where the terms B and conditions of the contract are encoded. A breach in the terms of the contract would automatically enforce the contract. 80.7. Modern arbitration law focuses on substance over form67. Learned Counsel, Mr. Ramakanth Reddy appearing for Respondent No. 1, referred to a delivered in 2008 in Great Offshore Ltd. v. C Iranian Offshore Engineering and Construction Company68 where the Court speaking through Dalveer Bhandari J. held as under: “59. The court has to translate the legislative intention especially when viewed in light of one of the Act’s “main objectives”: “to minimise the supervisory role of Courts in the arbitral process. D [See: Statements of Objects and Reasons of Section 4(v] of the Act].If this Court adds a number of extra requirements such as stamps, seals and originals, we would be enhancing our role, not minimising it. Moreover, the cost of doing business would increase. It takes time to implement such formalities. What is E even more worrisome is that the parties’ intention to arbitrate would be foiled by formality. Such a stance would run counter to the very idea of arbitration, wherein tribunals all over the world generally bend over backwards to ensure that the parties’ intention to arbitrate is upheld.