Constitution of India – Arts. 25 and 26 – Morality in the context of Arts. 25 and 26 – Discussed. F While passing directions, the Court HELD: Whether the writ petition survives for consideration: 1.1. By a majority, the Constitution Bench in the case of G Sardar Syedna held that the Bombay Protection of Ex- communication Act, 1949 was void being in violation of Article 26(b) of the Constitution. However, considering the definition of ‘community’ under Section 2(a) of the Ex-communication Act, the applicability thereof was not confined only to the Dawoodi H CENTRAL BOARD OF DAWOODI BOHRA COMMUNITY 295 v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA Bohra community. The provisions of the Ex-communication Act A were applicable to the practice of ex-communication prevailing in different religions, castes or sub-castes, whereas the findings rendered by the majority view are only in respect of the right of the head of the Dawoodi Bohra community to ex-communicate a member of the community. Thus, the Ex-communication Act in B its entirety could not have been declared void. Therefore, even assuming that the view taken by the Constitution Bench is correct, the question which certainly survives for consideration is whether the practice of ex-communication prevailing in other religions, castes or sub-castes is constitutionally valid. [Para 19][307-E-H] C 1.2. Even if the Ex-communication Act has been repealed, the issue remains whether the power of the head of Dawoodi Bohra Community to ex-communicate its members is non- justiciable being protected under the umbrella of clause (b) of D Article 26. This issue requires examination in the present-day context. [Para 20][307-H; 308-A] Approach to be adopted: 2. While interpreting the Constitutional provisions, one E must remember that the Constitution is a living instrument. The originalist interpretation rendered to the provisions of the Constitution decades back, cannot continue to be valid for all times to come if the Constitution is to continue as a living instrument with continued relevance. Constitutional law has F developed a great deal during the last few decades. The concept of freedom has undergone changes and in the 21stcentury, society looks completely different from what it looked in the last century. Thus, the interpretation of law must keep pace with changing needs of society. [Paras 21 and 23][308-B-C, F-G; 310-A-B] G Morality in the context of Articles 25 and 26: 3. The freedom of conscience guaranteed under clause (1) of Article 25 is subject to public , morality and health. All four clauses (a), (b,), (c) and (d) of Article 26 are also made H 296 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A specifically subject to public , morality and health. Thus, the right of the religious denomination to manage its own affairs in matters of religion is always subject to morality. As far as the concept of morality contemplated by Articles 25 and 26 is concerned, much water has flown after the decision in the case of B Sardar Syedna where the argument that Article 26(b) is subject to morality was not at all considered as it was not canvassed and pressed at the time of hearing.