Therefore, WAPCOS recommended a new location for water intake, which was 23 km from the power C plant as against the 12.5 kms initially indicated at the time of bidding (original location). It was highlighted that the new location would ensure reliable water supply to the power plant. Due to increase in the distance, submergence area along the route and construction time, there has been considerable increase in the cost of water intake system due to change in location as detailed below. The D report of WAPCOS recommending the revised location is annexed herewith and marked as Annexure A-15. 9.7 It is submitted that due to the change in location, cost for water intake system has increased on following counts: (a) While the route length itself increased to 23 kms, the increase E in piping length increased from 24 km (2 Pipe Lines each of 12 Kms) to 59.5 km (2 Pipe Lines each of 8 km & 3 Pipes each of 14.5 km) (b) Increased cost due to deeper Pump House. (c) Additional dredging for creation of intake channel for the F offshore pump house. (d) Additional cost due to HT transmission line. There has been considerable increase of approximately Rs.176 Crores in cost of the water intake system, which now is estimated to be approximately Rs.268 Crores. The cost break-up for the G new location for the water intake system is annexed herewith and marked as Annexure A-16. 9.8 It is submitted that the increase in cost of the water intake system is on account of the errors in the report provided by the Procurers and therefore, the Procurers are required to compensate H the Appellant for the difference in cost. HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 27 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] 9.9 It is further submitted that since the water pipeline corridor is A part of the Land for the Power Station and the water intake pipeline is an integral part of the Power Station, any change in the indicative cost of the water intake system is covered under Change in Law in terms of Article 13 of the PPA since it amounts to change in cost of land of the Project. In fact, the Ld. General Commission B has noted in the impugned that the estimate for Declared Price of Land for the Power Station includes the Water Intake System. The operative part of the Impugned is reproduced below: “19. Change in the declared price of land is covered under “Change in Law”. The procurers have also agreed that this item of C expenditure is admissible under “Change in Law”. The declared price of land for the Power Station was stated to be 190.677 crore. This has been verified from the communication dated 23.10.2006 from the representative of the procurers to the bidders. This included the power plant area, the fuel transport system land, D the water pipeline corridor and the ash pipeline corridor.” 9.11 It is submitted that pre-bid site visit and project reports were prepared and made available by Authorized Representative (Power Finance Corporation) to all bidders.