D Article 323-A merely provides for the enactment of legislation as of one of many routes. It is open to Parliament to choose any legally acceptable method to reduce arrears in the High Courts and secure the speedy disposal of service matters, including but not limited to creating administrative tribunals. Article 323-A does not deprive Parliament of E the power to choose an alternate course of action to reduce arrears or ensure speedy justice, by any other modality, including by strengthening other adjudicatory mechanisms. The intention of Parliament could not have been to mandate the establishment and continuation of administrative tribunals. Besides the purpose of the provision discussed above, nothing in the scheme of Article 323-A indicates that it is a mandatory provision. F The consequences of reading Article 323-A as mandating the creation of administrative tribunals, would be to foreclose the possibility of the adoption of an alternate course of action to achieve the desired objective of reducing arrears and ensuring speedy justice. This, too, indicates that it could not have been the intention of Parliament to mandate the G establishment of administrative tribunals as the only remedy to mounting arrears or as the only manner in which speedy justice could be secured. 39. Another important consequence of interpreting Article 323-A as being mandatory is that it prevents Parliament and the State Governments from evaluating the manner in which administrative tribunals function by inter alia accounting for: H 770 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A a. The rate of disposal of cases; b. The quality of the s; c. How often the decisions of the SAT are overturned in the writ jurisdiction, appeal or review; d. Whether the tribunals are functioning independently; B e. The availability of qualified and suitable candidates for the posts of members and chairpersons of the tribunals; f. Whether SATs do indeed reduce arrears in the High Courts and streamline the justice delivery mechanism; C g. The cost incurred by the state; and h. The costs (monetary and otherwise) to litigants. The Orissa High Court refers to some of these factors in paragraphs 70 to 75 of the impugned albeit in a slightly different context. The intention of Parliament could not have been to prevent the D Union or State Governments from evaluating the efficiency and desirability of administrative tribunals once they were established. However, the effect of reading Article 323-A as a mandatory provision would be to do precisely that. 40. The appellants have relied on the decision of this Court in E Dilip K Basu v. State of West Bengal (2015) 8 SCC 744 to argue that it is mandatory for the Union Government to establish SATs. In that case, this Court was required to interpret Section 21 of the Protection of Human Rights Act 1993 which stipulated that State Governments “may” constitute a State Human Rights Commission. The question was whether the word “may” ought to be read as the word “shall.” This Court noted F that the Protection of Human Rights Act 1993 enjoined the State Human Rights Commissions to promote human rights, prevent their violation, and provide redressal.