The words “for any purpose” mean that the instrument cannot be relied upon for a collateral purpose either. Further, the instrument shall not be acted upon, registered or authenticated by such person or by any public offi cer, unless it is duly stamped. The words ‘acted upon’ are with reference to the acts or the proceedings before such offi cer or public offi cer, as the case may be. 8. Section 35 permits admission of an unstamped or under-stamped instrument after the same instrument is duly stamped. Proviso (a) requires payment of the chargeable duty and penalty, before an insufficiently stamped instrument is admitted in evidence, or is acted upon, registered or authenticated. 9. Section 40(1)(b) of the Stamp Act provides for payment of proper duty if the instrument impounded is not duly stamped. Section 42(1) provides for certifying that proper duty has been paid on the impounded instrument. Sub-section (2) of Section 42 provides that after certifi cation the instrument shall be admissible in evidence, and may be registered, acted upon and authenticated as if it has been duly stamped. 10. Sections 33 and 35donot apply when an instrument is produced or is acted upon by the parties themselves, or by a person who does not have authority by law or by consent of the parties to receive evidence, or a person who is not a public offi cer. Sections 33 does not authorise a police offi cer to examine and impound an instrument, even when insuffi ciently stamped. A Magistrate or a Judge of a criminal court may not examine or impound an instrument coming before him,and can admit an insuffi ciently stamped IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1199 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [ SANJIV KHANNA, J.] instrument in evidence, other than in the proceeding under Chapter XII or Chapter XXXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Chapter X(D) and Chapter IX of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973).Thus, the same instrument may be admissible and acted upon before a criminal court, while being inadmissible before a civil court, public offi cer etc. 11. The negative stipulations in Sections 33 and 35 are specifi c, albeit not so absolute as to make the instrument invalid in law. A “void ab initio” instrument, which is stillborn,has no corporeality in the eyes of law. It cannot confer or give rights, or create obligations. However, an instrument which is “inadmissible” exists in law, albeit cannot be admitted in evidence by such person, or be registered, authenticated or be acted upon by such person or a public offi cer till it is duly stamped. As rightly observed by Hon’ble the Chief Justice, Section 35 deals with admissibility etc. of an instrument and not invalidity. 12. Section 36 of the Stamp Act refers to the situation where the admission of an instrument is not to be questioned, and reads: “36. Admission of instrument where not to be questioned.—Where an instrument has been admitted in evidence, such admission shall not, except as provided in Section 61, be called in question at any stage of the same suit or proceeding on the ground that the instrument has not been duly stamped.” Thus, where an instrument has been admitted in evidence, such admission shall not be called in question, except as provided in Section 61, at any stage of the same suit or proceedings on the ground that the instrument is not duly stamped.