took over the investigation and filed the chargesheet, the C.B.I. then filed the application before the learned Trial Court for cancellation of the bail under Section 439(2), which came to be dismissed by the Trial Court. It is submitted that therefore, mere subsequent filing of the chargesheet cannot be a ground to cancel the bail granted in favour of the respondent G – original Accused No. 1, once he was released on default bail on non- conclusion ofthe investigation and non-filing of the chargesheet within the stipulated time. 6.3 It is submitted that as per the catena of decisions of this Court as such to release the accused on bail on non-filing of the chargesheet H 750 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A within the stipulated time as mentioned under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. is an indefeasible right accrued in favour of the accused. It is submitted that once in exercise of such right available when the accused is released on bail under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C., the same cannot be taken away and/or cancelled on subsequent filing of the chargesheet. Learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent – original Accused No. 1 B has heavily relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of Mohamed Iqbal Madar Sheikh and Ors. Vs. State of Maharashtra, (1996) 1 SCC 722 (paragraph 10). 6.4Making above submissions and relying upon the decisions in the case of Mohamed Iqbal Madar Sheikh and Ors. (supra), it is C prayed to dismiss the present appeal. 7. Shri Siddhartha Dave, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the proposed impleader –daughter of the deceased has supported Shri Nataraj, learned ASG and has submitted that looking to the seriousness of the charges alleged against the respondent herein – D original Accused No. 1 and that looking to the gravity of the offence and in view of the post-bail conduct of the accused after he was released on bail, considered by this Court while deciding Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 169 of 2022, it is prayed to cancel the bail granted in favour of the respondent herein – original Accused No. 1. He has also relied upon the E decision of this Court in the case of Rakesh Kumar Paul Vs. State of Assam, (2017) 15 SCC 67 (paragraphs 15 and 49) by submitting that as observed by this Court in the said decision, in case the accused is released on default bail, it does not prohibit or otherwise prevent the arrest or re-arrest of the accused on cogent grounds in respect of the subject charge and upon arrest or re-arrest, the accused is entitled to F petition for grant of regular bail which application should be considered on its own merit. 8. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the respective parties, the short question, which is posed for the consideration of this Court is whether the bail granted under the proviso to sub-section (2) of G Section 167 Cr.P.C. for failure to complete the investigation within the period prescribed therein can be cancelled after the presentation of a chargesheet and if the said question is answered in affirmative, then, on what grounds and circumstances, the bail can be cancelled?