It depends on the purpose of the prescribed procedure and the consequence of non-compliance with such procedure. This is true across diverse areas of law. D 98. The House of the People and the Legislative Assemblies of States are constituted of members directly elected by the electorate. The candidate who secures the highest number of votes is returned to the Assembly. The political party which reaches the half-way mark forms the government. A coalition of political parties may form the government E if no single political party reaches the half-way mark. Articles 75 and 164 provide that the Council of Ministers is collectively responsible to the House of the People and Legislative Assembly of the State respectively. The legislators who are directly elected by the people have a duty to hold the executive accountable on the floor of the House. F Legislative procedures serve two objectives - first, they enable deliberation and discussion on the floor of the House to hold the executive accountable, and such deliberation also produces better constitutional outcomes; and second, they create a system to place a check on the exercise of power by the incumbent government. Certain procedural requirements prescribed by the Constitution safeguard constitutional G values. This is reflected in Article 368 which prescribes a special majority to amend certain constitutional provisions, which according to the members of the Constituent Assembly hold a higher constitutional (and 32 "CrPC” 33 See Pradeep S Wodeyar v. State of Karnataka, 2021 SCC OnLine SC 1140 H 34 (2007) 1 SCC 257 SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 923 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] democratic) value. Certain other legislative procedures further democratic A processes and accountability, and prevent the concentration of power in the hands of the incumbent government. Article 212 cannot be interpreted as placing all procedural infringements beyond the pale of judicial review. Such an interpretation would completely disregard the importance of legislative processes in a constitutional democracy. B 99. The distinction between irregular procedure and illegal procedure must be drawn based on the nature of the procedure which was violated, and the impact of such a violation on democratic ideals. An infringement of a procedure would be irregular if the purpose of such procedure is unrelated to democratic ideals and its violation does C not go to the root of democratic processes. 100. The observations of this Court on the interpretation of Article 212 highlighted above do not make a distinction between irregularity and illegality solely based on the source of law. The distinction is not based on whether the procedure is entrenched in the Constitution but D whether it is crucial for the sustenance of democracy. A violation of a procedure that fulfils the twin objectives highlighted above and which is necessary for the sustenance of parliamentary democracy would render the action illegal. On the other hand, a violation of a procedure that establishes liness may only be irregular. E 101. In Ramdas Athawale v. Union of India,35 a member of the Lok Sabha challenged the validity of the proceedings in the Lok Sabha on the ground that the President had not addressed both Houses of Parliament under Article 87 when the session commenced on 29 January 2004 which was the first session of the year.