In the facts and circumstances of that E case, the conviction of the accused was altered from Section 302 to that under Section 304 Part II IPC and the accused was sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for five years. 57. In Jagtar Singh v. State of Punjab, (1983) 2 SCC 342, the accused on the spur of the moment inflicted a knife-blow on the chest of F the deceased. The injury proved to be fatal. The doctor opined that the injury was sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death. This Court observed that: (SCC p. 344, para 8):- “8. … The quarrel was of a trivial nature and even in such a trivial quarrel the appellant wielded a weapon like a knife G and landed a blow in the chest. In these circumstances, it is a permissible inference that the appellant at least could be imputed with a knowledge that he was likely to cause an injury which was likely to cause death. …” (Emphasis supplied) H 1126 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A This Court altered the conviction of the appellant from Section 302 IPC to Section 304 Part II IPC and sentenced the accused to suffer rigorous imprisonment for five years. 58. In Hem Raj v. State (Delhi Admn. ), 1990 Supp SCC 291, the accused inflicted single stab injury landing on the chest of the deceased. B The occurrence admittedly had taken place on the spur of the moment and in heat of passion upon a sudden quarrel. According to the doctor the injury was sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death. This Court observed as under: (SCC p. 295, para 14)”- “14. The question is whether the appellant could be said to C have caused that particular injury with the intention of causing death of the deceased. As the totality of the established facts and circumstances do show that the occurrence had happened most unexpectedly in a sudden quarrel and without premeditation during the course of which the appellant caused a solitary injury, he could not be imputed with the intention D to cause death of the deceased or with the intention to cause that particular fatal injury; but he could be imputed with the knowledge that he was likely to cause an injury which was likely to cause death. Because in the absence of any positive proof that the appellant caused the death of the deceased E with the intention of causing death or intentionally inflicted that particular injury which in the ordinary course of nature was sufficient to cause death, neither clause I nor clause III of Section 300 IPC will be attracted.” (Emphasis supplied) F This Court while setting aside the conviction under Section 302 convicted the accused under Section 304 Part II and sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for seven years. 59. We may lastly refer to the decision of this Court in Pulicherla Nagaraju v. State of A.P., (2006) 11 SCC 444 : (2007) 1 SCC (Cri) 500, G wherein this Court enumerated some of the circumstances relevant to finding out whether there was any intention to cause death on the part of the accused.