At the time of framing of the Constitution of India, it was obviously within contemplation that the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir was formed for framing the Constitution for the State. It was not intended to be a permanent body but a body with a specifi c remit and purpose. The power conferred by the proviso to Article 370(3) was hence something which would operate in a period of transition when the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir was formed and was in existence, pending the drafting of the State Constitution; e. The President in exercise of the power under Article 370(1) (d) could not make radical changes to the provisions of the Constitution of India as it applies to Jammu and Kashmir. If the President exercises the power under Article 370(3) issuing a notifi cation that Article 370 ceases to exist, the State of Jammu and Kashmir would be fully constitutionally integrated with India similar to the other States. So, the power under Article 370(1) and Article 370(3) even when exercised to its fullest extent does not freeze the system of integration contemplated by Article 370. It was intended to enhance constitutional integration between the Union and the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Holding that the power under Article 370(3) cannot be exercised after the dissolution of the Constituent Assembly would lead to freezing of the integration contrary to the purpose of introducing the provision; and f. If the contention of the petitioners on the interpretation of Article 370 vis-à-vis the dissolution of the Constituent Assembly is accepted then Article 370(3) would become redundant and the provision would lose its temporary character. This would be contrary to holding that Article 370 is a temporary provision. 347. It could be argued that an interpretation which renders Article 370(3) redundant does not make the provision permanent because Parliament in exercise of its constituent power under Article 368 could 212 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. repeal the provision. This argument misses the scope of temporary and transitional provisions. Article 368 states that Parliament in exercise of its constituent power may “amend by way of addition, variation or repeal any provision of the Constitution”. Thus, all provisions of the Constitution are amenable to change. This power is only subject to the basic structure challenge. However, a provision does not attain a temporary character merely because it can be amended. A provision is temporary when the provision ceases to exist even without the exercise of the amending power either through the lapse of time or the absence of certain conditions. The provision could be temporary because of the time frame, that is, the provision states it would cease to have eff ect after the lapse of a particular time period or it could be temporary in view of the existence of specifi c circumstances. If Article 370 can only be repealed in the same manner as other provisions which are not placed within Part XXI, the distinction between temporary and other provisions is lost.