This distinction again, on the face of it, appears misconceived. It is not doubted that such a phrase or other similar phrases have been employed in these provisions, however, if the holding of the High Court is given an imprimatur, it would cause an apparent confl ict between provisions of the very same Act i.e., the sections reproduced immediately hereinabove vis a vis Section 120, which, as hitherto reproduced states that, a party to a suit shall be, amongst others, a competent witness. It may also be observed that nowhere in the Evidence Act has the party been precluded from presenting himself as a witness, and therefore this diff erentiation based only on the meaning as it appears, cannot be countenanced. A perusal of Sections 137,138 and 139, in our considered view, does not favour the diff erences as pointed out in the impugned judgement. Examination in chief, cross-examination and re- examination are all facets of a trial which can be availed by a party or the adversary, for both the party to a suit as a witness and also for other witnesses called by the party. Therefore, this negates the interpretation that “the party who calls him” suggests a diff erence between the party as also the witness called by such party for the purposes of entering evidence before the court. 17. Having arrived at the conclusion as above, that the provisions of the Code as also the Evidence Act do not diff erentiate between a party to 886 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. the suit acting as a witness and a witness otherwise called by such a party to testify, we may now consider the next question presented by this lis. 18. While considering the legislative intent of VII Rule 14(4), VIII Rule 1-A(4)(a) and XIII Rule 1(3), the High Court observed that the production of documents relied on and/or “in the possession and power of the parties” as being obligatory and noted that a failure to do so, may in some cases be tantamount to fraud. Reference was made to S.P. Chengivaraya Naidu v. Jagannath9 to substantiate the same. It was observed that permitting a party to hold a document intentionally, for any purpose whatsoever would nullify the requirement of a level playing fi eld in the litigation, but also undercut the said provisions because the language is clear- mandating for the parties to produce documents, and whereas, the exception- i.e., VIII Rule 1-A (4) and XIII Rule 1(3) applies only to witnesses and not to parties. Thus concluding that the legislative intent is clear and unambiguous, as evidenced by the same diff erence being present three times. 19. On this, it would be appropriate to extract the relevant provisions, for ready reference. VII [14. Production of document on which plaintiff sues or relies.— (1) Where a plaintiff sues upon a document or relies upon document in his possession or power in support of his claim, he shall enter such documents in a list, and shall produce it in Court when the plaint is presented by him and shall, at the same time deliver the document and a copy thereof, to be fi led with the plaint.