The Tribunal distinguished D the case of Shree Baidyanath Ayurved Bhavan (supra) while observing that the product in question therein did not satisfy the common parlance test and the said product DML was known as toilet preparation in common parlance and not as Ayurvedic medicine. The Tribunal further pointed out that the decision of this Court in the case of Alpine Industries (supra) E was not applicable as in the said case, the drug license obtained by the assessee under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, itself mentioned that it was a license for ointment and cream for external application as a non-pharmacopoeia item whereas in the present case, the product was registered as Homeopathic Medicine. F 20.2.2. While supporting the findings of the Tribunal, learned senior counsel for the respondent has contended that AHAHO is a therapeutic or prophylactic medicament in the medium of oil for curing diseases relating to the scalp. The product is not advertised as “Hair Oil” but is marketed only as “Aswini Homeo Arnica Hair Oil”. G 21. In an overall comprehension of the matter, and with application of the relevant principles to the facts of the present case, we are clearly of the view that the product in question sails through the twin tests without any doubt and has rightly been held as medicament by the Tribunal. 22. Taking up the test relating to the ingredients, there appears absolutely no reason to suggest that the product in question, AHAHO, H COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 345 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] does not pass this test. It remains indisputable that the product has been A manufactured as a drug after being duly licensed by the competent authorities and carries the combination of as many as four Homeopathic medicines, Arnica Montana, Cantharis, Pilocarpine, and Cinchona in its preparation. These Homeopathic medicines are duly found mentioned in Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia of India15 as also in the Dictionary of B Practical Materia Medica16 placed before us by the learned counsel for the respondent. 22.1. Having gone through the elaborate passed by the Adjudicating Authority, we are constrained to observe that in the over- anxiety to somehow hold the product in question as cosmetic, the C Adjudicating Authority even attempted to suggest his reservations as regards the utility of Pilocarpine as a Homeopathic drug contrary to the authoritative texts17. Be that as it may, the Adjudicating Authority in its elaborate could not otherwise doubt the recognition of other ingredients of AHAHO as being Homeopathic drugs. The approach of the Adjudicating Authority in his micro analysis of the contents of label D had also been in the nature of a fishing inquiry as if only to find some gap or some loophole therein, without looking at the substance of the matter that the product in question was clearly indicated to be a Homeopathic medicine under Schedule K to the Rules of 1945. Looking to the nature of the product and its properties, the relevant indications have also been E specified in reasonable terms and looking to its nature and purpose, directions for use have also been given in the manner that it was to be massaged directly on the scalp and should be left overnight for best results.