[2023] 12 S.C.R. 1083 : 2023 INSC 698 CASE DETAILS DINGANGLUNG GANGMEI v. MUTUM CHURAMANI MEETEI & ORS (Special Leave Petition (Civil) Diary No 19206 of 2023) AUGUST 07, 2023 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI, J. B. PARDIWALA AND MANOJ MISRA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for Consideration: The sectarian violence and strife in Manipur – Violence against women. Directions – Sectarian violence and riots in Manipur – Two broad objects which the directions must subserve: Held: Firstly, there is a need to ensure that the violence ceases, the perpetrators of violence are punished according to the procedure established by law, and that consequently, the faith and confi dence of the community in the justice system is restored – Secondly, there is a pressing need to ensure that the rule of law is restored and public confi dence in the investigative and prosecutorial process is sustained. [Para 19] Directions – Sectarian violence and riots in Manipur – Violence against women – Formation of Committee and mandate of Committee: Held: A Committee consisting of three former female Judges of the High Court constituted – Mandate of the Committee to – (i) Enquire into the nature of violence against women that occurred in the State of Manipur from 04.05.2023 from all available sources; (ii) Submit a report to the Court on the steps required to meet the needs of the survivors including measures for dealing with rape trauma; (iii) Ensure that free and comprehensive medical aid and psychological care to victims of survivors is provided; (iv) Ensure conditions of dignity in relief camps set up for displaced persons including suggestions for additional camps; (v) Ensuring the payment of compensation and restitution to victims of violence; (vi) Issuing directions for the appointment of nodal offi cers at relief camps and the provision of 1083 1084 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. toll-free helplines to provide updates on any investigation, missing persons, and the recovery of dead bodies. [Para 20] Directions – Sectarian violence and riots in Manipur – The three-Judge Committee appointed to also enquire into and take steps necessary for the disbursement of compensation: Held: (a) Directions issued to the Manipur State Legal Services Authority to ensure award and payment of compensation to all victims under Section 357A CrPC, NALSA’s Compensation Scheme for Women Victims/Survivors of Sexual Assault/other Crimes 2018, and the Manipur Victim Compensation Scheme 2019; (b) Where the victim is deceased, the next of kin should be identifi ed for the payment of compensation; (c) A report of compliance to be fi led with full particulars of the case, victim/ witness, compensation awarded, date of payment and the persons to whom the payment was made; (d) The Member-Secretary NALSA shall monitor together with the three-Judge Committee on measures taken for witness protection, compensation and the rehabilitation and treatment of victims; (e) Issuing directions to the State of Manipur to settle compensation for damages caused to the movable and immovable properties of persons aff ected by violence; and (f) The updated status report to be fi led before the Court on a fortnightly basis.