Kuldeep Singh Chahal, IPS. You have not only promoted him but also posted him as Commissioner of Jalandhar and that too the s being issued just before 26th January, knowing very well that F Governor is to unfurl the national flag at Jalandhar. I had to instruct the DGP that concerned officer should maintain distance during ceremony. On this issue it seems that this officer was your blue eyed boy and you chose to ignore facts that were brought to your notice by this office. G (d) Vide letter dated 4-1-2023 I wrote about the presence of Sh. Naval Aggarwal in meetings of senior officers, where sensitive and confidential matters of security of the country are discussed. I have not received any reply till date. H STATE OF PUNJAB v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY TO THE GOVERNOR OF 537 PUNJAB AND ANOTHER [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (e) My letters asking for details of advertisements where you A were asked for complete details, is also perhaps lying in cold storage.” 7. Responding to the above communication, the Chief Minister (@ Bhagwant Mann) issued a tweet in the following terms: B “Hon’ble Governor Sir, your letter was received through the media..all the subjects mentioned in the letter are all state subjects...I and my government are accountable to 3 crore Punjabis according to the Constitution and not to any Governor appointed by the Central Government. Consider this as my reply.” C 8. This was followed by another communication of the Chief Minister dated 14 February 2023, in which he stated thus: “DO No.CMO/CONFI-2023/132 Dated:14.02.2023 Honorable Governor Sahib, I have received your letter No.Spl.Secy.Gov/2023/34 dated 13th D February, 2023. All the subjects mentioned in your letter are the subjects of the state government. In this regard, I would like to clarify that according to the Indian Constitution, I and my government are answerable to 3 crore Punjabis. E You have asked me, on what basis the principals are selected for training in Singapore. The people of Punjab want to ask, on what basis are the Governors in different states elected by the Central Government in the absence of any specific qualification in the Indian Constitution? F Please increase the knowledge of Punjabis by telling this.” 9. In the backdrop of the aforesaid communication by the Chief Minister and his tweet, the Governor while responding to the request of the Cabinet for summoning the Budget Session of the Vidhan Sabha from G 3 March 2023 stated that: “Since your tweet and letter, both are not only patently unconstitutional but extremely derogatory also, therefore, I am compelled to take legal advice on this issue. Only after getting legal advice, I will take decision on your request”. H 538 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 10. The inaction of the Governor in summoning the Assembly for the Budget Session has led to the invocation of the jurisdiction of this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution by the State of Punjab. 11. The Government of Punjab seeks (a) a declaration that the Governor of Punjab is duty bound to act on the aid and advice of the Council B of Ministers in matters of summoning or proroguing of the Vidhan Sabha of the State of Punjab; (b) a writ of certiorari quashing the communication of the Governor dated 23 February 2023 stating that a decision on the recommendation of the Council of Ministers for summoning the Vidhan Sabha for its Budget Session would be taken only after obtaining legal advice; and (c) a direction to the Principal Secretary to the Governor C of Punjab to facilitate the issuance of appropriate s for summoning the Legislative Assembly for its Budget Session at 10 am on 3 March 2023.