Father K.C. Alexander and Others, AIR 1968, SC 1165. 10 See Paragraph 19 in Anil Rishi v. Gurbaksh Singh, (2006) 5 SCC 558 where the expression– ‘burden of proof’ is used in three ways, namely, (i) to indicate the duty of F bringing forward evidence in support of a proposition at the beginning or later; (ii) to make that of establishing a proposition as against all counter-evidence; and (iii) an indiscriminate use in which it may mean either, or both of the others. 11See Addagada Raghavamma and Another v. Addagada Chenchamma and Another, AIR 1964 SC 136. 12 Section 101: Burden of Proof.- Whoever desires any Court to give as to any legal right or liability dependent on the existence of facts which he asserts, must G prove that those facts exist. When a person is bound to prove the existence of any fact, it is said that the burden of proof lies on that person. 13 See Sections 103, 104 and 105 of the Evidence Act. 14Section 102: On whom the burden of proof lies.- The burden of proof in a suit or proceeding lies on that person who would fail if no evidence at all were given on either side. 15 See Anil Rishi v. Gurbaksh Singh, (2006) 5 SCC 558. H 374 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A but this happens when in a suit for title and possession, the plaintiff has been able to create a high degree of probability to shift the onus on the defendant. In the absence of such evidence, the burden of proof lies on the plaintiff and can be discharged only when he is able to prove title.16 The weakness of the defence cannot be a justification to decree the suit.17 The plaintiff could have succeeded in respect of the Schedule ‘A’ B property if she had discharged the burden to prove the title to the Schedule ‘A’ property which squarely falls on her. This would be the true effect of Sections 101 and 102 of the Evidence Act.18 Therefore, it follows that the plaintiff should have satisfied and discharged the burden under the provisions of the Evidence Act, failing which the suit would be liable to C be dismissed. Thus, the impugned by the High Court had rightly allowed the appeal and set aside the and decree of the trial court. We, therefore, uphold the findings of the High Court that the suit should be dismissed. We clarify that we have not interfered or set aside any observations of the High Court in re the Tripura Land Revenue and Land Reforms Act, or defendants’ claim etc. Notably, M/s. Hotel Khosh D Mahal Limited is not a party to the present proceedings. 32. In view of the aforesaid discussion and legal position, the present appeal must be dismissed. We accordingly. In the facts of the case, there will be no as to costs. E Bibhuti Bhushan Bose Appeal dismissed. (Assisted by : Preetam Bharti, LCRA) F G 16 See R.V.E.