transaction, undervalued transaction, extortionate credit transaction or fraudulent transaction. (h) has executed a guarantee in favour of a creditor in respect of a corporate debtor against which an application for insolvency resolution made by such creditor has been admitted under this Code and such guarantee has been invoked by the creditor and remains unpaid in full or part:” 6. We may note that the aforesaid section was added as an amendment by Act 8 of 2018 with eff ect from 23.11.2017. The objective was to cure the mischiefs of the persons who may be responsible for the fi nancial situation of the company against trying to submit a plan and take over the company. If we turn to Clause (c), it provides a time frame i.e. a period of one year should elapse from the date of classifi cation as a non-performing asset (NPA). In the factual scenario, it is stated that there are no bank dues/outstanding which would at all invite a concept of NPA much less the period of one year. 7. Insofar as Clause (g) is concerned, it is pointed out that only one preferential transaction was identifi ed by the appellant but no was passed by the adjudicating authority as on the date of the impugned . 8. It is similarly stated that Clause (h) again has no factual application in the given scenario. 9. In eff ect, what is stated is that these aforesaid Clauses are specifi c to the promoters and thus, the promoter of the company was not disqualifi ed per say under Section 29A as to dis-entitle him from presenting the plan. This issue is stated to have been noted even in the impugned in para 3 as raised but there is no fi nding in the impugned in this behalf. The impugned has been based only on the issue of Section 240A of the said Code. 10. The aforesaid discussion thus, shows that as per the factual scenario on record, there is no per say disqualifi cation under Section 29A and we could have left the matter at that. However, we proceed further as it is pointed out that the plea based on Section 240A needs the opinion of this Court as there are a number of such cases arising and the s earlier passed are being followed. HARI BABU THOTA 923 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] 11. In this behalf learned Amicus has drawn our attention to the of this Court in Arcelormittal India Private Limited v. Satish Kumar Gupta & Ors.2. The discussion in this behalf is contained in paras 46, 47 and 57 which are reproduced as under: 46. According to us, it is clear that the opening words of Section 29-A furnish a clue as to the time at which clause (c) is to operate. The opening words of Section 29-A state: “a person shall not be eligible to submit a resolution plan...”. It is clear therefore that the stage of ineligibility attaches when the resolution plan is submitted by a resolution applicant.