The impugned discusses and lays down various procedural aspects to be followed by the Scrutiny Committee. The Full Bench of the Bombay High Court has held that the affinity test is an integral part of the determination of the correctness of the caste claim. In the dated 24th March 2022, a Bench of this Court noted that there was a conflict G of views expressed in two decisions of coordinate Benches of this Court. The first case is of Vijakumar v. State of Maharashtra & Ors.3 and the second case is of Anand v. Committee for Scrutiny and 2 2009 (3) Mh.LJ (F.B) 995 3 (2010) 14 SCC489 H 1114 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Verification of Tribe Claims & Ors.4. In paragraph 9 of the decision in the case of Vijakumar3, this Court held that if a candidate fails the affinity test at any stage, a caste validity certificate cannot be granted to him. In the case of Anand4, it was held that the affinity test is not the only criteria for deciding a caste claim based on a caste certificate issued by a Competent Authority. It was held that it can be used to corroborate B the documentary evidence. The question to be decided is whether paramount importance should be given to the affinity test while adjudicating upon a caste claim on the basis of a caste certificate issued by a Competent Authority. In other words, the question is whether the affinity test is a litmus test for deciding a caste claim. C CONTENTIONS OF THE PARTIES 5. Main submissions have been made on behalf of the appellants in Civil Appeal No. 2502 of 2022 by Shri Shekhar Naphade, learned senior counsel. He has taken us through the 2000 Act and ST Rules. Relying upon the decision in the case of Kumari Madhuri Patil1, he D urged that the documents which pertain to the pre-Constitution period have the greatest probative value. He submits that if such documents in support of caste claim are presented before the Scrutiny Committee, and if the same are found to be relevant and genuine, there is no occasion for the Scrutiny Committee to an enquiry through Vigilance Cell. E Similarly, if blood relatives of the person applying for verification before the Caste Scrutiny Committee have been granted caste validity certificates, no further enquiry by the Scrutiny Committee is called for. In both cases, it is the duty of the Caste Scrutiny Committee to validate the caste certificate. He invited our attention to Rule 12 of the ST Rules which lays down the procedure to be followed by the Scrutiny Committee. He F pointed out that sub-rule (2) provides that only if Scrutiny Committee is not satisfied with the documentary evidence produced by the applicant, it can enquiry through Vigilance Cell. He pointed out that the question of the conduct of the affinity test arises only after the case is forwarded to the Vigilance Cell after the Scrutiny Committee comes to G the conclusion that the documents produced by the applicant are not sufficient to prove the caste claim.