G 4.8 It is submitted that Section 2(j) of the Limitation Act defines “period of limitation”. It is submitted that thus, while the term “prescribed period” has a narrower meaning in the context of Limitation Act, there is no such restrictive definition clause in the General Clauses Act. It is submitted that in fact, the scheme of Section 10 of the General Clauses H 368 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Act is clear from a bare perusal of the provision and indicates that there are two prescribed periods in this Section viz. (1) the prescribed period within which something is directed to be done, or (2) the prescribed period within which something is allowed to be done. 4.9 It is submitted that therefore, reading of Section 10 of the B General Clauses Act, 1897 makes it clear that the period in which something is allowed to be done, such as 30 days condonable period provided by proviso to Section 34(3) of the Arbitration Act is also a prescribed period within the meaning of the General Clauses Act, 1897. 4.10 It is further submitted by Shri Shyam Diwan, learned Senior C Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant that the principle embodied in Section 10 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 is an elementary piece of justice. It is submitted that the 60th Law Commission Report on the General Clauses Act reiterated the parliamentary intention behind the Act and the provision, which is to deliver elementary justice. 4.11 It is submitted that in the case of HUDA & Anr. vs. Dr. D Babeswar Kanhar & Anr. reported in (2005) 1 SCC 191, this Court has observed and held that every consideration of justice and expediency would require that the accepted principle which underlines Section 10 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 should be applied in cases where it does not otherwise in terms apply. It is observed that the principles underlying E are lex non cogit ad impossibilia (law does not compel a man to do the impossible) and actus curiae neminem gravabit (the act of court shall prejudice no man). It is submitted that in the case of Manohar Joshi vs. Nitin Bhaurao Patil and Ors. reported in (1996) 1 SCC 169, it is observed and held by this Court that the litigant has a right to avail limitation up to the last day and his only obligation is to explain his inability F to present the suit / petition on the last day of limitation and each day thereafter till it is actually presented. 4.12 It is further submitted that if as held in the case of Assam Urban (Supra), the benefit of Section 4 of the Limitation Act is only available for the period of limitation and is not available for the statutorily G granted condonable period. Section 10 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 must step in to fill the vacuum. It is submitted that any contrary view would deny individuals the full play of the statutory period of 30 days for condonation of delay.