To understand the nature and sweep of the dispute on hand, it B may be relevant to take a peep into history. 7. It appears that one Mir-Qamar-ud-din Khan (who was given the title Asaf Jah) was one of the feudal chiefs of the Moghuls and was the Governor of Deccan from 1713 to 1721. Later he proclaimed independence and founded the Asaf Jahi dynasty in Hyderabad. C 8. As stated by Gribble in his “History of Deccan”, Asaf Jah brought with him a number of followers, both Mohammadens and Hindus, who were attached to his person and fortunes. To the Mohammedan nobles, he granted Jagirs or estates on military tenure and employed them as his Generals. The Hindus were employed principally in the D administrative work in the departments of revenue and finance. To them also he granted Jagirs as remuneration for their services and all these Jagirs whether granted for civil or military purposes came to be regarded as hereditary. 9. Distinguished among the Muslim followers was Mohammed E Abul Khair Khan, a member of a noted family which had settled for some generations in Oudh and afterwards in Agra. He had rendered meritorious services in battles and was the recipient of several favours and honours at the hands of the Nizam. He was eventually made a “Commander of 6000 horsemen”, with the title of “Imam Jung”. He died in 1751 A.D. His son, Abul Fateh Khan, who followed in the footsteps F of his father, soon rose to great prominence. His services also got rewarded and his estate swelled up by reason of fresh grants and sanads. 10. Eventually, in or about the year 1198 H. (1784 A.D.) the Jagirs roughly coinciding with what sometime thereafter were called the Paigah Estates, were granted to him by Nizam Ali Khan under a Perwana. On G his death, a fresh grant of the same estate and of about the same area was made in 1205 H. to his son, Fakhruddin Khan, who was a minor then. This grant seems to have been made as Paigah grant. 11. In fact, the term ‘Paigah’ as used in the Parwan of 1198, and 1205 H. connotes an estate granted for maintenance of the army. Abul H M/s TRINITY INFRAVENTURES LTD. & ORS. ETC. v. M. S. 291 MURTHY & ORS. ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] Fateh Khan indeed expressly undertook to maintain a regular number of A troops at a definite cost. In 1253H. on the application of Fakhruddin Khan, a regular sanad was granted. That sanad is the foundation of the title of the Paigah family. The nature of the grants evidenced by this sanad would show that these grants were burdened with obligations to maintain Paigah troops for the services of the Nizam. B 12. Fakhruddin Khan, however, died in 1863 A.D. He was succeeded by his eldest surviving son, Rafiuddin Khan, who was co- Regent of the Hyderabad State along with Sir Salar Jung during the minority of the late Nizam Mir Mahboob Ali Khan.