17. Pausing here, the Court would note that the Appellant never C tried to murder her sons with a view to continue her illicit relationship. On the contrary, she had tried to commit suicide herself along with her children not with a view to continue her illicit relationship with her paramour but rather, in disappointment and frustration over the quarrel picked up by her paramour. This Court is not an institution to sermonise society on morality and ethics and we say no further on this score, bound D as we are, by the brooding presence of the rule of law. 18. That said, it cannot be simply bracketed as a ‘cruel and brutal’ offence as the Appellant herself was trying to end her life but was prevented by her niece in the nick of time. Moreover, the recommendation E of the State Level Committee conveyed by the Additional Director General of Police/Inspector General of Prisons by way of Letter No.4369/ PS1/2018 dated 16.02.2018 also notes her undisputed reflective conduct as also the long period of incarceration already undergone. 19. Thus, this Court feels that there is no valid reason/justifiable F ground for the State not accepting the recommendation of the State Level Committee for premature release of the Appellant. We are not oblivious to the crime but we are equally not oblivious to the fact that the Appellant (mother) has already suffered at the cruel hands of fate. The reason thereof is an arena this Court would avoid entering. G 20. For reasons aforesaid, the of the State of Tamil Nadu as contained in G.O. (D) No. 1127 dated 24.09.2019 issued by the Home (Prison-IV) Department, under the signature of Additional Chief Secretary to Government, rejecting the prayer for premature release of the Appellant, is set aside. H 1136 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 21. The Appellant is held entitled to the benefit of premature release as per G.O. (Ms) No. 64 dated 01.02.2018 issued by the Home (Prison-IV) Department, under the signature of Additional Chief Secretary to Government. 22. Accordingly, the Appellant is directed to be released forthwith, B if not required in any other case. 23. The Appeal stands disposed of in the aforementioned terms. Ankit Gyan Appeal disposed of. C D E F G H