In view of the above, it is quite clear that in to bring the case within the purview of ‘Abetment’ under Section 107 IPC, there F has to be an evidence with regard to the instigation, conspiracy or intentional aid on the part of the accused. For the purpose proving the charge under Section 306 IPC, also there has to be an evidence with regard to the positive act on the part of the accused to instigate or aid to drive a person to commit suicide. G 11. So far as facts of the present case are concerned, the prosecution had sought to lead the evidence by examining the witnesses to prove that the deceased had committed suicide because of the mental and physical harassment of the appellants-accused.The PW-21 Dr. Jayashree Masali, who had carried out the post-mortem of the deceased, had narrated in her deposition the injuries found on the body of the H KASHIBAI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF KARNATAKA 181 [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] deceased as mentioned in the post-mortem report (Exhibit-14). As per A her final opinion, the cause of death was “due to drowning as a result of Asphyxia”.It may be noted that nothing comes out from her evidence as to whether the death was suicidal or not. The PW-1Annapurna Limbikai, who happened to be the mother though had alleged in her examination- in-chief that her daughter was murdered by the accused by throwing B her in the well, she had admitted that when she reached at the spot, she had not seen the dead body of her daughter in the well. She had also admitted that she had not stated in her complaint that her daughter had committed suicide by jumping into the well on account of the mental and physical harassment caused by the accused. At this juncture she was declared hostile, and the public prosecutor was permitted to cross examine C her. In the cross-examination she had stated that she did not remember the incident as it had occurred long back. In the further cross-examination by the learned advocate for the accused she had admitted that the accused no. 3 had informed her on telephone that her daughter-Jayashree had accidentally slipped, and as a result thereof she fell down in the well at D about 12.00 O’clock. She also stated that when she, her husband, other relatives and the neighbours went to the place of occurrence at about 4.30 p.m., they had not seen the dead body floating in the well. 12. PW-4 Sadashiv Limbikai, the father of the deceased also had stated in his evidence before the Court that he did not knowwhether her E daughter- Jayashree had committed suicide, or the accused had thrown her body into the well. PW-5 Rudrangouda Patil who was instrumental in arranging the marriage of the deceased with accused no. 3, had stated that he did not know how Jayashree had fallen down into the well. PW- 6 GangappaLimibikai, who happened to be the uncle of the deceased also had no knowledge as to how the deceased fell down in the well.