CONTENTIONS OF THE PARTIES 6. In course of hearing of the appeal, Mr. Luthra, learned senior counsel for the appellant invited our attention to several paragraphs of the impugned to demonstrate the errors from which the same suff ered, both factual as well as legal. He also placed on record written notes containing submissions on factual as well as legal aspects. Relying on the authorities referred to therein, he prayed for interference by this Court to facilitate release of the Detenu from illegal detention. 7. Per contra, Mr. Dave, learned senior counsel for the respondents urged that notwithstanding Mr. Luthra’s attempt to prick holes in the impugned of the High Court, what is to be seen and read is the of detention passed under section 3 and once read, it becomes clear that the ultimate conclusion recorded in the impugned is defensible based on the grounds for detention as assigned by the Commissioner in his dated 24th March, 2023 and the dated 20th May, 2023 of the Government. Other contentions raised by Mr. Dave need not be enumerated here, for, we intend to deal with the same while proceeding further. However, to put it concisely, the argument of Mr. Dave has been that the satisfaction of the detaining authority cannot be subjected to objective tests and that the courts are not supposed to exercise appellate powers over such authorities; and that an , proper on its face, passed by a competent authority in good faith is a complete answer to negative a claim such as the one raised by Mr. Luthra. Several authoritative decisions on preventive detention cases having high precedential value was cited by him and he contended that the appeal deserves nothing but dismissal. GENERAL DISCUSSIONSON PREVENTIVE DETENTION AND JUDICIAL REVIEWABILITY 8. Prior to venturing to decide the contentious issue as to whether the Detention is legal or not, we consider it necessary to remind ourselves 968 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. of the purpose for which preventive detentionin a particular case could be ed, the requisites of a valid detention and the scope of judicial reviewability of such . 9. Clauses (1) and (2) of Article 22 of the Constitution guaranteeing protection to a person against arbitrary arrest, eff ected otherwise than under a warrant issued by a court of law, are regarded as vital and fundamental for safeguarding personal liberty. Nonetheless, the protection so guaranteed is subject to clause (3) of Article 22 which operates as an exception to clauses (1) and (2) and ordains that nothing therein shall apply to, inter alia, any person who is arrested or detained under any law providing for preventive detention. The purpose of preventive detention, as said by Hon’ble A.N. Ray, CJ. in Haradhan Saha vs. State of West Bengal4 is to prevent the greater evil of elements imperiling the security and safety of a State, and the welfare of the Nation. Preventive detention, though a draconian and dreaded measure, is permitted by the Constitution itself but subject to the safeguards that are part of the relevant article and those carved out by the Constitutional Courts through judicial decisions of high authority which have stood the test of time.