3.5 All the three accused preferred appeals before the High Court. By the impugned and dated 5th August 2014, the High Court dismissed all their appeals. Hence, the present appeals. 4. We have heard Mr. R.K. Kapoor and Ms. K. Sarada Devi, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants, and Ms. Sonia Mathur and Mr. A.K. Panda, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent. 5. Mr. Kapoor submitted that the present case is a case of circumstantial evidence. It is submitted that unless the prosecution establishes an unbroken link of circumstances, conviction based upon circumstantial evidence is not permissible. 6. Mr. Kapoor submitted that the prosecution mainly relies on the testimony of Jai Singh (PW-20) and Naresh Kumar (PW-21). 7. Ms. Mathur and Mr. Panda, on the contrary, submitted that the High Court and the trial court have concurrently, on proper appreciation of evidence, convicted the appellants. It is submitted that no interference is warranted in the present appeals. 8. Insofar as Naresh Kumar (PW-21) is concerned, he states that on the date of incident, at around 03.15 pm, he saw that the accused Prem Singh was present in his vehicle Toyota Qualis in front of the room of deceased Hoshiyar Singh, and was pressing the accelerator of his vehicle continuously and making the sound of the vehicle loud. Upon being asked about the reason KAMAL v. STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 53 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] for the same, accused Prem Singh replied that the vehicle was not starting. PW-21 further states that meanwhile, he saw two boys coming out of the room of deceased Hoshiyar Singh. When PW-21 asked the accused Prem Singh about those boys, he replied that they were the tenants. PW-21 states that, thereafter, he went towards his shop at Gopal Nagar. 9. Further, in the examination-in-chief, PW-21 states that on 16th September 2009, he was called by the police at the house of the deceased Hoshiyar Singh and he went there and saw that two persons, namely Manoj and Kamal Kishore, were in the custody of the police. PW-21 further states that the police had told him that they had committed the murder of Hoshiyar Singh. This witness has been declared hostile, and in the cross- examination by the Additional Public Prosecutor (APP), he has identifi ed these two persons to be the persons who were seen by him coming out of the house of Hoshiyar Singh. However, further in the cross-examination by the APP, he has again admitted that he has seen the accused persons in the Police Station on 12th September 2009 for the fi rst time. He further admitted that the police offi cials told him that there was a person namely Kamal Kishore and also told him about the accused Manoj. Another witness for the last seen theory is Jai Singh (PW-20), younger brother of deceased Hoshiyar Singh. He has deposed on similar lines as that of Naresh Kumar (PW-21). 10. The very presence of Jai Singh (PW-20) has been sought to be demolished in the cross-examination.