to public policy and operate unfairly, and should be understood in A the light of what the Supreme Court enunciated in Central Inland Water Transport Corporation & Anr. vs. Brojo Nath Ganguly, AIR 1986 SC 1571, thus expanding the sphere of the law of contracts and subjecting it to the test of reasonableness or fairness of a clause in a contract where there is inequality of bargaining power. B Extracts from the can be profitably quoted:- “Article 14 of the Constitution guarantees to all persons equality before the law and the equal protection of the laws. This principle is that the Courts will not enforce and will, when called upon to do so, strike down an unfair and unreasonable contract, C or an unfair and unreasonable clause in a contract entered into between parties who are not equal in bargaining power. The above principle will apply where the inequality of bargaining power is the result of the great disparity in the economic strength of the contracting parties. It will apply where the inequality is the result of circumstances, whether of the creating D of the parties or not. It will apply to situations in which the weaker party is in a position in which he can obtain goods or services or means of livelihood only upon the terms imposed by the stronger party or go without them. It will also apply where a man has no choice, or rather no meaningful choice, E but to give his assent to a contract or to sign on the dotted line in a prescribed or standard form or to accept a set of rules as part of the contract, however, unfair unreasonable or unconsionable a clause in that contract or form or rules may be. This principle will not apply when the bargaining power of the contracting parties is equal or almost equal. mis principle F may not apply where both parties are businessmen and the contract is a commercial transaction. In today’s complex world of giant corporations with their vast infrastructural organisations and with the State through its instrumentalities and agencies entering into almost every branch of industry and commerce, G there can be myriad situations which result in unfair and unreasonable bargains between parties possessing wholly disproportionate and unequal bargaining power. The Court must judge each case on its own facts and circumstances when called upon to do so by a party under section 31(1) of the Specific Relief Act, 1963.” H 820 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Then further; “In the vast majority of cases, however, such contracts with unconscionable term are entered into by the weaker party under pressure of circumstances, generally economic, which results in inequality of bargaining power, Such contracts will not fall B within the four corners of the definition of “undue influence” as defined by section 16(1) of the Indian Contract Act. The majority of such contracts are in a standard or prescribed form or consist of a set of rules. They are not contracts between individuals containing terms meant for those individuals alone.