Hence, the High Court observed that the onus was on the appellant to explain as to how the death was caused. Addressing the plea of alibi, the High Court also held that such a plea was not tenable because PW- 4 and PW-5 were independent witnesses, both of whom testified that the appellant was available at the place of occurrence on 21.06.2007; B that she was arrested on the very same day she was seen with the deceased child; and that she was the only person available with the child at the time of occurrence. The High Court, inter alia, observed and held as under: - “13. Now learned counsel brought to the notice of this Court that C according to P.W.1, when she was returning from the house, she found that the accused was strangulating the child, which was not available in 161 statement. It is true, when she gave Ex.P1 report, she has stated that she actually found the accused/appellant strangulating the child, which was not available in 161 statement. D Even then, the only point that arises for consideration at this juncture is that when the child was left in the custody of the mother/ appellant by P.W.1 at the time of occurrence, when P.W.1 came back, she found only the dead body of the child. At the time of occurrence, the appellant alone was available along with the child. Hence, it is for the accused to explain as to how the death was E occurred. In the instant case, the prosecution proved that the child died of asphyxia due to strangulation. If to be so, it is for the mother/appellant to explain as to how the death was caused.” “14. The defence plea putforth before the Trial Court and equally here also is that the accused was absent during the relevant time F and she left the place leaving the child along with P.W.1. The Court is unable to agree with the same for more reasons than one. It is a false plea. Firstly, P.Ws.4 and 5 are independent witnesses, who are neighbors. According to P.Ws.4 and 5, the accused was very much available at the place of occurrence, G which took place on 21st June, 2007 morning. Secondly, according to the police, she was arrested on the very day and she was produced before the Court. When the occurrence had taken place at 8 a.m., the case came to be registered at 9 a.m. and the First Information Report reached the Court on the same day. Thirdly, the accused was the only person available with her child at the H VAHITHA v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU 967 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] place and time of occurrence and it is for the accused to explain A as to how the occurrence had taken place. But, she did not explain. Under such circumstances, it is quite clear that the prosecution has proved its case that except the accused, no one could have committed the murder of the child.” 7.2.