It is permissible for judicial review to result in an increase in the size of the intended pool of benefi ciaries of a legislation. Such an exercise will not amount to legislation by courts; and c. Judicial review is a tool to achieve social justice. It is also a tool by which constitutional aspirations and ideals are achieved. 37. Jaideep Gupta, learned counsel, made the following submissions: a. If recognition is accorded to marriage by queer persons, they will be protected from so-called “conversion therapies” which attempt to “convert” the sexual orientation of queer people into a heterosexual orientation as well as forced marriages; b. Queer marriages do not fall within the degrees of prohibited relationships; and c. The classifi cation on the basis of age in the SMA ought to be declared unconstitutional insofar as it mandates a diff erent minimum age requirement for men and women. This Court ought to declare twenty-one years as the ideal age for all marriages. The Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill 2021, SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1267 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] which seeks to raise the legally permissible age of girls to marry from eighteen years to twenty-one years is currently pending in Parliament. 38. Thulasi Raj, learned counsel, submitted that: a. The exclusion of the LGBT community from the institution of marriage is “demeaning” as defi ned by Deborah Hellman; and b. Prejudicial notions about sexuality inform the SMA although its provisions may not expressly contain words which indicate such prejudices. 39. Tanushree Bhalla, learned counsel, submitted that: a. The word “man” in the SMA ought to be read as meaning a cisgender man, a transgender man, and any person who assumes a role in the marriage that the statute or society or the institution of marriage confers on men. The word “woman” must be interpreted in a similar fashion; b. Section 4(c) of the SMA excludes intersex persons; and c. A minimum age at which persons of the “third gender” may marry may be read in, in Section 4(c) of the SMA. 40. In addition to the above submissions, some senior counsel and counsel sought to address this Court on the ‘notice and objections regime’ in the SMA (i.e., Sections 5 to 9 of the SMA which stipulate a set of procedural preconditions to the solemnization of marriages under the SMA). This Court has not heard arguments on this issue in the present proceedings. 41. Mr. R. Venkataramani, learned Attorney General of India appearing for the Union of India, made the following submissions: a. This Court has already issued constitutional declarations on the right to form a family, and the right to marry of non-heterosexual persons in Navtej (supra). The issue in this batch of petitions relates to fi tting the constitutional declaration into relevant laws; b. The SMA is a species of the general marriage laws. Marriage is conceived to be a union between heterosexuals across all laws on marriage and procreation is an essential aspect of marriage; 126 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.