The learned Single Judge while allowing the writ petitions G preferred by the suppliers/dealers held and declared Rule 3A(2) of the TST Rules ultra vires to TST Act and quashed and set aside the memorandum issued by the Government providing for requirement of deduction of sales tax at 4% while making payment to any person who has done transfer of any right to use any goods. However, the learned Single Judge observed and held that the sales tax liability of the parties H 1144 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A who had given vehicles on hire will continue because of Section 3AA of the TST Act. By the impugned and the Division Bench of the High Court has not only upheld the and passed by the learned Single Judge declaring Rule 3A(2) of the TST Rules ultra vires but has also set aside the findings recorded by the learned Single Judge that the sales tax liability of parties who had given vehicles on hire B will continue because of Section 3AA of the TST Act. Therefore, the short question which is posed for consideration before this Court and as per the question of law framed by this Court while granting leave to appeal would be whether sub-rule 2 of Rule 3A of the TST Rules can be said to be ultra vires to the provisions of the TST Act, though there is C express proviso in Section 3(1) for levy of 4% sales tax on any transfer of the right to use any goods for any purpose? 8.1 While considering the aforesaid question the relevant provisions of the TST Act and the TST Rules are required to be referred to which are as under: D “2(b)”dealer” means any person who sells taxable goods manufactured, made or processed by him in Tripura or brought by him into Tripura from any place outside Tripura for the purpose of sale of Tripura 1 [and includes Government and any person making a sale under section 3A;” E “2(g)”Sale” means any transfer of property, in goods for cash or deferred payment or other valuable consideration, and includes— (i) any delivery of goods on hire-purchase or any system of payment in instalments, (ii) any transfer of the right to use any goods for any purpose F (whether or not for a specified period) for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration, and such delivery or transfer of any goods shall be deemed to be a sale of those goods by the person making the delivery or transfer and a purchase of those goods by the person to whom such delivery G or transfer is made but does not include a mortgage, hypothecation, charge or pledge;” xxx xxx xxx “3. (1) Every dealer in taxable goods shall pay a tax on his turnover at the rate specified in column (3) of the schedule attached to this H THE STATE OF TRIPURA & ANR. v. CHANDAN DEB & ORS. 1145 [M. R. SHAH, J.] Act : Provided that subject to the provisions of section 14 and 15 A of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 the State Government may, from time to time by notification in the Official Gazette and subject to such conditions as it may impose, fix a higher rate of tax 3 [not exceeding forty percent or any lower rate of tax payable under this Act on account of the sale of any taxable goods or class of B taxable goods specified in such notification ; and thereupon the Schedule shall be deemed to be amended accordingly: ...........................................................................................