The word “teacher” has simply been described to mean a person appointed or recognized by the “Vishwa Vidyalaya” who would be required to impart instructions, conduct and guide research, conduct other extension programmes and extends to a person who may be declared as a teacher under the relevant Statute. 10 For short ‘the A.P. Act’ P.C. MODI v. THE JAWAHARLAL NEHRU VISHWA 961 VIDYALAYA AND ANOTHER [HIMA KOHLI, J.] 3.2 Relevant extract of Statute 11 (4) is as under: “11. Conditions of service etc. of other offi cers :- (1) ×××× (2) ×××× (3) ×××× (4) Every employee shall retire from the service of the Vishwa Vidyalaya in the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of superannuating, as prescribed below :- (a) “Offi cers” as defi ned under Section 12 of the Act and Statute 3 (except the Chancellor and the Vice – Chancellor) shall be superannuated on attaining the age of 60(sixty) years, provided that those appointed as Offi cers by promotion or otherwise but have been engaged in teaching for not less than 20 years and holds a lien on a post in the Vishwa Vidyalaya shall be superannuated on attaining the age of 62 (sixty two) years. (b) The “Teachers” as defi ned under Section 2(x) of the Act and Statute 32 shall be superannuated on attaining the age of 62 (sixty two) years. (c) “Class-IV employees” as defined in Regulation No.4 of the JNKVV Service (General Conditions of Service) Regulations, 1969 shall be superannuated on attaining the age of 62 (sixty two) years. (d) “Non-teaching service personnel” of Class-I, II & III categories as defi ned in Regulation No.4 of the JNKVV Service (General Conditions of Service) Regulations, 1969 shall be superannuated on attaining the age of 60 (Sixty two) years, except the teacher of primary School working in the Class III cadre of Vishwa Vidyalaya who shall be superannuated on 962 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. attaining the age of 62 (sixty two) years on or after 31.10.2002. Provided that on attaining the age of superannuation, any employee whose date of birth is the fi rst date of the month, shall retire from the services in the afternoon of the last date of the preceding month. Provided further that: (i) All Vishwa Vidyalaya employees may, in the public interest or in the Vishwa Vidyalaya interest be retired at any time after they attain the age of 50 years or 20 years of qualifying service, on three months notice without assigning any reason or on payment of three months pay and allowances in lieu of such a notice; (ii) The cases of such persons as have been re- employed in the Vishwa Vidyalaya Service, after retirement from Government Service, shall be governed by the terms and conditions of their re- employment in this Vishwa Vidyalaya service; and,” [Emphasis added] 3.3 Statute 32 defi nes the word “Teacher” in the following terms : “Vishwa Vidyalaya Teachers: (1) Teachers of the Vishwa Vidyalaya shall be either- (a) Servants of the Vishwa Vidyalaya paid by the Vishwa Vidyalaya for imparting instructions and/or conducting and guiding research and/or extension and/or programmes as- (i) Professor, (ii) Associate Professor, (iii) Assistant Professor.