2/accused before the High Court, she was not granted a hearing; that the granting anticipatory bail to the respondent no. 2/accused falls foul of the settled legal principles required E to be followed by the Court while considering an application for bail, as has been spelt out by this Court in several judicial verdicts including Prasanta Kumar Sarkar v. Ashis Chatterjee And Another14; that the High Court ignored the fact that the respondent No. 2/accused is a wealthy and influential businessman who used his influence to delay F registration of the FIR and having been granted anticipatory bail, is bound to influence the witnesses to the detriment of the appellant/prosecutrix. B. COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT NO. 2/ACCUSED 9. On the other hand, Mr. Sanjay R Hegde, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent no. 2/accused has defended the G impugned s and submitted that after the first impugned was passed granting interim protection to the respondent No.2/accused, he 12 Intervention Application No. 17150 of 2022 in Anticipatory Bail Application No. 2594 of 2022 13 ABA NO. 2594 of 2022 14 (2010) 14 SCC 496 H 1124 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A was called for investigation on several dates and had duly cooperated and reported to the Police Station, as and when called; that he had been attending the hearings before the learned ACMM, Andheri and the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Borivalli on all occasions; that there is no eye witness to the alleged incident; that the circumstantial evidence and the medical report does not support the allegations levelled by the appellant/ B prosecutrix against the respondent No.2/accused; that there is no justification to interfere with the granting anticipatory bail to the accused, more so, when no supervening circumstances for cancellation of bail have been pointed out by the appellant/prosecutrix or the counsel for the State. C C. COUNSEL FOR THE STATE – RESPONDENT NO. 1 10. Mr. Nitin Lonkar, learned counsel for the State has informed the Court that a charge-sheet15 in the instant case was filed before the Sessions Court on 21st October, 2022 and 25 witnesses have been cited by the prosecution out of which 12 are independent witnesses. The case D is now listed for arguments on charge on 27th July, 2023. ANALYSIS, INTERPRETATION AND CASE LAWS: 11. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the records. As can be gathered from a perusal of the impugned , the primary ground that had persuaded the High Court to grant interim E protection to the respondent No. 2/accused is that the appellant/ prosecutrix tried to improve her version of the incident from what was first recorded in the FIR in the early hours of 06th August, 2022, by levelling additional allegations in her first Supplementary Statement recorded in the evening on the very same date and in the second F Supplementary Statement recorded after one month, on 06th September, 2022. In the words of the High Court, there were “star variations in the narration of the prosecutrix….”.