NCTD will have executive power over Entry 41 of List II because A executive power is co- extensive with legislative power. 10. Since in view of Article 239-AA(3)(b), Parliament also has legislative power over Entry 41 of List II, a corresponding issue on the extent of executive power of the Union of India and the Government of NCTD on matters over which both Parliament and the legislative B assembly of NCTD have the power to enact laws arose. 11. Drawing upon the principles in Articles 73 and 1623, the 2023 Constitution Bench held that on entries over which Parliament also has legislative competence, the executive power of NCTD shall be “subject to and limited by” the executive power expressly conferred upon the C Union of India by provisions of the Constitution or a law made by Parliament. Thus, the position of law is that a law enacted by Parliament can limit the executive power of NCTD over “services”. 12. The power of Parliament to enact a law granting the Union of India executive power over services is not in contention. It is now a D settled position of law. However, this Court while deciding the constitutional validity of the 2023 Ordinance must decide if the exercise of such a power is valid. 13. There are two preliminary considerations which arise at this stage. The first is on the import of Section 3A. Section 3A removes E Entry 41 of List II from the legislative competence of NCTD. On the exclusion of Entry 41 from NCTD’s legislative power, the government of NCTD ceases to have executive power over services because executive power is co-terminus with the legislative power. Therefore, the issue whether a law could completely remove NCTD’s executive power over Entry 41 is interconnected with the validity of Section 3A. F 14. The Preamble to the 2023 Ordinance states that the law is made in exercise of powers under Article 239-AA(3)(b) and Article 239-AA(7). Article 239-AA(3)(b) states that Parliament has the power to make laws with respect to “any matter” for NCTD. Article 239- G 3 The proviso to Article 73 states that the Union of India shall not have executive power on matters over which the State can also enact on unless such power is expressly granted by the Constitution or law of Parliament. The proviso to Article 162 states that on matters over which both the state legislature and Parliament can make laws, the executive power of States shall be subject to and limited by the executive power expressly conferred upon Union of India by a law of Parliament or by the Constitution. H 500 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A AA(7)(a) grants Parliament the power to enact a law for “giving effect to, or supplementing” the provisions of Article 239-AA, and for all matters incidental to it. Article 239-AA(7)(b) stipulates that such a law shall not be deemed to be an amendment to the Constitution even if the law amends the Constitution or has the effect of amending the Constitution.