He therefore submitted that the conviction recorded on the basis of the said dying declaration warrants no interference. 8. Shri Singh further submitted that the evidence of PWs 3 and 4, who were relatives of the deceased along with Major Singh (PW-6), Sarpanch of the village would establish, beyond all reasonable doubt, that the deceased was meted out harassment on account of non-fulfi llment of demand of dowry. He therefore prays for dismissal of the present appeal. 9. With the assistance of the parties, we have perused the evidence and materials placed on record. 1 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1019 800 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 10. The present case mainly rests on the dying declaration of the deceased. No doubt, that a conviction can be solely recorded on the basis of dying declaration. However, for doing so, the court must come to a conclusion that the dying declaration is trustworthy, reliable and one which inspires confi dence. In the present case, the dying declaration is recorded by Shri Sadhu Singh (PW-5), Executive Magistrate. He stated that he obtained the certifi cate from the doctor regarding the fi tness of the deceased to make the statement. He further stated that he recorded the statement of the deceased and thereafter it was read over and explained to her. He further states that she had thumb marked the same after admitting its contents to be correct. In the dying declaration recorded by Shri Sadhu Singh (PW-5), Executive Magistrate, the deceased is said to have stated that on 5th November 1991 at around 12.00 noon, her husband Phulel Singh, i.e., the appellant herein, Jora Singh, father-in-law and Dhan Kaur, mother-in-law caught hold of her. Her husband, the appellant herein put kerosene on her person and set her ablaze. She further stated that when she was set on fi re, she raised an alarm but the accused overpowered her. 11. It is relevant to note that the deceased received burn injuries on 5th November 1991 but the dying declaration came to be recorded on 8th November 1991 after an application was made by the relatives of the deceased to the SDM, Ludhiana. Shri Sadhu Singh (PW-5), Executive Magistrate, in his evidence, admitted that the boys, who had brought the application containing the of the SDM, Ludhiana had told him that the statement of the deceased should be recorded and that she was in a position to make the statement. He further admitted that those boys had told him that whatever they had to tell the deceased, they had told her and that he should accompany them to record her statement. He has further admitted that those 2-3 boys were related to the deceased and some other persons were also in the room in which he recorded the statement of the deceased. 12. It could thus be seen that there is a grave doubt as to whether the dying declaration recorded by Shri Sadhu Singh (PW-5), Executive Magistrate was a voluntary one or tutored at the instance of respondent No.5.