A litigant does not stand to benefit by resorting to delay. In fact he runs a serious risk. 6. It must be grasped that judiciary is respected not on account of its power to legalize injustice on technical grounds but H 916 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A because it is capable of removing injustice and is expected to do so. Making a justice-oriented approach from this perspective, there was sufficient cause for condoning the delay in the institution of the appeal.” B 5. The above decision expressing the intention of justice oriented approach percolating down to all the courts was rendered nearly three decades ago but unfortunately the case on hand demonstrates the pervading insensitive approach, which apart from continuing the agony of the litigants concerned has also unnecessarily burdened the judicial C hierarchy which after going through the entire process will have to set the clock back, at this distant point in time and prolong their agony. If only the court concerned had been sensitive to the justice oriented approach rather than the iron- cast technical approach, the litigation between the parties probably would have come to an end much earlier after decision on the merits of their rival contention. D 6. If that be the position, the very manner in which the lower Appellate Court has dismissed the appeal on the ground of delay when the delay was not inordinate is not justified and the High Court was also not justified in dismissing the appeal only on the ground that there was no question of law. E 7. Hence, the dated 16.04.2015 passed by the High Court as also the dated 08.10.2010 passed by the lower Appellate Court are set aside. The delay in filing the appeal before the lower Appellate Court is condoned. The Civil Appeal No. 35A/2005 is restored to the file of the lower Appellate Court i.e. First Additional District Judge, F Nasrullaganj, District Sehorr, M.P. The parties shall put forth their contentions on merits. All contentions are left open. 8. The parties shall appear before the lower Appellate Court without issuance of fresh notice/summons on 23.08.2023 at 11.00 A.M as the first date for appearance. The lower Appellate Court may G thereafter regulate its proceedings and dispose of the matter as expeditiously as possible on its merits and in accordance law. 9. The appeal is, accordingly, disposed of. 10. Pending application(s) shall also stand disposed of. H Divya Pandey Appeal disposed of.