Even otherwise, as observed hereinabove, there had not been any such illegality or material irregularity for which the entire process would have been considered vitiated. The findings of the Appellate Tribunal in this regard too, cannot E be approved and are required to be set aside. Point C1 – Effect of Section 164(2)(b) Companies Act 43. A long length of argument has been advanced by the contesting parties as regards impact of Section 164(2)(b) of the Companies Act because of the alleged default of the company named International F Aviation Academy Private Limited of which, the resolution applicant is a director. It has been argued that the said company collected share application money pending allotment and did not refund the same; and consequently, in terms of Section 164(2)(b) of the Companies Act, this default would disqualify the resolution applicant from acting as a director G and thereby, would render him ineligible to submit a resolution plan. We find it difficult to accept the submissions aforesaid and the propositions against the resolution applicant on this score. 43.1. Even if there had been any possibility of the resolution applicant incurring such a disqualification in terms of Section 164(2)(b) H 900 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A of the Companies Act, because of alleged default of another company, in which he is a director, to refund the share application money, the same would essentially be a matter of consideration of the registrar of companies. Unless a categorical finding was recorded in the competent forum as regards any such default and unless specific disqualifying the resolution applicant as director because of such default came into B existence, it could not have been taken by way of any process of assumption that the appellant-resolution applicant was disqualified to act as a director and thereby, was ineligible to submit a resolution plan. It has rightly been pointed out that when DIN status of the appellant was “active compliant”, he could not have been treated as ineligible. C 43.2. Again, it has been too far-stretched on the part of the Appellate Tribunal to refer to the Rule 2(1)(c) of the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014 and then to make a declaration as if the resolution applicant was disqualified in terms of Section 164(2)(b) of the Companies Act. Although, we do not agree with the submissions D on behalf of appellant that such an issue of eligibility could not have been raised before NCLAT for the first time because the question of eligibility of the resolution applicant goes to the root of the matter but, we do agree with the other part of the submission in this regard that there is no concept of deemed disqualification under Section 164(2)(b) of the Companies Act. E 43.3. Hence, in our view, the Appellate Tribunal had not been right in holding the resolution applicant ineligible by virtue of Section 164(2)(b) of the Companies Act. Point C1 is answered accordingly. Point C2 – Effect of Section 88 Trusts Act F 44.