This is more particularly, when the employees of such autonomous bodies are governed by their own Service Rules and service conditions. The State Government and the autonomous Board/body cannot be put on a par.” (Emphasis Supplied) 42. We must also look into the decision of this Court in the case of Kerala Assistant Public Prosecutors Associations v. State of Kerala and Others reported in AIR 2018 SC 2652, wherein the Assistant Public Prosecutors were seeking parity with respect to the age of superannuation to that of Public Prosecutors. This Court took notice of the fact that the method of selection between the two posts is very diff erent and that the former are considered to be government employees, whereas the latter are not. The Court thereafter, proceeded to hold that merely because the nature of work between the two is similar, the same does not imply that the CENTRAL COUNCIL FOR RESEARCH IN AYURVEDIC 771 SCIENCES v. BIKARTAN DAS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] age of superannuation ought to be similar as well. The relevant portion is produced hereunder: “6. … The fact that the nature of duties and functions of Assistant Public Prosecutors and Public Prosecutors are similar, per se, cannot be the basis to claim parity with Public Prosecutors in respect of age of superannuation.” (Emphasis supplied) 43. In Union of India and Others v. Lieut (Mrs) E. Iacats, reported in (1997) 7 SCC 334, the respondent therein had fi led a writ petition in the Guahati High Court challenging her retirement at the age of 55 years on the ground that in other nursing services under the military establishment the age of retirement was 58 years. It was argued before the High Court that it was discriminatory to retire the nurses who were appointed for local service only at the age of 55 years. The Petition was allowed by the High Court. The UOI came before this Court in appeal. This Court while allowing the appeal fi led by the UOI, observed as under: “ 3. … If diff erent nursing services are constituted under separate army instructions carrying their own separate terms and conditions of service, one cannot complain of discrimination if the ages of retirement prescribed under these diff erent services are diff erent. Each will be governed by its own rules and regulations. The respondent is, therefore, not justifi ed in claiming that she has been discriminated against because she has retired at the age of 55.” (Emphasis supplied) 44. The age of superannuation is always governed by the statutory rules governing appointment on a particular post. Hence, even if it is averred that the nature of work involved in the two posts is similar, the same cannot be a ground to increase or alter the service conditions of an employee as each post is governed by its own set of rules. The same was held in the case of New Okhla Industrial Development Authority and Another v. B D Singhal and Others, reported in AIR 2021 SC 3457, wherein this Court held as under: “24.