AND 2) That you accused Nos. 1 to 4, on the aforesaid day, date, time and place and during the course of the same transaction, F either individually or in furtherance of your common intention, voluntarily caused hurt to complainant Ajgar Ibrahim Shaikh, and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 323 of the Indian Penal Code simplicetor or Section 323 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code, and within my cognizance. “ G AND 3) That you accused Nos. 1 to 4, on the aforesaid day, date, time and place and during the course of the same transaction, either individually or in furtherance of your common H 862 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A intention, voluntarily caused hurt to complainant Ajgar Ibrahim Shaikh, by means of sickle and sword, which if used as a weapon of offence, would likely to cause death of said complainant, and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 324 of the Indian Penal Code simplicetor or Section 324 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code, B and within my cognizance. AND 4) That you accused Nos. 1 to 4, on the aforesaid day, date, time and place and during the course of the same transaction, C either individually or in furtherance of your common intention, intentionally insulted and thereby gave protection to the complainant Ajgar Ibrahim Shaikh, intending or knowing it to be likely that such provocation will cause the said complainant to commit breach of public peace, and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 504 D of the Indian Penal Code simplicetor or Section 504 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code and within my cognizance. AND I hereby direct that you be tried by me on the aforesaid charges.” E 9. The prosecution adduced the following oral evidence in support of its case: (1) PW 1 Asgar Shaikh - Ex. 7 (2) PW 2 Firoj Shaikh- Ex. 9 F (3) PW 3 Nasir Khan - Ex. 10 (4) PW 4 Aslam Khan- Ex. 11 (5) PW 5 Mahesh Kumar Jain- Ex. 14 (6) PW 6 Suhas Kalase- Ex. 15 G (7) PW 7 Dr. Shrikant Chandekar- Ex. 18 (8) PW 8 Mubarak Baig- Ex. 21 (9) PW 9 Mahendr Arokade- Ex. 22 (10) PW 10 Baba Shaikh- Ex. 38 H BALU SUDAM KHALDE & ANR. v. THE STATE OF 863 MAHARASHTRA [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 10. The following pieces of documentary evidence were adduced A by the prosecution: (i) Inquest Panchnama (ii) Post mortem report (iii) Spot Panchnama (scene of offence panchnama) B (iv) Arrest and Personal search (v) Seizure of clothes of complainant (vi) Seizure of clothes of deceased 11. After completion of the oral as well as the documentary C evidence of the prosecution, the statements of the appellants herein under Section 313 of the Code, of Criminal Procedure (for short, ‘the CrPC’) were recorded in which the appellants herein stated that the complaint was a false one. They further stated in their written statement under Section 313 of the CrPC that they were workers of one Hindi Ekta D Mandal.