Another rule of equal importance is that laws relating to economic activities should be viewed with greater latitude than laws touching civil rights such as freedom of speech, religion, etc. It has been said by no less a person than Holmes, J., that the H 5 (2019) 4 SCC 17. MOSER BAER KARAMCHARI UNION THR. PRESIDENT MAHESH 117 CHAND SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA [M. R. SHAH, J.] legislature should be allowed some play in the joints, because it A has to deal with complex problems which do not admit of solution through any doctrinaire or straitjacket formula and this is particularly true in case of legislation dealing with economic matters, where, having regard to the nature of the problems required to be dealt with, greater play in the joints has to be allowed B to the legislature. The court should feel more inclined to give judicial deference to legislative in the field of economic regulation than in other areas where fundamental human rights are involved. Nowhere has this admonition been more felicitously expressed than in Morey v. Doud where Frankfurter, J., said in his inimitable style: C ‘In the utilities, tax and economic regulation cases, there are good reasons for judicial self-restraint if not judicial deference to legislative . The legislature after all has the affirmative responsibility. The courts have only the power to destroy, not to reconstruct. When these are added D to the complexity of economic regulation, the uncertainty, the liability to error, the bewildering conflict of the experts, and the number of times the Judges have been overruled by events — self-limitation can be seen to be the path to judicial wisdom and institutional prestige and stability.’ E The Court must always remember that “legislation is directed to practical problems, that the economic mechanism is highly sensitive and complex, that many problems are singular and contingent, that laws are not abstract propositions and do not relate to abstract units and are not to F be measured by abstract symmetry”; ‘that exact wisdom and nice adaption of remedy are not always possible’ and that ‘ is largely a prophecy based on meagre and uninterpreted experience’. Every legislation, particularly in economic matters is essentially empiric and it is based on experimentation or what one may call trial and error method and therefore it G cannot provide for all possible situations or anticipate all possible abuses. There may be crudities and inequities in complicated experimental economic legislation but on that account alone it cannot be struck down as invalid. The courts cannot, as pointed out by the United States Supreme Court in Secy. H 118 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A of Agriculture v. Central Roig Refining Co. be converted into tribunals for relief from such crudities and inequities. There may even be possibilities of abuse, but that too cannot of itself be a ground for invalidating the legislation, because it is not possible for any legislature to anticipate as if by some divine prescience, distortions and abuses of its legislation which may be made by B those subject to its provisions and to provide against such distortions and abuses.