Dr. Pradhan reinserted the ‘TT’ without a cuff through the pre-existing tracheostomy wound to aid respiration. The complainant alleged that even Dr. Pradhan questioned the ‘NI’ procedure, opining that all subsequent complications that arose were iatrogenic in nature. M.A BIVIJI v. SUNITA & ORS. 119 [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] 9. Upon being advised rest, Mrs. Sunita fl ew back to Nagpur, and got herself admitted to Shanti Prabha Nursing Home. On 03.06.2004, Dr. Swarankar performed a Fiber Optic Bronchoscopy, which revealed two openings in Mrs. Sunita’s Trachea at the subglottic level. A false passage was created, which caused the food to pass into her trachea. Mrs. Sunita claimed that the unnecessary and forced ‘NI’ procedure was the only reason why her subglottic region was injured leading to multiple serious medical complications. On 04.06.2004, Mrs. Sunita was discharged from Shanti Prabha Nursing Home, Nagpur. Subsequently, she stayed at her home in a special medically-equipped room until 02.07.2004 when she fl ew to Mumbai. On 03.07.2004, Dr. Pradhan conducted a laryngoscopy and pharyngoscopy revealing complete laryngostenosis i.e., narrowing of the airway. Upon Dr. Pradhan expressing his inability to perform surgical intervention, Mrs. Sunita underwent a 3D CT Scan for her larynx on 05.07.2004 at Jaslok Hospital in Mumbai. The scan indicated a 3.5 cm subglottic stenosis. On 07.07.2004, Mrs. Sunita went to Dr. Krishnakant B. Bharagava and Dr. Samir K. Bhargava, ENT specialists, who conducted Flexible Fiberoptic Bronchoscopy to observe signs of injuries in the subglottic region. Subsequently, the patient was referred to Dr. Ashutosh G. Pusalkar, ENT at Leelavati Hospital in Mumbai. Dr. Pusalkar expressed his inability to perform any immediate surgical intervention due to the severity of injury in the subglottic region. He advised Mrs. Sunita to maintain the ‘TT’ and undergo proper care for the stoma wound for around 6 months. Eventually, on 30.01.2005, Dr. Pusalkar performed tracheoplasty i.e., tracheal reconstruction surgery. A 3.5 cm long subglottic stenotic segment was excised in the surgery. Resultantly, the complainant had to live with a shortened windpipe. On 14.03.2005, the ‘TT’ was removed after which the doctors realised that Mrs. Sunita’s speech could never be restored. 10. Thereafter, Mrs. Sunita fi led Consumer Case No. 48 of 2005 under Sections 12 and 21 of Act, 1986 before the NCDRC on 16.05.2005 alleging medical negligence in her treatment at Suretech Hospital, resulting in permanent damage to her respiratory tract and permanent voice-loss, altering her life forever. Through the complaint, she sought Rs. 3,58,85,249/- @ 18% interest p.a. as compensation against loss and injury suff ered by her and her family. The complainant claimed that due to Dr. Nirmal Jaiswal, 120 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Dr. Madhusudan Shendre, and Dr. M.A Biviji’s negligence she suff ered from ‘Severe Septicemia’, i.e., a blood stream infection resulting from bacterial infection in her respiratory tract. She claimed that the infection was caused due to oral aspiration i.e., food and liquid entering her airways, and getting deposited in her lungs, leading to Frank pus. She further alleged that the negligent treatment at Suretech Hospital, resulted in her developing ‘Hemorrhagic Peteche’ all over her body due to ‘Severe Thrombocytopenia’ i.e., her platelet count falling to dangerously low levels.