Sunni Central Board of Waqf and Another v. Hasan Jehan B Begum and Another23 had to deal with an argument that in a case of waqf-alal-aulad, having regard to the definition of the word ‘waqf’ in Section 3(11) of the 1960 Act, whether the entire properties were dedicated for religious, pious or charitable purpose, as contemplated in Section 3(11), defining the word ‘waqf’ or only to the limited extent, i.e., C to the extent of the income which was earmarked for such purposes. We may note in this regard, the following discussion: “5… With great respect, we are unable to find ourselves in agreement with the view taken by the learned single Judge as to us it appears that the extent of property cannot be determined on D the basis of the income. It is the dedication which has to be seen, if the entire property is dedicated for two purposes, namely, for secular purposes and for religious, pious or charitable purposes, then the entire property will be deemed to be dedicated for both purposes. Unless it is possible to determine the extent to which the property has been dedicated for religious, pious and charitable E purposes, the entire property will have to be deemed to be dedicated to God and subject-matter of the Waqf. For excluding the property it should either be known or be determinable from the deed of waqf that a particular property or part thereof is not dedicated. Learned counsel for the petitioners-respondents contended that it F is the income that is the criterion for determining the extent of dedication. But, we find that it is not the income which is contemplated by the definition of waqf but the property. The relevant words are ‘to the extent to which the property is dedicated’. The income arises out of property and it can vary from time to time. It may be larger than the amount fixed for the G religious, pious or charitable purposes or may be less than that. It is also not possible to allocate property relative to the amount or to say that this amount of money must come from a particular portion or property out of the lot or from a particular proportion of 23 AIR 1977 All 18 H 982 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A that property. The entire property, which is the subject-matter of the waqf, is liable for meeting the purposes religious, pious or charitable. If the entire property, which is the subject-matter of the waqf, is liable for meeting the expenses, it cannot be said that the waqf or dedication is only to the extent of some undeterminable and unascertainable property out of the total property, which is B the subject-matter of the Waqf. In our opinion, unless it is possible to determine the extent of the property out of the property which is the subject-matter of the waqf-alal-aulad meant for religious, pious or charitable purposes, the entire property will be the subject- matter of the waqf within the meaning of the Waqfs Act.