It is to be noted that B the spade was also recovered from the same place from where the dead body of the deceased was alleged to have been recovered at the instance of Boby (accused No. 3/appellant herein). The trial court again held that the place from where the spade was recovered was already known from the disclosure statement of Boby (accused No. 3/appellant herein); however, it still held the recovery of the said spade to be C admissible in evidence. It is thus clear that the said recovery was from a place which was already known and not exclusively within the knowledge of Shibu @ Shibu Singh (accused No. 1). We find that the trial court has again committed perversity in arriving at such a finding. D 29. It is thus clear that the only circumstance that now remains is the circumstance of the accused last seen in the company of the deceased on the basis of the evidence of PW-1. In that view of the matter, we find that, solely on the basis of last seen theory, the conviction could not have been recorded. The prosecution has utterly failed to prove that the recovery of the dead body of the deceased was at the instance of Boby E (accused No. 3/appellant herein). The recovery of the articles from the house of Boby (accused No. 3/appellant herein), even according to the trial court, is farce and fabricated. The recovery of the spade at the instance of Shibu @ Shibu Singh (accused No. 1) is from a place which, even according to the trial court, was also known on account of the F disclosure statement made by Boby (accused No. 3/appellant herein). 30. In that view of the matter, we find that the prosecution has utterly failed to prove the chain of incriminating circumstances which leads to no other conclusion than the guilt of the accused. 31. Insofar as the reliance placed by Shri Balgopal, learned Senior G Counsel on the case of Suresh Chandra Bahri (supra) is concerned, it is totally misplaced inasmuch as in paragraph 40, this Court has observed thus: “40. …….Before we discuss the merits or demerits of the aforesaid submissions we would like to state that the law relating H BOBY v. STATE OF KERALA [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 353 to conviction based on circumstantial evidence is well settled and A it hardly requires a detailed discussion on this aspect. Suffice to say that in a case of murder in which the evidence that is available is only circumstantial in nature then in that event the facts and circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is required to be drawn by the prosecution must be fully established beyond all B reasonable doubt and the facts and circumstances so established should not only be consistent with the guilt of the accused but they also must entirely be incompatible with the innocence of the accused and must exclude every reasonable hypothesis consistent with his innocence.” C 32.