Even the theory of exclusive possession of ‘S’ over that apartment is dented by the statement of PW4 that till a week before the incident one ‘HR’ used to live in that apartment with ‘S’. There is also no evidence of the prosecution to show that the concerned apartment B had a separate stair case accessible to ‘S’ and no one else. For all the reasons above, though this Court holds that tenancy of the concerned apartment was proved to be with ‘S’ but neither his nor N’s presence in that apartment, around the relevant time, is proved by any evidence. It is also not proved that ‘S’ was in exclusive possession or control of that apartment. Rather, from C the testimony of PW4 it appears that one ‘HR’ was residing there with ‘S’ though, he had left the place a week before the incident. As to whether the deceased came there after ‘HO’ had left or was residing there since before, is not clear from the prosecution evidence. In fact there is no evidence - (a) as to when the deceased D came into that apartment and (b) in what capacity he was residing there. In light of the discussion above and in the facts of the case, in considered view of this Court, the mere presence of the dead body in the apartment let out to ‘S’ is not such a clinching circumstance which, on its own, could sustain S’s conviction with the aid of section 106 of the IEA, 1872 by shifting the onus on E him to explain as to under what circumstances the dead body with multiple injuries was found there. [Para 36][746-C-H] Circumstance — Cause of death and place of murder 4. As regards death of victim being homicidal and a F consequence of multiple injuries caused by a sharp edged weapon, no serious challenge is there to the findings returned by the courts below. There is no challenge to the finding that blood etc. was lifted from the apartment thereby confirming that murder took place there. However, in addition to blood or blood-stained cot/ linen there were whisky bottle, empty packets/ pouches of salted G snacks, cigarette butts, etc. lifted from that apartment but there is no evidence to connect those articles with either of the two accused so as to confirm their presence and rule out the presence of some other person at the relevant time. [Para 37][747-A-C] H 724 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Circumstance — Recovered Suicide Letter being in the writing of ‘N’ 5. In the instant case, N’s specimens of handwriting and signature were obtained by the investigating agency during investigation when there existed no specific provision in the Code B regulating the procedure for obtaining such specimens and there existed no provision proscribing the investigating agency from obtaining specimens of handwriting/signature of an accused or a suspect. As far as the provisions of Section 73 of the IEA, 1872 are concerned, they apply when a proceeding such as an inquiry or trial is pending in a Court.