6. without special pretension, superiority elegance, etc. ; ordinary: plain people. 7. not beautiful: physically unattractive or undistinguished: a plain face; a childhood fear that she would be plain. 8. without intricates or diffi culties. 9. ordinary, simple, or unostentatious: Although she was a duchess, her manners were attractively plain. 10. with little or no embellishment, decoration, or enhancing elaboration: a plain blue suit. 11. without a pattern, fi gure, or device: a plain fabric. 12. not rich, highly seasoned, or elaborately prepared, as food: plain, fresh, substantial fare; a plain diet. 13, fl at or level: plain country. 14. unobstructed, clear or open, as ground, a space, etc. 15. Cards, being other than a face card or a trump. - adv. 16. clearly and simply: He’s just plain stupid - n. 17. an area of and not signifi cantly higher than adjacent areas and with relatively minor diff erence in elevation, commonly less than 500 feet, within the area. 18. the Plain, Fr. Hist. (in the National Assembly) the loosely organised party of moderate republicans: so called because its members occupied the lowest seats or benches. Cf. mountain (def. 111 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 4). 19. The plains. See Great Plains. [ME OF <L plan (us) fl at, level, plan (um) fl at country)- plan ly, adv. - plain ness, n. In the Compact Oxford Reference Dictionary audited by Catherine Soanes the word “Plain” means “1. simple or ordinary 2. without a pattern 3. unmarked 4. easy to see or understand..........” In the Dictionary by Webster the word “plain” means as follows: “(plein) 1. adj. easy to see or understand simple, not embellished or complicated absolute, complete, plain madness (of food) unelaborated, not having unusual or spicy ingredients bluntly frank unsophisticated lacking physical beauty, but not ugly 2.n. a large expanse of level, open country 3. adv. Manifestly, it’s just plain wrong clearly, candidly, she told him plain [KO F. fr.L]” PANE: “Webster’s Dictionary defi nes “Pane” as- Pane - a single sheet of glass in a window, greenhouse etc. a division of a window etc, containing such a sheet of glass in a frame a fl at side or edge of a many-sided object.” “Concise Oxford Dictionary defi nes “Pane” as - a single sheet of glass in a window or door. 2. A rectangular division of a chequered pattern etc..” 24. A plain reading of the above defi nitions would not detain us for too long to brush aside the contentions of the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant-assessee, inasmuch as, “panes” means glass sheets in small sizes used in doors and windows and they cannot be treated as glass sheets as panes or made out of glass sheets by cutting it into diff erent sizes. 25. Yet another contention was raised that commodity remains the same even after the manufacturing process and applying the said principle to the product on hand, namely tinted glass sheets would continue to be the genus of the species namely “plain glass panes” by relying upon Gujarat Steel Tubes Ltd. V. State of Kerala (1989) 3 SCC 127 and Maqsood Mohammad Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and Another (1978) 41 STC 324.