(b) “Sub-heading” “, in respect of goods, means a description in list of tariff provisions accompanied by a six-digit number and includes all tariff items the first six-digits of H 1128 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 5. Since, the reasoning confirming the classification under ‘Tariff Item 8471 30 10’ by the adjudicating authorities including CESTAT is identical, hence, it would be sufficient to discuss the key findings of the impugned decisions in brevity. These observations are :- a) The Concerned Goods weighed less than 10 kilogram and were B easily carried from one place to another. In this respect the CESTAT relied on dictionary meaning of the word ‘portable’ to hold that the goods were rightly classified under ‘Tariff Item 8471 30 10"; b) The absence of in-built power source does not render the Concerned Goods as non-portable; C c) The dimensions of the Concerned Goods as well as the fact that it was not foldable did not impact the element of portability; d) The Concerned goods had a display unit, a touch screen which could function as a keyboard and thus it fulfilled the description mentioned under ‘Tariff Item 8471 30 10’. D B. CONTENTIONS 6. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the documents produced on record. It must be noted that both sides have not disputed the findings of the adjudicating authorities except in respect of the aspect of portability of Concerned Goods. Hence, the only limited E question that falls for consideration before us in these proceedings is whether the Concerned Goods are ‘portable’ or not under ‘Tariff Item 8471 30 10’. which correspond to that number. (c) “Tariff Item” means a description in list of tariff provisions accompanied by a six- F digit number means a description of goods in the list of tariff provisions accompanying either eight-digit number and the rate of the duty of excise or eight- digit number with blank in the column of the rate of duty. 2 General Explanatory Notes to The Customs Tariff Act 1975, sch 1 states that - 1. Where in column (2) of this Schedule, the description of an article or group of articles under a heading is preceded by “-”, the said article or group of articles shall G be taken to be a sub classification of the article or group of articles covered by the said heading. Where, however, the description of an article or group of articles is preceded by “--”, the said article or group of articles shall be taken to be a sub- classification of the immediately preceding description of the article or group of articles which has “-”. Where the description of an article or group of articles is preceded by “---” or “----”, the said article or group of articles shall be taken to be a sub-classification of the immediately preceding description of the article or group of articles which has “-” or H “--”. HEWLETT PACKARD INDIA SALES PVT. LTD. v. COMMISSIONER 1129 OF CUSTOMS (IMPORT), NHAVA SHEVA [SURYA KANT, J.]