We are aware of the two decisions of this Court one in the case of Thomson Press (India) Limited v. Nanak Builders and Investors Private Limited and Others reported in (2013) 5 SCC 397 and T. Ravi (supra). In both these decisions, the view taken is that Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (for short, “the Act 1882”) does not render transfers aff ected during the pendency of the suit void but only render such transfers subservient to the rights as may be eventually determined by the court. 83. In Thomson Press (supra), T.S. Thakur, J. in his separate while supplementing the authored by M.Y. Eqbal, J., observed as under: “53. There is, therefore, little room for any doubt that the transfer of the suit property pendente lite is not void ab initio and that the purchaser of any such property takes the bargain subject to the rights of the plaintiff in the pending suit. Although the above decisions do not deal with a fact situation where the sale deed is executed in breach of an injunction issued by a competent court, we do not see any reason why the breach of any such injunction should render the transfer whether by way of an absolute sale or otherwise ineff ective. The party committing the breach may doubtless incur the liability to be punished for the breach committed by it but the sale by itself 1114 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. may remain valid as between the parties to the transaction subject only to any directions which the competent court may issue in the suit against the vendor.” (Emphasis supplied) 84. Thomson Press (supra) referred to above has been relied upon in T. Ravi (supra) for the proposition that the eff ect of Section 52 of the Act 1882 is not to render transfers eff ected during the pendency of a suit by a party to the suit void; the transfer remains valid subject, of course, to the result of the suit. The pendente lite purchaser would be entitled to or suff er the same legal rights and obligations of his vendor as may be eventually determined by the Court. 85. This Court in Delhi Development Authority v. Skipper Construction Co. (P) Ltd. and Another reported in (1996) 4 SCC 622, held that the legal consequences of what has been done in breach of or in violation of the of stay or injunction should be undone and the parties could be put back to the same position as they stood immediately prior to such of stay or injunction to not let the defaulting party enjoy any undue advantage. This Court while relying upon cases decided by various High Courts held as under: “The contemner should not be allowed to enjoy or retain the fruits of his contempt ××× ××× ××× 18. The above principle has been applied even in the case of violation of s of injunction issued by civil courts. In Clarke v. Chadburn [(1985) 1 All ER 211] Sir Robert Megarry V-C observed: “I need not cite authority for the proposition that it is of high importance that s of the court should be obeyed.