Now, we shall consider the applicability of the above ratio to the present case and deal with appellants’ argument about contradictions in the statements of the PW-21. We agree with the High Court that the statements are crucial. We also note that the Courts below, as is usual in F kidnapping cases, have placed singular reliance on the testimony of PW-21 to prove the element of ‘threat to cause death or hurt’, or to determine whether the appellants’ conduct gives rise to a reasonable apprehension that such person may be put to death or hurt. We have perusedthe statement of PW-21 made to the police on 18.02.2000, i.e., two days after he had returned home from the captivity of appellants- G herein. The statementsrecord that he was threatened at night bythe appellants with a ‘revolver,’ which was claimed to be possessed by them. The exact statement was, “One handkerchief and one black cloth were tied on the eyes and said to me they have revolver and they will kill him if [he] raises any voice.” However, the statement before H 180 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A the Trial Court dated 15.04.2002, nearly two years after the initial statement, includes a substantial detail that was omitted in the previous statement. After mentioning that the PW-21 was forcibly put inside the car and gagged, the statement reads, “The occupants threatened me with a knife and pistol and threatened me to kill.” Thus, three crucial changes may be noticed: first, a change in the exact timing of the threat; B second, the specificity of the delivery of the threat to kill; and third, omission of the intent behind the threat i.e. to prevent PW-21 from crying out. These details are crucial to proving the second ingredient of the charge under Section 364A and essential to bring home the guilt under this section namely, threat resulting in giving rise to a reasonable C apprehension that such person may be put to death or hurt. It is clear that this ingredient has not been proved beyond reasonable doubt.The Courts below did not thoroughly address this doubt before convicting the appellants. For proving the ingredient of threat, the intimidation of the child victim, for the purpose of making him silent,cannot be enough. If the sentence carrying a maximum sentence of death and a minimum D sentence of life sentence has such a low evidentiary threshold, the difference between punishments for kidnapping under 363, 364 and 364A shall become meaningless. 16. In particular, we note that the High Court did not apply the precedent in Malleshi vs. State of Karnataka, (2004) 8 SCC 95 E (“Malleshi”) properly. The facts in the said case, concerning the kidnapping of a major boy, revolved around the party to whom the demand for ransom ought to be made to bring home the guilt under Section 364A.It was observed in SK Ahmed that the Malleshi case dealt with demand for ransom and held that demand originally was made to the person F abducted and the mere fact that after making the demand the same could not be conveyed to some other person as the accused was arrested in the meantime does not take away the effect of conditions of Section 364A.