The main purpose for the directions given by this Court in Malik Mazhar was to timely fi ll judicial vacancies in the States. This Court had fi xed a time period to be followed by each High Court so that the existing judicial vacancies are fi lled without any delay. Judicial services in States start from the cadre of Civil Judge (Junior Division), who are also called Judicial Magistrates, when they work on the criminal side. In Malik Mazhar, it was directed that all “vacancies” of Civil Judge (Junior Division) shall be notifi ed by the 15th January of that year. The vacancies were to be as follows: - “(a) Existing vacancies. (b) Future vacancies that may arise within one year due to retirement. (c) Future vacancies that may arise due to promotion, death or otherwise, say ten per cent of the number of posts.” The third category which was the “future vacancies”, that may come due to reasons other than retirement, were to be 10% of the cadre strength, as this was clarifi ed in the . “We further direct that ten per cent of unforeseen vacancies would be in respect of sanctioned posts and not vacancies occurring in a particular year.” Then there was a timeline for receiving the applications, holding preliminary examination, main examination and prompt declaration of results and also viva voce to be held between 1st October to 15th October. By 1st November, the results were to be declared and appointment letters were to be issued. Latest by 2nd January, the incumbent must join the post. 15. The following was the time table drawn by the Supreme Court in Malik Mazhar, for making these appointments: “For appointment to the post of Civil Judge (Junior Division) by direct recruitment 626 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. S.No. Description Date 1 Number of vacancies to be notifi ed by the High Court. 15th January Vacancies to be calculated including (a) Existing vacancies. (b) Future vacancies that may arise within one year due to retirement (c) Future vacancies that may arise due to promotion, death or otherwise, say ten per cent of the number of posts. 2 Advertisement inviting applications from eligible 1st February candidates. 3 Last date for receipt of application 1st March 4 Publication of list of eligible applicants. 2nd April The list may be put on the website. 5 Dispatch/Issue of admit cards to the eligible applicants. 2nd to 30th April 6 Preliminary written examination 15th May Objective questions with multiple choice which can be scrutinised by computer. 7 Declaration of result of preliminary written examination 15th June (a) Result may be put on the website and also published in the newspaper. (b) The ratio of 1:10 of the available vacancies to the successful candidates be maintained 8 Final written examination 15th July Subjective/Narrative. 9 Declaration of result of fi nal written examination 30th August (a) Result may be put on the website and also published in the newspaper. (b) The ratio of 1:3 of the available vacancies to the successful candidates be maintained.