Therefore, resorting to the ‘NI’ procedure as an alternative method to provide breathing assistance did not appear to be 136 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. out of place either. As an accepted medical course of action, it was expected that the procedure would aid with recovery and lead to the desired results which did not happen. However, that cannot be said to be a breach of duty amounting to negligence either. As was rightly observed in the Jacob Mathew caseand Kusum Sharma case, adopting an alternative medical course of action would not amount to medical negligence. 45. As reasoned earlier, the burden of establishing negligence is on the complainant. In this case, however, Mrs. Sunita had failed to prove medical negligence by the doctors. There is no evidence to establish that the ‘NI’ procedure is a bad medical practice or based on unsound medical advice. None of the hospitals where Mrs. Sunita was treated prior to Suretech Hospital opined that the ‘NI’ procedure was not medically acceptable. Additionally, none of the doctors who treated her subsequently opined that the ‘NI’ treatment was not a medically acceptable practice or that the said procedure had been performed negligently. On the other hand, the medical team at Suretech Hospital was able to successfully prove that due medical consideration was given before choosing the aforesaid ‘NI’ procedure. Therefore, no negligence was committed in opting for and/or conducting the aforesaid procedure. 46. Moreover, there was no breach of duty of care. In view of such conclusion, it is not necessary to look at a possible causal link between the subsequent medical complications and voice-loss as well as the permanent respiratory tract deformity. However, for the sake of completion, this aspect is also being examined. The RML hospital’s expert medical committee report noted that after sustaining severe injuries in a serious road accident, subsequent trauma in trachea and fractures in laryngeal framework are commonly found in patients. Severe medical complications like infections and subglottic stenosis are not unusual in such trauma cases either. Medical studies placed on record have shown that injuries in the trachea as well as damage to the larynx is common after prolonged ‘TT’ intubation or ‘NI’ procedure. Infections or subglottic- stenosis complications can also be caused if due care is not taken while choosing an appropriate size for the tubes. There is also a higher risk if such ‘TT’ and ‘NI’ procedures are done repeatedly or are done in emergency situations. M.A BIVIJI v. SUNITA & ORS. 137 [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] 47. The patient as can be seen, received treatment in multiple hospitals, and the ‘TT’ was reinserted several times. On 27.05.2004, Dr. Pradhan reinserted ‘TT’ at the Prince Aly Khan Hospital, Mumbai. Another bronchoscopy was conducted on 03.06.2004 by Dr. Swarnakar, which revealed two openings in Mrs. Sunita’s trachea at the sub-glottic level in addition to a false passage. Further, the patient was also under home care for a month from 04.06.2004 to 03.07.2004. She also travelled between Nagpur and Mumbai during her treatment.