The restraint upon the Executive not G to have a back-door intrusion applies equally to Courts. While Courts may be entitled to interpret the law in such a manner that the rights existing in blue print have expansive connotations, the Court cannot impose additional restrictions by using tools of interpretation. [Para 29][635-H; 636-A-B] H 584 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 3. Since the eight heads of restrictions contained in clause (2) of Article 19 seek to protect: (i) the individual – against the infringement of his dignity, reputation, bodily autonomy and property; (ii) different sections of society professing and practicing, different religious beliefs/sentiments - against offending their beliefs and sentiments; (iii) classes/groups of B citizens belonging to different races, linguistic identities etc.- against an attack on their identities; (iv) women and children – against the violation of their special rights; (v) the State - against the breach of its security; (vi) the country - against an attack on its sovereignty and integrity; (vii) the Court – against an attempt C to undermine its authority, and therefore the restrictions contained in clause (2) of Article 19 are exhaustive and no further restriction need to be incorporated. [Para 32][639-D-G] 4. In any event, the law imposing any restriction in terms of clause (2) of Article 19 can only be made by the State and not D by the Court. The role envisaged in the Constitutional scheme for the Court, is to be a gate-keeper (and a conscience keeper) to check strictly the entry of restrictions, into the temple of fundamental rights. The role of the Court is to protect fundamental rights limited by lawful restrictions and not to protect restrictions and make the rights residual privileges. Clause (2) of Article 19 E saves (i) the operation of any existing law; and (ii) the making of any law by the State. Therefore, it is not for the court to add one or more restrictions than what is already found. [Para 33][639-H; 640-A-B] 5. The exercise of all fundamental rights by all citizens is F possible only when each individual respects the other person’s rights. This Court has always struck a balance whenever it was found that the exercise of fundamental rights by an individual, caused inroads into the space available for the exercise of fundamental rights by another individual. The emphasis even in G the Preamble on “fraternity” is an indication that the survival of all fundamental rights and the survival of democracy itself depends upon mutual respect, accommodation and willingness to co-exist in peace and tranquility on the part of the citizens. The Fundamental Duty enjoined upon every citizen of the country under Article 51-A(e) to “promote harmony and the spirit of H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 585 common brotherhood amongst all the people of India transcending A religious, linguistic and regional or sectional diversities and to renounce practices derogatory to the dignity of women”, is also an indicator that no one can exercise his fundamental right in a manner that infringes upon the fundamental right of another.