This C provision is important because it enables regulatory intervention in the public interest: if the price went below a certain limit, the floor price was to be prescribed, to take care of the interests of generators- like the respondents; if the price went too high, a forbearance price could be fixed, to take care of the interests of the consumers and distributors. By D Regulation 9 (2) of the REC Regulations 2010, the Central Commission, was to be guided, in determining the floor and forbearance price, by diverse factors, such as (a) variation in cost of generation of different renewable energy technologies falling under solar and non-solar category, across states in the country; (b) variation in the Pooled Cost of Purchase across States in the country; (c) Expected electricity generation for non- E renewable energy sources [including (i) expected renewable energy capacity under preferential tariff (ii) expected renewable energy under mechanism of certificates] (d) Renewable purchase obligation targets set by various State Commissions. By virtue of Explanation to Regulation 5 (1) of the REC Regulations, “the weighted average pooled price at F which the distribution licensee has purchased the electricity including cost of self-generation, if any, in the previous year from all the energy suppliers long-term and short-term, but excluding those based on renewable energy sources, as the case may be.” An important factor which cannot be lost sight of is that all the respondent’s WPDs were registered, under the REC Regulations, based on the state G commission’s tariff , of 2010. It is undisputed, that to register under the REC Regulations 2010, an entity (such as WPDs) had to be (a) accredited, with a State Agency [(defined by Regulation 2 (n) of the REC Regulations as an agency “designated by the State Commission to act as the agency for accreditation and recommending the H 710 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A renewable energy projects for registration”) and an entity “not having any power purchase agreement for the capacity related to such generation to sell electricity at a preferential tariff determined by the Appropriate Commission]. 58. Furthermore, the state commission, in its tariff , dated B 30.01.2010 (which was operative for three years, with the control period beginning from 10.08.2009) while determining the preferential tariff, had observed that it would apply for 25 years: “The Commission, therefore, determines the tariff for generation of electricity from wind energy projects at Rs.3.56 C (constant) for its entire project life of 25 years i.e. from the first year to the twenty fifth year. This tariff shall be applicable for purchase of wind energy by Distribution Licensees/ other entities for complying with the renewable power purchase obligations specified in the regulation by commission from time to time. This tariff is applicable to wind energy projects D which commission brand new wind energy plants and equipments on 11th August, 2009 onwards.” 59. In the present case, the PPA was entered into by the parties on 29.03.2102, within the control period stipulated in the tariff of 2010.