Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, which gives wide and capacious power to the Supreme Court to do ‘complete justice’ in any ‘cause or matter’ is significant, as the delivered by this F Court ends the litigation between the parties. Given the expansive amplitude of power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, the exercise of power must be legitimate, and clamours for caution, mindful of the danger that arises from adopting an individualistic approach as to the exercise of the Constitutional power. G 9. Interpreting Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, in M. Siddiq (Dead) Through Legal Representatives (Ram 12 The Constitutions of Bangladesh and Nepal have provisions similar to Article 142 of the Constitution of India, suggesting that they have drawn inspiration from Article 142 of the Constitution of India. H 182 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A Janmabhumi Temple Case) v. Mahant Suresh Das and Others13, the Constitution Bench of this Court has summarised the contours of the power as: “1023. …The phrase ‘is necessary for doing complete justice’ is of a wide amplitude and encompasses a power of equity which is B employed when the strict application of the law is inadequate to produce a just outcome. The demands of justice require a close attention not just to positive law but also to the silences of positive law to find within its interstices, a solution that is equitable and just. The legal enterprise is premised on the application of generally worded laws to the specifics of a case before courts. The C complexities of human history and activity inevitably lead to unique contests “such as in this case, involving religion, history and the law — which the law, by its general nature, is inadequate to deal with. Even where positive law is clear, the deliberately wide amplitude of the power under Article 142 empowers a court to D pass an which accords with justice. For justice is the foundation which brings home the purpose of any legal enterprise and on which the legitimacy of the rule of law rests. The equitable power under Article 142 of the Constitution brings to fore the intersection between the general and specific. Courts may find themselves in situations where the silences of the law need to be E infused with meaning or the rigours of its rough edges need to be softened for law to retain its humane and compassionate face...” Words in the above quotation that ‘the equitable power under Article 142 of the Constitution of India brings to fore the intersection between the general and specific’ laws, should be read as making a F reference to the classification of equity by Professor C.K. Allen14 in two principle forms: (i) a liberal and humane interpretation of law in general, so far as that is possible without actual antagonism to the law itself – called equity in general; and (ii) a liberal and humane modification of the law in exceptional cases, not coming within the ambit of the general G rule – called particular equity.15 The words ‘cause or matter’ in Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, which particularise and empower this Court to do ‘complete justice’ in that ‘cause or matter’, are relatable 13 (2020) 1 SCC 1.