In the case of Jitendra Kumar Srivastava (supra), this Court reaffirmed that pension is not a bounty but is a hard earned benefit which accrues to an employee and is in the nature of property, which cannot be taken away without the due process of law. This Court D pronounced against denial of right of the petitioner to receive pension and, with reference to the Constitution Bench decision in Deokinandan Prasad v. State of Bihar: (1971) 2 SCC 330 as also with reference to D.S. Nakara (supra), said as under:- “8. It is an accepted position that gratuity and pension are not E bounties. An employee earns these benefits by dint of his long, continuous, faithful and unblemished service. Conceptually it is so lucidly described in D.S. Nakara v. Union of India [(1983) 1 SCC 305….. ……It is thus a hard earned benefit which accrues to an employee and is in the nature of “property”. This right to property cannot be F taken away without the due process of law as per the provisions of Article 300-A of the Constitution of India.” 14.3. In the case of Haryana State Minor Irrigation Tubewells Corporation (supra), this Court disapproved the denial of revised pay scale to the employees on the specious grounds of financial constraints G and said as under: - “33. The plea of the appellants that the Corporation is running under losses and it cannot meet the financial burden on account of revision of scales of pay has been rejected by the High Court and, in our view, rightly so. Whatever may be the factual position, H STATE OF ORISSA v. ORISSA KHADI AND VILLAGE INDUSTRIES 1073 BOARD KARAMCHARI SANGH [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] there appears to be no basis for the action of the appellants in A denying the claim of revision of pay scales to the respondents. If the Government feels that the Corporation is running into losses, measures of economy, avoidance of frequent writing off of dues, reduction of posts or repatriating deputationists may provide the possible solution to the problem. Be that as it may, such a contention B may not be available to the appellants in the light of the principle enunciated by this Court in M.M.R. Khan v. Union of India [1990 Supp SCC 191] and Indian Overseas Bank v. Staff Canteen Workers’ Union [(2000) 4 SCC 245] . However, so long as the posts do exist and are manned, there appears to be no justification for granting the respondents a scale of pay lower than that C sanctioned for those employees who are brought on deputation. In fact, the sequence of events discussed above clearly shows that the employees of the Corporation have been treated on a par with those in Government at the time of revision of scales of pay on every occasion. D 34. It is an admitted position that the scales of pay were initially revised w.e.f. 1-4-1979 and thereafter on 1-1-1986. On both these occasions, the pay scales of the employees of the Corporation were treated and equated on a par with those in Government.