The other case, where this court noted that a fee increase was sought and was warranted, because of revision of fee in a schedule referred to for the purpose of ascertaining fee, became the focus of dispute. The tribunal noted the need to increase the fee; yet after justifying it, declined to actually direct its increase, because of a previous High Court to the contrary. This court held that such conduct did not render the tribunal ineligible from continuing and deciding the reference. It would be useful to advert to the decision of this court in National Highways Authority of India & Ors. vs. Gayatri Jhansi Roadways Limited & Ors.21 where in an analogous fact situation, where the tribunal felt that fee increase was justifi ed, its mandate was challenged. The court overruled the plea, and held that: “12. We have heard learned Counsel for the both the sides. In our view, Shri Narasimha, learned senior Counsel, is right in stating that in the facts of this case, the fee Schedule was, in fact, fi xed by the agreement between the parties. This fee schedule, being based on an earlier circular of 2004, was now liable to be amended from time to time in view of the long passage of time that has ensued between the date of the agreement and the date of the disputes that have arisen under the 21 2019 [9] SCR 1001 CHENNAI METRO RAIL LTD. ADMIN. BUILDING v. 1017 M/S TRANSTONNELSTROY AFCONS (JV) [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] agreement. We, therefore, hold that the fee Schedule that is contained in the Circular dated 01.06.2017, substituting the earlier fee schedule, will now operate and the arbitrators will be entitled to charge their fees in accordance with this Schedule and not in accordance with the Fourth Schedule to the Arbitration Act. 13. We may, however, indicate that the application that was fi led before the High Court to remove the arbitrators stating that their mandate must terminate, is wholly disingenuous and would not lie for the simple reason that an arbitrator does not become de jure unable to perform his functions if, by an passed by such arbitrator(s), all that they have done is to state that, in point of fact, the agreement does govern the arbitral fees to be charged, but that they were bound to follow the Delhi High Court in Gayatri Jhansi Roadways Limited case which clearly mandated that the Fourth Schedule and not the agreement would govern. 14. The arbitrators merely followed the law laid down by the Delhi High Court and cannot, on that count, be said to have done anything wrong so that their mandate may be terminated as if they have now become de jure unable to perform their functions. The learned Single Judge, in allowing the Section 14 application, therefore, was in error and we set aside the of the learned Single Judge on this count.” 35. In a recent decision of the UK Supreme Court, in Halliburton Company v Chubb Bermuda Insurance Ltd22., (hereafter, “Halliburton”) it was held, that arbitrators were under a duty of disclosure under the English law.