Section 5 read as follows: “5. Power of Central Government to direct vesting of rights in a E Government company.— (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in sections 3 and 4, the Central Government may, if it is satisfied that a Government company is willing to comply, or has complied, with such terms and conditions as that Government may think fit to impose, direct, F by an in writing, that the right, title and interest of an owner in relation to a coal mine referred to in section 3, shall, instead of continuing to vest in the Central Government, vest in the Government company either on the date of publication of the direction or on such earlier or later date (not being a date earlier G than the appointed day), as may be specified in the direction. (2) Where the right, title and interest of an owner in relation to a coal mine vest in a Government company under sub-section (1), the Government company shall, on and from the date of such vesting, be deemed to have become the lessee in relation to such H COAL INDIA LIMITED v. COMPETITION COMMISSION 851 OF INDIA [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] coal mine as if a mining lease in relation to the coal mine had been A granted to the Government company and the period of such lease shall be the entire period for which such lease could have been granted under the Mineral Concession Rules; and all the rights and liabilities of the Central Government in relation to such coal mine shall, on and from the date of such vesting, be deemed to B have become the rights and liabilities, respectively, of the Government company. (3) The provisions of sub-section (2) of section 4 shall apply to a lease which vests in a Government company as they apply to a lease vested in the Central Government and references therein to C the “Central Government” shall be construed as references to the Government company.” 36. Section 11 is significant for the purpose of the case. It read: “11. Management, etc., of coal mines.—(1) The general superintendence, direction, control and management of the affairs D and business of a coal mine, the right, title and interest of an owner in relation to which have vested in the Central Government under section 3, shall,— (a) in the case of a coal mine in relation to which a direction has been made by the Central Government under sub-section (1) of section 5, vest in the Government company E specified in such direction, or (b) in the case of a coal mine in relation to which no such direction has been made by the Central Government, vest in one or more Custodians appointed by the Central Government under sub-section (2),and thereupon the Government company so specified or the Custodian so appointed, as the case may be, shall be entitled to exercise all such powers F and do all such things as the owner of the coal mine is authorised to exercise and do.