at the previous election when he was chosen as such member, the Returning Offi cer shall allot that free symbol to that candidate, and to no one else; and (c) if, of those several candidates, being all independent candidates, no one is, or was, a sitting member as aforesaid, the returning offi cer shall decide by lot to which of those independent candidates that free symbol shall be allotted, and allot that free symbol to the candidates on whom the lot falls, and to no one else.” 15. Sections 12 and 13 of the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Councils Act, 19972 (hereinafter referred to as the “1997 Act”) read as under: “12. Disputes regarding elections. – (1) No election shall be called in question except by an election petition presented in such manner as may be prescribed and before such authority as may be appointed by Government, from time to time, by notifi cation in the Government Gazette: Provided that no person below the rank of a District Judge shall be appoint-ed for the purpose of this section. (2) No election shall be called in question except on any one or more of the following grounds, namely: – (a) that on the date of his election the returned candidate was not qualifi ed or was disqualifi ed, to be chosen to fi ll the seat in the Council; (b) that a corrupt practice has been committed by a returned candidate or his election agent or by any other person with the consent of the returned candidate or his election agent. Explanation: — For the purposes of this section “corrupt practice” shall mean any of the corrupt practices specifi ed in section 132 of the Jammu and Kashmir Representation of the People Act, 1957; 2 This repealed The Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Councils Act, 1995 (President’s Act No.1 of 1995). UNION TERRITORY OF LADAKH v. JAMMU AND KASHMIR 83 NATIONAL CONFERENCE [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] (c) that any nomination has been improperly rejected; (d) that the result of the election in so far as it concerns the returned candidate has been materially aff ected– (i) by any improper acceptance of any nomination; or (ii) by any corrupt practice committed in the interest of the returned candidate by an agent other than his election agent; or (iii) by the improper reception, refusal or rejection of any vote; or (iv) by the reception of any vote which is void; or (v) by any non-compliance with provisions of this Act or of any rules or s made thereunder. (3) At the conclusion of the trial of an election petition the authority appoint-ed under sub-section (1) shall make an – (a) dismissing the election petition; or (b) declaring the election of all or any of the returned candidates to be void; or (c) declaring the election of all or any of the returned candidates to be void and the petitioner or any other candidates to have been duly elected. (4) If a petitioner in addition to calling in question the election of a returned candidate makes a declaration that he himself or any other candidate has been duly elected and the authority under sub-section (1) is of opinion that– (a) in fact the petitioner or such other candidate has received the majority of valid votes; or (b) but for the votes obtained by the returned candidate by corrupt practice the petitioner or such other candidate would have obtained the majority of the valid votes, the authority as aforesaid shall, after declaring the election of the returned candidate to be void declare the petitioner or such other candidate, as the case may be, to have been duly elected.