16. The NCDRC ruled in favour of the complainant concluding that the insurance policy covered the complainant’s warehouse. On the second issue, NCDRC noted the time lag between the welding work and the fi re incident and observed that the Forensic report is inconclusive. The other reports suggesting an electrical short circuit as the cause of the fi re was found to be more acceptable. 17. Adverting to the roofi ng work done by the insured, NCDRC held that it did not signifi cantly increase the risk, and therefore Clause no. 3 was inapplicable. Referring to the ratio in New India Assurance Co. Ltd. vs. Pradeep Kumar1; NCDRC highlighted that the approved Surveyor’s report, though important, is not absolute and not binding on the parties. The NCDRC accordingly ruled in favour of the insured fi nding defi ciency in service of the insurance company. Thus, direction was issued for payment of the specifi ed sum, with interest. 1 (2009) 7 SCC 787. 103 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. ARGUMENTS 18. Mr. Aditya Kumar, the learned counsel for the appellants, contended that the cause of the fi re was negligence on the part of the insured. Reports of the forensic investigator (M/s Screen Facts Services Pvt. Ltd.) dated 10.12.2018 (Annexure A-10) were relied upon, which found that electrical short-circuit was not the cause of the fi re incident. Instead, the fi re could have occurred due to sparks that may have fallen on fl ammable chemicals stored in the adjoining area, during welding. Surveyor’s Report (M/s Bhansali & Co.) dated 15.04.2019 (Annexure A-12) was relied upon to further suggest that the fi re occurred due to negligence on the part of the insured in not taking adequate precautions during the roof repair work. By undertaking such repair work without precautions, the insured property was altered in a way that increased the risk of loss or damage. Additionally, storing hazardous chemicals during construction or repair work was itself a negligent act and amounted to violation of policy conditions. 19. The learned counsel points out that the forensic inspector and the surveyors were specifi cally tasked to investigate the fi re incident. Since short-circuit as the cause of fi re was ruled out, Mr. Kumar argues that the negligence theory on the part of the insured (in undertaking roof construction work in the vicinity of stored combustible materials), ought to be accepted. 20. For the appellants, Mr. Kumar also reads the Surveyor’s Report (M/s Basheer & Associates) dated 11.04.2019 (Annexure A-11) which concluded that the insurance policy did not cover the premises of the fi re- aff ected warehouse. And as such, repudiation is justifi ed since the insurance coverage was limited to the offi ce of the insured and the warehouse which suff ered no burning incident. 21. Since Rs. 2,15,18,802.45/- was claimed towards custom duty liability, the appellants argue that compensating the insured warehouse is erroneous as custom duty liability rests only upon the importer under Sections 12 and 46 of the Customs Act, 1962.