E 16. Learned senior counsel appearing for the State drew our attention to paragraph 2 of Jogendra Yadav to contend that in the said case, the Additional Sessions Judge had in fact issued notice to the appellants therein to show cause as to why they should not be added as accused. After giving an opportunity to the appellants therein to file a reply, the Additional Sessions Judge summoned the appellants as accused F for being added to the proceedings. Therefore, it was a case where the accused therein had been heard before such summons was issued. It was contended that it is in the aforesaid context, that this Court had observed that the persons to be summoned as an accused would be heard before being added. The said observations of this Court in G paragraph 9 must be read in the context of the facts of the said case and not taken out of its context and blown out of proportion. In tobuttress this submission, it was pointed out that in the passed by this Court subsequently in the case of Ram Janam Yadav, the reference to a larger Bench was not taken forward by noticing that H 1204 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A in the said case, it was not necessary to refer the questions of law to a larger Bench as in that case also, the persons who had been summoned as accused were in fact, given an opportunity of being heard and hence, the aforesaid two cases would turn on their own peculiar facts. In other words, what was sought to be contended was that an opportunity of being heard to the persons summoned under Sections 319 of the Cr.P.C. B was on the facts of those cases and that cannot be made a rule or principle, which is applicable to all cases having regard to the object and purpose of Section 319 of the Cr.P.C. 17. Learned counsel appearing for the complainant also supported the arguments of the learned senior counsel appearing for the State and C contended that if the submissions of learned senior counsel for the appellants are to be accepted, then the entire trial of the accused would be disrupted and there would be a trial within the trial, a concentric circle, and there can be no conclusion of a trial on a timely basis which would vitiate the salutary principle of speedy trial which is recognized D under Article 21 of the Constitution of India as well as the right of the victims to get justice. According to the learned Counsel, if the submissions of learned Counsel for the appellants is to be accepted by this Court, it would not only jeopardise a criminal trial but also prejudice the rights of the accused already facing trial and who possibly may be in custody during their trial. In other words, the persons who are to be added as an E accused and summoned under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C. may come out with their own pleas and contentions which would have to be first considered by the Trial Court/Sessions Court and this would not only cause delay in the progress of the main trial.