[Para 11][999-E-F] 1.3 The POCSO Act was enacted to provide more stringent punishments for the offences of child abuse of various kinds and that is why minimum punishments have been prescribed in Sections 4, 6, 8 and 10 of the POCSO Act for various categories E of sexual assaults on children. Hence, Section 6, on its plain language, leaves no discretion to the Court and there is no option but to impose the minimum sentence as done by the trial court. When a penal provision uses the phraseology “shall not be less than….”, the Courts cannot do offence to the Section and impose a lesser sentence. The Courts are powerless to do that unless F there is a specific statutory provision enabling the Court to impose a lesser sentence. However, there is no such provision in the POCSO Act. Thus, notwithstanding the fact that the respondent may have moved ahead in life after undergoing the sentence as modified by the High Court, there is no question of showing any G leniency to him. Apart from the fact that the law provides for a minimum sentence, the crime committed by the respondent is very gruesome which calls for very stringent punishment. The impact of the obnoxious act on the mind of the victim-child will H STATE OF U.P. v. SONU KUSHWAHA 995 be life-long. The impact is bound to adversely affect the healthy A growth of the victim. There is no dispute that the age of the victim was less than twelve years at the time of the incident. Therefore, there is no option but to set aside the impugned of the High Court and restore the of the trial court. The impugned and passed by the High Court is B quashed and set aside and the and passed by the Special Judge POCSO Act is restored. The respondent would undergo rigorous imprisonment for ten years for the offence punishable under Section 6 of the POCSO Act and pay a fine of Rs.5,000/-. [Paras 12 and 13][1000-A-C; D-E] C CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No.1633 of 2023. From the and dated 18.11.2021 of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad in CRLA No. 5415 of 2018. Krishnanand Pandeya, Harah Pratap Shahi, Advs. for the D Appellant. Satish Pandey, Abdul Qadir, Akbar Ali, Advs. for the Respondent. The of the Court was delivered by ABHAY S. OKA, J. E FACTUAL ASPECTS 1. The only question involved in this appeal is whether the respondent is guilty of an offence of aggravated penetrative sexual assault punishable under Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short, ‘the POCSO Act’). F 2. The respondent–accused was prosecuted for the offences punishable under Sections 377 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (for short, ‘IPC’) and Section 5 read with Section 6 of the POCSO Act. The learned 8th Additional Sessions Judge, Jhansi who was the Special Judge under the POCSO Act convicted the respondent for all three G offences. The respondent was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for ten years for the offence punishable under Section 6 of the POCSO Act and was directed to pay a fine of Rs.5,000/-.