From the material placed on record, it is clear that prior to 14th August 2008, the area where Lohara Coal Block is situated was not even proposed to be notified as a Buffer Zone. It is only seven days after the cut-off date, i.e., 21st February 2008, that the Chief Conservator, C Forests gave approval for constitution of an Expert Committee for creating the Buffer Zone surrounding the core area. Thereafter, on 7th March 2008, the Conservator, TATR submitted the proposed demarcation to the Chief Conservator of Forest for creating the Buffer Zone surrounding the core area of TATR. The consultation of the Gram Sabha happened only between May 2008 and November 2008, i.e., much after D the cut-off date. Subsequently, on 8th October 2008, the Conservator, TATR submitted the revised proposal for Buffer Zone to TATR. After numerous other deliberations, including the one with National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), the Government of Maharashtra issued a notification on 5th May 2010 notifying 1101.7711 sq. km. as the Buffer E Zone of TATR. As such, the notification dated 5th May 2010, which included the area where Lohara Coal Blocks were situated, will have to be construed to be a ‘Change in Law’. It is only because of issuance of the said notification, the coal block, which would have otherwise been available to APML, was not available to it. F 46. It is further clear from the record that MoC had allocated Lohara Coal Blocks vide allocation letter dated 6th November 2007 and MoEF granted the ToR for Lohara Coal Blocks on 16th May 2008 pursuant to EAC’s recommendation in the meeting dated 28th April 2008. A perusal of the said letter of MoC dated 6th November 2007 would clearly reveal that allocation of Lohara West and Lohara Extension Coal G Block to APML has been specifically made to meet the coal requirements of their 1000 MW power plant in District Gondia, Maharashtra. It is, thus, clear that the bid submitted by the appellant on the cut-off date was on the basis of the assurance that the coal would be available to it from Lohara Coal Blocks. Had the notification dated 5th May 2010 not H been issued, APML could have utilized the coal from Lohara Coal Blocks MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 665 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J. ] which was allotted to it by MoC. Apart from that, it is to be noted that A MSEDCL was a part of the Expert Committee which was constituted by MERC vide its dated 21st August 2013. Having participated in the proceedings of the meeting of the Expert Committee, MSEDCL cannot be permitted to take a stand contrary to the decision of the said Expert Committee. B 47. It is further to be noted that deallocation of Lohara Coal Blocks was not on account of any fault of APML and this is recognized by CIL itself, inasmuch as it has returned the Bank Guarantee which was furnished by APML.