It is too late in the day to seek reference to any authority for G the proposition that while invoking the power under Section 482 Cr.P.C. for quashing a complaint or a charge, the Court should not embark upon an enquiry into the validity of the evidence available. All that the Court should see is as to whether there are allegations in the complaint which form the basis for the ingredients that constitute certain offences complained of The Court may H S. ATHILAKSHMI v. THE STATE REP. BY THE DRUGS 923 INSPECTOR [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] also be entitled to see {i) whether the preconditions requisite for A taking cognizance have been complied with or not; and {ii) whether the allegations contained in the complaint, even if accepted in entirety, would not constitute the offence alleged ……. B 13. A look at the complaint filed by the appellant would show that the appellant had incorporated the ingredients necessary for prosecuting the respondents for the offences alleged. The question whether the appellant will be able to prove the allegations in a manner known to law would arise only at a later stage ... ... ........ .....” C 10. But what the High Court failed to consider, however, is the provisions contained in Rule 123 read with Schedule ‘K’ to the 1945 Rules and when admittedly it is not the case of the prosecution that the drugs which were seized were being sold in an open shop across the counter. Since this was not being done as visualized above, and an D exception is created under the law in favour of the medical practitioner where the drugs given in Schedule ‘K’ would be exempted from the purview of Chapter 4 of the Act, we are of the considered view that prosecution against the Appellant is unwarranted. 11. The backbone of the Respondent’s case is the sales bills with E the list of 18 drugs seized from the premises of the Appellant. However, the details of the sales bills and seized drugs in the Show Cause Notice issued by the Respondent it is seen that the sales bills are not even for the medicines which have been seized by the Respondent. 12. On the contrary, upon being served with the Show Cause F Notice, the Appellant was directed, under Section 18-A, to reveal the name and addresses of persons from whom she obtained the drugs which were seized. In compliance with the same, Appellant has produced multiple invoices from pharmaceutical shops to show her bonafides. Further, upon inspection of the drugs by the Drugs Testing Laboratory, Tamil Nadu they returned a finding that the drugs were of ‘standard G quality’ which indicates it is not a case where the Appellant was operating a shop to sell spurious medicines over the counter. 13. Another factor which must be considered is that the search was carried out on 16.03.2016 and sanction for prosecution was sought H 924 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A on 22.09.2016 and the sanction ultimately was given on 23.01.2018.