It is the contention of the account holder company that for the period the money was with the Bank, the account holder is G entitled to interest and that can be the compensation if at all that can be paid to the appellant in Civil Appeal Nos.5032- 33/2016 for the period after the cancellation of the allotment. We may, of course, take note of the submission of the builder that in terms of the principles of restitution under Section 144 C.P.C. and on the general principle of restitution, the H K. L. SUNEJA & ANR. v. DR. (MRS.) MANJEET KAUR 1091 MONGA (D) THROUGH HER LR [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] builder cannot be put to unmerited injustice and the appellant A should not take the undue advantage as held by this Court in Citibank N.A. v. Hiten P. Dalal and Others, (2016) 1 SCC 411, as canvassed by the learned counsel appearing for the builder. 7. Learned counsel appearing for Citibank, inviting our B reference to the additional affidavit contended that it is a fact that the money from the current account of the builder has been deducted on 30. 04. 2005 and it has not been paid to the payee. But, at the same time, it cannot be said that the money was enjoyed by the Bank, since being a pay , at C any moment the instrument is presented, the Bank was bound to honour the same and, therefore, only for the lapse on the part of either the payee or the account holder for encashing or cancelling the instrument, the Bank cannot be saddled with any interest. It is also submitted by the learned counsel appearing for the Bank that they are governed by the D instructions issued by the Reserve Bank of India in that regard. 8. We find from the of the Tribunal that both the issues have not been gone into, apparently because these aspects have not been canvassed and obviously because the Citibank was not before the Tribunal.” E 25. The counter affidavit filed by the complainant, to the developer’s appeal presently before us, contains the following averments: “It is reiterated that the said Pay was sent by the Appellant No.2 to Respondent No. 1 vide cancellation letter F dated 30.04.2005. Thereafter, the same was returned by Respondent No. l to the Appellants vide legal notice dated 07.09.2005 following which the Appellants once again returned the same back to Respondent No. l vide their reply to the legal notice dated 26.09.2005. It is submitted that the Respondent No. 1 then filed a Complaint under section 36 of G the MRTP Act before the Ld. MRTP Commission and deposited the said Pay dated 30.04.2005 in protest before the Ld. MRTP Commission along with the said Complaint.” 26. A consideration of the pleadings and other materials points to the fact that the complainant did not state anywhere, before the MRTP H 1092 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Commission, that the original Pay was attached with the pleadings.