The submission of the petitioner that after the amendment the law as laid down by this Court in National Seeds Corpn. Ltd. [National Seeds Corpn. Ltd. v. M. Madhusudhan Reddy, (2012) 2 SCC 506 : (2012) 1 SCC (Civ) 908] is no more a good law cannot be accepted. The words “notwithstanding any , decree or of the Supreme Court or any court” were meant only to those precedents where it was laid down that the judicial authority while making reference under Section 8 shall be entitled to look into various facets of the arbitration agreement, subject-matter of the arbitration whether the claim is alive or dead, whether the arbitration agreement is null and void. The words added in Section 8 cannot be meant for any other meaning.” Emaar III (supra) though ends with a caveat, where it leaves the option with the party who may have an option to choose between a public or private forum, may consciously choose to go for private fora. This is what it says: “63. We may, however, hasten to add that in the event a person entitled to seek an additional special remedy provided under the statues does not opt for the additional/special remedy and he is a party to an arbitration agreement, there is no inhibition in disputes being proceeded in arbitration. It is only the case where specifi c/special remedies are provided for and which are opted by an aggrieved person that judicial authority can refuse to relegate the parties to the arbitration.” 22. Thus, in our considered opinion in the case at hand, the Telangana High Court had adopted the right approach in its two impugned s, where it declined to interfere in the matter and appoint an arbitrator. True in Emaar III (supra) this Court had examined the scope of sub-section (1) to Section 8 and not of sub-section 6A to Section 11 of the Arbitration Act, 1996. All the same, the reasoning given in the above would be equally applicable to Section 11 application before the High Court. Both the provisions incorporated in Section 8 and Section 11 of the 288 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Arbitration Act, 1996 [i.e., sub-section (1) and sub-section 6A respectively], seemingly restrict the scope of the examination by the concerned courts, in their reference to arbitration, or appointment of arbitrator, as the case might be, and the language being common, “notwithstanding any , decree or ” places a similar question before the two courts. More importantly, when the Principal Civil Court or a judicial authority such as consumer redressal forum can have powers to dismiss a Section 8 application on the ground of arbitrability of a dispute, will such powers not be available with the High Courts? In SBP & Co. v. Patel Engg. Ltd.4 , it was decided by this Court that both Section 8 and Section 11 of Arbitration Act, 1996 are complementary provisions. This position has been reiterated, in the post-amendment context, in Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading Corpn.5 23.