[2023] 14 S.C.R. 1133 : 2023 INSC 952 CASE DETAILS TAMIL NADU AND PUDUCHERRY PAPER CUP MANUFACTURES ASSOCIATION v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU & ORS (Civil Appeal No(s). 8536 of 2022 etc.) OCTOBER 20, 2023 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT AND PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether the High Court was justifi ed in dismissing the writ petitions fi led by the appellants-association representing manufacturing units of ‘reinforced’ paper cups, and non-woven plastic bags, challenging the government banning manufacture, storage, supply, transport, sale, distribution, and use of plastic coated teacups and non-woven bags. Environment Protection Act, 1986 – ss. 5, 23 – Plastic coated teacups and non-woven bags – Government banning manufacture, storage, supply, transport, sale, distribution, or use of plastic coated teacups and non-woven bags – Challenged to – High Court upheld the ban – Interference with: Held: Though the mandate of the 1986 Rule calls for predecisional hearing, on facts, given the effl ux of time, the resultant likely injury to the public in the event the notifi cation is interfered with, interests of justice require that such infraction should not result in the invalidation of the notifi cation – By composition itself, plastic coated teacups are non- biodegradable, and there is immense diffi culty in their recycling, as it requires appropriate collecting mechanisms, strict segregation – Given that there is scientifi c basis for the ban, and it is the State Government’s policy decision to ban numerous categories of single use plastic products, in public interest, there is no reason for interference with the High Court’s fi ndings on the ban of reinforced papercups – Association’s right u/Art. 19(1)(g) has been restricted; but in the larger interest of the general public to enjoy a pollution 1133 113 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. free environment the restriction was reasonable as per Art. 19(6), thus, upheld – As regards non-woven bags, the amended 2016 Rules now allow non-woven bags above 60 GSM to be manufactured and used – Centre has found a way to regulate it, rather than ban it – In view thereof, the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board directed to consider the case of non-woven bags afresh in light of amended 2016 Rules – Environment (Protection) Rules, 1986 – Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016 . [Para 41, 46, 54] Doctrines/Principles – Principles of natural justice – Compliance of – Rule of prior hearing – Dispensation with – When: Held: Principles of natural justice have to be complied with wherever the law requires that course – Silence of a statute or rule about natural justice, nevertheless, calls for a minimum hearing – There are cases, where the court permits post decisional hearing – There can be emergencies or urgent situations calling for immediate or expedient action, which cannot be delayed – In such eventualities, the rule of prior hearing can be dispensed with. [Para 39] LIST OF CITATIONS AND OTHER REFERENCES Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board v. M.V. Nayudu (2001) 2 SCC 62 : [2000] 5 Suppl.