Thus, the joint venture agreement also contemplated a clear distinguishment between the bidding process and subsequent repayment of loan. The argument of the respondent – that the use of words ‘consolidated price’ denotes inclusion of the loan amount – cannot be accepted ipso facto, considering that from the pleadings, it is clear that only the 50% shareholding valuation was discussed by the parties D throughout, which was pegged at 70 crores by the Kotharis. Repayment of the loan amount in no manner constitutes a disruption of the ‘smooth transition’ envisioned as an aim of this transaction – thus its interpretation as such is erroneous. 18. The case law relied on by the respondents too, is distinguishable E from the facts herein. In S. Satnam Singh v. Surender Kaur,10 the question for consideration was whether the trial court’s was in error in amending its preliminary decree in a partition suit to make an addition to the list of properties. This Court held that the mere act of rectifying such a mistake did not constitute an infirmity of the amended decree. The counsel’s reliance on the definition of a ‘decree’, as held in F this ,11 does little to support the respondent’s submissions, as 10 S. Satnam Singh v. Surender Kaur, (2009) 2 SCC 562. 11 Id., “15. A “decree” is defined in Section 2(2) of the Code of Civil Procedure to mean: “2. (2) … the formal expression of an adjudication which, so far as regards the Court expressing it, conclusively determines the rights of the parties with regard to all G or any of the matters in controversy in the suit and it may be either preliminary or final.” It may partly be preliminary and partly be final. The court with a view to determine whether an passed by it is a decree or not must take into consideration the pleadings of the parties and the proceedings leading up to the passing of an . The circumstances under which an had been made would also be relevant”. 12 Rajinder Kumar v. Kuldeep Singh, (2014) 15 SCC 529. H SANWARLAL AGRAWAL v. ASHOK KUMAR KOTHARI 509 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] clearly the Courts below have not looked into the facts leading up to the A passing of the decree in a holistic manner. 19. With respect to Rajinder Kumar v. Kuldeep Singh,12 the counsel has placed reliance on the following paragraph: “If the suit for specific performance is not decreed as prayed B for, then alone the question of any reference to the alternative relief would arise. Therefore, there is no question of any ambiguity. As held by this Court in Topanmal Chhotamal v. Kundomal Gangaram [Topanmal Chhotamal v. Kundomal Gangaram, AIR 1960 SC 388, p. 390, para 4:”4. At the worst the decree can be said to be ambiguous. In such a case it is C the duty of the executing court to construe the decree. For the purpose of interpreting a decree, when its terms are ambiguous, the court would certainly be entitled to look into the pleadings and the ….”] and consistently followed thereafter, even if there is any ambiguity, it is for the executing D court to construe the decree if necessary after referring to the .