6. The argument with respect to the driving skill test does not merit acceptance as the insurance policy in question admittedly did not postulate that a driving skill test should compulsorily be taken before employing a chauff eur to drive the insured vehicle. The relevant condition in the insurance policy, titled ‘Driver Clause’, reads as follows: ‘Any person including insured: provided that the person driving holds an eff ective driving licence at the time of the accident and is not disqualifi ed from holding or obtaining such a licence.’ There is, thus, no mandate in the statutory provision or the above clause that a driving skill test should be undertaken without fail before employing a driver. Therefore, it is not open to the petitioner-insurance company to cite the same as a breach of the terms and conditions of the policy. In fact, there was no such term or condition in the policy. 7. As regards the contention that the driver of the vehicle was not duly licensed as he possessed a fake license, it may be noted that neither Section 149(2)(a)(ii) of the Act of 1988 nor the ‘Driver Clause’ in the subject IFFCO TOKIO GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD. v. 67 GEETA DEVI [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] insurance policy provide that the owner of the insured vehicle must, as a rule, get the driving licence of the person employed as a driver for the said vehicle verifi ed and checked with the concerned transport authorities. Generally, and as a matter of course, no person employing a driver would undertake such a verifi cation exercise and would be satisfi ed with the production of a licence issued by a seemingly competent authority, the validity of which has not expired. It would be wholly impracticable for every person employing a driver to expect the transport authority concerned to verify and confi rm whether the driving licence produced by that driver is a valid and genuine one, subject to just exceptions. In fact, no such mandatory condition is provided in any car insurance policy and it is not open to the petitioner- insurance company, which also did not prescribe such a stringent condition, to cite the failure of the deceased vehicle owner to get Ujay Pal’s driving licence checked with the RTO as a reason to disclaim liability under the insurance policy. 8. In eff ect and in consequence, the petitioner-insurance company cannot blithely claim that the deceased vehicle owner did not conduct due diligence while employing Ujay Pal as a driver, by now insisting upon a condition which was neither prescribed in the statute nor in the insurance policy. More so, an unrealistic condition that every person employing a driver must get the driving licence of such driver verifi ed and confi rmed by the RTO concerned, irrespective of the actual necessity to do so. 9. Useful reference in this regard may be made to Skandia Insurance Co. Ltd. vs. Kokilaben Chandravadan and others1, wherein this Court, in the context of Section 96(2)(b)(ii) of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939, which is in pari materia with Section 149(2)(a)(ii) of the Act of 1988, observed as under: - ‘14.