***” C 31. Durgesh Sharma (supra) is an authority having the effect of a binding precedent for deciding cases where the High Court for a State seeks to transfer a suit, appeal or proceeding from a court subordinate to it to a court subordinate to the High Court for another State. We share the views expressed therein. However, having regard to the fundamental D factual dissimilarities present in this case, the ratio decidendi of Durgesh Sharma (supra) while answering the core issue may not apply here. 32. The decision in Megha Jain (supra) was rendered on a reference being made to a larger Bench by another single Judge of the E Gauhati High Court, who was not persuaded to agree with the view taken by the coordinate bench in Pomi Sengupta (supra). A matrimonial proceeding instituted by the respondent, pending in a court in Aizawl, Mizoram was sought to be transferred to a court in Kamrup, Guwahati, Assam by the petitioner by pursuing the remedy provided by section 24 of the CPC. This is what the Division Bench, speaking through the Chief F Justice, held: “9. The constitution of the High Court with its Principal Seat and the Permanent Benches in the manner, as taken note supra, would indicate that all the courts in all the said four States are subordinate to the Gauhati High Court and since no separate High Courts are G established in respect of Nagaland, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh, a provision under the Notification dated 22.6.1990 is made for the establishment of the Permanent Bench at Aizawl. Similar Notifications had been issued in respect of other two States. These aspects would leave no room for doubt that the Gauhati H SHAH NEWAZ KHAN v. STATE OF NAGALAND 1005 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] High Court can exercise its power and jurisdiction over all Courts A in all the four States. If in that light, the provision as contained in section 24 of the CPC, extracted above, is taken note, sub-section (1)(a) would indicate that the High Court or the District Court may, at any stage, transfer any suit, appeal or other proceeding pending before it for trial or disposal to any court subordinate to it B and competent to try or dispose of the same. If the said provision is kept in view and the above noted discussion relating to the establishment of the High Court and the Permanent Bench is taken note and in that circumstance, when the subordinate court in the State of Mizoram as also the subordinate court in the State of Assam is subordinate to the Gauhati High Court, a transfer petition C filed under section 24 of the CPC before this court, namely, the Gauhati High Court, even for transfer of a case from the subordinate court in any of the four States, as indicated above, to the other State would be maintainable from the very provision as contained in section 24 itself. In such circumstance, the question D of filing a petition under section 25 of the CPC would not arise since there are no separate High Courts exercising jurisdiction over the States referred to above.