The other course available is to look at whether the previous decision has been noticed, considered and explained in the subsequent decision; if not, the earlier decision continues to remain binding whereas if the answer is in the affi rmative, the subsequent decision becomes the binding decision. We add a caveat that if the subsequent Bench, instead of deciding the matter before it fi nally upon consideration of the decision of the earlier Bench, formulates the point of diff erence and makes a reference for a decision by a larger Bench, it is the former decision that continues to govern the fi eld so long the larger Bench does not decide the reference. 41. There is also authority for the proposition that while deciding cases on facts, more so in criminal cases, the courts should bear in mind that each case must rest on its own facts and the similarity of facts in one case cannot be used to bear in mind the conclusion of fact in another case. We may usefully refer to the decision in Kalyan Chandra Sarkar v. Rajesh Ranjan24 in this context. 42. Bearing the above principles in mind, we have perused the decisions, apparently striking discordant notes, with utmost care. It is observed that the conclusions reached in each of the decisions are based on the particular facts in each case and that the questions arising for decision on this appeal can be answered by harmonising the law as declared upon drawing guidance therefrom. 43. To the extent relevant, section 2(n) of the Cr. PC defi nes “off ence” as any act or omission made punishable by any law for the time being in force. Section 200 ordains what a Magistrate, inter alia, is required to do on receipt of a complaint. In taking cognizance of an off ence on a complaint, he is required to (i) examine upon oath the complainant and 24 (2005) 2 SCC 42 M/S IVECO MAGIRUS BRANDSCHUTZTECHNIK GMBH v. 251 NIRMAL KISHORE BHARTIYA [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] the witness present, if any; (ii) reduce in writing the substance of such examination; (iii) get the signature of the complainant and the witness, if any, on such writing; and (iv) sign the same too. Section 202 is a provision that enables the Magistrate to postpone the issue of process against the accused and, if he thinks fi t, either (a) inquire into the case himself or (b) direct an investigation to be made by (i) a police offi cer or (ii) by such other person he thinks fi t. The statute permits the Magistrate to take such steps to facilitate a decision whether there is suffi cient ground for proceeding against the accused by ascertaining the truth or falsity of the allegations made in the complaint. Section 203 authorizes the Magistrate, after considering the statements on oath of the complainant and the witness, if any, under section 200 or the result of the inquiry or the investigation under section 202, to dismiss a complaint, with brief reasons, should in his there be no ‘suffi cient ground for proceeding’.