Shri Kaleeswaram Raj, learned counsel appearing for the petitioner in the special leave petition submitted an elaborate note. This G note is divided into several chapters dealing with the nature and extent of the freedom of speech, the restrictions on the same, the horizontality 26 (2014) 9 SCC 1 27 (2004) 2 SCC 9 28 (1999) 6 SCC 667 H 620 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A of fundamental rights, constitutional rights and constitutional values, statements made by Ministers and collective responsibility, self-regulation as the best mode of regulation, hate speech not being a protected speech and the way forward. The contents of this note are summarized as follows:- B (i) The Constitutional mandate of freedom of expression and free speech is to be preserved without imposing unconstitutional restrictions. It is a right available to everyone including political personalities. (ii) But even while upholding such a right, efforts should be C taken to frame a voluntary code of conduct for Ministers etc., to ensure better accountability and transparency; (iii) There is an imperative need to evolve a device such as Ombudsman to act as a Constitutional check on the misuse of the freedom of expression by public functionaries using the apparatus of the State; D (iv) The right under Article 19(1)(a) is limited by restrictions expressly indicated in Article 19(2), under which the restrictions should be reasonable and must be provided for by law, by the State. Therefore this Court cannot provide for any additional restriction by an interpretative exercise E or otherwise; (v) It is too remote to suggest that the right of a victim under Article 21 stands violated if there is a statement by someone that the case was born out of political conspiracy. Therefore, there is actually no conflict of any other right with Article F 21; (vi) Unlike Article 25 which makes the right thereunder subject to public , morality and health, Article 19(1)(a) does not contain such restrictions. As held by this Court in Sakal Papers (P) Ltd. vs. The Union of India29, freedom of G speech can be restricted only in the interest of security of the State, friendly relations with foreign states, public , decency or morality or in relation to contempt of court, defamation or incitement to an offence. It cannot be H 29 (1962) 3 SCR 842 KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 621 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] curtailed, in the interest of the general public, as in the case A of freedom to carry on business; (vii) Restricting speech by public figures, such as politicians, on serious crimes will have great impact on the freedom of speech. Such criticism which calls out true conspiracies and true miscarriage of justice, plays an important role in a B democracy; (viii) In so far as the enforcement of fundamental rights against non-State actors is concerned, the vertical approach is giving way to the concept of horizontal application. The vertical approach connotes a situation where the enforceability is C only against the Government and not against private actors.