17. Yet another circumstance which the prosecution has heavily relied upon is the recovery of dead body at the instance of the accused, based on voluntary statement, which statement has been disowned by D the accused and the same not having been proved by the prosecution according to the learned counsel appearing for the accused.The said statement of the accused has been marked as Ex.P-2 through PW-25. The said statement was recorded in the presence of Mr. Balakrishna Guled PW-1, Mr. Raju CW-3 and interpreter Mr. Kunjali, PW-10. E 17.1. It has been contended that procedure adopted in asking questions, eliciting answers from the appellant-accused has been spoken to by PW-10 Mr. Kunjali who states that he did not know how to read and write Malayalam and yet police had asked him questions in Kannada who in turn had translated into Malayalam and elicited answers from accused in Malayalam and said answer was translated into Tamil by F PW-10 and same was typed out in Kannada by the police which is an unusual method of recording the confession of an accused and as such confession statement Ex.P-2 was not admissible evidence underSection 27 of the Evidence Act. To examine said contention we deem it proper to extract Section 27 of the Evidence Act and itreads: G “27. How much of information received from accused may be proved. —Provided that, when any fact is deposed to as discovered in consequence of information received from a person accused of any offence, in the custody of a police officer, so much of such information, whether it amounts to a confession or H SIJU KURIAN v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 419 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] not, as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered, may be A proved.” 18. Section 27 permits the derivative use of custodial statement in the ordinary course of events. There is no automatic presumption that the custodial statements have been extracted through compulsion. A fact discovered is an information supplied by the accused in his disclosure B statement is a relevant fact and that is only admissible in evidence if something new is discovered or recovered at the instance of the accused which was not within the knowledge of the police before recording the disclosure statement of the accused. The statement of an accused recorded while being in police custody can be split into its components C and can be separated from the admissible portions. Such of those components or portions which were the immediate cause of the discovery would be the legal evidence and the rest can be rejected vide Mohmed Inayatullah Vs. State of Maharashtra6. In this background when we turn our attention to the facts on hand as well as the contention raised by the accused that the confession statement is to be discarded in its entirety D cannot be accepted for reasons more than one. Firstly, the conduct of the accused would also be a relevant fact as indicated in Section 8. This court in A.N. Venkatesh & another.