C D E 10. The affidavit filed by the Director General of Prisons indicates that in the preceding five years, 3,729 prisoners have been released in the State of Uttar Pradesh under various arrangements for premature release. Moreover, it has been stated that in terms of the amended policy, prisoners eligible for premature release are released on ten annual occasions, namely : F “Republic Day (26th January), Women’s Day (08th March), World Health Day (07th April), Labour Day (01st May), World Yoga Day (21st June), Independence Day (15th August), Teacher’s Day (05th September), Gandhi Jayanti (02nd October), International Tolerance Day (16th November) and International Human Rights Day (10th G December).” Between 6 September 2022 and 31 December 2022, the cases of 731 convicts were considered for premature release. 11. The specific grievance which has been brought before this Court pertains to 50 prisoners. In respect of these 50 prisoners, the H RAJKUMAR V. THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 417 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] tabulated statement annexed to the affidavit indicates the status of the A consideration of those cases : B C D 12. Mr Rishi Malhotra, counsel has been requested by this Court to assist as Amicus Curiae. The note submitted by the Amicus Curiae E indicates that the basic problem lies in the State Government adopting a pick and choose policy. The Amicus Curiae submits that though the conviction by the trial court is prior to 1 August 2018 (the date on which the Standing Policy was originally notified), instead of applying the Uttar Pradesh Prisoners Act, 1938 in terms of which a convict who has F undergone 14 years actual sentence is eligible for premature release, the authorities await the convict undergoing an actual sentence of 16 years so as to consider the case of premature release in terms of the subsequent policy. 13. The State having formulated Rules and a Standing Policy for G deciding cases of premature release, it is bound by its own formulations of law. Since there are legal provisions which hold the field, it is not open to the State to adopt an arbitrary yardstick for picking up cases for premature release. It must strictly abide by the terms of its policies bearing in mind the fundamental principle of law that each case for premature H 418 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A release has to be decided on the basis of the legal position as it stands on the date of the conviction subject to a more beneficial regime being provided in terms of a subsequent policy determination. The provisions of the law must be applied equally to all persons. Moreover, those provisions have to be applied efficiently and transparently so as to obviate the grievance that the policy is being applied unevenly to similarly B circumstanced persons. An arbitrary method adopted by the State is liable to grave abuse and is liable to lead to a situation where persons lacking resources, education and awareness suffer the most. 14.