(2) On such an application being made the Returning Offi cer or such other offi cer authorised by him shall decide the matter and may allow the application in whole or in part or may reject it in to if it appears to him to be frivolous or unreasonable.” 6. It is pertinent to mention that the State Government has also framed the Rules of 1995, under the said Act of 1993. Rule 5 of the said Rules of 1995 pertains to the “Contents of the petition” and Rule 6 pertains to the “Relief that may be claimed by the petitioner”, which read as under: - “5. Contents of the petition. – An election petition shall (a) contain a concise statement of all material facts on which the petitioner relies; DHARMIN BAI KASHYAP v. BABLI SAHU & OTHERS 155 [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] (b) set forth with suffi cient particulars, the grounds on which the election is called in question; (c) be signed by the petitioner and verifi ed in the manner laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (V of 1908), for the verifi cations of pleadings. “6. Relief that may be claimed by the petitioner. - A petitioner may claim- (a) a declaration that the election of all or any of the returned candidates is void; and (b) in addition, thereto, a further declaration that he himself or any other candidate has been duly elected.” 7. As stated hereinabove, the election of Gram Panchayat Semarkona, District Mungeli had taken place on 28.01.2020, whereby the respondent no. 1 was declared elected as the Sarpanch. The petitioner had called in question the said election by presenting an Election Petition on 07.02.2020before the Sub Divisional Offi cer (R) under Section 122 of the said Act of 1993, mainly on the ground that the counting of votes was done hurriedly in the late evening hours, without there being proper facility of light at three booths. The precise relief claimed therein was as under: - “…it is prayed that the votes of Booth Nos. 3, 4 and 5 of election area Gram Panchayat Semarkona, Tahsil and District Mungeli should be recount” 8. It was strenuously urged by the learned counsel for the appellant that the Sub Divisional Offi cer (R) having recorded the evidence of the witnesses and having been satisfi ed that there was no proper facility of light while counting the votes at three booths, had rightly ed for recounting of votes. The said of SDO was also confi rmed by the Single Bench of the High Court, however the same was wrongly set aside by the Division Bench vide the impugned on the ground of non-compliance of the Rule 6 of the said Rules of 1995. Placing heavy reliance on Three-Judge Bench decision of this Court in case of Sohan Lal vs. Babu Gandhi and Others1, he submitted that once the result is declared, the only remedy available to an aggrieved party is fi ling of an Election Petition under Section 122, and the 1 (2003) 1 SCC 108 156 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R.