Were, it otherwise, the authorities would decline to undertake the preliminary enquiry.” 45. In Dr. Subash Chand v. State of U.P., 2005 SCC OnLine All 1712 the Allahabad High Court while considering the suspension of the Veterinary offi cer in Animal Husbandry Department of the State Government following a government explained the meaning of the term contemplation of Inquiry as follows: “13. …So far as the meaning of phrase "against whose conduct an inquiry is contemplated" is concerned, the full Bench observed that against whose conduct an inquiry is expected or to be initiated under Rule-55 of the C.C.A. Rules. That will be when a decision has been taken on the basis of material collected on preliminary investigation and the Appointing Authority is prima facie satisfi ed that they have 107 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. substance to justify either of the major punishments and initiation of formal proceeding would be justifi ed. At any point of time prior to taking of such a decision it could not be said that an inquiry under Rule-55 was contemplated. This stage would not be Cached unless the appointing authority decides in circumstances of the case that it will proceed to hold an inquiry under Rule-55. It is framing of charge or charges and their communication to the charged government servant, virtually initiates the formal departmental proceeding. 14…In as much under Clause (1) of Rule 49-A, the power of suspension can be exercised only when decision has been taken to start an inquiry under Rule-55 which can be done only when on preliminary investigation, such material has been collected which have substance to justify the formal departmental proceeding and it is expected that on evidence brought before inquiry offi cer, such misconduct on the part of government servant will be established, which in normal course would justify either of the major penalties viz. dismissal, removal or reduction in rank, suspension is resorted to". The court further held that the expression "as a rule" occurring in the beginning of the note implies that that is always the rule to be observed. 38. Thus, we are of considered opinion that there can be no scope for doubt to hold that on receipt of such complaint containing allegations against government servant, the appointing authority has to be satisfi ed about the allegations contained therein and further such allegations have any substance enabling to hold formal disciplinary inquiry against the government servant for imposition of major penalty against him. Before such satisfaction is arrived at with regard to such allegations, it is not open for the appointing authority to place a government servant under suspension. In this connection it is necessary to make it clear that such satisfaction need not be in shape of a fi nal and fi rm decision, otherwise the "inquiry" instead of being "expected" or "as contingency", it would be sure and certain, which could not be said to be intention of rule-making authority while employing the phrase "an inquiry is contemplated.” 46.