The dissenting Judges, however, opposed the employment of the ‘rough proportionality’ requirement. Decrying the consequences that may follow from the requirement to make ‘individualised determinations’, the learned Judges found that the questions could be answered under the framework of the existing caselaw. The learned Judges also found that there was no basis D for applying the ‘Unconstitutional Conditions’ Doctrine. We are tempted to and rightfully so, to advert to the following observations in the dissenting s in regard to the true place of the Doctrine of Unconstitutional Conditions: “Even if Dolan should accept the city’s conditions in exchange E for the benefit that she seeks, it would not necessarily follow that she had been denied “just compensation” since it would be appropriate to consider the receipt of that benefit in any calculation of “just compensation.” xxx xxx xxx F “In this respect, the Court’s reliance on the “unconstitutional conditions” doctrine is assuredly novel, and arguably incoherent. The city’s conditions are by no means immune from constitutional scrutiny. The level of scrutiny, however, does not approximate the kind of review that would apply if the city had insisted on a G surrender of Dolan’s First Amendment rights in exchange for a building permit.” 128. In Linda Lingle, Governor of Hawaii, et al. v. Chevron U.S.A.INC.63 in the context of a State statute limiting the rent that oil 63544 US 528, 161 L.Ed.2d 876 H 1136 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A companies could charge to its dealer who lease service stations owned by the companies took the view after noticing Nollan (supra) and Dolan (supra) which we have referred to that “substantially advances” formula is not a valid Takings test initiated in Agnis (supra) and it was concluded that it has no proper place in the Takings jurisdiction. B 129. In Village of Euclid, Ohio Et Al v. Ambler Reality Company64, the village of Euclid lay in the form of a parallelogram. The appellant was the owner of the land measuring 68 acres. The entire area of the village was divided into six classes of use places. 130. We may notice they appear to be similar to the zones C contemplated under the DCR in the instant cases. There were restrictions in regard to use, the number of dwellings and the height, inter alia. Appellant’s land fell under U-2, U-3 and U-6. The Ordinance came to be challenged on the ground that it deprived the appellant of its right toliberty and property without due process of law as also equal protection of the law under the Fourteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. D Certain provisions of the State Constitution were also relied upon. 131. Though in the context of the validity of the restrictions under the Zoning Ordinance, we notice the prescience of mind with which the Court approached the matter and refused to apply constitutional safeguards: E “Building zone laws are of modern origin. They began in this country about 25 years ago. Until recent years, urban life was comparatively simple; but, with the great increase and concentration of population, problems have developed, and constantly are developing, which require, and will continue to F require, additional restrictions in respect of the use and occupation of private lands in urban communities.