The person is not prosecuted for the scheduled off ence by invoking provisions of the 2002 Act, but only when he has derived or obtained property as a result of criminal activity relating to or in relation to a scheduled off ence and the indulges in process or activity connected with such proceeds of crime...” 32 We are not commenting on the material and evidence relied by the DoE or CBI. 33 See – Aneeta Hada v. Godfather Travels and Tours Private Limited, (2012) 5 SCC 661, and Sharad Kumar Sanghi v. Sangita Rane, (2015) 12 SCC 781. 34 (2015) 6 SCC 222. 500 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Paragraph 407 similarly states: “407…the off ence under this Act in terms of Section 3 is specifi c to involvement in any process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime which is generated as a result of criminal activity related to the scheduled off ence…” 15. In Mohan Lal (supra), the expression ‘possession’, it is held, consists of two elements. First, it refers to corpus of physical control and second it refers to the animus or intent which has reference to exercise of self-control. In the context of narcotics laws, a person is said to possess control over the substance when he knows the substance is immediately accessible and exercises dominion or control over the substance. The power and dominion over the substance is, therefore,fundamental. The stand of the DoE as to the constructive possession, will be satisfi ed only if the dominion and control criteria is satisfi ed. If the proceeds of crime are in dominion and control of a third person, and not in the dominion and control of the person charged under Section 3, the accused is not in possession of the proceeds of the crime. It would be a diff erent matter, when an accused,though not in possession, is charged for use, concealment or acquisition of the proceeds of the crime, or projects or claims the proceeds of crime as untainted property. The involvement of an accused may be direct or indirect. Prima facie, there is lack of clarity,as specifi c allegation on the involvement of the appellant – Manish Sisodia, direct or indirect, in the transfer of Rs. 45,00,00,000 (rupees forty fi ve crores only) to AAP for the Goa elections is missing. 16. This Court in Y. Balaji v. Karthik Desari and Another35, while examining contours of Section 3 of the PML Act36, referred to the drafting 35 (2023) SCC Online SC 645. 36 Section 3 of the PML Act reads: Section 3 of the PML Act reads: “3. Off ence of money-laundering.—Whosoever directly or indirectly attempts to indulge or knowingly assists or knowingly is a party or is actually involved in any process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime including its concealment, possession, acquisition or use and projecting or claiming it as untainted property shall be guilty of off ence of money-laundering. Explanation.—For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarifi ed that,— (i) a person shall be guilty of off ence of money-laundering if such person is found to have directly or indirectly attempted to indulge or knowingly assisted or knowingly is MANISH SISODIA v. CENTRAL BUREAU OF 501 INVESTIGATION [SANJIV KHANNA, J.]