The decision in S.Karthik (supra) being a later and by a larger bench therefore will be binding on us and this decision says that the right of redemption stands extinguished only on the sale certifi cate getting registered. 44. Before we revert back to the facts of the present case, we may also refer to Sections 35 and 37 of the SARFAESI Act. While Section 35 says that the provisions of the SARFAESI Act shall have eff ect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force, Section 37 clarifi es that provisions of the SARFAESI Act or the rules made thereunder shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other law for the time being in force. 45. This brings us to Section 60 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882. Section 60 says that at any time after the principal amount has become due, the mortgagor has a right, on payment or tender, of the mortgage money, to require the mortgagee (a) to deliver to the mortgagor the mortgage deed and all documents relating to the mortgaged property which are in possession or power of the mortgagee, (b) where the mortgagee is in possession of the mortgaged property, to deliver possession thereof back to the mortgagor, and (c) at the cost of the mortgagor either to re-transfer the mortgaged property to him or to such third person as he may direct, or to execute and to have registered an acknowledgement in writing that any right in derogation of his interest transferred to the mortgagee has been extinguished. As per the proviso, the right conferred under the aforesaid provision shall not be extinguished by any act of the parties or by decree of a Court. 46. Therefore, on a careful application of Sections 35 and 37 of the SARFAESI Act, it is evident that the situation contemplated under Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act does not exclude application of Section 60 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882. As explained by this Court in Concern Readymix (supra), a restriction on the right of the mortgagee to deal with the property post issuance of notice for 118 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. public auction is not the same as the right of redemption available to the mortgagor.” (Emphasis supplied) 59. Thus, from the aforesaid, it is evident that the Telangana High Court in the Amme Srisailam (supra) has not referred to or looked into its earlier decision in the case of K.V.V. Prasad Rao Gupta (supra). The decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Sri Sai Annadhatha Polymers (supra) was also not been looked into by the Telangana High Court in the case of Amme Srisailam (supra). It appears that the Telangana High Court in Concern Readymix (supra) and Amme Srisailam (supra) as well as the Punjab and Haryana High Court in the case of Pal Alloys (supra) have taken the view that the amended Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act does not exclude the application of Section 60 of the Act 1882 in view of Sections 35 and 37 respectively of the SARFAESI Act.