961 of 2022, Writ Petition (C) Nos. 1123, 1128, 1125, 1150, 1129, 1141, 1143, 1149 of 2021, Civil Appeal Nos. 811, 810 of 2023, Writ Petition C (C) Nos. 1174 of 2021 and 34 of 2023. P. Chidambaram, K. V. Viswanathan, Sr. Advs., Kunal Cheema, Mrs. Aditi Deshpande Parkhi, Shivam Dube, Romy Chacko, Ms. K. V. Bharathi Upadhyaya, Shivendra Singh, Dhananjaya Mishra, Bikram Dwivedi, Rohan Sharma, Dr. Mukut Nath Verma, B. K. Satija, Himanshu D Satija, Harshit Khanduja, Mrs. Neha Mehta, Abhay Pratap Singh, Sriram P., M/s. K J John and Co, Pratap Venugopal, Ms. Surekha Raman, Akhil Abraham Roy, Vijay Valsan, Abhishek Anand, Ms. Unnimaya S., Abishek Jebaraj, Ms. Srishti Agnihotri, Ms. Sanjana Grace Thomas, Ms. A. Reyna Shruti, Ms. Mantika Vohra, Renjit V. Philip, Mukund P. Unny, Advs. for the Petitioners. E Ravindra Keshavrao Adsure, Lav Mishra, Rohan Darade, Yash Prashant Sonawane, Ms. Sakshi Ajit Kale, Advs. for the Applicant. Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, A.S.G., Ms. Chitrangada R., M. Singh, Aman Sharma, Ms. Poornima Singh, Rustam Chauhan, Apoorva Kurup, F Mrs. Aakanksha Kaul, Mrs. Ruchi Kohli, Kanu Agarwal, Udai Khanna, Mrs. Deepabali Dutta, Sanjay Kumar Tyagi, Rajan Kumar Chourasia, Nikhil Majithia, G. S. Makker, Arvind Kumar Sharma, Raj Bahadur Singh, V. N. Raghupathy, Varun Varma, Sonal Jain, Rupesh Kumar, Ms. Pankhuri Shrivastava, Ms. Neelam Sharma, Rajeev Sharma, Sibo Sankar Mishra, Nishe Rajen Shonker, Abraham C. Mathew, Mrs. Anu G K Joy, Alim Anvar, Rajat Joseph, Hrishikesh Chitaley, Vijay Kari Singh, Ranjeet Sangle, A. Karthik, Krishan Kumar, Ms. Rekha Dayal, Hitesh Kumar Sharma, S. K. Rajora, Akhileshwar Jha, Niharika Dwivedi, Ms. Shweta Sand, Ravish Kumar Goyal, Ms. Nitin Sharma, Amit Kumar Chawla, Anil Kumar, Gaurav Sharma, Dhawal Mohan, Prateek Bhatia, H Advs. for the Respondents. ANUSHKA RENGUNTHWAR & ORS. v. UNION OF INDIA & 253 ORS. The following of the Court was passed: A 1. The petitioners in all these petitions are the Overseas Citizens of India card holders. They are all students who have just reached the full age or are below this age. All the petitioners are aspiring to become B Doctors by pursuing the MBBS course by securing admission through NEET selection process and thereafter the post-graduation as also the super specialty in the field of medicine. Some of them are also seeking to pursue post-graduation and also a super specialty. For the purpose of narration of facts, the averments as put forth in W.P. (C) No.891 of 2021 which was taken as the lead case is noted. The petitioners contend that C they have been putting in all efforts and were preparing to appear for the NEET-UG examinations based on the right which was available to them under the notifications dated 11.04.2005 and 05.01.2009. Through the said notifications, the Overseas Citizens of India (‘OCI’ for short) cardholders were given the right of parity with Non-Resident Indians (‘NRIs’ for short) in respect of the facilities as notified, including in the D field of education, who in turn had the parity with Indian Citizens. Through the notification dated 05.01.2009, the said right to education in India was also extended further, to appear for the All India Pre-Medical Test or such other tests to make them eligible for admission in pursuance to the provisions contained in the relevant acts.