13907 dated 18.09.1996 (hereinafter, ‘1996 GPA’), registered in the office of Sub- Registrar-V, South East Delhi. F 5. The Appellants, as alluded to earlier, have adopted the stance that they never executed or registered any GPA in favor of Respondent No. 2, nor are they even acquainted with him in any form or fashion. Instead, both the 1996 GPA and the 2022 Sale Deed were completely fraudulent documents created by Respondent No. 2 and the remaining G co-accused named in the FIR, in collusion with other officials at the Sub-Registrar’s office. These actions were carried out in complete subterfuge and without any involvement of the Appellants. 6. The Appellants claim that they are in possession of the original sale deed for the Subject Land, and a true copy of it was attached to the H PRATIBHA MANCHANDA & ANR. v. STATE OF HARYANA & 417 ANR. [SURYA KANT, J.] complaint. Upon examining the 2022 Sale Deed, it was apparent to them A that the accused had failed to provide a PAN Number, which is mandatorily required for a valid sale deed. Furthermore, there was no mention of the 1% amount of Tax Deducted at Source (hereinafter, ‘TDS’) being deposited, which also forms part of the requirements for execution and registration of a sale deed. B 7. The complaint also mentioned the current market value of the Appellants’ land, measuring 15 Kanal 2 Marla, as being approximately not less than Rs. 50 crores. However, in the 2022 Sale Deed, the sale consideration was shown as an abjectly low and meager amount of Rs. 6,60,62,500/-, which was significantly below its actual asking price. C Moreover, the Appellants had not received even this miniscule amount even if the 2022 Sale Deed was hypothetically considered to be valid. Thus, this document was clearly created by Respondent No. 2 and the co-accused in collusion with the witnesses, the scribe, and officials of the Sub-Registrar Tehsil Kadipur, District Gurugram, with the unholy intention to wisk the property away from the the complainants and place D it under the possession of the accused. 8. Accordingly, the First Information Report was registered at Police Station, Badshahpur, Gurugram, and an investigation was initiated. Respondent No. 2, fearing arrest if he were asked to appear before the Investigating Officer, filed an application for Anticipatory Bail before E the Additional Sessions Judge, Gurugram. 9. The Additional Sessions Judge, Gurugram, dismissed Respondent No. 2’s application for anticipatory bail in an dated 23.05.2022, while observing that: i. Respondent No. 2 was accused of allegedly forging a GPA F and executing the 2022 Sale Deed. The original 1996 GPA was still to be recovered by the police. Several questions pertaining to the whereabouts of the 1996 GPA, the execution of the sale deed, the payment of sale consideration, sanctioning of the mutation, and the G relationship between Respondent No. 2 and the Appellants, were all to be ascertained; ii. The allegations against Respondent No. 2 were serious, and filing a civil suit did not absolve them of criminal liability.