The State of Maharashtra and E Others) challenging certain proposed Rules brought by the State of Maharashtra under the heading “The Maharashtra Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Conduct of Bullock Cart Race) Rules, 2017” permitting Bullock Cart Race and on 11th October 2017, the High Court restrained conducting of Bullock Cart Races within the State of Maharashtra. The F aforesaid Rules sought to regulate organisation of Bullock Cart Races. 7. A farmer from that State, Vikramsinh Nivrutti Bhosale from the District of Sanghli, has instituted Special Leave Petition (Civil) 3528 of 2018 assailing that passed by the Bombay High Court and in this reference, we shall deal with certain points raised in the said special G leave petition as well. 8. A Division Bench of this Court by an passed on 2nd February 2018 formulated five questions to be answered by a Constitution Bench and the papers were directed to be placed before the Hon’ble Chief Justice of India. The Division Bench had formulated the following 5 questions which we have to answer in this :- H 444 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A i. “Is the Tamil Nadu Amendment Act referable, in pith and substance, to Entry 17, List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India, or does it further and perpetuate cruelty to animals; and can it, therefore, be said to be a measure of prevention of cruelty to animals? Is it colourable legislation which does not B relate to any Entry in the State List or Entry 17 of the Concurrent List? ii. The Tamil Nadu Amendment Act states that it is to preserve the cultural heritage of the State of Tamil Nadu. Can the impugned Tamil Nadu Amendment Act be stated C to be part of the cultural heritage of the people of the State of Tamil Nadu so as to receive the protection of Article 29 of the Constitution of India? iii. Is the Tamil Nadu Amendment Act, in pith and substance, to ensure the survival and well-being of the D native breed of bulls? Is the Act, in pith and substance, relatable to Article 48 of the Constitution of India? iv. Does the Tamil Nadu Amendment Act go contrary to Articles 51A(g) and 51A(h), and could it be said, therefore, to be unreasonable and violative of Articles E 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India? v. Is the impugned Tamil Nadu Amendment Act directly contrary to the in A. Nagaraja (supra), and the review dated 16th November, 2016 in the aforesaid case, and whether the defects pointed out in F the aforesaid two s could be said to have been overcome by the Tamil Nadu Legislature by enacting the impugned Tamil Nadu Amendment Act?” 9. The Presidential assent was sought for by the three States in terms of Article 254(2) of the Constitution of India. On behalf of the G petitioners, the very act of assent of the President has been questioned and citing the of this Court in the case of Gram Panchayat of Village Jamalpur -vs- Malwinder Singhand Others [(1985) 3 SCC 661] it has been argued that for obtaining such assent, complete details were not disclosed before the President.