In other words, it has to be understood in complete contradistinction to a “reinvestigation”, “fresh” or “de novo” investigation. 14. This distinction between further investigation and fresh G investigation/reinvestigation/de novo investigation being that the former is a continuation of the previous investigation and is done on the basis of discovery of fresh material, whereas the latter can only be done when there is a definite of the court to that effect which must states the reason as to why the previous investigation is incapable of being acted upon. H 1150 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 15. In Minu Kumari v. State of Bihar7, it was observed that upon submission of a report in terms of Section 173 (2) (i) the concerned Magistrate has three courses of action available before him: (i) Accept the report and proceed further (ii) Disagree with the report and drop the proceedings. B (iii) Direct further investigation under Section 156 (3) which is the power of the police to investigate a cognizable offence, and require them to make a further report. 16. In Hemant Dhasmana v. CBI8it was observed that although the section is not specific in respect of the Court’s power to further C investigation, the power of the police can be set into motion upon the of such a court. It was further observed that this should not be interfered with even in the exercise of the revisional jurisdiction of a higher court. 17. The above two cases make it amply clear that a magistrate D has the power to further investigation and the cases referred to earlier make clear that fresh investigation/reinvestigation/de novo investigation fall into the purview of the jurisdiction of a higher court. 18. In the present case, as is clear from FR II that S. Anilkumar, Inspector of Police, Vaikom conducted further investigation as per E No.D2-43642/16/K, passed by a police officer and not by any duly empowered judicial officer. 19. The Chief Police Officer of a district is the Superintendent of Police who is an officer of the Indian Police Service. Needless to state, an from the District Police Chief is not the same as an F issued by the concerned Magistrate. Referring to Vinay Tyagi (supra), this Court in Devendra Nath Singh v. State of Bihar and Ors.9noted that there is no specific requirement to seek leave of the court for further investigation or to file a supplementary report but investigation agencies, have not only understood it to be so but have also adopted the same as a G legal requirement. The doctrine of contemporanea exposito aids such an interpretation of matters which have been long understood and implemented in a particular manner to be accepted into the interpretive 7 (2006) 4 SCC 359 8 (2001) 7 SCC 536 H 9 (2023) 1 SCC 48 PEETHAMBARAN v. STATE OF KERALA & ANR. 1151 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] process. In other words, the requirement of permission for further A investigation or to file a supplementary report is accepted within law and is therefore required to be complied with.