The same F is attested by PW-SI Basant Singh and Dr. Renu Jamwal. It is also corroborated by the evidence of the P.W.1-Praveen Kumar and P.W.2- Hardev Singh. Thus, it cannot be simply brushed aside. 9.Mr. Madiyal further submitted that the right of private defence should be exercised in reasonable manner. The nature of injuries would G reveal multiple fractures and the weapons used would indicate that the Appellants assaulted the deceased with intention to kill them. 10. We have perused the materials placed on record. From the materials placed on record, particularly, the Post-Mortem Report, it cannot be disputed that the death of the deceased was homicidal. H MOHINDER PAL AND OTHERS v. STATE OF J & K 381 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 11.Insofar as the incident is concerned, the prosecution mainly A relies on the dying declaration of deceased-Jaswinder as well as the oral testimony of P.W.1- Praveen Kumar, the brother of deceased-Jaswinder and P.W.2-Hardev Singh. The dying declaration of deceased-Jaswinder implicates accused No.1-Lal Chand (since deceased) as well as the accused-appellants. It is to be noted that though in the dying declaration B it is stated that there was no previous enmity between deceased- Jaswinder and the accused appellants, from the evidence of P.W.1- Praveen Kumar, it would reveal that an amount of Rs.50/- was taken by accused Bias from P.W.1-Praveen Kumar and the dispute was with regard to non-payment of the same. C 12.Though P.W.1-Praveen Kumar states that he went to village Jagatpur to fetch labourers and the accused appellants caught him and started beating him and thereafter tied him and confined him in a verandah, there is no mention with regard to the same in the dying declaration of deceased-Jaswinder. P.W.1-Praveen Kumar states in his evidence that D after some time, when his brothers Manjit and Jaswinder were going in the lane abutting the house of accused persons, the accused persons assaulted them with Drat and Iron rod. According to him, when they, on account of injuries, became unconscious, the accused persons dragged them into the house. He states that he untied the rope and managed to E escape. He further states that when he reached Teli More, he revealed the occurrence of the incident to Kewal Krishna and thereafter they went to Police chowki to lodge a report. 13.P.W.2- Hardev Singh in his evidence states that on the day of F the incident he was working on thresher, which was set near Jagatpur and when he was going to buy bidis, he met P.W.1-Praveen Kumar on the way. He states that when they reached in Gali near the house of accused persons, accused Omprakash, Mahendra, Madi, Bias, Sant, Kashi and Gar caught P.W.1-Praveen Kumar and took him into the house by giving him beatings. It is however to be noted that in the evidence of G P.W.1-Praveen Kumar, there is no mention with regard to the presence of P.W.2-Hardev Singh. 14. P.W.2-Hardev Singh submitted that thereafter he went back and when he reached near Jagatpur canal, he met Manjit alias Babi and H 382 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R.