The High Court further took note of the fact that as per the copy of answer sheet supplied to the writ petitioner, virtually F it was not evaluated by the examiner and without application of mind, abruptly 2 marks each were awarded in relation to three answers. On perusal of the answer sheet and taking note of the submissions made on behalf of the parties, the High Court, in its dated 12.04.2019, put the appellant-University to notice as to why serious action be not taken against it and also considered expedient to adopt the procedure of getting G the answer sheet evaluated by independent examiners. Accordingly, and in terms of the directions of the High Court, three sets of answer sheet were prepared and were sent to three different examiners, who respectively awarded 19, 20 and 21 marks in their individual and independent evaluations. After finding material discrepancy in the marks H DR. B R AMEDKAR UNIVERSITY, AGRA v. DEVARSH NATH 477 GUPTA & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] awarded by the original examiner, particularly in view of the marks A awarded by the said three independent examiners, the High Court stated its impressions and part of conclusions in the following terms (in paragraphs 15 and 16 of the impugned): - “15. Evaluation made by above three Examiners broadly is similar and there is no marked difference in evaluation made by B them. In the original marks awarded, petitioner has been given 2 marks each in questions 1, 3 and 4 while in questions 2, 5(a) and 5(b) all the three Examiners, who have made evaluation under the s of this Court have awarded reasonably good or some marks to petitioners. Even on questions 1, 3 and 4, marks awarded C by original Examiner do not come any closer to marks awarded by these three Examiners. 16. Since, we have gone through copy of answer sheet, which petitioner has obtained under Act 2005 and find that virtually it is unchecked copy and apparently it was evident that Examiner has D not awarded marks by application of mind and, stand now fortified from evaluation made by three expert Examiners in the report.” 6. Thereafter, in paragraphs 17 to 28, the High Court expressed its anguish and disappointment that a beginner professional student was made to suffer because of an irresponsible and negligent examiner who did not care to evaluate the answer sheet with due application of mind E and then, proceeded to make observations that the facts of the case reflected upon the lack of efficiency and supervision on the part of the appellant-University. The High Court further made various comments as regards career of the students and the requirements of improving the education system while curbing such infirmities where the examiners/ F evaluators were not serious enough in discharge of their duties. The High Court also made extensive observations as regards the status assigned to a teacher and that the traditional belief in the teachers was being demolished by the persons like the examiner concerned of the present case.