The Division Bench did not consider the preambular part. It alsofailed tobear in mind the power available with the authorities. H 1136 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 38. The effort of respondents 1 and 2 was to avoid payment of the stamp duty as due in law. The Division Bench erred in not noticing the true purport of the sale deed in conjunction with Section 8 of the Transfer of Property Act and the definition of the word ‘immovable property’, which we have adverted to. Viewed in the context of Duncans Industries Limited (supra) and Member, Board of Revenue (supra), as B also the other attendant facts, including the contents of the Preambular portion, as also the conduct of the Respondents 1 and 2, it would be clear that the sale deed operated to convey the rights over the plant and machinery as well, which was comprised in the land scheduled in the sale deed. As far as the plant and machinery is concerned, it must, C however, be only such plant and machinery, which was permanently embedded to the earth and answering the description of the immovable property as defined. It would appear that such an inquiry was not done to ascertain the same by the appellants. 39. The proviso to Section 27 of the Act, added by the Andhra D Pradesh Amending Act (8 of 1988), does empower the Officer to inspect the property, make local inquiries in the facts, call for connected records, examine them and satisfy that the provisions of Section 27 are complied with. Section 27, undoubtedly, provides that the consideration, if any, and the other facts and circumstances, affecting the chargeability of any instrument or the amount of duty, must be fully and correctly set forth. E Equally, Section 47A of the Andhra Pradesh Amending Act (8 of 1988), empowers the Registering Officer to deal with undervalued instruments. We have adverted to the provision and it provides for an elaborate procedure to deal with the problem of undervaluation. It may be true that Section 27 of the Act read with Section 64, as interpreted in Himalaya F Space House Company Limited (supra), was understood as meaning only that failure to comply with Section 27, was punishable under Section 64. The Court, in the said case, in fact, noted the absence of any provision, empowering the Revenue to make an independent inquiry for determining the value of the property. As far as Andhra Pradesh is concerned, with the addition of the proviso to Section 27, power has been conferred on G the Authority, which was found conspicuous by its absence in Himalaya Space House Company Limited (supra). This is besides Section 47A of the Act. 40. We would think that the learned Amicus is right in pointing out that in the nature of the transaction, and what was actually sold by the H THE SUB REGISTRAR, AMUDALAVALASA & ANR. v. M/S 1137 DANKUNI STEELS LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Official Liquidator, plant and machinery, such as would answer the A description of immovable property, must also be found part of the property for the purpose of the stamp duty and other charges as per law.