The process of forming an informed opinion under the H STATE BANK OF INDIA & ORS v. RAJESH AGARWAL & ORS 479 Master Directions on Frauds is administrative in nature. This A has also been acceded to by RBI and lender banks in their written submissions. It is now a settled principle of law that the rule of audi alteram partem applies to administrative actions, apart from judicial and quasi-judicial functions. It is also a settled position in administrative law that it is mandatory to provide for an B opportunity of being heard when an administrative action results in civil consequences to a person or entity. [Paras 31, 32][503-D- G] 3. The RBI and lender banks have argued that the civil consequences contemplated in Clause 8.12.1 of the Master C Directions on Frauds are reasonable. Under the said clause, the borrower, including the promoters and directors of the company, are barred from availing credit from financial markets and credit markets for a period of five years, and possibly even beyond. According to RBI and lender banks, such a restriction has to be perceived from the perspective of public interest. While D acknowledging that the procedure which has been laid down in the Master Directions on Frauds is conceived in public interest, to protect the banking system, it cannot be ignore the serious civil consequences which emanate to the borrowers. [Para 38][505-G; 506-A-B] E 4. Classification of the borrower’s account as fraud under the Master Directions on Frauds virtually leads to a credit freeze for the borrower, who is debarred from raising finance from financial markets and capital markets. The bar from raising finances could be fatal for the borrower leading to its ‘civil death’ F in addition to the infraction of their rights under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. Since debarring disentitles a person or entity from exercising their rights and/or privileges, it is elementary that the principles of natural justice should be made applicable and the person against whom an action of debarment is sought should be given an opportunity of being heard. Indeed, debarment G is akin to blacklisting a borrower from availing credit. [Para 42][509-A-C] No implied exclusion of audi alteram partem 5. The Master Directions on Frauds do not expressly exclude a right of hearing to the borrowers before action to class H 480 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A their account as frauds is initiated. The principles of natural justice can be read into a statute or a notification where it is silent on granting an opportunity of a hearing to a party whose rights and interests are likely to be affected by the s that may be passed. [Para 53][513-E] B 6. Audi alteram partem, therefore, entails that an entity against whom evidence is collected must: (i) be provided an opportunity to explain the evidence against it; (ii) be informed of the proposed action, and (iii) be allowed to represent why the proposed action should not be taken. Hence, the mere participation of the borrower during the course of the preparation C of a forensic audit report would not fulfil the requirements of natural justice.