for the Appellants. Yadav Narender Singh, Jagdish Parshad, Mayank Kumar Singh, Advs. for the Respondent. / OF THE SUPREME COURT J. K. MAHESHWARI, J. 1. In the present appeals, respondent Jaswant Singh was recruited as a constable with Punjab Police. During probation, he was discharged from the services by Senior Superintendent of Police, Amritsar (hereinafter referred 824 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. to as “S.S.P.”) in exercise of power under Rule 12.21 of Punjab Police Rules, 1934 (hereinafter referred to as “PPR”). Challenging the same, the respondent-plaintiff fi led a suit, which was partly decreed by the Trial Court and the discharge was held to be illegal on the ground that it was passed in violation of the principles of natural justice. 2. Assailing the same, the appellants/State preferred fi rst appeal before Additional District Judge, Amritsar. Simultaneously, the respondent-plaintiff also fi led a fi rst appeal and sought relief of mandatory injunction on the ground that since the discharging him from services was not found legally sustainable, therefore, he should be allowed to join duty and should be granted all the consequential benefi ts. The fi rst appellate Court by common dismissed the appeal fi led by State and allowed the appeal of the respondent-plaintiff holding him entitled to receive all service benefi ts as accrued. 3. Challenging the common passed by the fi rst appellate Court, two regular second appeals were fi led before the High Court by the State Government. The fi rst one was against the in their appeal passed by the fi rst appellate Court and the second was against the grant of mandatory injunction granting all service benefi ts to the respondent-plaintiff . Both the appeals were dismissed by the impugned , against which the present appeals have been fi led. 4. Brief facts of the case are that, the respondent-plaintiff was appointed as constable in Punjab Police on probation, who joined on 12.11.1989 and was allotted number 1669. He was sent for training to ‘Police Recruits Training Centre, Jahan Khelan, District Hoshiarpur’ (hereinafter referred to as “Training Centre”). Meanwhile, he along with other recruit constables were sent to Amritsar on 24.11.1990 for special duty as security guards. After the completion of the said assignment, all the constables deputed on duty were relieved and they reported back to the Training Centre, except respondent-plaintiff who remained absent without any intimation. The Superintendent of Police of the Training Centre (hereinafter referred to as “S.P.”), came to know about such conduct and reported to S.S.P. Amritsar vide memorandum dated 21.02.1991. It was stated therein that owing to prolonged absence from duty without intimation, respondent-plaintiff had no interest in training, and he lacked a sense of responsibility. Therefore, it THE STATE OF PUNJAB AND OTHERS v. 825 JASWANT SINGH [J. K. MAHESHWARI, J.] was recommended that he cannot prove himself to be a good, effi cient police offi cer and he is setting a bad precedent for other trainees. The S.P. further recommended for his discharge from service under Rule 12.21 of PPR with a request to strike-off his name from the rolls of the Training Centre with immediate eff ect treating the absence period as on leave without pay.