Section 23 provides for the mode of making proclamation issued by a Revenue Officer relating to any land and provides for the methods of proclamation. Chapter VI of the HPLR Act, is titled “Collection of Land Revenue”. Section 74 D sets out the process for recovery of the arrears while section 78 provides for attachment of theestate or holding. Section 75 ordains that a writ of demand may be issued by the Revenue Officer on or after the date on which thearrears of land revenue accrue.Section 75-A envisages that at any time after arrears of land revenue accrue, a Revenue Officer may issue a warrant directing an officer named therein to arrest the defaulter E and bring him before the Revenue Officer and section 81 confers power of sale of estate or holding. Although, there is no express provision indicating the stage at which a defaulter can deny this liability, section 84 opensup a remedy to a person denying hisliability before a Civil Court. 48. From the excerpt of the impugned and of the F High Court dated 2nd January, 2008underlined above, it is clear that proceedings were not initiated upon notice to the defaulters and the sum they owed to the department had not been finally determined in accordance with law. In view thereof, question of the State resorting to the provisions contained in Chapter VI of the HPLR Act for recovering G the dues, if at all, as arrears of land revenue did not arise. The Excise Department, in its reply to CWP 306 of 2007, submitted that the non- obstante provision contained in section 16-B would prevail over any inconsistent provisions in other laws; it was further submitted that in the event of any conflict between any other statute and the HPGST, the latter would prevail. The department further urged that sales taxes dues H 796 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A would be higher in priority over any mortgage since the State would have a first charge. It was also submitted that the Tehsildar was requested, on multiple occasions, to make the required red entries in relation to the revenue records of the subject property, and not mutate/ register the same at the behest of the first respondent. B 49. While adopting such a stand, the State and its department either overlooked or were ignorant of the requirement of law that section 16-B would be attracted only after determination of the liability and upon any sum becoming due and payable; and that, it is only thereafter that the charge, if any, would operate. We are of the opinion that no relevant documentary evidence having been placed before the High Court, when C CWP 306 of 2007 was being heard, to indicate that necessary steps under the HPGST Act had been initiated by the State and its officers, the third issue has to be answered by holding that the State not having taken steps as required by law for realization of its dues, there was no determination of liability, a fortiori, question of taking recourse to the D HPLR Act for recovery of dues as arrears of land revenue did not arise.