2.4 As per the provisions of the 1999 Scheme, the new industrial units which were established after complying with all the requirements provided under the 1999 Scheme were given an exemption from payment D of sales tax for a specified period upon the purchase of raw materials required for carrying the manufacturing activity in said units. 2.5 It is the case on behalf of the appellants that relying upon the said Scheme and the amendment made in the definition of “manufacture” under section 2(17) of the Act, 1994, at the relevant time, the appellants E had set up a new small scale industrial unit for the purpose of carrying on the business of manufacturing blended tea. 2.6 As per the provisions of the 1999 Scheme, the small-scale industrial units to claim exemption from payment of sales tax, were required to get themselves registered as small-scale industrial unit and F obtain an eligibility certificate from the Sales Tax Department as per Section 39 read with Rule 55 of the Rules, 1995. The Deputy Commissioner granted the eligibility certificate to the appellants for a period of seven years from the date of first sale of the manufactured product. The appellants enjoyed the benefit of exemption from payment of sales tax as provided under Section 2(17) and Section 39 of the Act, G 1994 for a period of two years till Section 2(17) came to be amended by the West Bengal Finance Act, 2001. Section 2(17) of the Act, 1994 came to be amended by the West Bengal Finance Act, 2001 w.e.f. 01.08.2001, whereby the words “blending of tea” were omitted from the definition of “manufacture” provided under section 2(17) of the Act,1994. H Consequently, the exemption from payment of sales tax, which was M/S. K.B. TEA PRODUCT PVT. LTD. v. COMMERCIAL TAX 833 OFFICER, SILIGURI [M. R. SHAH, J.] granted to the appellants came to be stopped and even the eligibility A certificate was required to be modified. 2.7 The aforesaid action / was challenged before the Tribunal first and thereafter before the High Court. The Tribunal dismissed the application, which has been confirmed by the High Court by the impugned and . The impugned and passed by the B High Court is the subject matter of present appeals, claiming the exemption from payment of sale tax as per earlier 1999 Scheme. 3. Ms. Kavita Jha, learned counsel has appeared on behalf of the appellants and Ms. Madhumita Bhattacharjee, learned counsel has appeared on behalf of the respondents - State. C 4. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants had made the following submissions:- 4.1 That the appellants had been allured by the State of West Bengal Government to set up new industrial unit in expectation of getting benefit of tax for a period on fulfilment of certain requirements and once D on the basis of such requirements such industrial unit is given such benefit, subsequently, by way of amendment such right cannot be taken away. 4.2 That the State authority has in a blanket manner simply removed the word “blending of tea” from the definition of “manufacture” under Section 2(17) of the Act, 1994 without taking into account the fact E that the appellants had received eligibility certificate for a period of seven years and had already availed the benefit of the scheme for a particular period.