No decision has attempted to indicate the exact kind of quantum of material which is requisite for the operation of XVII Rule 3. The difficulty of such a task is easy to appreciate. In the wide varieties of cases and complexities of D situation formulation of universal rules, is a task not easy of attainment. The indications,” however, are as in Ramkaran’s case, ILR (1953) 3 Raj 798 that the material may mean ‘evidence’ on record. The obvious question which arises next is whether can absence of evidence altogether exclude the applicability of E XVII Rule 3? It is difficult to lay down such a, wide proposition. The intention of XVII Rule 3 as has been noticed is that a party seeks time to produce evidence or do something to further the progress of a suit and makes default in doing either, a Court may decide the suit forthwith. To our mind, it is too wide a proposition to lay that in no case where evidence has not been led F Rule 3 would be inapplicable. The test should be whether the Court before whom the suit is pending on the basis of material before it is in a position to decide the suit forthwith, the default of a party notwithstanding. The pleadings, of the parties and issues arising therefrom may in some cases enable a Court to decide the G suit forthwith. Suppose in a suit on a promissory note the execution of which has not been denied by the defendant and the defendant pleads want of consideration seeking time to produce evidence. Time is allowed but he makes default in producing evidence. Can the suit be not decided in view of the legal presumption contained in Section 118 of the Negotiable Instruments Act? In a converse H PREM KISHORE & ORS. v. BRAHM PRAKASH & ORS. 663 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] case the defendant denies execution and the plaintiff is granted A time to prove execution and he makes default. Can the suit be not decided on the ground of the default made by the plaintiff in discharging the burden of proof placed on him? In the first illustration it can perhaps be said that the promissory note execution whereof has been admitted constitutes evidence and there is B material on record to attract the applicability of Rule 3. In the second illustration; however, the execution not having been admitted there is obviously no evidence. The plaintiff fails to discharge his duty. Can we say that the suit should be disposed of in accordance with IX as per XVII Rule 2? The answer is plainly in the negative for the situations envisaged under IX are C different than the one we have in the illustration. Can it be said that the Court may pass such other as it thinks fit as laid down in Rule 2 of 17? Such an can be no other than to adjourn the case for plaintiff’s absence in a situation such as this.