The procedure for taking cognisance of the off ences punishable under Sections 56 and 57 was provided in Section 61 of FERA. Section 61 reads thus: “61. Cognizance of off ences.– (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 29 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), it shall be lawful for any metropolitan magistrate and for any magistrate of the fi rst class to pass a sentence of imprisonment for a term exceeding three years or of fi ne exceeding fi ve thousand rupees on any person convicted of an off ence punishable under section 56.] (2) No court shall take cognizance– (i) of any off ence punishable under sub-section (2) of section 44 or subsection (1) of section 58,- (a) where the off ence is alleged to have been committed by an offi cer of Enforcement not lower in rank than an Assistant Director of Enforcement, except with the previous sanction of the Central Government; (b) where the off ence is alleged to have been committed by an offi cer of Enforcement lower in rank than an Assistant Director of Enforcement, except with the previous sanction of the Director of Enforcement; or (ii) of any off ence punishable under section 56 or section 57, except upon complaint in writing made by- (a) the Director of Enforcement; or 426 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. (b) any offi cer authorised in writing in this behalf by the Director of Enforcement or the Central Government; or (c) any offi cer of the Reserve Bank authorised by the Reserve Bank by a general or special : Provided that where any such off ence is the contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or of any rule, direction or made thereunder which prohibits the doing of an act without permission, no such complaint shall be made unless the person accused of the off ence has been given an opportunity of showing that he had such permission.” (emphasis added) 7. A criminal Court was empowered to take cognisance of the off ences punishable under Sections 56 and 57 of FERA only on a complaint in writing made by an offi cer of the categories covered by sub-clauses (a) to (c) of clause (ii) of sub-section (2) of Section 61. The Enforcement Offi cers were appointed under clause (e) of Section 3 of FERA. By a notifi cation dated 24th September 1993, issued under sub-clause (b) of clause (ii) of sub-section (2) of Section 61 of FERA, various offi cers, including all the enforcement offi cers, were authorised to fi le a complaint in respect of the off ences punishable under Sections 56 and 57 of FERA. 8. Now, we turn to Section 49 of FEMA under the heading “Repeal and Saving”. As noted earlier, sub-section (1) of Section 49 repealed the provisions of FERA. Sub-sections (3) to (5) deal with ‘savings’, which read thus: “49. Repeal and saving.– (1) .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. (2) .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, no court shall take cognizance of an off ence under the repealed Act and no adjudicating offi cer shall take notice of any contravention under section 51 of the repealed Act after the expiry of a period of two years from the date of the commencement of this Act.