[2023] 11 S.C.R. 121 : 2023 INSC 735 CASE DETAILS MALA ETC. ETC. v. STATE OF PUNJAB AND OTHERS (Civil Appeal Nos. 3992-4000 of 2011) AUGUST 17, 2023 [BELA M. TRIVEDI AND DIPANKAR DATTA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration : Whether the passed by the High Court conferring the total amount of compensation payable to the land owners at Rs. 2,400/- per marla for the land Chahi, for the remaining kinds of land for the village Purhiran, and for all kinds of land for village Sutehri, along with all statutory benefi ts available under the Land Acquisition Act, by applying one third cut on the assessed market value of Rs. 3,000/- per marla, towards development charges; and by not relying upon the sale deeds executed for the shops prior to the date of acquisition, warrants any inference u/Art. 136 of the Constitution. Land Acquisition: Compensation – Award of – Assessment of market value of the lands by the High Court – Deduction of one third amount towards development charges – Correctness of: Held : High Court considered the relevant factors prescribed under the Act – It duly considered all the sale instances in the light of the evidence on record and relied upon sale instances executed in close proximity to the date on which the lands in question were acquired – Assessment of market value so determined after imposing cut of one third towards development charges was rightly done, thus, does not warrant any interference. [Paras 10 and 15] Land Acquisition : Compensation – Award of – Deduction towards development charges – Determination of: Held : Courts should keep in mind the nature of land, area under acquisition, the development of land and its extent of development, the purpose 121 122 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. of acquisition etc – While determining the market value of large chunk of land, the value of smaller pieces of land could be taken into consideration, however, after making appropriate deduction in the value of lands or setting apart land required for carving out roads, leaving open spaces, plotting out smaller plots etc – Percentage of deduction or the extent of area required to be set apart has to be assessed by the courts having regard to the size, shape, situation, user etc. of the lands acquired – It is essentially a kind of guess work the courts are expected to undertake. [Para 11] Land Acquisition – Market value of the land – Determination of – Guiding principles: Held : For ascertaining the market value of the land, its existing condition, location and user, its proximity to residential, commercial or industrial area etc. are the factors to be considered – Size and nature of the lands acquired and size and nature of the lands in respect of which sale instances are produced, are also an important aspects – Sale instances of small piece of land cannot form reasonable basis to determine the market value of large chunk of land, unless suitable deductions are made in respect of development charges – Deductions to be made would depend on the nature of land, its topography, special features and state of its development so as to make it suitable for the purpose for which it is acquired.