5. Part IXA of the Constitution of India which was inserted by the 74th amendment provides for the Municipalities. Article 243-ZC stipulates that nothing contained in the Part shall apply to the Scheduled Areas referred to in clause (1), and the tribal areas referred to in clause (2) of Article 244. 6. Mr N Venkataraman, Additional Solicitor General, appears on behalf of the appellant in support of the appeals. The fi rst submission which has been urged is that Article 243X empowers the Legislature of a State by law to authorise the Municipalities to levy, collect and appropriate taxes, duties, tolls and fees. Since Part IXA does not apply to Scheduled Areas, it was urged that power under Article 243X is not available in relation to a Scheduled Area. As regards Scheduled Areas, it was urged that by virtue of Paragraph 5 of the Fifth Schedule to the Constitution of India, the Governor is entrusted with the power to direct that any particular Act of Parliament or the Legislature of the State shall not apply to a Scheduled Area or shall apply subject to such exceptions and modifi cations as may be specifi ed. On this foundation, it was urged that the provisions of the two municipal laws which have been noticed above, would have no application and hence, the levy of a terminal tax was ultra vires. 7. The second submission which has been urged by the Additional Solicitor General is that Entry 89 of List I of the Seventh Schedule empowers Parliament to levy terminal taxes on goods or passengers carried by railway, sea or air; and taxes on railway fares and freights. Entry 56 of List II empowers the State Legislature to levy taxes on goods and passengers carried by road or on inland waterways. Entry 52 of List II, as it stood at the material time, provided for taxes on the entry of goods into a local area for consumption, use or sale therein. The submission is that while the SOUTH EASTERN COALFIELDS LTD. v. STATE OF 771 MADHYA PRADESH & ORS. expression ‘terminal’ used in Entry 89 of List I, Entry 56 of List II does not use that expression and hence the Rules in the present case and the levy of a terminal tax would be ultra vires. 8. We will deal with the two submissions independently. 9. Article 244(1) of the Constitution provides as follows : “244. Administration of Scheduled Areas and Tribal Areas.—(1) The provisions of the Fifth Schedule shall apply to the administration and control of the Scheduled Areas and Scheduled Tribes in any State other than the State of Assam Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram.” 10. Part IX of the Constitution dealing with the Panchayats was inserted by the 73rd Constitutional Amendment. Part IXA dealing with the Municipalities was inserted by the 74th Amendment. Article 243-ZC(1) indicates that nothing contained in Part IXA would apply to the Scheduled Areas referred to in clause (1) of Article 244. However, clause (3) of Article 244 enables Parliament to extend the provisions of Part IXA to the Scheduled Areas subject to such exceptions and modifi cations as may be specifi ed in such law.