10. Another aspect which learned senior counsel drew the Court’s attention to was the fact that the NCLT’s observations in its dated 01.09.2021 observing that the amount off ered by the appellant was very close to the fair value of the assets of the Corporate Debtor was a non- issue and an uncalled for observation since such fair value of the assets of the Corporate Debtor was never available to the appellant at the time of submitting its fi rst Resolution Plan. Thus, learned senior counsel submitted that the premise of the appellant’s off ered amount being in close proximity to the fair value of the assets was inherently erroneous and without basis physical verifi cation of the inventory and fi xed assets of the corporate debtor; (b) if the two estimates of a value in an asset class are signifi cantly diff erent, or on receipt of a proposal to appoint a third registered valuer from the committee of creditors, the resolution professional may appoint a third registered valuer for an asset class for submitting an estimate of the value computed in the manner provided in clause (a). Explanation.—For the purpose of clause (b), (i) “asset class” means the defi nition provided under the Companies (Registered Valuers and Valuation) Rules, 2017; (ii) “signifi cantly diff erent” means a diff erence of twenty-fi ve per cent in liquidation value under an asset class and the same shall be calculated as (L1-L2)/L1, where, L1= higher valuation of liquidation value L2= lower valuation of liquidation value. (c) the average of the two closest estimates of a value shall be considered the fair value or the liquidation value, as the case may be. (2) After the receipt of resolution plans in accordance with the Code and these regulations, the resolution professional shall provide the fair value and the liquidation value to every member of the committee in electronic form, on receiving an undertaking from the member to the eff ect that such member shall maintain confi dentiality of the fair value and the liquidation value and shall not use such values to cause an undue gain or undue loss to itself or any other person and comply with the requirements under sub-section (2) of Section 29. (3) The resolution professional and registered valuers shall maintain confi dentiality of the fair value and the liquidation value.’ RAMKRISHNA FORGINGS LTD v. RAVINDRA LOONKAR, 683 R. P. OF ACIL LTD.[AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] and the decision to refer it to the OL based on such sole factor is obviously and equally without any basis and fi t to be set aside. 11. It was submitted that this Court has held, in Maharashtra Seamless Limited v Padmanabhan Venkatesh, (2020) 11 SCC 467, the relevant being at Paragraphs 27 to 29, that aspects related to the valuation of the Corporate Debtor are not open to judicial scrutiny by the NCLT as the object behind such valuation process is to assist the CoC in taking a proper decision in respect of a Resolution Plan and the valuation conducted in respect of the assets of the Corporate Debtor and it has further been indicated that the Adjudicating Authority-NCLT can approve a Resolution Plan even when it is below the liquidation value and that there is no provision under the Code which states that a resolution applicant’s bid must match the liquidation value as the liquidation value is determined merely to assist the CoC in taking a decision on the Resolution Plan.