It is required to be noted that the land with respect to sale exemplar was sold for a commercial purpose, namely, Mall. Therefore, in the facts and circumstances of the case, the High Court has rightly discarded the same. So far as the other sale exemplars are concerned, the same are B post-acquisition and therefore also the High Court has rightly discarded the same. 8. From the impugned (s) and (s) passed by the High Court, it appears that the High Court has determined and awarded compensation at Rs. 1,35,000/- per cent by giving 35% rise to the C negotiated price of Rs. 1,00,000/- per cent. However, taking into consideration the location of the lands; the lands being garden lands having road access and Thondayad junction is about 2 kilometres away from the acquired land, we are of the opinion that granting 35% rise to the negotiated price of Rs. 1,00,000/- per cent can be said to be on a D lower side. In our view, the claimants/landowners are entitled to just compensation. Therefore, in the facts and circumstances of the case and looking to the location of the acquired lands, we are of the opinion that if 60% rise to the negotiated price is given, the same can be said to be just compensation and which can be said to be a fair compensation. E 9. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, all these appeals succeed in part. The impugned /s and /s passed by the High Court are hereby modified to the extent awarding compensation for the lands acquired at the rate of Rs. 1,60,000/- per cent, instead of Rs. 1,35,000/- per cent as awarded by the High Court. It goes without saying that the claimants shall be entitled to all the statutory F benefits including interest which may be available under the Act, 1894 on the enhanced amount of compensation. The acquiring body is hereby directed to deposit the enhanced amount of compensation as above with the Reference Court within a period of six weeks from today and on such deposit the original claimants shall be permitted to withdraw the G same. 10. The present appeals stand disposed of in the above terms. No costs. Divya Pandey Appeals disposed of. H (Assisted by : Abhishek Agnihotri and Roopanshi Virang, LCRAs)