The delay in applying for the certifi ed copy of the of the Reference Court, according to him, was mainly due to unprofessional conduct of the concerned counsel and so implored Mr. Sen that such conduct should not have any bearing in the mind of the Court to nip a meritorious 1 (2010) 8 SCC 685. 2 (2020) 13 SCC 745. SHEO RAJ SINGH (DECEASED) THROUGH LRS. 749 & ORS. V. UNION OF INDIA & ANR. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] claim of the fi rst respondent in the bud, particularly when stakes are high and the public exchequer is likely to be unnecessarily drained if the impugned were interdicted. 12. Insofar as the subsequent delay is concerned, Mr. Sen sought to remind us of the impersonal machinery and bureaucratic methodology of government departments contributing to such delays. He submitted that it is unfortunate that such delays often act as impediments in the way of the State’s collective cause for the community, where the ultimate prey happens to be public interest. 13. Mr. Sen put forth the contention that the High Court, in due exercise of its discretion, had chosen the pragmatic path while noting that the negligence in pursuing the appeal did not amount to callousness; it was in this light that the High Court had condoned the delay after imposing heavy costs on the fi rst respondent. 14. In the light of the foregoing submissions, Mr. Sen prayed that the High Court ought to be given the opportunity to decide LA. App. No. 655/2010 on its own merits where the appellant would have the opportunity to persuade the High Court to dismiss the appeal, if at all. He, thus, prayed that the present appeal be dismissed. THE PRECEDENTS 15. Learned senior counsel for both the parties invited our attention to various decisions of this Court, which we propose to consider hereafter. 16. In Collector, Land Acquisition, Anantnag & Anr. v. Mst. Katiji & Ors.3 the relevant high court did not condone the delay of 4 (four) days in presentation of an appeal by the Collector in a land acquisition matter for which the rejecting the application under section 5 of the Limitation Act was carried in appeal. This Court opined that legislature had conferred power under section 5 in to enable the courts to do substantial justice to the parties by disposing of matters on “merits”. It was further held that the expression “suffi cient cause” employed by the legislature is adequately elastic to enable the courts to apply the law in a meaningful manner which sub-serves the ends of justice — that being the life-purpose for the existence 3 (1987) 2 SCC 107. 750 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. of the institution of courts. Despite the liberal approach being adopted in such matters, which was termed justifi able, this Court lamented that the message had not percolated down to all the other courts in the hierarchy and, accordingly, emphasis was laid on the Courts adopting a liberal and justice- oriented approach.