In such a situation, the price determined 496 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. by the market forces of demand and supply is the market price of such goods. However, in case of any transaction of purchase and sale taking place on account of certain obligations on the part of either side aff ecting the determination of the price of the goods, such a price cannot be said to be the market price. 11.10. Elaborating further, respondent assessee has stated that under the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, generation and distribution of power is the monopoly of the State. As per the power purchase agreement, captive producers of power were allowed to sell the same in the open market subject to stringent conditions making it unviable for third party consumers to purchase surplus power from captive power plants. In the absence of any willing purchaser, the surplus power i.e. power in excess of the requirement of the manufacturing units had to be fed into the state grid which is governed by the agreement entered into with the State Electricity Board. It is contended that the same virtually amounted to a forced sale as the assessee was not in a position to bargain for the rate at which surplus power should have been otherwise sold. On the contrary, assessee was obliged to sell the surplus power to the State Electricity Board at the price mandated by the Board. Adverting to the power purchase agreement, it is stated that the power generated by the captive power plants was required to be consumed by its manufacturing units at Raigarh. The agreement stipulated that assessee could not sell surplus power generated by it to other consumers except on the terms and conditions stipulated by the Board thereby making third party sale of surplus power unviable. In these circumstances, the surplus electricity generated by the captive power plants had to be fed into the transmission system of the grid. 11.11. The rate of purchase of power by the State Electricity Board from the assessee was determined and dictated by the power purchase agreement. In case such rate was not accepted by the assessee, the power purchase agreement was not forthcoming. The power generated by the captive power plants, surplus to the requirement of the manufacturing units of the assessee, would in such circumstances not realise any value. It is thus contended that the said sale rate i.e. the rate at which the surplus power was supplied by the assessee to the State Electricity Board was not the rate at which the power was available in the open market. As a matter of fact, this COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX v. M/S JINDAL STEEL & POWER 497 LTD. THROUGH ITS MANAGING DIRECTOR [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] was also not the rate at which electricity was sold by the State Electricity Board to the industrial consumers including the assessee. 11.12. Electricity was supplied by the State Electricity Board to the assessee and similar other industrial consumers at the rate of Rs.