Article 21 of the Constitution of India provides that ‘no person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law’. It has been settled by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India, (1978) 1 SCC 248, that such a procedure cannot be arbitrary, unfair or unreasonable. The history of the enactment of Section 167(2) CrPC and the safeguard of “default bail” contained in the proviso thereto is intrinsically linked to Article 21 and is nothing but a legislative exposition of the constitutional safeguard that no person shall be detained except in accordance with the rule of law. 17.2. Under Section 167 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (“the 1898 Code”) which was in force prior to the enactment of the CrPC, the maximum period for which an accused could be remanded to custody, either police or judicial, was 15 days. However, since it was often unworkable to conclude complicated investigations within 15 days, a practice arose wherein investigating offi cers would fi le “preliminary charge-sheets” after the expiry of the remand period. The State would then request the Magistrate to V. SENTHIL BALAJI v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY 907 DEPUTY DIRECTOR AND ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] postpone commencement of the trial and authorise further remand of the accused under Section 344 of the 1898 Code till the time the investigation was completed and the fi nal charge-sheet was fi led. The Law Commission of India in Report No. 14 on Reforms of the Judicial Administration (Vol. II, 1948, pp. 758-760) pointed out that in many cases the accused were languishing for several months in custody without any fi nal report being fi led before the courts. It was also pointed out that there was confl ict in judicial opinion as to whether the Magistrate was bound to release the accused if the police report was not fi led within 15 days. 17.3. Hence the Law Commission in Report No. 14 recommended the need for an appropriate provision specifi cally providing for continued remand after the expiry of 15 days, in a manner that ‘while meeting the needs of a full and proper investigation in cases of serious crime, will still safeguard the liberty of the person of the individual’. Further, that the legislature should prescribe a maximum time period beyond which no accused could be detained without fi ling of the police report before the Magistrate. It was pointed out that in England, even a person accused of grave off ences such as treason could not be indefi nitely detained in prison till commencement of the trial. 17.4. The suggestion made in Report No. 14 was reiterated by the Law Commission in Report No. 41 on The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Vol. I, 1969, pp. 76-77). The Law Commission re-emphasised the need to guard against the misuse of Section 344 of the 1898 Code by fi ling “preliminary reports” for remanding the accused beyond the statutory period prescribed under Section 167.