It was only two official witnesses who deposed in favour of the prosecution. F 6. The only charge which could be proved was unauthorized possession of gas cylinders on the basis of which the trial court convicted the appellants and ed imprisonment. 7. The passed by the trial court was upheld in appeal by the High Court. G 8. The sole argument raised by the learned counsel for the appellants is that in terms of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (Regulation of Supply and Distribution) , 1988 dated 08.03.1988 (hereinafter referred to as ‘ the ’), entry and seizure should be in exercise of the powers under clause 7 of the . Clause 7 of the authorises H AVTAR SINGH & ANR. v. STATE OF PUNJAB 641 [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] certain persons to stop and search any vessel or vehicle which the officer A has reason to believe has been or is being or is about to be used in contravention of the . 9. Clause 3 of the restricts unauthorised possession of gas cylinders. The submission is that as per clause 7, an officer or the Department of Food and Civil Supplies of the Government, not below B the rank of an Inspector authorised by such Government and notified by Central Government or any officer not below the rank of a Sales Officer of an Oil Company, or a person authorized by the Central Government or a State Government and notified by the Central Government may, with a view to ensure compliance with the provisions of the , for C the purpose of satisfying himself that this or any made thereunder has been complied with, is authorised to carry out such exercise/seizure. 10. In the case in hand, the action has been taken by sub-Inspector of the Police who, as per the Government , is not authorised. Hence, D the entire case of the prosecution falls. The aforesaid argument has not been considered either by the trial Court or by the High Court. 11. On the other hand, learned counsel for the State submitted that the appellants have been found in unauthorized possession of the gas cylinders. They have rightly been convicted. Merely for some E technical default, they should not be allowed to go scot-free. At that time, there was a huge shortage of gas cylinders and was issued to check its black marketing and unauthorised possession. 12. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the relevant referred record. F 13. The facts in the case as noticed above as such, are not in dispute. The only argument raised is about the power of the person who had seized cylinder on the basis of which the appellants were prosecuted. Clause 7 of the , which is reproduced hereunder, prescribes officers who have the power. G “7. Power of entry, search and seizure:- (1) an officer or the Department of Food and Civil Supplies of the Government, not below the rank of an Inspector authorised by such Government and notified by Central Government or any officer not below the rank of a Sales H 642 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R.