E 248. The question is succinctly answered by the Supreme Court of United States in the case of Metropolis Theater Company et al., Plffs. In Err., v. City of Chicago and Ernest J. Magerstadt. (supra), which reads thus: “2. The attack of complainants (we so call plaintiffs in error) is F upon the classification of the ordinance. It is contended that the purpose of the ordinance is to raise revenue, and that its classification has no relation to such purpose, and therefore is arbitrarily discriminatory, and thereby offends the 14th Amendment of the Constitution of the United States. The character ascribed to the ordinance by the supreme court of the state is not without G uncertainty. But we may assume, as complainants assert, that the court considered the ordinance as a revenue measure only. The court said: ‘The ordinance may be sustainable under the taxing power alone, without reference to its reasonableness as a regulatory measure.’ And, regarding it as a revenue measure, H 122 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A complainants attack it as unreasonable in basing its classification upon the price of admission of a particular theater, and not upon the revenue derived therefrom; and to exhibit the discrimination which is asserted to result, a comparison is made between the seating capacity of complainants’ theaters and the number of their performances within given periods, and the theaters of others in B the same respects, and the resulting revenues. But these are accidental circumstances and dependent, as the supreme court of the state said, upon the advantages of the particular theater or choice of its owner, and not determined by the ordinance, It will immediately occur upon the most casual reflection that the C distinction the theater itself makes is not artificial, and must have some relation to the success and ultimate profit of its business. In other words, there is natural relation between the price of admission and revenue, some advantage, certainly, that determines the choice. The distinction obtains in every large city of the country. The reason for it must therefore be substantial; and if it be so universal D in the practice of the business, it would seem not unreasonable if it be adopted as the basis of governmental action. If the action of government have such a basis it cannot be declared to be so palpably arbitrary as to be repugnant to the 14th Amendment. This is the test of its validity, as we have so many times said. E We need not cite the cases. It is enough to say that we have tried, so far as that Amendment is concerned, to declare in words, and the cases illustrate by examples, the wide range which legislation has in classifying its objects. To be able to find fault with a law is not to demonstrate its invalidity. It may seem unjust and oppressive, yet be free from judicial interference. The problems F of government are practical ones and may justify, if they do not require, rough accommodations,—illogical, it may be, and unscientific.