Mohideen appealed against the and decree in both the suits. The First Appellate Court sustained the Trial Court’s fi nding in O.S. No.172 of 1995 as regards fi rst scheduled property, but the Trial Court’s on second scheduled property was set aside. The and decree of the Trial Court in O.S. No.464 of 1995 was set aside. Both the Trial Court and the First Appellate Court had dealt with the matters by a common (of each Court). Rahmath Beevi had fi led two appeals before the High Court under Section 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 and the High Court also disposed of both the appeals by a common delivered on 25.09.2018. It is this which is assailed before us by the petitioners. 7. Disputes had arisen over dimension of the second scheduled property. The High Court, on this count, has recorded in the assailed before us:- “17. It is pertinent to observe that the major portion of the third schedule property lies in the second schedule and the lesser area alone lies in the fi rst schedule property, hence, the 3/4th portion of the third schedule property lies in the second schedule property. It is the evidence of the fi rst defendant that he only constructed the permanent structure and the second defendant is paying rent to him. Further, it is also the evidence of the fi rst defendant that the second schedule property was purchased by the plaintiff and the North South measurement is 18 feet and there were road lines on the Southern side MOHIDEEN ABDUL KHADAR (DEAD)THROUGH LRS. v. 169 RAHMATH BEEVI (D) THR. HER LRS. [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] of the fi rst schedule property and the fi rst schedule property is also a vacant site and it has been shown as a area with bushes. The fi rst defendant has also deposed that he has omitted to state that the 6 feet on North South property given to Sahul Ahmeed (second defendant) for rent. It is also the clear evidence of the fi rst defendant that there is no written document for giving rent to Sahul Hameed. Further, the said Sahul Hameed who was the tenant under fi rst defendant, was not examined by the fi rst defendant. Further, it is also observed that for the legal notice issued by the plaintiff , the second defendant who claimed to be his tenant has not made any reply. Hence, it has to be presumed that the second defendant Sahul Hameed was originally a tenant under the Ameenal Beevi and was never a tenant of the second defendant.” In his cross-examination (at page 42 of the photocopy of the counter- affi davit of respondent nos.3 to 9), Mohideen had specifi cally stated:- “I bought the 1st schedule property as 15 feet South - North. I don’t have more than that South - North 15 feet. It is correct to be said that I don’t have more than 15 feet in South - North as per Sale Agreement.