SPE)1. Two judges on the Bench, Justice S.C. Agarwal and Justice A.S. Anand, took the view that the immunity granted under Article 105(2) and correspondingly, under Article 194(2) of the Constitution would not extend to cases where bribery for making a speech or voting in a particular manner in the House is alleged. However, the view of the majority was to the contrary. 7. The three-judge Bench hearing the present appeal was of the view that “having regard to the wide ramifi cation of the question that has arisen, the doubts raised and the issue being a matter of public importance”, it required to be referred to a larger Bench, as may be considered appropriate. Accordingly, the matter has been placed, pursuant to the administrative directions of the Chief Justice of India, before this Bench of fi ve judges. 8. Before proceeding further, it would be appropriate to note that prior attempts to challenge the correctness of the constitutional position in PV Narsimha Rao have not borne fruit. Review petitions (Review Petition Nos. 2210-27/1998) were instituted before a Bench of fi ve judges of this Court questioning the correctness of the decision in PV Narsimha Rao. The petitions for review were dismissed on 18 July 2002 on the ground of a delay of 179 days in fi ling the review petitions, reported as State (CBI/ SPE) Vs PV Narasimha Rao2. 9. In addition to the above, a petition under Article 32 of the Constitution (Writ Petition (Civil) diary No 7490/99) seeking a declaration on the correctness of the position in PV Narsimha Rao was instituted before this Court. By an dated 1 May 2000 in Centre for PIL & Anr Vs Union of India3, a Bench of three judges of this Court referred the petition to a Bench of fi ve judges while noting a submission regarding the maintainability of the petition. Eventually, by an dated 18 July 2002, the petition was dismissed on the ground of maintainability in view of the in Rupa Ashok Hurra Vs. Ashok Hurra & Anr4. 1 (1998) 4 SCC 626 2 (2001) 9 SCC 249 3 (2000) 9 SCC 393 4 (2002) 4 SCC 388 SITA SOREN v. UNION OF INDIA 757 10. Mr. Raju Ramachandran, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant submitted that a reference of the correctness of the decision in PV Narsimha Rao (supra) may not strictly speaking be necessary in the facts of the present case. Mr. Ramachandran, in his written submissions dated 17 September 2023, as well as in the course of the oral arguments, submitted that none of the contesting parties has challenged the ratio in PV Narsimha Rao (supra). On the contrary, it is urged that the contesting parties are ad idem on the ratio and what is sought to be contested is the applicability of the . The appellant is of the view that the Judgement in PV Narsimha Rao applies squarely to the instance case. However, the respondent has contended that the does not apply as polling for the Rajya Sabha election was held outside the precincts of the House and cannot be considered as a proceeding of the House in a manner similar to a No-Confi dence Motion.