Learned ASG has also relied upon the reasons F adopted by the Adjudicating Authority in support of his contentions and has cited the decision in Andhra Sugar Ltd. (supra) as regards construction of statute with reference to the legislative intent. 13.1. In the case of Andhra Sugar Ltd. (supra), essentially, the issue involved had been as to whether acetic anhydride manufactured G by the respondent and sold to drug manufacturers was eligible to benefit of exemption as drug intermediate. This Court held, having regard to the language and purpose of exemption Notification, that the said product acetic anhydride was covered by the expression ‘drug intermediate’ in the Notification. In that context, this Court, observed in the referred H paragraph as follows: - COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 319 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] “5. …It is well settled that the meaning ascribed by the authority A issuing the notification, is a good guide of a contemporaneous exposition of the position of law. Reference may be made to the observations of this Court in K. P. Varghese v. ITO [(1981) 4 SCC 173]. It is a well settled principle of interpretation that courts in construing a statute will give much weight to the interpretation B put upon it at the time of its enactment and since, by those whose duty has been to construe, execute and apply the same enactment.” 13.2. In the case of BPL Pharmaceuticals (supra), cited on behalf of the respondent, the issue before this Court was regarding the classification of “selenium sulfide lotion USP” manufactured and sold C by the assessee under the brand name “Selsun Shampoo”. This Court, inter alia, held that for a product to fall under Chapter 33, in terms of Note 2 therein, it must first be cosmetic and suitable to be used as such. This Court also examined the active ingredient of the product (albeit very small in quantity) and held that having regard to the preparation, label, literature, character, common and commercial parlance, the product D was liable to be classified as a medicament. Further, this Court accepted the submission on behalf of the assessee that merely because of some difference in the tariff entries, the product will not change its character; and something more is required for changing the classification, especially when the product remains the same. The relevant observations and E expositions of this Court read as under: - “29. The contention based on chapter notes is also not correct. One of the reasons given by the authorities below for holding that Selsun would fall under Chapter 33 was that having regard to the composition, the product will come within the purview of Note 2 F to Chapter 33 of the Schedule to Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 is without substance. According to the authorities the product contains only subsidiary pharmaceutical value and. Therefore, notwithstanding the product having medicinal value will fall under Chapter 33. We have already set out Note 2 to Chapter 33.