After indicating that collective responsibility is basically political in origin and mode of operation, Beg, C.J. opined B in the said case as follows: “46.The object of collective responsibility is to make the whole body of persons holding Ministerial office collectively, or, if one may so put it, “vicariously” responsible for such acts of the others as are referable to their collective volition so that, C even if an individual may not be personally responsible for it, yet, he will be deemed to share the responsibility with those who may have actually committed some wrong. … 47. Each Minister can be and is separately responsible for his own decisions and acts and omissions also. But, inasmuch as the D Council of Ministers is able to stay in office only so long as it commands the support and confidence of a majority of members of the Legislature of the State, the whole Council of Ministers must be held to be politically responsible for the decisions and policies of each of the Ministers and of his department which E could be presumed to have the support of the whole Ministry. Hence, the whole Ministry will, at least on issues involving matters of policy, have to be treated as one entity so far as its answerability to the Legislative Assembly representing the electors is concerned. This is the meaning of the principle underlying Article 164(2) of the Constitution. The purpose of this provision is not to find out F facts or to establish the actual responsibility of a Chief Minister or any other Minister or Ministers for particular decisions or Governmental acts. That can be more suitably done, when wrongful acts or decisions are complained of, by means of inquiries under the Act. As already indicated above, the procedure of G Parliamentary Committees to inquire into every legally or ethically wrong act was found to be unsatisfactory and unsound. The principle of individual as well as collective ministerial responsibility can work most efficiently only when cases requiring proper sifting and evaluation of evidence and discussion of questions involved have taken place, where this is required, in proceedings before a H Commission appointed under Section 3 of the Act. KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 695 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] 48. Text-book writers on Constitutional Law have indicated how A collective ministerial responsibility to Parliament, which has essentially a political purpose and effects, developed later than individual responsibility of Ministers to Parliament which was also political in origin and operation. It is true that an individual Minister could, in England, where the principle of individual and collective B responsibility of Ministers was evolved, be responsible either for wrongful acts done by him without the authority of the whole cabinet or of the monarch to support them, or under s of the King who could, in the eye of law, do no wrong. But, apart from an impeachment, which has become obsolete, or punishment for contempts of a House, which constitute only a limited kind of C offences, the Parliament does not punish the offender.