INR 25 Lakh (Rupees Twenty Five Lakh) for Collaborator/ Associate for Vaccum conveying system iii. INR 25 Lakh (Rupees Twenty Five Lakh) for Collaborator/ Associate for Pressure Transportation system AND Collaborate(s)/Associate(s) with party who meets the requirement under 01.01.01 (d) above which the bidder himself is not able to meet. In such a case, the Bidder shall be required to furnish Agreement of Support jointly executed by the Bidder and the collaborator/Associate for successful performance of the HCSD system as per the format (Annexure-B) enclosed along with bid. The Agreement of Support should be submitted along with the bid. In case bidder collaborates/associates for more than one system with a party, then the Collaborators/Associate shall be required to furnish a bank guarantee for an amount arrived at by adding up the amounts for the relevant systems as above.” 6. Clause 01.01.03 then provided as follows: “The activity of design and engineering under 01.01.01 (a), (b) and (c) should have been carried out by the bidder and not through any external design agency/agencies. The activity of design and engineering under 01.01.01 (d) should have been carried out by the bidder or through any external design agency having experience of HCSD system. For design and engineering activity referred under paras 01.01.02 the activity should have been carried out by either the bidder or through design agency/agencies having experience for reference systems. In case of collaborator(s)/associate(s) meeting the balance part of total requirement under clause 01.01.01 (a), (b), (c) and (d) the activity of design and engineering for the reference systems should have been carried out by them. Bidders qualifying under Sl No.01.01.02 and collaborating/associating with party(s) meeting total/balance part of 01.01.01 (a), (b), (c) and (d) 158 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. shall follow the following for supply and manufacturing of equipment. Bidder shall manufacture from their manufacturing set up based on collaborator(s)/associate(s) drawing for the clause which bidder himself is not meeting the requirement but the collaborator(s)/associate(s) is meeting the requirement, then the collaborator(s)/associate(s) shall approve bidder’s manufacturing facilities and manufacturing quality standards. Also after the manufacture of the items, the product shall be inspected by the respective collaborator(s)/associate(s) and furnish certifi cate of conformance (COC) for the product. Also, BHEL/Customer shall approve manufacturing facilities of the equipment of the vendor’s self-manufacturing items in case the items are being manufactured by bidder as per collaborator(s)/associate(s) design and manufacturing drawing.” 7. These clauses were followed by the documents which were required to be furnished. Among them, if the bidder had entered into a consortium agreement in to meet the requirements of clause 01.01.01 as permitted by clause 01.01.02, a copy of the consortium agreement was to be submitted along with the tender documents. If the bidder was a foreign party, there was a mandatory requirement of having a collaboration/consortium agreement with an Indian agency for erection and commissioning at site. 8. Clause 01.01.02 permitted a bidder who did not meet the criteria specifi ed in 01.01. 01, to enter into a consortium agreement.