(d) the assessee has failed to furnish, within the specified A time, any information or document which he was required to furnish by a notice issued under sub-section (3) of section 92D, the Assessing Officer may proceed to determine the arm’s length price in relation to the said international transaction [or specified domestic B transaction] in accordance with sub-sections (1) and (2), on the basis of such material or information or document available with him: Provided that an opportunity shall be given by the Assessing Officer by serving a notice calling upon the assessee to C show cause, on a date and time to be specified in the notice, why the arm’s length price should not be so determined on the basis of material or information or document in the possession of the Assessing Officer.” 20. Section 92C(1) thus visualizes determination of the “arms- D length price” (ALP) by any of five enumerated methods, “being the most appropriate method”, having regard to the “nature of transaction or class of transaction or class of associated persons or functions performed by such persons or such other relevant factors as the board may prescribe, namely (a) comparable uncontrolled price method, (b) resale price E method, (c) cost + method, (d) profit split method, (e) transactional net margin method, (f) any such other method as may be prescribed by the board. Where more than one price is determined by the most appropriate method, the arm’s length price shall be taken to be arithmetical mean of such prices.” F 21. Rule 10B of the Rules prescribes the determination of arm’s length price under Section 92C. The first step in all methods is evaluation of differences between the international transaction undertaken with the “unrelated enterprise performing the comparable functions” in similar circumstances. Rule 10B of G the Income-tax Rules inter alia, provides for various methods for determination of the arm’s length price. Rule 10B(1)(e) prescribes the “transactional net margin method” (TNMM) with which the present case is concerned. Rule 10B(1)(e) (i) is as under: H 442 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A “10B. (1) Determination of arm’s length price under section 92C:— . . ************* ********* (e) transactional net margin method, by which,— B (i) the net profit margin realised by the enterprise from an international transaction entered into with an associated enterprise is computed in relation to costs incurred or sales effected or assets employed or to be employed by the enterprise or having regard to any other relevant base.” 7. Therefore, while determining the arm’s length price, the Tribunal C has to follow the guidelines stipulated under Chapter X of the IT Act, namely, Sections 92, 92A to 92CA, 92D, 92E and 92F of the Act and Rules 10A to 10E of the Rules. Any determination of the arm’s length price under Chapter X de hors the relevant provisions of the guidelines, referred to hereinabove, can be considered as perverse and it may be D considered as a substantial question of law as perversity itself can be said to be a substantial question of law.