It is obvious that this Court should be fully convinced and satisfi ed that the marriage is totally unworkable, emotionally dead and beyond salvation and, therefore, dissolution of marriage is the right solution and the only way forward. That the marriage has irretrievably broken down is to be factually determined and fi rmly established. For this, several factors are to be considered such as the period of time the parties had cohabited after marriage; when the parties had last cohabited; the nature of allegations made by the parties against each other and their family members; the s passed in the legal proceedings from time to time, cumulative impact on the personal relationship; whether, and how many attempts were made to settle the disputes by intervention of the court or through mediation, and when the last attempt was made, etc. The period of separation should be suffi ciently long, and anything above six years or more will be a relevant factor. But these facts have to be evaluated keeping in view the economic and social status of the parties, including their educational qualifi cations, whether the parties have any children, their age, educational qualifi cation, and whether the other spouse and children are dependent, in which event how and in what manner the party seeking divorce intends to take care and provide for the spouse or the children. Question of custody and welfare of minor children, provision for fair and adequate alimony for the wife, and economic rights of the children and other pending matters, if any, are relevant considerations. We would not like to codify the factors so as to curtail exercise of jurisdiction under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, which is situation specifi c. Some of the factors mentioned can be taken as illustrative, and worthy of consideration.” 19. The Trial Court and the High Court adopted a hyper-technical and pedantic approach in declining the decree of divorce. It is not as if the respondent-Husband is willing to live with the appellant–Wife. The allegations made by him against her are as serious as the allegations made SMT. ROOPA SONI v. KAMALNARAYAN SONI 889 [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] by her against him. Both the parties have moved away and settled in their respective lives. There is no need to continue the agony of a mere status without them living together. 20. For the reasons aforesaid, we are inclined to set aside the of the Trial Court as confi rmed by the High Court of Chhattisgarh in F.A. (M) No. 115 of 2011. Accordingly, they are set aside and the appeal stands allowed by granting a decree of divorce. 21. No costs. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal allowed. Ankit Gyan