Meanwhile, the appellant and the respondent intended to contest election for the same constituency seat. The Returning Offi cer was misled by the appellant, who withheld vital information with regard to his conviction. In the result, the appellant’s candidature could not be rejected by the Returning Offi cer. Both the appellant and the respondent thereafter contested the election, wherein the former returned victorious. An election petition was fi led by the respondent and it succeeded before the 18 (2007) 9 SCC 330 100 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. relevant high court resulting in the appellant’s election to the Legislative Assembly being set aside. The of the high court was the subject matter of the appeal. The sole question falling for decision was whether the passed on 31st May, 2002 by the appellate court, whereby the conviction and sentence of the appellant was suspended, would amount to staying the conviction or not. This Court, while dismissing the appeal, perused the appellant’s application under section 389, Cr. PC and found the same to be a routine application for suspension of sentence without any prayer seeking stay of conviction. Rama Narang (supra) was read to lay down the law that section 389(1), Cr. PC empowers the appellate court to stay the conviction also but that, suspension of the appealed against would not amount to staying the conviction. Referring to Ravikant S. Patil (supra), it was observed that there an application for stay of conviction was specifi cally fi led specifying the consequences if the conviction was not stayed and that such fact was taken into consideration while holding in that case that the conviction was specifi cally stayed, which was not the case here. Suspension, the Court held, did not mean the stay of the conviction. It was held that if the incumbent had been vigilant enough, he could have moved the court even later on for obtaining the stay of conviction, particularly in view of the fact that he wanted to contest the election but that was not done. It was also held that: “14. As already pointed out above that on 31-5-2002, the appellate court while granting him the bail only suspended the impugned dated 9-5-2002. Thus suspension does not amount to temporarily washing out the conviction. The conviction still remains, only the operation of the and the sentence remain suspended that does not amount to temporary stay of the conviction. A specifi c staying conviction has to be sought.” (emphasis supplied) 29. In the context of civil proceedings, it is noted that XLI Rule 5 of the Code of Civil Procedure (“CPC”, hereafter) empowers an appellate court to stay of execution of the decree appealed from. The provisions of XLI of the CPC apply to appeals from s in terms of Rule 2 of XLIII thereof. Law is well settled that ‘stay of operation of an ’ means that the which has been stayed would not AFJAL ANSARI v. STATE OF UP 1003 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] be operative from the date the of stay is passed but it does not mean that the , which is stayed, is wiped out from existence.