v. Pirthi Chand, (1996) 2 SCC 37, and State of Punjab v. Jasbir Singh, (1996) 1 SCC 288, case are RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 325 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] not in tune with the correct exposition of law as laid down in Pooran Mal’s case.” (Emphasis supplied) 49. Thus, the Constitutional Bench in express terms laid down that although the non-compliance of Section 50 may not vitiate the trial yet would render the recovery of the contraband doubtful and may vitiate the conviction of the accused. The emphasis laid by the Court is on illicit articles seized from the “person of an accused” during the search conducted in violation of safeguards provided in Section 50 of the NDPS Act. In other words, according to Baldev Singh (supra), the provisions of Section 50 will come into play only in the case of personal search of the accused and not of some baggage like a bag, article or container, etc. which he may be carrying. When Section 50 could be said to be complied with? 50. This Court in a number of cases has dealt with this very aspect and laid down the principles with respect to when Section 50 be said to be complied with. This Court in Manohar Lal v. State of Rajasthan reported in (1996) 11 SCC 391, held that Section 50 only requires the option to be given to the accused to say whether he would like to be searched in the presence of a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate. The relevant observations made therein are reproduced below:- “2. … The provision only requires the option to be given to the accused to say whether he would like to be searched in the presence of a Gazetted Offi cer or a Magistrate; and on exercise of that option by the accused, it is for the offi cer concerned to have the search made in the presence of the nearest Gazetted Offi cer or the nearest Magistrate whosoever is conveniently available for the purpose in to avoid undue delay in completion of that exercise. It is clear from Section 50 of the NDPS Act that the option given thereby to the accused is only to choose whether he would like to be searched by the offi cer making the search or in the presence of the nearest available Gazetted Offi cer or the nearest available Magistrate. The choice of the nearest Gazetted Offi cer or the nearest Magistrate has to be exercised by the offi cer making the search and not by the accused.” (Emphasis supplied) 326 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 51. In Joseph Fernandez v. State of Goa reported in (2001) 1 SCC 707, this Court held that only substantial compliance of Section 50 is required, and informing the suspect that if he wishes he may be searched in presence of a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate without the use of the word “right” would not amount to breach of Section 50.