Section 50 of the NDPS Act only talks about a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate. What is the legal eff ect if an accused of the off ence under the NDPS Act is being told, whether he would like to be searched before a police offi cer or a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate? 306 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 28. This Court in State of Rajasthan v. Parmanand and another, (2014) 5 SCC 345, held that it is improper for a police offi cer to tell the accused that a third alternative is also available i.e. the search before any independent police offi cer. This Court also took the view that a joint communication of the right available under Section 50 of the NDPS Act to the accused would frustrate the very purport of Section 50. We quote the relevant observations made by this Court as under:- “15. Thus, if merely a bag carried by a person is searched without there being any search of his person, Section 50 of the NDPS Act will have no application. But if the bag carried by him is searched and his person is also searched, Section 50 of the NDPS Act will have application. In this case, respondent 1 Parmanand’s bag was searched. From the bag, opium was recovered. His personal search was also carried out. Personal search of respondent 2 Surajmal was also conducted. Therefore, in the light of the s of this Court mentioned in the preceding paragraphs, Section 50 of the NDPS Act will have application. 16. It is now necessary to examine whether in this case, Section 50 of the NDPS Act is breached or not. The police witnesses have stated that the respondents were informed that they have a right to be searched before the nearest gazetted offi cer or the nearest Magistrate or before PW 5 J.S. Negi, the Superintendent. They were given a written notice. As stated by the Constitution Bench in State of Punjab v. Baldev Singh (1999) 6 SCC 172, it is not necessary to inform the accused person, in writing, of his right under Section 50(1) of the NDPS Act. His right can be orally communicated to him. But, in this case, there was no individual communication of right. A common notice was given on which only respondent 2 Surajmal is stated to have signed for himself and for respondent 1 Parmanand. Respondent 1 Parmanand did not sign. 17. In our opinion, a joint communication of the right available under Section 50(1) of the NDPS Act to the accused would frustrate the very purport of Section 50. Communication of the said right to the person who is about to be searched is not an empty formality. It has a purpose. Most of the off ences under the NDPS Act carry stringent punishment RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 307 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] and, therefore, the prescribed procedure has to be meticulously followed. These are minimum safeguards available to an accused against the possibility of false involvement.