This charge, if substantiated, is admissible under the Vishaka defi nition of sexual harassment as it involves sexually coloured remarks and other unwelcome physical, verbal or non-verbal conduct of sexual nature. Point 3: That Shri Dilip Paul would attempt to touch her in an unwelcome sexually determined manner in the workplace, such as an incident when, on the pretext of teaching her to operate a laptop, he come close to her and touched her shoulder and body. This charge, if substantiated, is admissible under the Vishaka defi nition of sexual harassment as it involves physical contact and advances and other unwelcome physical, verbal or non-verbal conduct of sexual nature. Furthermore, it may also be shown to be discriminatory if it is substantiated that Smt. X believed that her objection to Shri Dilip Paul’s conduct would disadvantage her in connection with her employment and her apprehension that if would create a hostile work environment. Point 4: That Shri Dilip Paul would often make her work much beyond offi ce hours, often after 2000 hours. He would then off er to drop here in his vehicle to her home. In general, Shri Dilip Paul would pressure her to drive with him in his vehicle, either when she was returning from work or in the town. Point 5: That Shri Dilip Paul, on the occasion that Smt. X with other offi ce colleagues had accompanied him to the railway station to book train tickets for the study tour to South India in march 2010, made an unwelcome sexual advance to her in full public view. While she was standing in the queue at the ticket booking counter, Shri Dilip Paul came to stand next to her and putt his arm around her shoulder and tried to hug her close to his body. Shri Dilip Paul said to her that he 490 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. is sending her on the study tour to make her “mind fresh” so that she may forget her previous life and when she returned, begin a new one as Mrs. Paul. Point 6: That Shri Dilip Paul subjected her to further unwelcome sexually determined conduct by the statements that he made when he came to the railway station to see off the group departing for the study tour. After the luggage had been loaded onto the train, Shri Dilip Paul came into the train compartment and said to Smt. X “tum jaa rahe ho to mari jaan jaa rahi hai. Ham ka saath jaanaa hi acchaa hota. Koi baat nahiin, tum study tour se waapas aa jaaoo, to tum Mrs Paul banogi.” Point 7: That Shri Dilip Paul made unwelcome sexual advances to her outside the workplace as well, where on several occasions, he propositioned her, asking her to leave her husband and marry him on the assurance that he would adopt her children as his own. Since July 2009, Shri Dilip Paul made it a habit to visit her uninvited and she felt unable to refuse entry to her hierarchically superior offi cer, fearing future discrimination.