It was noticed in the passed by the Commissioner that, the employer admitted that the deceased was employed as a driver and he was on duty from Delhi to Baroda on 15.09.2003. The wages being paid to him were also admitted. With these facts on records, the Commissioner accepted the application and assessed the compensation at ` 3,26,140/- (Rupees three lakh twenty-six thousand one hundred and forty). Aggrieved against the aforesaid of the Commissioner, the Insurance Company preferred an appeal before the High Court. The arguments raised by the Insurance Company was that there is no material on record to suggest that the death of Sumer Singh occurred due to strain and stress during employment. In case, the deceased employee was already suff ering from any existing disease and died on account of that, it cannot be said to be a case of death during the course of employment. The view of the High Court was that there is no 592 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. relationship between the death and the work being done by the deceased. Hence, the of the Commissioner was found to be unsustainable. 9. The of this Court in Param Pal Singh’s case (supra) relied upon by the counsel for the appellants, comes to their rescue. In that case, the deceased was a truck driver. While on duty, he suddenly suff ered health set back and parked his vehicle on roadside hotel. After parking the vehicle, he fainted and was taken to the hospital. He was declared brought dead. An application was fi led by the dependents of the deceased for claiming compensation under the 1923 Act. The Commissioner accepted the claim whereas the passed by the Commissioner was set aside by the High Court. The dependents fi led an appeal before this Court. It is noticed in the aforesaid that additional premium was paid for coverage of compensation payable under the 1923 Act. 10. This Court accepted the appeal fi led by the dependents of the deceased and found that even if the death had not occurred on account of any accident but the driver was consistently driving the vehicle, there is every reason to assume that long spells of driving was a material contributory factor, if not the sole cause that accelerated his unexpected death at a young age. Such an untoward mishap can reasonably be described as an accident, only attributable to the nature of employment. In the aforesaid , the employee was 45 years of age. It squarely covers the case of the appellants. The relevant paras of the decision are extracted below: “29. Applying the various principles laid down in the above decisions to the facts of this case, we can validly conclude that there was causal connection to the death of the deceased with that of his employment as a truck driver. We cannot lose sight of the fact that a 45-year-old driver meets with his unexpected death, may be due to heart failure while driving the vehicle from Delhi to a distant place called Nimiaghat near Jharkhand which is about 1152 km away from Delhi, would have defi nitely undergone grave strain and stress due to such long-distance driving.