201. In our considered view, the decision in Isha Marbles G (supra)and Section 24 of the Electricity Act 1910 are by themselves not an answer on whether the appellant-Board had a power to issue Circular 607. In Srigdhaa Beverages (supra), this Court held that the electricity dues, where they are statutory in character under the Electricity Act and as per the terms and conditions of supply, cannot be waived in view H of the provisions of the Act itself, more specifically Section 56 of the K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 737 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 2003 Act (pari materia with Section 24 of the 1910 Act), and cannot A partake the character of purely contractual dues. The power of the appellant-Board to impose a condition that the purchaser of an undertaking will have the obligation to clear the arrears of electricity dues of the prior consumer is sourced from Condition 23 of the MSEB Conditions of Supply framed under Section 49 of the 1948 Act. B 202. It was the submission of the respondents that the impugned circular cannot affect the rights of the auction purchasers who purchased sick/ closed industrial units under Section 29 of the State Financial Corporation Act 1951 as the sale was “not voluntary”. As discussed above, Condition 23 is of wide import, which covers sale of property C made in court auctions. Furthermore, Section 29(2) of the State Financial Corporation Act provides that a sale under Section 29 which resulted in transfer of property shall vest in the successor all rights in the property transferred as if the transfer has been made by the owner of the property. Accordingly, a sale made by the corporation is deemed to be a sale made by the owner of the property, attracting Condition 23 of the MSEB D Conditions of Supply. 203. It is necessary to reproduce some of the relevant clauses of the “General Auction Conditions of Sale” of properties put on sale by SICOM. The clauses are extracted below: E “Clause 4: The purchaser may take inspection of the property to be sold. Even if the purchaser does not take inspection, he shall be deemed to have inspected all the assets put up for sale on “As is where is and what is basis” in regard to the condition thereof, before making the offer for purchase of the same. It is hereby expressly agreed and declared that F notwithstanding the provisions of Section 55 of the Transfer of Property Act or any other enactment for the time being in force in that behalf, SICOM shall not be bound to disclose to the purchaser any defect, whether material or otherwise in the property, whether or not SICOM may be or may not be aware of such defect and G whether or not the purchaser could not with ordinary care and diligence discover such defects. Clause 6: The purchaser shall make his own arrangement for getting required power connection, water and other facilities and payment of arrears of rates and taxes of the said property and shall meet all the costs of whatever nature to be incurred in that H 738 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R.