The possession of the appellant began as a bailee. The Court proceeds further on the basis that instead of delivering the goods, the appellant did not deliver the goods to the H 580 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A concerned divisions of the department in the State of Bihar. Ownership of the goods in question by no stretch of imagination stood vested at any point of time in the appellant. Property would pass from the consignor to the consignee on the basis of the principles which are declared in the Sale of Goods Act. It is inconceivable that any of those provisions would countenance passing of property in the goods to the appellant who was B a mere carrier of the goods. Section 406 of the IPC makes it an offence for a person entrusted with property which includes goods entrusted to a carrier being misappropriated or dishonestly being converted to the use of the carrier. A specific illustration under Section 406 makes it abundantly clear that any such act by a carrier attracts the offence under Section C 406. The Court in other words would have to allow the commission of an offence by the appellant in the process of finding that the appellant is the owner of the goods. In other words, proceeding on the basis that there was short delivery of the goods by the appellant, inevitably, the Court must find that the act was not a mere omission or a mistake but a deliberate act by a carrier involving it in the commission of an offence D under Section 406. In other words, the Court must necessarily find that the appellant continued to possess the bitumen and misappropriated and it is in this state that assessing officer would have to find that the appellant by the deliberate act of short delivering the goods and continuing with the possession of the goods not only contrary to the contract but also to E the law of the land, both in the Carriers Act 1865 and breaking the penal law as well, the appellant must be treated as the owner. 61. There is no equity about a tax. Equally, a person cannot be taxed based on intendment. Unlike the possession of a person who for all intents and purposes, and in his own right, earns income from house F property, lawfully otherwise, and falls short of ownership only for want of a formal conveyance as required under Section 54 of Transfer of Property Act, a carrier who clings on to possession not only without having a shadow of a right, but what is more, both contrary to the contract as also the law cannot be found to be the owner. The possession of the carrier who deliberately refuses to act under the contract but contrary G to it, is not only wrongful, but more importantly, makes it a case where the possession itself is without any right with the carrier to justify his possession. Recognising any right with the carrier in law would involve negation of the right of the actual owner which if the property in the goods under the contract has passed on to the consignee is the consignee H and if not the consignor.