The text of Section 12 of the Act lends limited perspective in this regard. However, this Court has clarified F this aspect by declaring that, on adoption by a widow, the adopted son or daughter is deemed to be a member of the family of the deceased husband of the widow, vide Sawan Ram vs. Kalawanti, A.I.R. 1967 SC 1761. 9.2. Further, in Sitabai vs. Ramchandra, A.I.R. 1970 SC 343, G this Court took note of the consequences of adoption as listed under Section 12 of the Act, and observed as follows as to the as to the effects of adoption by a Hindu widow: “5. […] It is clear on a reading of the main part of Section 12 and Sub-section (vi) of Section 11 that the effect of H adoption under the Act is that it brings about severance SHRI RAM SHRIDHAR CHIMURKAR v. UNION OF INDIA & 943 ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA J.] of all ties of the child given in adoption in the family of A his or her birth. The child altogether ceases to have any ties with the family of his birth. Correspondingly, these very ties are automatically replaced by those created by the adoption in the adoptive family. The legal effect of giving the child in adoption must therefore be to transfer B the child from the family of its birth to the family of its adoption. The scheme of Sections 11 and 12, therefore, is that in the case of adoption by a widow the adopted child becomes absorbed in the adoptive family to which the widow belonged. In other words the child adopted is C tied with the relationship of sonship with the deceased husband of the widow.” 10. Having acknowledged the consequences of adoption under Hindu Law, it is necessary to highlight at this juncture that the said provisions of the HAMA Act, 1956 determine the rights of a son adopted D by a Hindu widow only vis-à-vis his adoptive family. Rights and entitlements of an adopted son of a Hindu widow, as available in Hindu Law, as against his adoptive family, cannot axiomatically be held to be available to such adopted son, as against the government, in a case specifically governed by extant pension rules. The provisions of the E HAMA Act, 1956, as discussed above, relate generally to the capacity of the female Hindu to take a son or daughter in adoption and the effects that follow such an adoption. The said provisions do not lend much assistance in the instant case which does not pertain to the rights of the adoptee such as the Appellant herein under Hindu Law, but to his rights and entitlements under the CCS (Pension) Rules. There exists a vital F difference between the rights of an adopted son under Hindu Law and his rights to draw family pension, which creates a burden on the public exchequer. It is therefore necessary to determine the rights and entitlements of the Appellant having regard to Rule 54 (14) (b) of the CCS (Pension) Rules.