The appellant herein is convicted under section 3(1) of the Gangsters Act and sentenced to four years’ imprisonment. Section 3(1) thereof prescribes a maximum punishment of ten years and a statutory minimum of two years. Consequently, upon a conviction under section 3(1) of the Gangsters Act being recorded, bereft of judicial discretion, an accused is mandatorily subject to a minimum two-year sentence, triggering an automatic disqualifi cation under section 8 of the RoP Act. In Rahul Gandhi (supra), while staying the conviction, it was specifi cally noted by this Court that the maximum sentence of imprisonment for two years was imposed by the trial court without any accompanying rationale. In contrast, in the present case, where the maximum sentence could be ten years and the appellant was sentenced to four years’ imprisonment, and that too, in the light of his plea for leniency, the reasoning for granting relief in Rahul Gandhi (supra) remains distinguishable and categorically fails to off er any support to the appellant. Insofar as the observation therein regarding the ramifi cation of sub-section (3) of section 8 of the RoP Act being wide- ranging and would aff ect the electorate because of absence of a representative are concerned, it is noted that the same is an observation in the passing and does not constitute the ratio decidendi of the decision. On the contrary, the main reason for grant of relief in Rahul Gandhi (supra), as noted above, was the absence of reasons to impose the maximum sentence. Therefore, such a decision lends no assistance to the appellant. 72. The reasoning adopted by the 2-Judge Bench in Naranbhai Bhikhabhai Kachchadia (supra) resulting in the ultimate relief that was granted, I am minded to hold, turned more on the facts of the case rather AFJAL ANSARI v. STATE OF UP 1023 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] than expositing a principle of law worthy of being followed as a precedent. Thus, the said decision falls short of providing appropriate guidance. 73. What remains is the claim of pending projects under the MPLAD Scheme. 74. One may suspect that, for no cause or perhaps for no good cause, the appellant deemed it fi t not to make any mention of any project, far less specifi c mention, pertaining to the MPLAD Scheme before the High Court. Interestingly, although Dr. Singhvi raised this point in course of his oral arguments, the same is conspicuous by its absence in the written note of arguments. Importantly, attention was not drawn to any provision in the relevant MPLAD Scheme which is intended to address any contingency having regard to the appellant’s seat prematurely falling vacant by reason of his conviction. Absolutely no explanation was proff ered by the appellant as to how any project initiated by him under the MPLAD Scheme would suff er owing to his absence, especially in the sunset of the life of the present Lok Sabha. Inter alia, the absence of any such pleadings bears heavy against the grant of stay of the appellant’s conviction where no suffi cient irreversible consequences to the electorate has been made out at such time when fresh elections are only but a few moons away.