38. In support of the above submission, the learned counsel for the respondent relied on the decisions of this Court in Dhulabhai (supra) and Firm Seth Radha Kishan (supra). 39. In Dhulabhai (supra) the appellant before this Court had instituted a suit to recover sales tax alleged to have been realized illegally by the State of Madhya Pradesh. The State contested the suit by claiming that it was barred by Section 17 of the Madhya Bharat Sales Tax Act. The court of the District Judge decreed the suit. On appeal by the State, the High Court reversed the decision holding that the suit was barred even though it was conceded by the Revenue that the tax could not have been imposed in view of the bar of Article 301 of the Constitution of India. In that context, the question that arose for this Court to decide was whether the suit was barred expressly by Section 17 of that Act or by any implication arising from the Act. The contention on behalf of the appellant therein was that if it was a question of the correctness of the imposition within the valid framework of the statute, rules or notifi cation, Section 17 might have operated but not when the imposition was under a void law. After considering several decisions, the Constitution Bench summarized the legal position as under: “35. … The result of this inquiry into the diverse views expressed in this Court may be stated as follows: (1) Where the statute gives a fi nality to the s of the special Tribunals the civil courts’ jurisdiction must be held to be excluded if there is adequate remedy to do what the civil courts would normally do in a suit. Such provision, however, does not exclude those cases 562 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. where the provisions of the particular Act have not been complied with or the statutory Tribunal has not acted in conformity with the fundamental principles of judicial procedure. (2) Where there is an express bar of the jurisdiction of the court, an examination of the scheme of the particular Act to fi nd the adequacy or the suffi ciency of the remedies provided may be relevant but is not decisive to sustain the jurisdiction of the civil court. Where there is no express exclusion the examination of the remedies and the scheme of the particular Act to fi nd out the intendment becomes necessary and the result of the inquiry may be decisive. In the latter case it is necessary to see if the statute creates a special right or a liability and provides for the determination of the right or liability and further lays down that all questions about the said right and liability shall be determined by the Tribunals so constituted, and whether remedies normally associated with actions in civil courts are prescribed by the said statute or not. (3) Challenge to the provisions of the particular Act as ultra vires cannot be brought before Tribunals constituted under that Act.