[2023] 4 S.C.R. 51 51 THE REGISTRAR GENERAL, HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA A AND ANR. v. SRI M. NARASIMHA PRASAD (Civil Appeal Nos. 2519-2522 of 2019) B APRIL 10, 2023 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN AND PANKAJ MITHAL, JJ.] Service Law – Respondent was appointed as a Civil Judge (Junior Division) – Respondent was suspended from service on C allegations of gross misconduct, followed by the initiation of disciplinary proceedings – As per the enquiry reports, some charges stood proved and the other charges were not proved – Full Court of the High Court resolved to impose the penalty of dismissal from service upon the respondent – Based on the resolution, respondent was dismissed from service – Respondent challenged the findings D of the enquiry officer and the of dismissal from service by filing writ petitions before the High Court – High Court dismissed the same – The respondent filed intra-court appeals against the same – Division Bench of the High Court set aside the of penalty and the findings of the enquiry officer and also directed E that no further inquiry can be held against the respondent – On appeal, held: Some of the charges against the respondent were very serious in nature, such as pronouncing the operative portion of the in open court without the whole text of the being ready, and similarly the conduct of auction sale of properties seized during the investigation – Judicial Officer pronouncing the F concluding portion of his in open court without the entire text of the being prepared/dictated would amount to gross misconduct – Such conduct is completely unacceptable and unbecoming of a judicial officer – High Court was not justified in setting aside the penalty and in ing that there shall be no G further enquiry against the Respondent – of High Court set aside. Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1. Once those charges which revolve around the manner of disposal of certain cases are ignored, what remains H 51 52 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A are certain serious charges that revolve around pronouncement of operative portion of the in open court without the whole text of the being ready. Take for instance, Charge Nos. 1, 2, 4 and 5 in DI No.3/2005. These Charges are very serious in nature, where the respondent is alleged to have pronounced the operative portion of the in open court without the B whole of the being ready. Similarly Charge No.1 in DI No.5/2005 related to the conduct of auction sale of properties, seized during the investigation. These are very serious in nature and the reply given by the respondent to these charges is wishy washy. [Para 12][59-D-E] C 2. A judicial officer cannot pronounce the concluding portion of his in open court without the entire text of the being prepared/dictated. All that the respondent has done in the departmental enquiry is just to pass on the responsibility to the inefficient and allegedly novice stenographer. D This Court does not know how the findings with regard to such serious charges have been completely white-washed by the High Court in the impugned .