The revenue has placed its reliance upon the of Hon’ble Apex Court in case of M/s Shree Baidynath case D supra to confirm the demands. However it is to be observed that the Honble Apex Court in said case has relied upon its in case of B.P.L. PHARMACEUTICALS LTD. Vs. COLLECTOR OF C. EXCISE, VADODARA 1995 (77) E.L.T. 485 (S.C.). wherein it was held that Merely because there is some E difference in the tariff entries, the product will not change its character. Something more is required for changing the classification especially when the product remains the same. In the present appeals the product has remained same and the classification issue stands decided in favour of the Appellant in all four previous proceedings against the Appellant. In case of CCE F Nagpur Vs. Vicco Laboratories 2005 (179) ELT 17, the Honble Apex Court has held that classification cannot be changed without a change in the nature of a product or a fresh interpretation of the tariff heading by such decision. In the present case the goods in question has remained same and there is no change of tariff G heading. Thus the contention of the Ld. Adjudicating authority that the change in tariff entry would require relook into classification is absolutely erroneous as the product has remained same and it would remain classified as Homeopathic medicine. 11. After careful appreciation of the facts as narrated above we H find no reason to classify the product as Cosmetic under Chapter COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 313 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 33 of the CETA, 1985. We thus hold that the goods are classifiable A under chapter 30 of the Central Excise Tariff as Homeopathic medicine and liable to duty accordingly. There is no reason to demand the duties and penalties adjudged against the Appellant.” Rival Submissions B 8. In the present appeal, the learned Additional Solicitor General Mr. Vikramjit Banerjee has assailed the impugned and dated 31.01.2018 on a variety of grounds while asserting that the Tribunal has erred in holding that the product in question would fall under Chapter 30 and not under Chapter 33 of the First Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 as amended in the year 2012. C 8.1. Learned ASG has stressed upon the necessity for re-look into the classification of the product in question with the submissions that due to the change in tariff structure, the s prior to 2012 had lost their precedential value. The learned ASG would submit that Chapter 30 has been reworded to remove the distinction between patent/proprietary D and generic medicaments and to classify them in terms of whether they are put in unit containers for retail sale or not; and the mention about the Act of 1940 as also various pharmacopeia has also been deleted. The learned ASG would further submit that “Hair oil” under Chapter 33 garnered focus because of the subsidiary headings of “perfumed hair E oil” and “others” having been specified.