Further one must be with legal background/knowledge of the law, and one must belong to a Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe, or Other Backward Class22. An LC is empowered with powers equivalent to a civil court23 to conduct inquiry, issue summons, enforce attendance, etc., which is refl ective of its importance in the framework. The inclusion of nominees from such NGOs is also helpful, because in a context where LCs may convey a sense of formality, women fi nd it easier to approach local NGOs; 22 As per Section 6 and 7 of the Act. 23 Section 11 of the Act. INITIATIVES FOR INCLUSION FOUNDATION & ANR. v.691 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] this is one of the fi nding in a 2015 International Labour Organization (ILO) report24. However as pointed out, there is no avenue in the law for these NGOs to register or pursue the matter on behalf of such consenting women. Thus, the spreading of awareness relating to LCs and dispelling the air of formality, should form a priority of the highest level State, that seeks to implement the Act. 16. Lastly, it is relevant to note a major limitation of the Act, which depends on the Union Government to disburse funds to the States, which using an agency, can transfer the same to the district offi cer25. Similarly Section 20 and 24, which obligate the district offi cer and appropriate government to take steps to publicise the Act, is limited by Section 24 which states that: “The appropriate Government may, subject to the availability of fi nancial and other resources, — (a) develop relevant information, education, communication and training materials, and organise awareness programmes, to advance the understanding of the public of the provisions of this Act providing for protection against sexual harassment of woman at workplace; (b) formulate orientation and training programmes for the members of the [Local Committee].” (emphasis supplied) In the absence of a delineated budget to pay the concerned offi cers and conduct events for awareness and training, various LCs are rendered infructuous or remain vacant26. Therefore, the requirement of setting the budget for the implementation of this Act, at each district level, and thereafter state-level, to ascertain disbursal of grants from the Union Government. 24 ILO, Insights into working conditions in India’s garment (2015) <https:// ruralindiaonline.org/en/library/resource/insights-into-working-conditions-in-indias- garment-industry/> (accessed on 17.10.2023). 25 Section 8 of the Act. 26 See NHRC’s report on status and Functioning of Local Complaints Committees under the Act (2019) https://nhrc.nic.in/sites/default/fi les/Status and Functioning of Local Complaints Committees under the Sexual Harassment.pdf (accessed on 17.10.2023). 692 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 17. In this manner, the Act contemplates a wide scope for both the aggrieved woman, and the respondent, and place a public duty on the employers, or LCs as the case may be, to ensure prevention, prohibition and redressal of complaints of sexual harassment. Operationalizing LCs and ensuring their eff ectiveness, remains the key to making these remedies accessible to the unorganized sector. Discussion on specifi c directions sought by the petitioners 18.