vi. That if sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) to Section 2 (aa) are interpreted to include even businesses other than the business of carrying passengers, the said sub-clauses would be violative of Article 14 of the Constitution on two counts. First, a person or entity who/which does not carry the business of carrying passengers and goods by motor vehicles, would be treated at par with a person or entity who/which carries on such business. Second, a person or entity who/which does not carry on a business with a profi t motive, would be treated at par with a person or entity who/which carries on a business with a profi t motive. In both the circumstances, unequals would be treated equally and this is opposed to the Constitutional mandate of equality under the law. NHPC LTD. v. STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH 17 SECRETARY & ORS.[B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] vii. That the defi nitions of ‘business’, ‘passenger’, ‘road’, ‘fare’ and ‘freight’ under the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997 are artifi cial and insertion/substitution of such defi nitions is an illegal attempt to bring the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997 within the scope of Entry 56 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution. viii. Reliance was placed on J.K. Jute Mills Co. Ltd. vs. State of Uttar Pradesh, A.I.R. 1961 SC 1534 to contend that when a statute has been enacted by a State Legislature, outside the permissible fi eld of legislation, merely using artifi cial terminology so as to bring the legislation within the scope of a particular legislative Entry would not save the same from being declared to be unconstitutional. ix. That the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997 did not remove the basis of the of the Division Bench of the High Court dated 27 March, 1997, by curing the defects and plugging the lacunae in the Act of 1955. Rather, it has been enacted with the oblique motive of destroying the fi nality, force and eff ect of the said of the High Court, which has been affi rmed by this Court. 4.2. Sri Yashraj Singh Deora, learned counsel for the appellants in Civil Appeal Nos. 4738-4743 of 2009 and Civil Appeal No. 6931 of 2009 adopted the submissions of learned Senior Counsel Sri Upadhyay and further contended as under: i. That in to be covered under the defi nition of ‘business’ provided under the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997, the trade, commerce, manufacture of the assessee, or the transactions connected therewith or incidental thereto must have some connection with the business of carrying passengers and goods by road. When the term ‘business’ is construed in such a manner, the main activities of the respective appellants, would not amount to carrying on business, as the same do not relate to the activity of carrying passengers and goods by road. That in a case where the main activity does not amount to ‘business’, then the connected, incidental or ancillary activities would also not amount to ‘business’ unless an independent intention to conduct 18 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R.