From the above, it is evident that a power to review cannot be exercised as an appellate power and has to be strictly confi ned to the scope and ambit of XLVII Rule 1 CPC. An error on the face of record must be such an error which, mere looking at the record should strike and it should not require any long-drawn process of reasoning on the points where there may conceivably be two opinions.” 15. It is very pertinent to note that recently the Constitution Bench in Beghar Foundation vs. Justice K.S. Puttaswamy (Retired) and Others7, held that even the change in law or subsequent decision/ of co- ordinate Bench or larger Bench by itself cannot be regarded as a ground for review. 16. The gist of the afore-stated decisions is that: - (i) A is open to review inter alia if there is a mistake or an error apparent on the face of the record. (ii) A pronounced by the Court is fi nal, and departure from that principle is justifi ed only when circumstances of a substantial and compelling character make it necessary to do so. (iii) An error which is not self-evident and has to be detected by a process of reasoning, can hardly be said to be an error apparent on the face of record justifying the court to exercise its power of review. (iv) In exercise of the jurisdiction under 47 Rule 1 CPC, it is not permissible for an erroneous decision to be “reheard and corrected.” (v) A Review Petition has a limited purpose and cannot be allowed to be “an appeal in disguise.” 7 (2021) 3 SCC 1 SANJAY KUMAR AGARWAL v. STATE TAX OFFICER (1) & 235 ANR. [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] (vi) Under the guise of review, the petitioner cannot be permitted to reagitate and reargue the questions which have already been addressed and decided. (vii) An error on the face of record must be such an error which, mere looking at the record should strike and it should not require any long-drawn process of reasoning on the points where there may conceivably be two opinions. (viii) Even the change in law or subsequent decision/ of a co-ordinate or larger Bench by itself cannot be regarded as a ground for review. Analysis: 17. Keeping in view the afore-stated legal position, let us examine whether the Review Petitioners have been able to make out any case within the ambit of XLVII of Supreme Court Rules, read with XLVII of CPC, for reviewing the impugned . 18. We have heard Mr. Harish N Salve, Mr. Naveen Pahwa, Mr. Dhruv Mehta, Mr. Ramji Srinivasan, Mr. Siddharth Bhatnagar, and Mr. Sumesh Dhawan, respective learned Senior Counsels and other learned counsels for the Review Petitioners/ Intervenors, as also Mr. Maninder Singh, learned Senior Counsel and Ms. Aastha Mehta, learned Counsel for the Respondents. 19. The learned Senior Counsels and learned Counsels for the Review Petitioners/ Intervenors placing heavy reliance on the observations made by a two Judge Bench of this Court in C.A.