These were purchased by Star Associates and conveyed to Abhisar Developers, the F respondent herein. 299. On 28 December 2006, the respondent-purchaser applied for a new connection for the premises. However, the appellant called upon the respondent to clear the outstanding dues of the premises. In 2007, the respondent filed a writ petition before the High Court of Gujarat G praying for new connection without payment of the arrears. In 2010, the High Court allowed the petition and directed the Licensee to provide the connection. On 3 December 2012, the Division Bench of the High Court H 110 Diary No. 23261 of 2017 K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 771 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] held that the Clause 4.1.11 of the Gujarat Electricity Supply Code, as A amended in 2010, is ultra vires the provisions of the 2003 Act. 300. The appellant has referred to Clauses 4.1.16, 4.8.1, and 4.8.4 of the Electricity Supply Code to argue that the auction-purchaser cannot deny knowledge of the requirement to clear the outstanding dues of the premises. In response, the auction-purchaser has submitted that there B was no statutory provision at the relevant time requiring the payment of the dues of the previous owner from the subsequent owner as a condition precedent for providing for a fresh connection. 301. The relevant Clauses 4.1.16, 4.8.1, and 4.8.4 of the 2005 Electricity Supply Code are extracted hereunder: C “4.1.16 The Distribution Licensee shall give no dues certificate to consumer on his request to avoid any possibilities of pending dues of previous owner while purchasing new house/ premises. [...] D 4.8.1 The Consumer shall not without prior consent in writing of the Distribution Licensee assign, transfer or part with the benefit of the Agreement executed with the Distribution Licensee nor shall part with or create any partial or separate interest there under in any manner. Transfer of service connection will be effected on application in case the registered Consumer is dead E or if the ownership or occupation of the property has changed or transferred. In all cases of such transfers, the arrears of every description shall be paid in full together with transfer fee as prescribed in relevant GERC Regulations. [...] F 4.8.4 Where Premises to which electricity is supplied by Licensee is transferred to transferee and the transferee does not get service connection in the Premises transferred to his name, and continues to use the service connection in previous name, the transferee shall be responsible for payment of running energy bills as well as G unpaid dues of energy bills and other amounts relating to the service connection. The dues to the Distribution Licensee shall be payable on demand, in default of which the supply to the Premises may be disconnected, subject to the provisions of the Acts, rules, and regulations for the time being in force. “ H 772 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 302. Clause 4.1.16 of the Gujarat Electricity Supply Code obligated the distribution licensee to provide no-dues certificate when requested by a consumer “to avoid any possibilities of pending dues of the previous owner while purchasing new house/premises.” This is only a procedural provision and does not per se impose any obligation on the subsequent owner of the premises.