Contention raised by the respondents based on the Constitution Bench decision in Indra Sawhney vs. Union of India10, that there cannot be H 10 1992 Supp (3) SCC 217 RESERVE BANK OF INDIA & ORS. v. A.K. NAIR & ORS. 799 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] reservation in promotions to identified posts of Groups ‘A’ and ‘B’, was A overruled by observing that such ruling arose in the context of reservations in favour of backward classes of citizens falling within the sweep of Article 16(4) of the Constitution. Ultimately, it was held in paragraphs 24 and 25 as follows: “24. A combined reading of Sections 32 and 33 of the 1995 B Act explicates a fine and designed balance between requirements of administration and the imperative to provide greater opportunities to PWD. Therefore, as detailed in the first part of our analysis, the identification exercise under Section 32 is crucial. Once a post is identified, it means that C a PWD is fully capable of discharging the functions associated with the identified post. Once found to be so capable, reservation under Section 33 to an extent of not less than three per cent must follow. Once the post is identified, it must be reserved for PWD irrespective of the mode of recruitment adopted by the State for filling up of the said post. D 25. In the light of the preceding analysis, we declare the impugned memoranda as illegal and inconsistent with the 1995 Act. We further direct the Government to extend three per cent reservation to PWD in all identified posts in Group A and Group B, irrespective of the mode of filling up of such E posts. This writ petition is accordingly allowed.” 37. The view expressed in Rajeev Kumar Gupta (supra) was doubted by a coordinate Bench of this Court. Opining that preferential treatment to persons with disabilities could cover reservation in appointment but not reservation in promotion, the said Bench in its F dated 3rd February, 2017 was of the view that the contention needs to be considered by a larger Bench. 38. Siddaraju (supra) is the larger Bench decision which has held that the decision in Rajeev Kumar Gupta (supra) cannot be faulted when it stated that Indra Sawhney (supra) dealt with a different problem G and cannot be followed. 39. Leesamma Joseph (supra), which is the latest in the line of decisions on the same point, has reached similar conclusion albeit premised on a different reasoning. H 800 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 40.There is, therefore, no dearth of authority for the proposition that the PwD Act, 1995 not only mandated reservation in appointment but also contemplated reservation in promotion. 41.Incidentally, we have also assigned our own reason as to why any perception and understanding of section 33 of the PwD Act, 1995 B not contemplating reservation in promotion is erroneous and fallacious. 42.Bearing in mind what has been laid down by this Court in the cited decisions and the view taken by us (supra), our specific answers to the 3 (three) questions urged by the appellants are these.