E 13. Further, we are unable to find favour with the argument of the learned Counsel for the Appellant that since the bar contained in Rule 54(14)(b) of the CCS (Pension) Rules against children born or adopted after retirement, seeking family pension, was removed by way of the F subsequent amendments to the provision, children adopted at any time after retirement of the government servant, including children adopted by the widow of the government servant after his death ought to be included under the definition of ‘family’ for the purpose of granting family pension. The provision could not be as expansive as suggested by the learned Counsel for the Appellant. It is necessary that the scope of the G benefit of family pension be restricted only to sons or daughters legally adopted by the government servant, during his/her lifetime. The definition of ‘family’ is narrowly worded under the CCS (Pension) Rules, in the specific context of the entitlement to ‘family pension’ and in relation to the government servant. Therefore, the word “adoption” in Rule H SHRI RAM SHRIDHAR CHIMURKAR v. UNION OF INDIA & 947 ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA J.] 54(14)(b)(ii) of the CCS (Pension) Rules, in the context of grant of family A pension, must be restricted to an adoption made by a government servant during his/her lifetime and must not be extended to a case of adoption made by a surviving spouse of the government servant after his/her death. This is because the object of the provision is to lend succour to a son till he attains the age of twenty-five years and unmarried or widowed B or divorced daughter; similarly to the adopted son or unmarried adopted daughter when such an adoption had been made by the government servant during his/her lifetime. 14. Further, a case where a child is born to the deceased government servant after his death has to be contrasted with a case C where a child is adopted by the widow of a government servant after his death. The former category of heirs are covered under the definition of family since such a child would be a posthumous child of the deceased government servant. The entitlement of such a posthumous child is wholly distinct from a child being adopted subsequent to the demise of the D government servant by the surviving spouse. The reason for the same is not far to see. This is because the deceased government servant would have had no relationship with the adopted child which would have been adopted subsequent to his demise, as opposed to a posthumous child. Therefore, the definition of the word “family” in relation to a government servant means various categories of persons coming within the E nomenclature of the word “family” and all persons who would have had a familial relationship with the government servant during his lifetime. Any other interpretation would lead to abuse of the provision in the matter of grant of family pension. 15. It is also observed that the decision of this Court in F Vijayalakshmammawould not aid the case of the Appellant.