This approach cannot be appreciated, especially when the conviction rendered is for a serious off ence, that is, Section 302 IPC. In Geeta Devi (supra), the Court found it fi t to remand the matter to the High Court for consideration afresh, but in the present case, such course will not be prudent given that this appeal dates back to the year 2010. Hence, we proceed to examine the evidence on record. 9. The testimony of Jai Mangal Singh – PW1, who was Sarpanch at the time of the incident, also reveals that he was informed by a villager about the dead body of a newborn child found in the pond but did not know to whom it belonged to. Also, he had no knowledge about the pregnancy of the accused. He did not know when and by whom the child was thrown. In his cross-examination, he stated that there were houses belonging to other people near the dabri where the dead body was found. Signifi cantly, we fi nd none of them stands examined, testifying to the presence of the accused near the pond, nor does this witness testify to such an eff ect. 10. Suraj Kumar Singh - PW2, who saw the dead body of a child in his dabri, admits the place to be open from all sides, having access by all. He further deposes that he did not see any woman, much less the accused, throw the child. 11. Rambaran Singh -PW3, who was informed by PW2 of the dead body of a child lying in the dabri, admits having no knowledge as to whom the child belonged to. His testimony reveals the reason for suspicion and doubting the accused, for she being the only one without a husband. 12. Smt. Sumitra - PW4, in her testimony, only discloses the factum of the accused being pregnant. The testimonies of PW5 and PW6 are also to similar eff ect. 13. Similarly, though, Smt. Rambai - PW7 denies any knowledge of the accused being pregnant but only adds that the accused’s body looked as though she had just delivered a child. However, the latter part is denied by PW8. 966 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 14. The testimony of the Investigating Offi cer - PW10 is only to the eff ect of spot verifi cation and conduct of procedural formalities. 15. PW11 is the Medical Offi cer who examined the child’s dead body and the accused person. She gave her opinion that the child was delivered prematurely, i.e., prior to 9 months. She also stated that the child died within 45 to 50 hours of the medical examination, and its death was homicidal in nature. On examination, she found the accused to be physically weak. She admitted not to have mentioned as to whether the child had died before or after birth. She did not even mention if the child belonged to the accused person. 16. Thus, none of these witnesses could prove, much less beyonda reasonable doubt, the prosecution case of the accused having thrown the child in the dabri after delivery or having caused the death.