A quarrelling and, later, her father forcibly taking her mother on his cycle to the fields. PW4 also stated that she followed them up to the village pond but, on being scolded, she came back and that near the pond, she met Sushila (PW-12), her paternal aunt, to whom she narrated the incident. Whereafter, on coming back, she made a phone call to her B maternal uncle (PW2). Then her maternal uncle called back to know the whereabouts of her mother. When she told him that her father had taken her mother and had asked her to remain in the house, her maternal uncle came to the village in search of her mother. PW4, during her deposition, added C that in between her father had returned alone and had told her that he had killed her mother. During cross-examination, PW4 admitted that the ornaments that were kept by her mother with her aunt (i.e. mother’s sister) were returned by her aunt eight days before D the incident. She also admitted that on the fateful day she gave her examination from 1100 hours till 1500 hours and that, at present, she is living with her maternal uncle. PW4 was also confronted with her previous statement wherein there was an omission regarding confession made by her father. E (v) PW-5 – Dr. Sunil Khanna (Autopsy Surgeon) He proved the autopsy report (Ex.P-8) wherein he recited eight lacerated wounds, ante mortem in nature, caused by hard and blunt object within 24 hours of examination conducted on 02.02.2010 at 1100 hours F According to his opinion, deceased died within 24 hours of the examination, on account of head injuries leading to haemorrhage, resultant shock and cardio respiratory failure. During cross examination, he stated that if train is moving and any person, walking on foot, gets dashed by the train G then such injuries may occur. This witness was re-examined and questioned by Court. At that stage, the witness stated that if injuries were sustained during a train accident then it might reflect fracture on face. He accepted the possibility of injuries being caused H as a result of assault with Gitti (Gravel - small stones). STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH v. PHOOLCHAND RATHORE 609 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] (vi) PW-6 – Shivkumar Rathore A He is a witness to the disclosure statement and seizure of blood-stained clothes etc. He, however, did not support the prosecution case and was therefore declared hostile. During cross-examination he admitted his signature on the memorandum(s) but claimed that his signatures were B obtained by the police at the police station without informing him about the contents of the documents. (vii) PW-7 – Kiran @ Rambai She is another daughter of the deceased. She stated C that at the time of the incident, she was in the house of her maternal uncle namely, Kamla Rathore, at Jaithari. During cross examination, she stated that disputes between her father and mother used to take place but they use to get resolved. (viii) PW-8 – Jaimatiya Bai Rathore D She is sister of the deceased Sundariya.