This plea was accepted relying on the bar under XXIII Rule (1)(4) of the Code of Civil Procedure1 (CPC). F 1 Withdrawal of suit or abandonment of part of claim.- (1) At any time after the institution of a suit, the plaintiff may as against all or any of the defendants abandon his suit or abandon a part of his claim: Provided that where the plaintiff is a minor or other person to whom the provisions contained in Rules 1 to 14 of XXXII extend, neither the suit nor any part of the claim shall be abandoned without the leave of the Court. G (4) Where the plaintiff- (a) abandons any suit or part of claim under sub-rule(1), or (b) withdraws from a suit or part of a claim without the permission referred to in sub-rule (3), he shall be liable for any such costs as the Court may award and shall be precluded from instituting any fresh suit in respect of such subject-matter or such part of the claim. H 1250 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Further, dealing with the merits about the breach of Condition No.5, the National Commission found that Condition No.5 was breached because the vehicle was unattended on the road side with keys in the key hole. However, there was no further discussion on the applicable law with regard to the consequences of the breach and there is no whisper in the of the National Commission about the precedents discussed in the B s of the fora below. Equally so, with regard to the argument on the breach of Condition No.1, it was recorded that there was an obligation of the claimant to give intimation in writing of the theft of the vehicle. The National Commission, thus, allowed the Revision Petition. 4) We have heard Ms. Kunika, learned counsel for the C appellant,who presented the case very ably before us and Mr. J.P. Sheokand, learned counsel for the respondent-Insurance Company, who left no stone unturned while making his submissions. Withdrawal of the earlier complaint 5) At the very outset, we would like to record that, having not D argued, before the State Commission, the point of the present complaint being barred in view of the withdrawal of the earlier complaint, the National Commission was not justified, on the facts of the present case, in allowing the respondent-Insurance Company to urge that point therefrom. It is very clear from the of the State Commission that E only two points were argued by the Insurance Company. 6) Para 6 of the of the State Commission is extracted hereinbelow:- “Learned counsel for the Appellant-Insurance Company has assailed the of the District Forum by raising two-fold F arguments. Firstly, that there was delay of 6 days in giving intimation to the Insurance Company and secondly that the ignition key was left in the truck by driver and the truck was left unattended on the road.” 7) In any event, we are convinced that interest of justice requires G that the appellant, in the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case, should not be non-suited on the ground that his earlier complaint was withdrawn.