It concluded that 77 Civil Appeal 5312-5313 of 2005 78 Civil Appeal No. 5314 of 2005 79 Civil Appeal No. 6587 of 2005 H 80 SLP(Civil) No. 6068 of 2006 K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 729 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Condition 23 was not applicable to involuntary transfers, such as by A operation of law or in pursuance of the decree of a competent court. Accordingly, it held that the respondent-purchasers could not be made liable for the dues of the erstwhile owners as a prerequisite to obtain a new electricity connection. 177. The Bombay High Court in the impugned judgement dated B 20 July 2005 in Ecto Spinners was aided by the following reasons to arrive at this conclusion: a. Condition 23(b) does not refer to an involuntary transfer though it does refer to a voluntary transfer or a transfer on account of the death of the owner. The word “successor” in the C expression “any person claiming to be heir, legal representative, transferee, assignee or successor of the defaulting consumer” would have to be understood by applying the principle of ejusdem generis. Accordingly, the words preceding the word “successor” clearly disclose a reference D to a person who acquires the right to the property on account of either voluntary transfer or on account of death of the owner; and b. Transfer of a property purchased in a public auction is an involuntary transfer by the owner. Hence, Condition 23 does E not impose any liability on a transferee occupying the premises of the erstwhile consumer on account of having acquired right by public auction or any other mode of non-voluntary transfer. 178. The Electricity Board can demand arrears due by an erstwhile defaulting consumer in regard to supply of electricity to premises from the purchaser of a property seeking reconnection or fresh connection of F electricity when either of two conditions are met: a. An express provision exists in law providing that electricity arrears constitute a charge over the property. For the statutory charge to be enforced against the property in the hands of a person to whom such property has been transferred for G consideration, the transferee must have notice, either actual or constructive, of the charge; and b. The statutory regulations or terms and conditions of supply which are statutory in character, authorise the supplier of electricity to make such a demand. H 730 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 179. In general law, electricity arrears do not constitute a charge over the property. Under the provisions of the 1910 Act read with the1948 Act, electricity arrears do not create a charge over the property. In the cases before us governed by the 1910 Act read with 1948 Act, no charge was created on the property in favour of the Electricity Board for the payment of electricity dues. The arrears of electricity dues were not B levied against the premises, but were levied against the erstwhile consumer. 180. We are of the opinion that the Bombay High Court’s interpretation of the ratio in Isha Marbles (supra) in Super & Stainless Hi Alloys Ltd and M/s Umang Enterprises is incorrect due to the C reason that the High Court failed to enquire into whether any statutory regulation or statutory terms and conditions of supply existed which pertained to the liability of a third person who acquires the property of the erstwhile consumer.