66. Being a crucial provision, we notice the same. “19(4) The Commission shall, while inquiring whether an enterprise enjoys a dominant position or not under section 4, have due regard F to all or any of the following factors, namely:— (a) market share of the enterprise; (b) size and resources of the enterprise; (c) size and importance of the competitors; G (d) economic power of the enterprise including commercial advantages over competitors; (e) vertical integration of the enterprises or sale or service network of such enterprises; H (f) dependence of consumers on the enterprise; COAL INDIA LIMITED v. COMPETITION COMMISSION 863 OF INDIA [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] (g) monopoly or dominant position whether acquired as a result of A any statute or by virtue of being a Government company or a public sector undertaking or otherwise; (h) entry barriers including barriers such as regulatory barriers, financial risk, high capital cost of entry, marketing entry barriers, technical entry barriers, economies of scale, high cost of B substitutable goods or service for consumers; (i) countervailing buying power; (j) market structure and size of market; (k) social obligations and social costs; C (l) relative advantage,by way of the contribution to the economic development, by the enterprise enjoying a dominant position having or likely to have an appreciable adverse effect on competition; (m) any other factor which the Commission may consider relevant for the inquiry.” D 67. Section 19(5) declares that for determining whether the market constitutes a relevant market for the purpose of the Act,the CCI shall have due regard to the relevant geographic market and relevant product market. E 68. Section 19(6) deals with the factors which are relevant for determining the relevant geographic market. 69. Section 19(7) deals with matters which are relevant for determining the relevant product market. 70. Section 27 provides for s which the CCI may pass after F inquiring into agreement or abuse of dominant position: “27. Where after inquiry the Commission finds that any agreement referred to in section 3 or action of an enterprise in a dominant position, is in contravention of section 3 or section 4, as the case may be, it may pass all or any of the following s, namely:— G (a) direct any enterprise or association of enterprises or person or association of persons, as the case may be, involved in such agreement, or abuse of dominant position, to discontinue and not to re-enter such agreement or discontinue such abuse of dominant position, as the case may be; H 864 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A (b) impose such penalty, as it may deem fit which shall be not more than ten percent of the average of the turnover for the last three preceding financial years, upon each of such person or enterprises which are parties to such agreements or abuse: Provided that in case any agreement referred to in section 3 has B been entered into by a cartel, the Commission may impose upon each producer, seller, distributor, trader or service provider included in that cartel, a penalty of up to three times of its profit for each year of the continuance of such agreement or ten percent.