725 [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] details regarding the arrests of Pankaj Bansal and Basant Bansal were duly communicated to Mrs. Abha Bansal and Ms. Payal Kanodia over the telephone immediately after their arrests. He stated that the written grounds of arrest were fi rst read out to Basant Bansal but he refused to sign the same. Subsequently, the written grounds of arrest were read over and explained in his language, viz., Hindi, to Basant Bansal in the presence of witnesses and the witnesses signed on the same as a token of correctness. Saket Singh again asserted that issuance of summons on immediate basis was a necessity as both of them had been deliberately avoiding investigation in the other case as well and were not complying with the previously issued summons on multiple occasions. This reiteration is incorrect as the fi rst summons issued to Pankaj Bansal was on 13.06.2023 at 06.15 pm requiring him to appear at 11.00 am on 14.06.2023 in connection with the fi rst ECIR, which he duly complied with, and again, while he was in the ED’s offi ce at New Delhi, he was served with the summons in connection with the second ECIR at 04.52 pm requiring him to be present at 05.00 pm, which he again complied with. According to Saket Singh, during the investigation, both of them were found to be actively involved in money laundering and deliberately attempted to withhold information, that was in their exclusive knowledge, which was crucial to establish their roles and to take the money laundering investigation to its logical end. He asserted that they adopted an attitude of non-cooperation during the investigation and the fact that they had bribed the ED Judge to take benefi t in the existing proceedings showed that they were capable of infl uencing witnesses/authorities involved in the case. He alleged that they were capable of tampering with the evidence and hence, Pankaj Bansal was arrested on 14.06.2023 around 10.30 pm on the basis of incriminating evidence. The written grounds of arrest were stated to have been read by Pankaj Bansal in the presence of witnesses and, thereafter, Pankaj Bansal and the witnesses signed on the same. 13. Though much was stated and argued by both sides on the merits of the matter in terms of the involvement of the appellants in the alleged off ence of money laundering, we make it clear that we are not concerned with that issue at this point. The only issue for consideration presently is whether the arrest of the appellants under Section 19 of the Act of 2002 was valid and lawful and whether the impugned s of remand passed by the learned Vacation Judge/Additional Sessions Judge, Panchkula, measure up. 726 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. In that context, we may also make it clear that the mere passing of an of remand would not be suffi cient in itself to validate the appellants’ arrests, if such arrests are not in conformity with the requirements of Section 19 of the Act of 2002.