1016 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 5P SO.RCT.RS. 1016 [2023] 5 S.C.R. A SUNDAR @ SUNDARRAJAN v. STATE BY INSPECTOR OF POLICE (Review Petition (Crl.) Nos. 159-160 of 2013) B In (Criminal Appeal Nos. 300-301 of 2011) MARCH 21, 2023 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI, C HIMA KOHLI AND PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, JJ.] Constitution of India : Arts. 137 – Review jurisdiction in matters pertaining to capital punishment – Scope of – Petitioner accused of kidnapping and murdering a 7-year old child – Conviction u/ss. 364A, 302 and 201 IPC and imposition of death D sentence by the courts below – Upheld by this Court – Review thereagainst – Dismissed through circulation – However, in view of the in Mohd. Arif’s case, dismissing the review petition through circulation recalled and the petition heard in open Court – Held: None of the grounds raised amount to errors apparent on the E face of the record – All the grounds fail to raise any reasonable doubt in the prosecution case – Thus, no reason to interfere with the concurrent findings of the trial court, the High Court and this Court vis-a-vis the guilt of the petitioner for kidnapping and murdering the victim – Even though the crime committed by the petitioner is unquestionably grave and unpardonable, it is not F appropriate to affirm the death sentence awarded to him – ‘Rarest of rare’ doctrine requires that the death sentence not be imposed only by taking into account the grave nature of crime but only if there is no possibility of reformation in a criminal – No mitigating circumstances were placed before any of the appellate courts – It G cannot be said that there is no possibility of reformation even though the petitioner has committed a ghastly crime – Also it was submitted that the hearing was not conducted separately in the trial court – Thus, in view of the gruesome nature of the crime of murder of 7 year old child, the death sentence is commuted to life imprisonment H 1016 SUNDAR @ SUNDARRAJAN v. STATE BY INSPECTOR OF 1017 POLICE for not less than twenty years without reprieve or remission – A Supreme Court Rules 2013 – Ord. XLVII r. 1. Sentence/sentencing: Capital punishment – Mitigating circumstances – Consideration of, while deciding upon the sentence – Held: Duty B of the court is to enquire into mitigating circumstances as well as to foreclose the possibility of reformation and rehabilitation before imposing the death penalty – State must equally place all material and circumstances on the record bearing on the probability of reform – Many such materials and aspects are within the knowledge of the State which has had custody of the accused both before and after C the conviction – Moreover, the court cannot be an indifferent by- stander in the process – Process and powers of the court may be utilised to ensure that such material is made available to it to form a just sentencing decision bearing on the probability of reform.