Learned counsel for the appellant has relied upon a of this Court in the case of Jignesh Shah and Another -vs- Union of India and Another [(2019) 10 SCC 750] in which it has been held that the limitation period provided in the Limitation Act would apply to the applications under the IBC as well. Section 238A of the IBC itself (introduced by way of an amendment to the Code made with eff ect from 06.06.2018) stipulates application of the statute of Limitation on IBC. Section 18 of the Limitation Act stipulates: - “18. Eff ect of acknowledgment in writing.—(1) Where, before the expiration of the prescribed period for a suit or application in respect of any property or right, an acknowledgment of liability in respect of such property or right has been made in writing signed 502 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. by the party against whom such property or right is claimed, or by any person through whom he derives his title or liability, a fresh period of limitation shall be computed from the time when the acknowledgment was so signed. (2) Where the writing containing the acknowledgment is undated, oral evidence may be given of the time when it was signed; but subject to the provisions of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872), oral evidence of its contents shall not be received. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,— (a) an acknowledgment may be suffi cient though it omits to specify the exact nature of the property or right, or avers that the time for payment, delivery, performance or enjoyment has not yet come or is accompanied by a refusal to pay, deliver, perform or permit to enjoy, or is coupled with a claim to set-off , or is addressed to a person other than a person entitled to the property or right, (b) the word “signed” means signed either personally or by an agent duly authorised in this behalf, and (c) an application for the execution of a decree or shall not be deemed to be an application in respect of any property or right.” Section 238-A of the IBC stipulates: - “Limitation. --The provisions of the Limitation Act, 1963 (36 of 1963) shall, as far as may be, apply to the proceedings or appeals before the Adjudicating Authority, the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal, the Debt Recovery Tribunal or the Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be.” 7. So far as the present proceeding is concerned, if we proceed on the basis that the date of initial default is the starting point of limitation, then lapse of three years from that date would have extinguished the bank’s right to initiate action under the IBC. Secondly, even if the said letter dated 29.01.2020 is treated to be acknowledgement of debt, the same was made after institution of the proceeding under Section 7 of the IBC. In the TOTTEMPUDI SALALITH v. STATE BANK OF INDIA & 503 ORS. [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] application thus, there could be no reference to such acknowledgement.