Assam, Shailesh Madiyal, Counsel for the UT of Jammu and Kashmir, A Pukhrambam Ramesh Kumar, Counsel for the State of Manipur, Deepanwita Priyanka, Counsel appearing on behalf of the State of Gujarat, B.K. Satija, AAG for the State of Haryana, Kuldeep Singh Parihar, Counsel for the State of Uttarakhand appearing for the States. 19. They firstly contended that the multiplier of 2.81 cannot be B applied to the District Judiciary across the cadres. It is their argument that the 7th CPC recommended a graded pay increase across different cadres of the employees of the Central Government and therefore, the same has to be applied even for the judiciary. Thereafter, they once again argued that the States do not have sufficient financial resources to C meet the increase in pay as suggested by the SNJPC. As regards the recommendation on increment to be accrued for the purposes of pension to the judicial officer in spite of her retirement, they contended that since the applicable Rules in their State do not provide for such accrual for Government Employees, the same cannot be given to judicial officers. The States also opposed the grant of retirement gratuity as suggested by D the SNJPC. They argued that their State Rules which are prevalent provide for a uniform rate across cadres and services in the State and therefore, the recommendation cannot be accepted by them. Lastly, they contended that the minimum eligibility for Family Pension must be less than Rs. 30,000, as suggested by the Commission. E 20. Before considering the recommendations of the SNJPC on pay, pension, gratuity, age of retirement etc., it is necessary to consider certain principles concerning judiciary that have a direct bearing on our decision on the recommendations. 4. PRINCIPLES EVOLVED FOR JUDICIAL PAY, PENSION F AND ALLOWANCES 21. This Court has dealt with three different Judicial Pay Commission and has evolved certain principles, which form the underpinning of judicial pay, pension and allowances. The first principle is that a unified judiciary requires uniform designations and service G conditions of judicial officers across the country. The second principle is that the independence of the judiciary requires that pay of judicial officers must be stand-alone and not compared to that of staff of the political executive or the legislature. The third principle is that the independence of the judiciary, which includes the District Judiciary, is part of the basic structure of the Constitution. The fourth principle is H 48 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A that the access to an independent judiciary enforces fundamental rights guaranteed under Part III of the Constitution. The fifth principle is that the essential function of all judicial officers in the District Judiciary and judges of the High Court and this Court is essentially the same. I.Uniformity in Designations and Service Conditions B 22. India has a unified judiciary under the scheme of the Constitution. A unified judiciary necessarily entails that the service conditions of judges of one state are equivalent to similar posts of judges of other states.