Rule 88 provides for collection of fees known as “passenger services fees” from the embarking passengers; Rule 89 provides for collection of “User G Development Fee” (hereafter “UDF”) by licensees. Ms Bagchi argued that user development fees are nothing but amounts collected for extending or enhancing various services like providing passenger lounges, passenger amenities, toilets, rest rooms and other facilities inside airports. Even the agreement entered by the assessees with AAI, indicates H 330 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A thatUDFisto enhance passenger amenities, services and facilities. Those amounts areto be used for development, management, maintenance and operation and expansion of facilities at the airport. 8. It was urged that the nature of UDF indicates that such fees are amounts collected for rendering various services. The amounts B collected is nothing but development fee, meant to be used for funding and financing specific renovation, maintenance, development and upgradation of airports. These are necessary due to cost escalation. These amounts are for services rendered, and providing access by the airport. Such amounts are taxable. Learned counsel also relied on the circular No. 106/Commr(ST)/2009 dated 08.07.2011, which specifically C stated that service tax is paid by the various airports on passenger services fee and UDF but no tax is paid on development fees. It was argued that CBEC has clarified that passenger service fee, user development fee and development fee are different and development fee is to be taxed under “airport services”. D 9. Learned counsel sought to distinguish the decision of the Kerala High Court in the case of Cochin International Airport Ltd. because in that case, what was in issue was user fee while in the case in hand it is UDF. Counsel reiterated thatthe findings of the lower authorities are correct and submits that the impugned s of CESTAT call for E interference. 10. Learned counsel pointed out that by Section 22A of the AAI Act, the authority “may”, after the previous approval of the Central Government “levy on, and collect from, the embarking passengers at, an airport, the Development Fees”. It was contended that such F levy cannot be called a tax because it is discretionary and subject to the approval of the Central Government, meant for funding or financing the costs of upgradation, expansion or development of the airport at which the fee is collected; or establishment or development of a new airport in lieu of the existing airport or towards investment in the equity in respect G of “shares to be subscribed by the authority in companies engaged in establishing, owning, developing, operating or maintaining a private airport in lieu of the airport” or “advancement of loans to such companies or other persons engaged in such activities.” It was also urged that the amounts cannot be termed as levy, because they are not deposited with the government treasury. H CENTRAL GST DELHI - III v. DELHI INTERNATIONAL 331 AIRPORT LTD [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 11. It was submitted that from a reading of Section 22A, it is clear A that it allows for funding or financing the cost of upgradation, expansion or development of the airport at which the fee is collected and establishment or development of a new Airport in lieu of the airport at which the fee is collected.