4. The present appeal is vehemently opposed by Shri V. Lakshmikumaran, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent – assessee – dealer. It is submitted at the outset that the penalty and B interest is not payable by the assessee in the facts of the present case. It is further submitted that with reference to imposition of penalty, as per statutory provision, penalty is leviable only if differential tax liability (difference between tax assessed and tax paid) is more than 25%. That according to the assessee, the differential tax liability on merits is less than 25%, however, for the sake of argument, it is assumed that the C condition of 25% is fulfilled. 4.1 Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent – assessee has made the following submissions in support of the case on behalf of the assessee that the assessee is not liable to pay the penalty and interest: - D (1) That for the purpose of argument that penalty is not payable, the respondent is within his legal rights to argue that quantum of tax demand is not correct, even if the same was not pressed before the High Court. (2) That section 45(5) of Gujarat Sales Tax Act, 1969 creates E a presumption which is rebuttable in nature. (3) That for the purpose of imposition of penalty under Section 45(6) Gujarat Sales Tax Act, 1969, mens rea, blameworthy conduct, deliberate violation, evil doing, fraud, suppression (either one or more of them) must be proved. F (4) That section 45(6) of the Act, 1969 provides for imposition of penalty not exceeding one and one-half times the differential tax. The provision provides for an upper limit for imposition of penalty; however, no minimumpenalty is prescribed. This indicates that in appropriate cases where G there is no mens rea, the authority has the discretion to impose no penalty. (5) That in case the claim of the dealer for payment of composition amount of 2% is rejected, the dealer could pay the tax on actual value of goods involved in the execution H STATE OF GUJARAT AND ANR. v. M/s. SAW PIPES LTD. 489 [M. R. SHAH, J.] of a works contract. Even in such a scenario, the additional A tax payable would be less than 25% and hence, the provision for penalty will not be attracted. (6) No interest is payable under Section 47(4-A) of Gujarat Sales Tax Act, 1969. B 4.2 Elaborating the above submissions, it is submitted that the levy of penalty under Section 45(6) of the Act would depend upon the liability of the dealer to pay tax. That accordingly, in case where there is a dispute regarding imposition of penalty under Section 45(6), it becomes necessary to determine if the dealer is liable to pay additional tax. It is submitted that this position would remain unaltered even when the C correctness of imposition of tax has not been argued before the High Court. 4.3 It is next submitted that the respondent can, in an appeal filed by the opposite party, re-canvass for reversal of a finding reached against him in the .