For Jamua Ramgarh Wildlife Sanctuary, it shall be 500 m so far as subsisting activities are D concerned. ………. 56.5. In the event any activity is already being undertaken within the one kilometre or extended buffer zone (ESZ), as the case may be, of any wildlife sanctuary or national park which does not E come within the ambit of prohibited activities as per the 9-2-2011 Guidelines, such activities may continue with permission of the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests of each State or Union Territory and the person responsible for such activities in such a situation shall obtain necessary permission within a period of six F months. Such permission shall be given once the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests is satisfied that the activities concerned do not come within the prohibited list and were continuing prior to passing of this in a legitimate manner. No new permanent structure shall be permitted to come up for whatsoever purpose within the ESZ.” G 3. The clarification/modification of paragraph 56.1 of the dated 3rd June 2022 (supra) is sought to the extent that the Eco-Sensitive Zones (for short, “ESZs”) which have already been notified (final and draft) by the Ministry of Environment Forests and Climate Change (for 1 (2022) 10 SCC 544 H 610 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A short, “MoEF & CC”) or the proposals for which have been received in the Ministry be exempted from the directions therein. The applicant also sought modification to the extent that paragraph 56.1 of the dated 3rd June 2022 (supra) may not be made applicable where National Parks and Wildlife Sanctuaries are located along inter-State boundaries and/or common boundaries. Modification/clarification of the directions in B paragraph 56.5 of the dated 3rd June 2022 (supra) in its entirety is additionally sought. 4. We have heard Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, learned Additional Solicitor General (for short, “ASG”) appearing on behalf of the applicant, Shri K. Parameshwar, learned amicus curiae as well as Senior Counsel C appearing on behalf of various State Governments. 5. It is submitted that the Government of India has already issued Guidelines on 9th February 2011 (hereinafter referred to as the “said Guidelines”) for declaration of ESZs around National Parks and Wildlife Sanctuaries. The said Guidelines were framed after consulting the D National Board for Wildlife (hereinafter referred to as “NBWL”), and all the State and Union Territory Governments. The said Guidelines provide a detailed procedure for submitting a proposal for declaration of the areas around National Parks and Wildlife Sanctuaries as ESZs. It is further submitted that the said Guidelines itself contain various activities E which have been categorized as prohibited, regulated and permitted. 6. It is further submitted that the direction as contained in paragraph 56.5 of the dated 3rd June 2022 (supra) is likely to cause great hardship to the citizens residing in the ESZs. It is further submitted that the said directions provide that if any activity is already being undertaken within one kilometre or extended buffer zone (ESZ), and which does not F come within the ambit of prohibited activities as per the said Guidelines, such activities may continue with the permission of the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (for short, “PCCF”) of each State or Union Territory and the person responsible for such activities in such a situation shall obtain necessary permission within a period of six months.The said G Guidelines further provide that such permission shall be given once the PCCF is satisfied that the activities concerned do not come within the prohibited list and were continuing prior to passing of this Court’s dated 3rd June 2022 (supra) in a legitimate manner.