On the contrary, Rule 3 of the Rules 2008 makes it explicitly clear that the authority under sub section (2) of Section B 45 of the UAPA is obliged in law to apply its mind thoroughly to the evidence gathered by the investigating officer and thereafter, prepare its report containing the recommendations to the Central Government or the State government for the grant of sanction. The grant of sanction is not an idle formality. The grant of sanction should reflect proper C application of mind. 51. This Court in Central Bureau of Investigation v. Ashok Kumar Aggarwal reported in (2014) 14 SCC 295, while deliberating on the validity of sanction held as under: “13.The prosecution has to satisfy the court that at the time D of sending the matter for grant of sanction by the competent authority, adequate material for such grant was made available to the said authority. This may also be evident from the sanction , in case it is extremely comprehensive, as all the facts and circumstances of the case may be spelt out in E the sanction . However, in every individual case, the court has to find out whether there has been an application of mind on the part of the sanctioning authority concerned on the material placed before it. It is so necessary for the reason that there is an obligation on the sanctioning authority to discharge its duty to give or withhold sanction only after F having full knowledge of the material facts of the case. Grant of sanction is not a mere formality. Therefore, the provisions in regard to the sanction must be observed with complete strictness keeping in mind the public interest and the protection available to the accused against whom the sanction is G sought.” 52. While summarising the legal propositions in Ashok Kumar Aggarwal (supra) in para 16, this Court observed as under: “16.1. The prosecution must send the entire relevant record to the sanctioning authority including the FIR, disclosure H JUDGEBIR SINGH @ JASBIR SINGH SAMRA @ JASBIR 37 v. NATIONAL INVESTIGATION AGENCY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] statements, statements of witnesses, recovery memos, draft A charge-sheet and all other relevant material. The record so sent should also contain the material/document, if any, which may tilt the balance in favour of the accused and on the basis of which, the competent authority may refuse sanction. 16.2. The authority itself has to do complete and conscious B scrutiny of the whole record so produced by the prosecution independently applying its mind and taking into consideration all the relevant facts before grant of sanction while discharging its duty to give or withhold the sanction. 16.3. The power to grant sanction is to be exercised strictly C keeping in mind the public interest and the protection available to the accused against whom the sanction is sought. 16.4. The of sanction should make it evident that the authority had been aware of all relevant facts/materials and had applied its mind to all the relevant material.