Counsel for the respondents has relied on the following s G in support of the directions issued in the impugned : a. Parker v. The South Eastern Railway Co (1877) 2 CDP 416; b. Olley v. Marlborough Court Ltd (1949) 1 KB 523; H K C CINEMA (CORRECT NAME K C THEATRE) v. STATE OF JAMMU 581 AND KASHMIR [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] c. McCutcheon v. David Macbrayne Ltd (1964) 1 A WLR 125; and d. Thornton v. Shoe Lane Parking Ltd (1970) EWCA Civ 2. 10. In to understand whether the rulings in these s B are applicable to the case before us, it is necessary to advert to the context in which they originated, the question(s) of law which fell for the court’s determination, and the relief claimed therein. 11. In Parker’s case (supra), the plaintiff deposited some of his belongings with the cloakroom at a railway station. At the time of C depositing them, he received a ticket which had the words “see back” printed on it. The reverse side of the ticket contained a term stating, “the company will not be responsible for any package exceeding the value of 10l.” A placard with the same condition printed on it was also hung on the wall. The plaintiff’s belongings were lost or stolen and he brought an action against the defendant for the value of the lost articles. D The plaintiff had not seen the condition regarding the defendant’s liability for any articles deposited, either on the ticket or on the placard on the wall. The question before the court in that case was whether the respondent was liable for the loss of the plaintiff’s belongings. 12. In Olley’s case (supra), the plaintiff was a paying guest in E the defendant’s hotel. After paying for the room, she received her keys and went to her room. There, a notice containing numerous terms and conditions was displayed. One of the conditions was “The proprietors will not hold themselves responsible for articles lost or stolen, unless handed to the manageress for safe custody.” The plaintiff’s possessions were later stolen from her room. The plaintiff instituted a suit against the F defendant and claimed the value of the goods stolen from her. The court was required to adjudicate whether the defendant could rely on the terms of a contract to exempt itself from liability under common law. In other words, the question that arose for determination was whether the defendant was responsible for the loss suffered by the plaintiff. G 13. In McCutcheon’s case (supra), the plaintiff engaged an agent to have his car delivered to another town by sea. The agent paid the defendant, received a receipt, and delivered the car. The car was loaded onto the ship which set sail. Before it could reach its destination, however, it sank due to the negligence of the defendant’s employees. The plaintiff H 582 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A sued the defendant for the value of his car.