Further, the PW-6 (daughter of the accused) stated that “I questioned my father about the incident and he confessed before me that he had murdered my husband” and PW-1 has stated that “the accused confessed before the villagers that he had committed the murder of his son-in-law with the help of bamboo lathi. The statements of the two witnesses are simple, clear and unambiguous and they clearly conveyed that the accused appellant had confessed that he had committed the murder of the victim deceased. It is true that the exact MARKASH JAJARA v. THE STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 839 words of the accused appellant were not stated by the two witnesses but the material substance of the fact stated by the accused have been conveyed. Moreover, the defence did not question the two witnesses on the same and not even tried to either controvert or discredit their statement. Thus, we fi nd no reason not to believe the statement of the witnesses. Further, the confessional statement of the accused as stated by the two witnesses is well supported by the circumstantial evidence that the incident took place in the precinct of the house of the accused- appellant himself and, the accused-appellant was alone with the dead body of the victim at the time of the incident” 11. We have heard Mr. Gaurav Agarwal, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant as well as Mr. Nalin Kohli, learned Senior Additional Advocate General, State of Assam, and carefully perused the material placed on record. 12. The short question that arises for consideration is whether the off ence attributed to the appellant falls within the ambit of Exception I of Section 300 IPC which defi nes “murder”. Exception I reads as follows: “Exception 1. —When culpable homicide is not murder. — Culpable homicide is not murder if the off ender, whilst deprived of the power of self-control by grave and sudden provocation, causes the death of the person who gave the provocation or causes the death of any other person by mistake or accident. The above exception is subject to the following provisos:— First.—That the provocation is not sought or voluntarily provoked by the off ender as an excuse for killing or doing harm to any person. Secondly.—That the provocation is not given by anything done in obedience to the law, or by a public servant in the lawful exercise of the powers of such public servant. Thirdly.—That the provocation is not given by anything done in the lawful exercise of the right of private defence. 840 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. Explanation.—Whether the provocation was grave and sudden enough to prevent the off ence from amounting to murder is a question of fact.” 13. We ought to analyse the aforementioned issue with reference to the statement of P.W.6 (Sarani Boria), daughter of the appellant, as reproduced in para 5. 14. It may be seen that the Trial Court as well as the High Court have heavily relied upon the statement of the daughter of the appellant - Sarani Boria (P.W.6) to hold him guilty of committing the murder of his son-in-law predominantly in view of his purported confession made before his daughter.