They can only recall the main purport of the conversation. It is unrealistic to expect a witness to be a human tape-rec. E (5) In regard to exact time of an incident, or the time duration of an occurrence, usually, people make their estimates by guess- work on the spur of the moment at the time of interrogation. And one cannot expect people to make very precise or reliable estimates in such matters. Again, it depends on the time-sense of individuals which varies from person to person. F (6) Ordinarily a witness cannot be expected to recall accurately the sequence of events which takes place in rapid succession or in a short time span. A witness is liable to get confused, or mixed up when interrogated later on. G (7) A witness, though wholly truthful, is liable to be overawed by the court atmosphere and the piercing cross-examination made by counsel and out of nervousness mix up facts, get confused regarding sequence of events, or fill up details from imagination on the spur of the H VAHITHA v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU 977 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] moment. The sub-conscious mind of the witness sometimes A so operates on account of the fear of looking foolish or being disbelieved though the witness is giving a truthful and honest account of the occurrence witnessed by him — Perhaps it is a sort of a psychological defence mechanism activated on the spur of the moment.” B (emphasis supplied) 12.4. In the case of Gangadhar Behera (supra), this Court again highlighted that the normal discrepancies in evidence are of natural occurrence in the Court, while observing as under: - C “15. Normal discrepancies in evidence are those which are due to normal errors of observation, normal errors of memory due to lapse of time, due to mental disposition such as shock and horror at the time of occurrence and those are always there however honest and truthful a witness may be. Material discrepancies are those which are not normal, and not expected of a normal person. D Courts have to label the category to which a discrepancy may be categorized. While normal discrepancies do not corrode the credibility of a party’s case, material discrepancies do so. These aspects were highlighted recently in Krishna Mochi v. State of Bihar [(2002) 6 SCC 81] .…..” E 12.5. As regards the approach towards the appreciation of the evidence of closely related witnesses, in the case of Gangabhavani (supra), this Court has explained the principles as follows: - “15…..It is a settled legal proposition that the evidence of closely related witnesses is required to be carefully scrutinised and F appreciated before any conclusion is made to rest upon it, regarding the convict/accused in a given case. Thus, the evidence cannot be disbelieved merely on the ground that the witnesses are related to each other or to the deceased. In the case the evidence has a ring of truth to it, is cogent, credible and trustworthy, it can, and certainly should, be relied upon.