A Acts or made under the proviso of Article 309; and in the case of clause (c) of the second proviso to Article 311 (2), the inquiry is to be dispensed with not on the personal satisfaction of the President or the Governor but on his satisfaction arrived at with the aid and on the advice of the Council of Ministers.” B “101... As pointed out above, clause (2) of Article 311 embodies in express words the audi alteram partem rule. This principle of natural justice having been expressly excluded by a constitutional provision, namely, the second proviso to clause (2) of Article 311, there is no scope for reintroducing it by a side-door to provide once again the same inquiry which C the constitutional provision has expressly prohibited. Where a clause of the second proviso is applied on an extraneous ground or a ground having no relation to the situation envisaged in that clause, the action in so applying it would be mala fide, and, therefore, void. In such a case the D invalidating factor may be referable to Article 14. This is, however, the only scope which Article 14 can have in relation to the second proviso, but to hold that once the second proviso is properly applied and clause (2) of Article 311 excluded, Article 14 will step in to take the place of clause (2) would be to nullify the effect of the opening words of the second proviso E and thus frustrate the intention of the makers of the Constitution…” “114. So far as Challappan case is concerned, it is not possible to find any fault either with the view that neither clause (a) of the second proviso to Article 311 (2) nor clause (i) of Rule 14 F of the Railway Servants Rules is mandatory or with the considerations which have been set out in the as being the considerations to be taken into account by the disciplinary authority before imposing a penalty upon a delinquent government servant. Where a situation envisaged G in one of the three clauses of the second proviso to Article 311 (2) or of an analogous service rule arises, it is not mandatory that the major penalty of dismissal, removal or reduction in rank should be imposed upon the concerned government servant. The penalty which can be imposed may be some other major penalty or even a minor penalty H DR. V. R. SANAL KUMAR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 785 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] depending upon the facts and circumstances of the case. In A to arrive at a decision as to which penalty should be imposed, the disciplinary authority will have to take into consideration the various factors set out in Challappan case. It is, however, not possible to agree with the approach adopted in Challappan case in considering Rule 14 of the Railway B Servants Rules in isolation and apart from the second proviso to Article 311 (2), nor with the interpretation placed by it upon the word ‘consider’ in the last part of Rule 14.