10.1. The purpose of the incentives in question seems to be twofold: First, to incentivize persons with advanced educational qualifications to apply for the post of lecturers. Second, in to retain in the teaching F profession, persons with advanced qualifications. In to secure the first of the aforestated objectives, Clause 6.16 of the Government dated 21st December, 1999 provided for increments that would accrue on recruitment. In to secure the second of the aforesaid purposes, Clause 6.19 thereof provided for incentives that would accrue at the G time of placement in the selection grade. Therefore, it could not be said that the original intention of the Government while issuing the dated 21st December, 1999 was that a Lecturer would not be simultaneously eligible for the incentives under Clause 6.16 and 6.19. 10.2. Further, as evident from the tabular comparison presented H hereinabove, the number of advance increments that would accrue in SREE SANKARACHARYA UNIVERSITY OF SANSKRIT & 387 ORS. v. DR. MANU & ANR. [NAGARATHNA, J.] favour of a Lecturerwho has a Ph.D. degree to his/her credit at the time A of recruitment, was reduced by way of the Government dated 29th March, 2001 from six to four. Therefore, permitting retrospective application of the said would result in withdrawing vested rights of lecturers who had a PhD. at the time of their recruitment and who were placed in the selection grade before 29th March, 2001 with four plus two B advance increments. 10.3. Further, merely because the subsequent Government has been described as a clarification/explanation or is said to have been issued following a clarification that was sought in that regard, the Court is not bound to accept that the said is only clarificatory in nature. C On an analysis of the true nature and purport of the subsequent Government dated 29th March, 2001, we are of the view that it is not merely clarificatory, but is a substantial amendment which seeks to withdraw the benefit of two advance increments in favour of a certain category of lecturers. The benefit withdrawn was not anticipated under the previously existing scheme. Therefore, such an amendment cannot D be given retrospective effect. 11. For the reasons set out above, lecturers such as Respondent No. 1 who were placed in the selection grade before 29th March, 2001 would be entitled to all the incentives stipulated in the Government dated 21st December, 1999. E 12. The present appeal is dismissed. The s of the learned Single Judge and Division Bench of the High Court of Kerala, dated 13th October, 2015 and 10th August, 2016 respectively are affirmed. Parties to bear their respective costs. F Divya Pandey Appeal dismissed. (Assisted by : Roopanshi Virang, LCRA) G H