I have to give some meaning to the said observations. Thus, in view of the above specific observations made by the Constitution Bench of this Court, the objections, as above, raised on behalf of the respective respondents are to be overruled. None of the F submissions/decisions relied upon on behalf of the respective respondents shall be of any assistance to the respondents, though there cannot be any dispute with respect to the proposition of law laid down in the relied upon s/decisions on the review jurisdiction, more particularly, in view of the observations made in para 217 in the earlier decision of this Court in the case of Indore Development Authority v. Shailendra G (dead) through Lrs. (supra) and the observations made in para 365 in the subsequent decision of the Constitution Bench in the case of Indore Development Authority v. Manohar Lal (supra), reproduced hereinabove. H 224 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 7. It is also required to be noted that in similar set of facts and circumstances, this Court had condoned the delay and reviewed/recalled the similar in which the decision in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) was relied upon. It may be true that in some cases, the review applications have been dismissed. However, considering the s passed in rejecting review applications, it appears that attention B of the Court to paras 365 and 366 of the decision of the Constitution Bench in Indore Development Authority v. Manohar Lal (supra) and para 217 of the earlier decision in the case of Indore Development Authority v. Shailendra (dead) through Lrs. (supra) were not brought to the notice of the Court. C 8. Now so far as the submission on behalf of the respective respondents that the case does not fall under 47 CPC and that the subsequent overruling cannot be a ground to review the earlier (s) is concerned, at the outset, it is required to be noted that here is a peculiar case where the earlier decision in the case of Pune Municipal D Corporation (supra), upon which reliance has been placed earlier, was itself doubted in the subsequent decision in the case of Indore Development Authority (supra) and that the matter was referred to the Constitution Bench and thereafter the Constitution Bench has declared the law as above, more particularly paras 365 and 366 of the in the case of Indore Development Authority (supra). It is also required E to be noted that in most of the cases solely relying upon the earlier decision in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) and though the possession of the lands in question have been taken over and in many cases it might have been utilised/used by the beneficiary authorities, s are passed declaring the deemed lapse of acquisition. The resultant F effect would be to return the possession of the land/s which might have been used by the beneficiary authorities. Therefore also in the larger public interest, the review applications are required to be allowed and the respective appeals are required to be considered and decided afresh.