[2023] 11 S.C.R. 643 : 2023 INSC 773 CASE DETAILS STATE OF PUNJAB AND ANR. v. M/S. SHIKHA TRADING CO. (Civil Appeal No. 2453 of 2011) AUGUST 25, 2023 [ABHAY S. OKA AND SANJAY KAROL, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Writ petition was fi led by respondent against the illegal sealing of its shop by the offi cers of Department of Excise and Taxation. While disposing off the petition, High Court whether justifi ed in passing the impugned directions for registering criminal investigation against the Assistant Excise and Taxation, Commissioner, holding that he had fi led an affi davit taking a false defence. Practice and Procedure – Adverse remarks – Expunction of: Held : Remarks adverse in nature, should not be passed in ordinary circumstances, or unless absolutely necessary for proper adjudication of the case at hand – Impugned directions were passed upon an incorrect and erroneous appreciation of the record – The record does not support the prime facie view taken in regard to ante-dating or interpolation of the despatch register – The register records multiple entries in diff erent hand, script, and language – There is neither any cutting, overwriting nor any interpolation – A glance at the relevant page of the despatch register makes it clear that the entry at the said page starts from Sl No.2026 and ends at Sl No.2043 and the despatch of the communication in question to the respondent falls at Sl No. 2032 which is in the middle of the page – Therefore, the question of any interpolation/tampering does not arise – The concerned Offi cer was not to be benefi tted in any manner in ante-dating the communication dtd.21.10.2010, as the said date was still beyond the period of 10 days initially granted by the High Court to unseal the premises of the respondent, vide dtd. 27.09.2010 – Impugned directions totally misplaced, more so, when the 643 644 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. endeavour of the Offi cer was to bring the off enders to book and save evasion of duty, mandatorily required to be paid by the assessee – Observation made and the directions issued by the High Court vide impugned , expunged – Proceedings initiated pursuant thereto, if any, including the FIR stand closed with immediate eff ect. [Paras 9, 10, 12, 13, 20 and 21] Practice and Procedure – Adverse remarks – Tests laid down in State of UP v. Mohammad Naim (four-Judge Bench) – Non-fulfi lment of: Held : of the High Court does not qualify the tests laid down by this Court in State of UP v. Mohammad Naim in regards to passing remarks against a person, whose conduct is being scrutinised – Neither was the offi cer made party to the dispute, nor was he given an opportunity to show cause, and further, nothing on record refl ected the offi cer holding an animus against the respondent, before such adverse directions were passed against him – Remarks by a court should at all times be governed by the principles of justice, fair play and restraint – Words employed should refl ect sobriety, moderation and reserve – Impugned directions issued by the High Court in registration of criminal investigation against an offi cer against the settled principles of law have a demoralizing eff ect on the well-meaning offi cers of the State.