414. Clause (4) was added to Article 367 so as to provide that for the purpose of the Constitution as it applies in relation to Jammu and Kashmir, references to the Government of the State would be construed as including references to the Sadar-i-Riyasat acting on the advice of his Council of Ministers. Thereafter, on 24 November 1965, the President with the concurrence of the State Government issued CO 74. Under this Constitutional , Article 367 in its application to the State was modifi ed so as to provide that references to the Sadar-i-Riyasat acting on the aid and advise of the Council of Ministers shall be construed as references to the Governor of Jammu and Kashmir acting on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. The petitioner challenged the replacement of the Sadar-i-Riyasat by the Governor on the ground that it was ultra vires. Rejecting the challenge, Chief Justice Sikri held that what the State Government is at a particular time had to be determined in the context of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The Explanation did no more than recognise the constitutional position as it existed on that date: “24. …We are concerned with the situation where the explanation ceased to operate. It had ceased to operate because there is no longer any Sadar-i-Riyasat of Jammu and Kashmir. If the defi nition contained in the Explanation cannot apply to the words “government of the State” then the meaning given in Article 367(4), as amended, will have to be given to it. If this meaning is given, it is quite clear that the Governor is competent to give the concurrence stipulated in Article 370 and perform other functions laid down by the Jammu and Kashmir Constitution.” 244 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 415. This court held that the Governor was the successor of the Sadar- i-Riyasat and that the latter was only the name given to the head of the State. This perfectly encapsulates the reasons for which CO 74’s modifi cation of Article 367 was clarifi catory. Moreover, CO 74 did not modify Article 370 in terms or in eff ect, to a signifi cant or appreciable extent. In fact, the Court in Damnoo (supra) held that CO 74 did not amount to an amendment of Article 370(1) “by the back-door”: “28. Mr Garg drew our attention to clauses (aa) and (b) of Article 367 (4), as substituted by CO 74 … He said that this was amendment of Article 370(1) by the back-door and the President could not exercise these powers under Article 370(1) when he had not purported to exercise these powers under Article 370(3). But, as we have already said, the explanation had become otiose and references to the Sadar- i-Riyasat in other parts of the Constitution had also become otiose. There were two alternatives; fi rst, either to leave the courts to interpret the words “government of the State” and give it its legal meaning, or secondly, to give the legal meaning in a defi nition clause.