The appellant, was ultimately, given ‘Administrative Warning’ in respect of the charges against him which were levied for the appellant’s failure to discharge his duties with utmost devotion and diligence and acting in a manner unbecoming of a Bank Offi cial and highly prejudicial to the Bank’s interest – the said charges were neither of Sections 420, 468, 471 or 120-B of the IPC. 35. It was also argued that in any case, the charges not being identical, the fate of the departmental proceedings cannot weigh at all in respect of criminal proceedings based on trial. Thus, the appellant cannot rely on the outcome of the departmental proceedings to seek quashing of the criminal case against him. 36. In the last, the learned counsel argued something very important. It was submitted that a bare reading of Section 197 of the CrPC clearly indicates that the Section 197 of the CrPC is only applicable to those ‘public servants’ who are removable with the sanction of the Government and to no other ‘public servants’. Relying on the decision of this Court in the case of S.K. Miglani v. State (NCT of Delhi), reported in (2019) 6 SCC 111, it was submitted that the Manager of a Nationalised Bank though a public servant yet not removable from his offi ce save by or with the sanction of the Government and hence cannot claim protection under Section 197 of the CrPC. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel prayed that there being no merit in the present appeal, the same may be dismissed. ANALYSIS 37. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials placed on record the following questions of law fall for our consideration: 946 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. (i) Whether the appellant, serving in his capacity as an Assistant General Manager, State Bank of India, Overseas Bank, is removable from his offi ce save by or with the sanction of the Government so as to make Section 197 of the CrPC applicable? (ii) Is it permissible for the Special Court (CBI) to proceed against the appellant for the off ences punishable under the IPC despite the fact that the sanction under Section 19 of the PC Act, 1988 to prosecute the appellant for the off ences under the PC Act, 1988, is not on record as the same came to be declined? SECTION 197 OF THE CRPC 38. Section 197 of the CrPC reads as under: “197. Prosecution of Judges and public servants.— (1) When any person who is or was a Judge or Magistrate or a public servant not removable from his offi ce save by or with the sanction of the Government is accused of any off ence alleged to have been committed by him while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his offi cial duty, no Court shall take cognizance of such off ence except with the previous sanction save as otherwise provided in the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, 2013 (1 of 2014)-- (a) in the case of a person who is employed or, as the case may be, was at the time of commission of the alleged off ence employed, in connection with the aff airs of the Union, of the Central Government; (b) in the case of a person who is employed or, as the case may be, was at the time of commission of the alleged off ence employed, in connection with the aff airs of a State, of the State Government: Provided that where the alleged off ence was committed by a person referred to in clause (b) during the period while a Proclamation issued under clause (1) of article 356 of the Constitution was in force in a State, clause (b) will apply as if for the expression "State Government" occurring therein, the expression "Central Government" were substituted.