This makes it very clear that the Constituent Assembly of the State did not desire that this article should cease to be operative and, in fact, expressed its agreement to the continued operation of this article by making a recommendation that it should be operative with this modifi cation only.” 328. The Constitution Bench also adverted to the proviso to Article 368 added by a Constitutional in relation to the State of Jammu and Kashmir under which an amendment to the Constitution made in accordance with Article 368 would not have any eff ect in relation to that State unless applied by the of the President under Article 370 (1). In view of these provisions, the Court held that “Article 370 of the Constitution has never ceased to be operative and there can be no challenge on this ground to the validity of the s passed by the President in exercise of the powers conferred by this Article”. 329. The petitioners also contended that once any provision of the Constitution was applied to the State of Jammu and Kashmir with modifi cations and exceptions under Article 370(1)(d), the power under Article 370 would not cover any modifi cation in the Constitution as applied. That is, further modifi cations to the provisions as applied to the State cannot be made. Rejecting the submission, the Court held that the power under IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 201 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Article 370(1)(d) to issue an applying provisions of the Constitution of India to Jammu and Kashmir included the power to make modifi cations. Reference was made to Section 21 of the General Clauses Act for this purpose which states that the power to issue a notifi cation includes the power to amend the notifi cation: “12. The legislative history of this article will also fully support this view. It was because of the special situation existing in Jammu & Kashmir that the Constituent Assembly framing the Constitution decided that the Constitution should not become applicable to Jammu & Kashmir under Article 394, under which it came into eff ect in the rest of India, and preferred to confer on the President the power to apply the various provisions of the Constitution with exceptions and modifi cations. It was envisaged that the President would have to take into account the situation existing in the State when applying a provision of the Constitution and such situations could arise from time to time. There was clearly the possibility that, when applying a particular provision, the situation might demand an exception or modifi cation of the provision applied; but subsequent changes in the situation might justify the rescinding of those modifi cations or exceptions. This could only be brought about by conferring on the President the power of making s from time to time under Article 370 and this power must, therefore, be held to have been conferred on him by applying the provisions of Section 21 of the General Clauses Act for the interpretation of the Constitution.” The Constitution Bench held that the extension of the period of fi ve years under Article 35-C to ten years and fi fteen years respectively by the C.Os of 1959 and 1964 “is justifi ed prima facie by the exceptional state of aff airs which continue to exist as before”.