v. S.R. KUMAR AND ORS. 1017 [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] Constitution against an of the High Court after an A earlier Special Leave Petition against the same had been withdrawn without any liberty to file a fresh Special Leave Petition. Similarly, there is nothing in the decisions cited by the appellant to show that this Court has taken a view that against the of the High Court rejecting an application B for review, an appeal by way of Special Leave under Article 136 of the Constitution is maintainable. In the result, we hold that the Civil Appeals are not maintainable and we accordingly dismiss the same….” 33. Further, in the case of Sandhya Education Society (Supra), C a two-Judge Bench of this Court, while accepting the principle laid down in the Vinod Kapoor (Supra), categorically held that once Special Leave Petition is dismissed as withdrawn, if no explicit liberty has been granted to approach the Supreme Court by way of a subsequent Special Leave Petition, the same cannot be allowed. For a ready D reference, the relevant extract of the said is being placed hereunder: “This Court in Vinod Kapoor v. State of Goa, has categorically observed that once the special leave petition is dismissed as withdrawn without obtainingg appropriate permission to file E a special leave petition once over again after exhausting the remedy of review petition before the High Court, the same is not maintainable.” 34. Per contra, the Ld. Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants has relied upon the case of Khoday Distilleries Ltd. Vs. Sri Mahadeshwara Sahakara Sakkare Karkhane Ltd3., wherein it has F been observed that the doctrine of merger is not applicable in cases where the dismissal of Special Leave Petition is by way of a non-speaking . The relevant paragraphs of the said , for the sake of convenience, are being reproduced herein: “We reiterate the conclusions relevant for these cases as G under: (Kunhayammed case |Kunhayammed v. State of Kerala, (2000) 6 SCC359]. SCC p. 384) 3 (2019) 4 SCC 376 H 1018 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A “(iv) An refusing special leave to appeal may be a non- speaking or a speaking one. In either case it does not attract the doctrine of merger. An refusing special leave to appeal does not stand substituted in place of the under challenge. All that it means is that the Court was not inclined to exercise its discretion so as to allow the appeal B being filed. (v) If the refusing leave to appeal is a speaking i.e. gives reasons for refusing the grant of leave, then the has two implications. Firstly, the statement of law contained in the is a declaration of law by the Supreme C Court within the meaning of Article 141 of the Constitution. Secondly, other than the declaration of law, whatever is stated in the are the findings recorded by the Supreme Court which would bind the parties thereto and also the Court, tribunal or authority in any proceedings subsequent thereto D by way of judicial discipline, the Supreme Court being the Apex Court of the country.