Government Electrical Undertaking (Dues Recovery) Act, 1958, as H amended from time to time. PASCHIMANCHAL VIDYUT VITRAN NIGAM LTD. v. RAMAN 1257 ISPAT PRIVATE LIMITED & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (b) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for A the time being in force, no sum due from any consumer shall be recoverable after the period of two years from the date when such sum became first due unless such sum has been shown continuously as recoverable as arrear of charges of electricity supplied, and the licensee shall not cut off the supply B of the electricity. (Explanation: The date from which such charges becomes ‘first due’, needs to be correctly interpreted. If as a result of regular meter reading / inspection of installation of consumer, such charges / penalties levied as per this code or tariff schedule, shall become first due after 15 days of receipt of such a bill C by consumer, and such bill shall be provided to the consumer not later than two billing cycle for that category of consumer).” 42. As previously stated above, the corporate debtor entered into an agreement with PVVNL for supply of electricity on 11.02.2010 which provided that outstanding electricity dues would constitute a ‘charge’ on D its assets.29 This was in accordance with Clause 4.3(f)(iv) of the 2005 Code. Clause 8 of the agreement30 also mentioned that the parties would be governed by the 2003 Act. 43. A recent ruling of this court in K.C. Ninan v. Kerala State Electricity Board31examined the circumstances in which such a ‘charge’ E could be constituted in law, and held as follows: “107. Consequently, in general law, a transferee of the premises cannot be made liable for the outstanding dues of the previous owner since electricity arrears do not automatically become a charge over the premises. Such an action is permissible only F where the statutory conditions of supply authorise the recovery of outstanding electricity dues from a subsequent purchaser claiming fresh connection of electricity, or if there is an express provision of law providing for creation of a statutory charge upon the transferee.” G 29 Clause 5 of the agreement, extracted at paragraph 2. 30 Clause 8 of the agreement read as follows: “This agreement shall be governed by the Electricity Act, 2003 with all its amendments, various other laws of India for the time being in force, but not limited to various regulations of UPERC, as applicable to the State of U.P. and shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the Court subordinate to High Court of Judicature of Allahabad.” 31K.C. Ninan v. Kerala State Electricity Board, 2023 SCC Online SC 603. H 1258 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A This court held that the creation of a charge need not necessarily be based on an express provision of the 2003 Act or plenary legislation, but could be created by properly framed regulations authorized under the parent statute. In these circumstances, the argument of PVVNL that by virtue of Clause 4.3(f)(iv) of the Supply Code, read with the stipulations in the agreement between the parties, a charge was created B on the assets of the corporate debtor, is merited.