1092 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 5P SO.RCT.RS. 1092 [2023] 5 S.C.R. A M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR. v. ANITA MERCHANT (Civil Appeal Nos. 2892–2894 of 2023) B APRIL 18, 2023 [DINESH MAHESHWARI AND SANJAY KUMAR, JJ.] Consumer Protection Act 1986 : s. 14(1)(d) – Award of compound interest by Consumer Fora – Justification of – On facts, consumer complaints by the complainant-respondent alleging C deficiency of service on the part of the appellants-builder for having failed to deliver the possession of three flats booked by her, even after expiry of the agreed period and despite the fact that she had admittedly made payment of 60% of the total sale consideration – Dismissed by the District Forum – However, the State Commission D awarded compound interest in favor of the respondent @ 14 %, relying upon Dr. Manjeet Kaur Monga’s case – National Commission upheld the same – On appeal, held: State Commission and the National Commission passed rather assumptive s on the basis of the decision in Dr. Monga that compound interest was required to be allowed – Various factors recounted on behalf of the respondent, E including excessive harassment and denial of the fruits of her investment could all lead to a reasonable amount of compensation but, there appears absolutely no reason that compound interest be allowed in this matter – Award of compound interest had neither any foundation in the record nor any backing in law nor the F Consumer Fora took care to examine the contours of their jurisdiction and the requirements of proper assessment, if at all any compensation and/or punitive damages were sought to be granted – Awarding of compound interest with reference to Dr. Monga’s case and without examining any other factor has led to serious inconsistencies; and if the award as made is approved, it could only lead to unjust G enrichment of the respondent in the name of disgorgement of benefits purportedly derived by the appellants – Thus, the impugned s cannot be sustained and is set aside – However, the respondent allowed to retain the sum of money already received by her only because of peculiar circumstances of this case. H 1092 M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR. v. ANITA 1093 MERCHANT / : Precedent – Ascertainment of – Held: A is an authority only in regard to its ratio which is required to be discerned – Decision cannot be regarded as an authority in regard to its conclusion alone or even in relation to what could be deduced therefrom. Allowing the appeal, the Court B HELD: 1.1 Keeping the principles in Sanjay Singh’s case in view and for what has been discussed in regard to ratio decidendi of the decision in Dr. Manjeet Kaur Monga’s case, it is but clear that the said decision cannot be read in support of the principle that compensation and/or punitive damages in terms of C the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 could also be by way of compound interest. The State Commission awarded compound interest, and National Commission approved such awarding of compound interest to the present respondent, only with reference to the said decision in the case of Dr. Monga.