Reliance on this particularly for interfering with the concurrent interpretations of the contractual clause by the Arbitral Tribunal and Single Judge under Section 34 of the Act is not justifi ed. 21. As far as the decisions in South East Asia Marine Engineering and Constructions Limited (supra) and Patel Engineering Limited v. North Eastern Electric Power Corporation Limited11 are concerned, in both the cases, this Court affi rmed the interference by a court exercising jurisdiction under Section 37 of the Act, with the concurrent fi ndings of the Arbitral Tribunal as well as the court under Section 34 of the Act, for good and valid reasons. In South East Asia Marine Engineering and Constructions Limited (supra),the Section 37 Court interfered with the Award as the Arbitral Tribunal allowed the claim for price escalation for High-Speed Diesel under the ‘Change in Law’ clause, by construing the circular increasing the HSD price as having “force of law”. The ‘Change in Law’ clause therein provided for reimbursement of any additional costs on account of “change in or enactment of any law or interpretation of existing law”. The High Court, exercising jurisdiction under Section 37 of the Act, and this Court, found that the Arbitral Tribunal incorrectly construed the ‘Change in Law’ clause as akin to a force majeure clause and allowed the claims. This was held to not be a possible interpretation of the contract and hence, the Award was set aside. Similarly, in Patel Engineering Ltd.(supra), the Arbitral Award was found to be based on irrelevant facts and the outcome was found to result in unjust enrichment, the latter being in violation of public policy of India under Section 34(2) of the Act. Therefore, in both these cases, this Court was convinced that the view of the Arbitral Tribunal was not even a possible view, and hence, perverse in nature. 22. In the present case, we have examined the appreciation of evidence by the Arbitral Tribunal as well as the Single Judge of the High Court. We 11 (2020) 7 SCC 167. 230 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. are convinced that their appreciation of the facts and interpretation of the contract is reasonable, and comprises a possible view. Keeping in mind the mandate of Section 5 of the Act 1996,12 we note the observation of this Court in Vidya Drolia and Ors. v. Durga Trading Corporation13: “Arbitration is a private dispute resolution mechanism whereby two or more parties agree to resolve their current or future disputes by an Arbitral Tribunal, as an alternative to adjudication by the courts or a public forum established by law. Parties by mutual agreement forgo their right in law to have their disputes adjudicated in the courts/public forum. Arbitration agreement gives contractual authority to the Arbitral Tribunal to adjudicate the disputes and bind the parties.” 23. The conclusion of the Division Bench of the High Court that the Award is liable to be set aside on the ground of perversity is incorrect, as it overlooks the principle laid down in Associate Builders v. Delhi Development Authority,14 where this Court held: “32.