When a question of legislative competence is raised, the test is to look at the legislation as a whole and if it has a substantial and not merely a remote connection with the Entry, the same may well be taken to be a legislation on the topic videUjagar Prints vs. Union of India, AIR 1989 SC 516, (“Ujagar Prints”). F 11.6. The expression used in Article 246 is ‘with respect to’ any of the matters enumerated in the respective Lists. The said expression indicates the ambit of the power of the respective Legislature to legislate as regards the subject matters comprised in the various Entries included in the legislative Lists. For instance, where an Entry describes an object of tax, all taxable events pertaining to the object are within that field of G legislation unless the event is specifically provided for elsewhere under a different legislative Entry. Thus, the Court has to discover the true character and nature of the Legislation while deciding the validity of a legislation. Applying the doctrine of pith and substance while interpreting the legislative Lists what needs to be seen is whether an enactment H 948 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A substantially falls within the powers expressly conferred by the Constitution upon the Legislature which enacted it. If it does, it cannot be held to be invalid merely because it incidentally encroaches on matters assigned to another Legislature vide FN Balsara. 11.7. In Ujagar Prints, it was observed that the Entries in the B legislative Lists must receive a liberal construction inspired by a broad and generous spirit and not in a narrow and pedantic manner. This is because the Entries are not sources of legislative power but are merely topics or fields of Legislation. The expression ‘with respect to’ in Article 246 brings in the doctrine of pith and substance in the understanding of the exertion of the legislative power and wherever the question of C legislative competence is raised, the test is whether the Legislation, looked at as a whole, is substantially ‘with respect to’ the particular topic of Legislation. For applying the principle of pith and substance, regard must be had (i) to the enactment as a whole, (ii) to its main object, and (iii) to the scope and effect of the provision. D 11.8. Once the Legislation is found to be ‘with respect to’ the legislative Entry in question unless there are other constitutional prohibitions, the power would be unfettered. It would also extend to all ancillary and subsidiary matters which can fairly and reasonably be said to be comprehended in that topic or category of Legislation vide United E Provinces vs. Atiqa Begum, AIR 1941 FC 16, (“United Provinces”). 11.9. Another important aspect while construing the Entries in the respective Lists is that every attempt should be made to harmonise the contents of the Entries so that interpretation of one Entry should not render the entire content of another Entry nugatory vide Calcutta Gas Company vs. State of West Bengal, AIR 1962 SC 1044, (“Calcutta F Gas Company”).This is especially so when some of the Entries in a different List or in the same List may overlap or may appear to be in direct conflict with each other, in such a situation, a duty is cast on the Court to reconcile the Entries and bring about a harmonious construction.