An interim government, no doubt, based on elections, was put in place. There were also at the same time, provincial legislative bodies. The members of the Constituent Assembly came to be elected by the members of the provincial assemblies and they were not directly elected by the people of the country as such. Shri B Kaleeswaram Raj is, therefore, correct that the Constituent Assembly was not directly elected by the people. There were changes which were necessitated by the partition. Suffice it to note that there were 238 members representing the Governors and others provinces. This is besides 89 sent by the princely states. The first meeting of the Assembly was held on 9th December, 1946.One Shri B.N.Rau was appointed as the C constitutional advisor. He made a draft constitution. A drafting committee, drawn from the members of the constituent assembly in turn with the help of the Secretariat as well, brought out two drafts further, which in turn, were published.Public discussion ensued. Thereafter, the draft articles were discussed in the constituent assembly.There were further D amendments. It is to be noticed also that the humongous task necessarily led to the creation of several committees. The most prominent of them can be perceived as the drafting committee, the advisory committee and various sub-committees which included the sub-committee on fundamental rights. E K. THE USE OF CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY DEBATES 28. In regard to the use of Constituent Assembly debates, the law has not stood still. At any rate, whatever may be the controversy, as regards its employment to discern, the purport of a provision there can be no taboo involved in its use to understand the history of a provision F under the Constitution and the various steps leading up to and accompanying its enactment. In this regard, we may refer to the following view expressed in His Holiness Kesavananda Bharati Sripadagalvaru v. State of Kerala and Another10: “1598. If the debates in the Constituent Assembly can be looked G into to understand the legislative history of a provision of the Constitution including its derivation, that is, the various steps leading up to and attending its enactment, to ascertain the intention of the makers of the Constitution, it is difficult to see why the debates 10 (1973) 4 SCC 225 H 52 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A are inadmissible to throw light on the purpose and general intent of the provision. After all, legislative history only tends to reveal the legislative purpose in enacting the provision and thereby sheds light upon legislative intent. It would be drawing an invisible distinction if resort to debates is permitted simply to show the legislative history and the same is not allowed to show the B legislative intent …” (Emphasis supplied) 29. In fact, in a recent by Justice Ashok Bhushan, which is partly concurring and partly dissenting, reported in Dr. Jaishri C Laxmanrao Patil v. Chief Minister and others11, has approved, after referring to the decisions of this Court on the point, ‘the use of Constituent Assembly debates’.