I may just explain that once a company goes into the resolution process, then applications would be invited with regard to the potential resolution proposals as far as the company is concerned or the enterprise is concerned. Now a number of ineligibility clauses were not there in the original Act, and, therefore, Clause 29-A introduces those who are not eligible to apply. For instance, there is a clause with regard to an undischarged insolvent who is not eligible to apply: a person who has been disqualifi ed under the Companies Act to act as a Director cannot apply: and a person who is prohibited under the SEBI Act cannot apply. So these are statutory disqualifi cations. And, there is also a disqualifi cation in clause (c) with regard to those who are corporate debtors and who, as on the date of the application making a bid, do not operationalize the account by paying the interest itself i.e. you cannot say that I have an NPA. I am HARI BABU THOTA 931 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] not making the account operational. The accounts will continue to be NPAs and yet I am going to apply for this. Eff ectively, this clause will mean that those, who are in management and on account of whom this insolvent or the non-performing asset has arisen, will not try and say, I do not discharge any of the outstanding debts in terms of making the accounts operational, and yet I would like to apply and get the same enterprise back at a discounted value, for this is not the object of this particular Act itself. So Clause 5 has been brought in with that purpose in mind.” (emphasis supplied) 19. The aforesaid statement, while giving the objective of interpretation of Section 29A and referring to the disqualifi cation in Clause (c), is in regard to those who are corporate debtor and provides the cut off “as on date of the application making a bid”. 20. The common submission thus, is that while interpreting Section 240A, the reason for carving out an exception in micro, small and medium industries is set out on the date of application for making the bid as the crucial date. The submission is that while for some other aspects the initiation of the CIRP proceedings would be the cut off date, the same would not apply in the case of Section 240A, in view of the statement by the Minister themselves while introducing the amendment Bill. 21. We are inclined to accept the aforesaid plea as it is quite obvious that while seeking to protect this category of industries, the disqualifi cation is not to be incurred, especially in view of the “notwithstanding clause”. 22. We certainly can look to the statement of the Minister for purposes of a cut off date that “there is no other specifi c provision providing for cut off date” which submits that it should be the date of application of making a bid. Thus, to opine that it is the initiation of the CIRP proceedings which is the relevant date, cannot be said to refl ect the correct legal view and thus, we are constrained to observe that the law laid down in Digambar Anand Rao Pigle (supra) case by the Tribunal is not the correct position in law and the cut off date will be the date of submission of resolution plan.