ITS PRINCIPAL SECRETARY (FINANCE) [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 54. There was apparent conflict between two lines of s A of this court i.e., Radheshyam Gudakhu Factory and Kothari Products Ltd. (supra) on the one hand, and Dealing Dairy Products (supra), Krishna Kuthar Kabra (supra) and Agra Belting Works (supra) on the other hand. This court, in the latter three s held that notification introducing an entry and subjecting it to levy, when previously, B it was exempt in another part of the taxing statute, the intention was to withdraw the exemption and make the sale leviable to tax at the rate prescribed in the later notification. The court held it to be unnecessary that “a specific or separate notification withdrawing or revoking the notification should be issued”. This conflict was referred to a larger bench of five judges, in Trimurti Fragrances (P) Ltd v. Govt of C NCT of Delhi30 (a case, which is part of the present batch). The court held that the in Agra Belting Works (supra) does not in any manner conflict with the ruling in Kothari Products Ltd. (supra) or Radheshyam Gudakhu Factory (supra): “In our considered opinion there is no conflict between D the Kothari Products (supra) line of cases and the Agra Belting line of cases. The Kothari Products (supra) line of cases was on the question of whether “tobacco” or other goods specified in the First Schedule to the ADE Act and hence exempted from Sales Tax under State sales tax enactments, E can be made exigible to tax under the State enactments by amending the Schedule thereto. On the other hand, Agra Belting Works (supra) line of cases was on the question of interplay between general exemption of specified goods from sales tax under Section 4 of the U.P. Sales Tax Act and specification of rates of sales tax under Section 3-A of the F said Act. This Court held that goods exempted from sales tax under Section 4 would be exigible to tax by virtue of subsequent notification under Section 3-A specifying the rate of sales tax for any specific item of the class of goods earlier exempted under Section 4. There being no conflict, the reference to G Constitution Bench is incompetent.” 55. The above holding, that there is no conflict between the Agra Belting Works (supra) line of cases, and the Kothari Products Ltd. (supra)line of cases, therefore, concludes the question urged with respect 30 [2022] 15 SCR 516: 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1247 H 1076 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A to efficacy or validity of notifications introducing as entries in a schedule(s) and subjecting them to tax, when those articles are part of the statute or are exempted from taxation. The assessees’ contentions therefore, fail on this point. 56. Turning next to the question of whether pan masala was an B exempted item, being “tobacco”, it is noticeable that pan masala was expressly mentioned in Chapter 21 for the first time, in 1995 in the CET Act.