ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 553 [M. R. SHAH, J.] 14.3 Now let us consider the Preamble of the UAPA, 1967. As A per Preamble, UAPA has been enacted to provide for the more effective prevention of certain unlawful activities of individuals and associations and dealing with terrorist activities and for matters connected therewith. Therefore the aim and object of enactment of UAPA is also to provide for more effective prevention of certain unlawful activities. That is B why and to achieve the said object and purpose of effective prevention of certain unlawful activities the Parliament in its wisdom has provided that where an association is declared unlawful by a notification issued under Section 3, a person, who is and continues to be a member of such association shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to 2 years, and shall also be liable to fine. Therefore, the C Parliament in its wisdom had thought it fit that once an association is declared unlawful after following due procedure as required under Section 3 and subject to the approval by the Tribunal still a person continues to be a member of such association is liable to be punished/ penalized. D 14.4 At this stage it is required to be noted that before an association is declared unlawful, the procedure as required under Section 3 of the Act is required to be followed/undertaken. As per Section 3(1) if the Central Government is of the opinion that any association is, or has become an unlawful association, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, E declare such association to be unlawful. As per Section 3(2) every such notification shall specify the grounds on which it is issued and such other particulars as the Central Government may consider necessary….subject to the right of the Central Government not to disclose any fact which it considers to be against the public interest to disclose. Section 3(3) provides F that no such notification shall have effect until the Tribunal has, by an made under Section 4, confirmed the declaration made therein and the is published in the Official Gazette. It also confers power upon the Central Government to declare an association to be unlawful with immediate effect if the Central Government is of the opinion that circumstances exist which render it necessary to declare an association G to be unlawful with immediate effect, however subject to the reasons to be stated in writing and subject to any that may be made under Section 4. As per Section 4 every such notification shall in addition to its publication in the Official Gazette be published in not less than one daily newspaper having circulation in the State in which the principal office, if H 554 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A any, of the association affected is situated, and shall be served on such association in such a manner as the Central Government may think fit. As per Section 4 where any association has been declared unlawful by a notification issued under sub-section (1) of Section 3, the Central Government is required, within thirty days from the date of the publication of the notification, refer the notification to the Tribunal for the purpose of B adjudicating whether or not there is sufficient cause for declaring the association unlawful.