802 SUPREME CO[U2R02T3 ]R 3E PSO.CR.RT.S 802 [2023] 3 S.C.R. A GADDIPATI DIVIJA & ANR. v. PATHURI SAMRAJYAM & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 4206-4207 of 2011) B APRIL 18, 2023 [KRISHNA MURARI AND SANJAY KAROL, JJ.] Specific Relief Act, 1963 – s. 16 – 2018 amendment – Specific Performance – Father of appellants executed an agreement of sale with respondent no. 1-plaintiff, whereby he agreed to sell the suit C schedule property measuring Ac. 0.90 cents to respondent no. 1 for a sale consideration of Rs. 11,88,000/- out of which respondent no. 1 paid an amount of Rs. 4,00,000/- as advance – Under the said agreement, father of appellants agreed to execute the sale deed in favour of respondent no. 1 after demarcating the land and receiving D the balance sale consideration within three months – Father of appellants and after his death, appellants also failed to measure and demarcate the land – Respondent no.1 filed suit against appellants and sought specific performance of contract – Trial Court held that respondent no.1 failed to prove entitlement for specific performance of contract, however, entitled plaintiff to recover E advance amount of Rs.4,00,000/- – However, the High Court directed appellants to execute sale deed in favour of respondent no.1 after receiving balance consideration – On appeal, held: Respondent had established that she was always ready and willing to perform her part of contract by paying the balance sale F consideration which is the primary requirement as per Section 16 (c) of the Act – Part of evidence with regard to the respondent’s readiness and willingness was not challenged – It can be deduced that unless the vendor (deceased father of the appellants) got the subject land measured and demarcated within three months as per agreement, it would be impossible for the purchaser (respondent) G to get a sale deed executed, and as such, the question of paying the balance sale consideration does not arise – It is clear that vendor failed to perform his part of obligation by getting property measured and demarcated – Findings of the High Court upheld. H 802 GADDIPATI DIVIJA & ANR. v. PATHURI SAMRAJYAM & 803 ORS. Dismissing the appeals, the Court A HELD: 1. It is clear from the facts of the case at hand that the Plaintiff (Respondent No. 1 herein) was ever ready and willing to pay the balance sale consideration. In the sale agreement, it was clearly mentioned that within three months the deceased father of the appellants will get the suit schedule property B measured and demarcated and the Plaintiff (Respondent No. 1 herein) shall pay the balance sale consideration. It appears that, at first, the deceased father of the appellants while agreeing to sell 90 cents of land, concealed that he is the owner of only 50 cents of the land. Subsequently, he failed to measure and C demarcate the land. On the other hand, the Plaintiff (Respondent No. 1 herein), from the outset, has been clear and blemishless in his conduct.