A as laid down under Section 4 of the above Acts, which provides for two surveys, settlement of disputes arising thereto and the submission of the report to the State Government and to the Board. Therefore, conducting of the surveys before declaring a property a wakf property is a sine qua non. In the case at hand, there is no material or evidence on record that before issuing notification under Section 5 of the Wakf Act, 1954, any B procedure or the survey was conducted as contemplated by Section 4 of the Act. In the absence of such a material, the mere issuance of the notification under Section 5 of the Act would not constitute a valid wakf in respect of the suit land. Therefore, the notification dated 29.04.1959 is not a conclusive proof of the fact that the suit land is a wakf property. C It is for this reason probably that the appellant Committee had never pressed the said notification into service up till 1999. 33. In Tamil Nadu Wakf Board Vs. Hathija Ammal (Dead) by Lrs. Etc.6, it was observed that the Wakf Board should follow the procedure as required under Section 4, 5 and 6 or Section 27 of the D Wakf Act before notifying the wakfs under Section 5 of the Act. 34. In Madanuri Sri Rama Chandra Murthy Vs. Syed Jalal7, it was observed as under: “16. Thus, it is amply clear that the conducting of survey by E the Survey Commissioner and preparing a report and forwarding the same to the State or the Wakf Board precedes the final act of notifying such list in the Official Gazette by the State under the 1995 Act (it was by the Board under the 1954 Act). As mentioned supra, the list would be prepared by the Survey Commissioner after making due enquiry and after F valid survey as well as after due application of mind. The enquiry contemplated under sub-section (3) of Section 4 is not merely an informal enquiry but a formal enquiry to find out at the grass root level, as to whether the property is a wakf property or not. Thereafter the Wakf Board will once G again examine the list sent to it with due application of its mind and only thereafter the same will be sent to the Government for notifying the same in the Gazette….” 6 AIR 2002 SC 402 H 7 (2017) 13 SCC 174 SALEM MUSLIM BURIAL GROUND PROTECTION 399 COMMITTEE v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU [PANKAJ MITHAL, J.] 35. It may be noted that Wakf Board is a statutory authority A under the Wakf Act. Therefore, the official Gazette is bound to carry any notification at the instance of the Wakf Board but nonetheless, the State Government is not bound by such a publication of the notification published in the official Gazette merely for the reason that it has been so published. In State of Andhra Pradesh Vs. A.P. State Wakf Board B and Ors.8, this Court consisting of one of us (V. Ramasubramanian, J. as a Member) held that the publication of a notification in the official Gazette has a presumption of knowledge to the general public just like an advertisement published in the newspaper but such a notification published at the instance of the Wakf Board in the State Gazette is not binding upon the State Government.