The suit is withdrawn but no permission as sought for by the plaintiff to file fresh suit is allowed.” H 1064 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 19. In the application for withdrawal of suit, the plaintiffs stated that the negotiations are going on with the GAD, hence, they sought permission to withdraw the suit with liberty to file the same again. However, no permission was granted by the Court to file fresh suit. 20. When the respondents were not able to put life to their stale B claim, a writ petition was filed bearing W.P. (C) No. 9069 of 2008 before the Orissa High Court. A perusal of the paper book of the writ petition shows that there was no mention of filing of a civil suit claiming the same relief and withdrawal thereof. Rather simpliciter a case was sought to be made out on the basis of dated 01.03.1990 passed in Settlement Appeal No. 537/90 by the Settlement Officer. May be at the C cost of repetition, it is reiterated here that even in the civil suit, the reliance was on the aforesaid dated 01.03.1990 passed by the Settlement Officer. The writ petition was disposed of on 21.11.2008. The stand of the writ petitioners was that they had filed objections during the course of settlement of record of rights, however, still without appreciating the D objections, the land in dispute was recorded in the name of GAD. This statement of fact by the counsel for the writ petitioners shows that they were aware of the finalisation of record of rights way back in the year 1962. However, still they kept quiet and did not avail of the appropriate remedy available to them against the same, in case they were aggrieved by it. Certain office notings which the respondents obtained under the E Right to Information Act, 2005, have been placed on record with reference to the allotment of alternative land in exchange. These notings were from the year 2001 onwards. As to whether these notings confer any right on the respondents without there being any communicated to the respondents, will be dealt with in the latter part of the . F 21. The Division Bench of High Court without appreciating any of the legal issues, the delay in filing the writ petition despite knowledge of the facts to the writ petitioners or their predecessors-in-interest, went on to disturb the final records of rights which were finalised way back in the year 1962. Direction was issued to consider the representation of G the writ petitioners to allot a suitable plot of land in exchange of their stitiban land. 22. The issues which require consideration by this Court in the present appeal would be : (1) Effect of delay and laches in availing the remedies against the H final publication of record of rights. STATE OF ORISSA & ANR. v. LAXMI NARAYAN DAS (DEAD) 1065 THR. LRS & ORS. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] (2) Maintainability of writ petition when the civil suit filed for same A relief was withdrawn without liberty to file fresh one and on the concealment of material facts from the Court.