There is undoubtedly a compulsion upon the Appellate Court to call for the record and then proceed to examine C the merits of a case before it. That, as is prima facie observable, is not the case before us. 23.One of the earlier cases on this issue is the of the Calcutta High Court in Queen Empress v. Khimat Singh10, wherein the District Judge failed to trace or discover the lost records. The Court observed that this loss of records has lost the Appellant, a right he is D entitled to, that of hearing by a higher court. In such situations, no other recourse remains than to trial de-novo. The in Khimat Singh (supra) has been followed by this Court in Abhai Raj Singh (supra). 24.The abovementioned requirement is found in the Old Code E (Criminal Procedure Code, 1898, now repealed), under Section 423 as well. Section 423 of the 1898 Code, corresponds to Section 385 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898. 25.The Privy Council in King – Emperor v. Dahu Raut11, stated that where a conviction is appealed against, once summary dismissal F fails, the provision of Section 423 as to sending for the record are clearly “peremptory”, and there can be no room for revision at that stage. This has been reiterated by this Court in In Shyam Deo Pandey (supra), observing that, calling for the record of the Court below is an obligation, in the following terms: G “18. Coming to Section 423, which has already been quoted above, it deals with powers of the appellate Court in disposing of the appeal on merits. It is obligatoryfortheappellateCourttosend 10 1889 A.W.N. 55 H 11 AIR 1935 PC 89 JITENDRA KUMAR RODE v. UNION OF INDIA 523 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] for the record of the case, if it is not already before the Court. A This requirement is necessary to be complied with to enable the Courttoadjudicateuponthecorrectnessor otherwise of the or appealed against not only with reference to the but also with referencetotherecordswhichwillbethe basis on which the is founded. The correctness or B otherwise of the findings recorded in the , on the basis of the attack made against the same, cannot be adjudicated upon without reference to the evidence, oral and documentary and other materials relevant for the purpose. The reference to “such record” in “after perusing such record” is to the record of the case sent forbytheappellateCourt.” C (Emphasis supplied) 26.This Court in Biswanath Ghosh v. State of W.B.12(two-Judge Bench) observed that an Appellate Court allowing a conviction without having the records before it and the evidence adduced by the prosecution D is a flagrant miscarriage of justice. 27.This Court in Abhai Raj Singh (supra) (two-Judge Bench) while dealing with a conviction by the Trial Court under Section 302 of the IPC, 1860, while remanding the matter for consideration afresh by the High Court observed: E “8. It has been the consistent view taken by several High Courts that when records are destroyed by fire or on account of natural or unnatural calamities, reconstruction should be ed.