A and shall preclude any citizen or domicile of any country as mentioned. The arbitrator nominated under this Clause shall not be regarded nor act as an umpire. 21.5. The Arbitration Tribunal shall have its seat in New Delhi or such other place in India as may be mutually agreed to B between the parties. 21.6. The Arbitration Proceedings shall be conducted in India under the Indian Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 and the award of such Arbitration Tribunal shall be enforceable in Indian Courts only. C 21.7. The decision of the majority of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on the parties to this contract. 21.8. Each party shall bear its own cost of preparing and presenting its case. The cost of arbitration including the fees and expenses of the third arbitrator shall be shared equally D by the Seller and the Buyer, unless otherwise awarded by the Arbitration Tribunal. 21.9 In the event of a vacancy caused in the office of the arbitrators, the party which nominated such arbitrator, shall be entitled to nominate another in his place and the arbitration E proceedings shall continue from the stage they were left by the retiring arbitrator. 21.10. In the event of one of the parties failing to nominate its arbitrator within 60 days as above or if any of the parties does not nominate another arbitrator within 60 days of the F place of arbitrator failing vacant, then the other party shall be entitled after due notice of at least 30 days to request the President of International Chamber of Commerce, Paris to nominate another arbitrator as above. 21.11. If the place of the third arbitrator falls vacant, his G substitute shall be nominated according to the provisions herein above stipulated. 21.12. The parties shall continue to perform their respective obligations under this contract during the pendency of the arbitration proceedings except in so far as such obligations H are the subject matter of the said arbitration proceedings.” M/S B AND T AG v. MINISTRY OF DEFENCE 611 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 12. According to Ms. Dua, Article 21.1 of the Contract referred A to above, clearly stipulates that all disputes or differences arising out of in connection with the present contract, including the one connected with the validity of the present contract or in part thereof, shall be settled by ‘bilateral discussions’. 13. According to the learned counsel, the aforestated is one of the B distinguishing features of the Contract in question as in defence procurement contracts, it would be in the interest of the parties to resolve the disputes if any by way of ‘bilateral discussions’ rather than by initiating arbitration proceedings. The learned counsel submitted that the respondent for the first time informed the petitioner by letter dated 22.09.2017 that C the proposal put forward by the petitioner to reconsider the decision of wrongful deduction of LD and encashment of bank guarantee was rejected. According to the learned counsel, even thereafter, i.e., after 22.09.2017, the parties continued to negotiate with each other until 04.09.2019.