That the final legal outcome of the substantial questions raised and decided is not dependent or contingent upon a decision E on interest. On the contrary, the moment the tax liability gets upheld, if the AO had imposed interest at the first instance, (which in this case is not under dispute) then interest would get added to the tax liability as it does not require an independent and stand alone consideration as to whether the same is leviable. F 4.13 As regards the reliance placed upon the decision of this Court in the case of Shiv Raj Gupta v. CIT, Delhi, AIR 2020 SC 3556, by the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants on non- framing of substantial question of law in terms of Section 260A of the Act so far as the interest liability is concerned, it is submitted that the said decision shall not be applicable to the facts of the case at hand and G more particularly in case of an interest which is automatic and mandatory. It is submitted that in the said case, the dispute was with respect to capital gains which by its very nature is a separate head of income and the issue relates to the very taxability. That therefore, failure to raise a question of taxability of capital gains in a particular case may tantamount H 476 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A to a failure in raising a substantial question of law in terms of Section 260A of the Act. However, the same may not apply on interest as the interest is automatic and mandatory. 4.14 Making above submissions and relying upon the aforesaid decisions, it is prayed that the present appeals be dismissed. B Consideration: 5. We have heard learned counsel for the respective parties at length. We have also gone through the s passed by the Assessing C Officer, CIT(A), ITAT and the impugned and passed by the High Court in great detail. At the outset, it is required to be noted that the AO held against the respective assessees on all points including Rattan Gupta being the main person in management and control of the respective companies situated in Delhi as well as the jurisdiction of the AO in Delhi. The findings D shall be referred to hereinbelow. The findings recorded by the AO have been upheld by the CIT(A), which are also against the respective assessees. However, the ITAT reversed the passed by the CIT(A), which has been reversed by the High Court by holding that the decision of the ITAT is perverse both, on facts and in law. E 6. While appreciating the correctness of the impugned and passed by the High Court and while appreciating the submissions made by the learned counsel appearing for the respective parties, the findings recorded by the AO, CIT(A), ITAT and the High Court in the impugned and are required to be referred to, which are F as under: Findings record by the AO while passing the Assessment : i) The directors are all from outside Sikkim and had never been to Sikkim, and the lone director Mr. Ajay Agarwal G was projected as a resident of Gangtok, Sikkim, which could not be sustained as no proof or identity was shown; ii) The entire books of accounts were found and seized at New Delhi at the address of Mr. Rattan Gupta, Chartered Accountant, 4556/4, Ansari Road, Darya Ganj, New Delhi.