As contained in Article 13, which provides that all laws which were made either before the commencement of the Constitution, or are made after it, by any competent authority, which are inconsistent with the fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution, are, to the extent of LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 989 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] inconsistency, void. This again unveils the principle of Grundnorm which says there has to be a basic rule. The Constitution is the basic and the ultimate source of law. 80. In the aforesaid context, we must look into view decisions of the High Courts explaining the theory of Grundnorm. (i) In the case of Squadron Leader H. S. Kulshrestha v Union of India reported in 1999 SCC OnLine All 270, the court held that ‘According to the theory of the eminent jurist Kelson, in every country there is a hierarchy of laws, and the highest law is known as the grundnorm of law. In our country the grundnorm is the Constitution.’ (ii) In another case of Abdur Sukur & Another v State of West Bengal & others reported in 2019 SCC Online Cal 5455, the court held that ‘…enshrined in the Constitution of India, which is the grundnorm of all Indian statutes.’ (iii) In another case of Om Prakash Gupta v Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. & Anr. reported in 2009 SCC OnLine Raj 1381, it was again held that ‘Since the limits have been defi ned by the Constitution, they are, in jurisprudential term, ‘the grundnorm’.’ (iv) In another case of Sunil v State of M. P. & Another reported in 2016 SCC OnLine MP 8551, it was again mentioned that, ‘The Constitution of India is the grundnorm – the paramount law of the country. All other laws derive their origin and are supplementary and incidental to the principles laid down in the Constitution.’ (v) In the case of Government of Andhra Pradesh & Ors vs Smt. P. Laxmi Devi reported in (2008) 4 SCC 720, this Court observed, ‘According to Kelson, in every country there is a hierarchy of legal norms, headed by what he calls as the ‘grundnorm’. If a legal norm in a higher layer of this hierarchy confl icts with a legal norm in a lower layer the former will prevail. In India the Grundnorm is the Indian Constitution.’ 990 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 81. Thus, in the context of the Arbitration Agreement, the layers of the Grundnorm as per Kelsen’s theory would be in the following hierarchy: (i) Constitution of India, 1950; (ii) Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 & any other Central/State Law; (iii) Arbitration Agreement entered into by the parties in light of s. 7 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. 82. Thus, the Arbitration Agreement, has to comply with the requirements of the following and cannot fall foul of: (i) Section 7 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act; (ii) any other provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 & Central/State Law; (iii) Constitution of India, 1950.