Diff erent numbers have also been stated by the Government in the Rajya Sabha on diff erent dates and the Union’s Affi davit before this Court. It is also unclear and inconsistent on the number of manual scavengers identifi ed. It is in this context that the anguish expressed by the NCSK in its annual reports for nearly every year since 2015-16 must be seen. In 2015-16, the stance of the NCSK was. “Identifi cation of the Manual Scavengers and their subsequent rehabilitation is the soul of the Act. However, despite repeated eff orts by the Government of India, the fi gures with regard to the Manual Scavengers are not forthcoming correctly. It is observed that diff erent fi gures are being quoted by diff erent Government and Non-Governmental agencies. … the Commission recommends that there is a need to have correct and authentic fi gures about the manual scavengers in the country.” In 2017-18, similarly: “Identifi cation of the Manual Scavengers and their subsequent rehabilitation is the soul of the Act. However, despite repeated 111 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. eff orts by the Government of India, the fi gures with regard to the Manual Scavengers are not forthcoming correctly. It is observed that diff erent fi gures are being quoted by diff erent Government and Non-Governmental agencies. … the Commission recommends that there is a need to have correct and authentic fi gures about the manual scavengers in the country”” The NCSK stated in 2018-19: “Till date, no reliable fi gure is available with the Government about the manual scavenging in the country and the fi gure is varying at various places.”43 Similarly, in its annual report for 2019-20, the NCSK stated: “The data in respect of the number of Manual Scavengers is the fi rst requisite for abolishing the practice of manual scavenging and improving their quality of life. The survey at National or in all State/UT has not been carried out for the identifi cation of manual scavengers. The Government is still not sure about the number of Male and Female Manual Scavengers as on date in the country.” 65. In fact, on 05.07.2023, the CMC met after directions given by this Court. In the CMC, the Deputy Advisor to the NITI Aayog yet again stated the need for a survey as, according to him, many manual scavengers were left out of the survey. At this stage, it may be noticed that this Court in Safai Karamchari Andolan (supra) had noticed the short-comings of the survey of 2013 and had observed as follows: “the Central Government announced a ‘Survey of Manual Scavengers’. The survey, however, was confi ned only to 3546 statutory towns and did not extend to rural areas. Even with this limited mandate, as per the information with Petitioner No. 1, the survey has shown remarkably little progress. State records in the “Progress Report of Survey of Manual Scavengers and their Dependents” dated 27.02.2014 show that they have only been able to identify a miniscule proportion of the number of people actually 43 Annual Report of the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis for the year 2018- 19.