From the aforesaid referred s of this Court especially by a larger Bench consisting of Three Judges, in our opinion, there is no merit in the present appeal as the principles laid down therein have been followed by the High Court. In the case in hand, the deceased employee had attained the age of superannuation on 31.07.1991, whereas the chargesheet was issued to him on 07.12.1991. Meaning thereby that on the date of his superannuation, no disciplinary proceeding was pending against him. 24. The arguments raised by the learned counsel for the appellant-Bank that the matter needs to be referred to a larger Bench as the legal fi ction and true spirit of the 1976 and the 1979 Regulations have not been considered by this Court, is merely to be noticed and rejected, as the larger Bench consisting of Three-Judges in Canara Bank’s case (supra) had already considered the of the Division Bench of this Court in Rajender Lal Capoor -I and Rajender Lal Capoor -II cases (supra) and had reiterated the same legal position. 25. The observation made in para 38 of the Mahanadi Coalfi elds Limited (supra), as relied upon by the learned counsel for the appellant- Bank, will also not come to its rescue for the reason that the observation was made while referring to the of this Court in Rajender Lal Capoor -I (supra) and not the Rajender Lal Capoor -II (supra)and also in Canara Bank’s case (supra)where on a reference to a Larger Bench the law laid down in Rajender Lal Capoor’s (II)case(supra) was reiterated. 26. The of this Court in Punjab National Bank’s case (supra), as relied upon by the learned counsel for the appellant-Bank, is also distinguishable on facts as in that case the chargesheet was issued to the employee concerned before his retirement. UCO BANK AND OTHERS v. M.B. MOTWANI (DEAD) THR. 537 LRS. & OTHERS [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] CONCLUSION 27. For the reasons mentioned above, in our opinion, the appeal fi led by the appellant-Bank is meritless and the same is accordingly dismissed with costs, quantifi ed at ₹25,000/-. 28. At the time of hearing, it was pointed out by the learned counsel for the respondent no.1 that the employee had expired during the pendency of this appeal on 30.12.2012. It has been noticed by the Division Bench in the impugned of the High Court that the subsistence allowance was not paid to the deceased employee. As we have set aside the punishment infl icted on the deceased employee, all the service benefi ts due to him along with interest @ 7% per annum from the date of his retirement till the payment is made, shall be paid by the appellant-Bank to his legal heirs within a period of three months from the date of receipt of copy of this . 29. The appeal is accordingly dismissed Headnotes prepared by: Appeal dismissed. Nidhi Jain