The only defence taken is that the D specimens of handwriting and signature were obtained by compulsion. As we have already found that such objection was unsustainable therefore, once genuineness of the specimens was not disputed, the specimens were available for comparison and were rightfully used for obtaining expert report. In such a scenario, the net result would be that the FSL report, which was provided by a government scientific expert E specified in Section 293 of the Code, was admissible regardless of the fact that the expert was not examined as a witness. More so, when the defence filed no application to summon the expert for cross-examination. Consequently, the finding of the High Court with regard to the FSL report being inadmissible is erroneous and is, accordingly, set aside. F Whether the FSL Report on its own was sufficient to hold that the suicide letter was written by Neeraj. 60. However, the mere fact that the expert report was admissible in evidence does not mean that it should on its own form the basis of conclusion that the suicide letter was written by Neeraj. Admissibility G and reliability/credit worthiness of a piece of evidence are entirely different aspects. An inadmissible piece of evidence is to be eschewed. But when a piece of evidence is admissible, as to what weight it would carry for determining a fact in issue would depend on the proven facts and circumstances of the case. H SANTOSH @ BHURE v. STATE (G.N.C.T.) OF DELHI 757 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] 61. In the instant case, the High Court discarded the expert report A as not admissible therefore, it did not undertake an exercise to determine the fact in issue i.e. whether the suicide letter was written by Neeraj. The Trial Court considered it admissible and based its finding solely thereupon. The relevant observations of the Trial Court, found in paragraph 95 of its , are extracted below: B “95. I have gone through the report of the hand-writing expert, Mark Q1 (Ex.PW15/G) and the specimen hand-writing of accused Neeraj, S1 to S8 (Ex.PW15/F1 to F8), were examined with scientific instruments such as Stereo Microscope, Video Spectral Comparator-IV, Docucenter and Poliview System etc. under C different lighting conditions. The expert has given various reasons in support of the report, that the letter in question and the hand- writing are of the same person. The expert has concluded that there is no divergence observed between the questioned and specimen writings and the aforesaid similarities in the writing habits are significant and sufficient and cannot be attributed to accidental D coincidence and when considered collectively, they lead the expert to the opinion that both the writings are in the hand of the same person. I find no reason to form a different opinion than that of the hand-writing expert. I hold that the prosecution has been able to establish that the letter, Ex.PW15/G and the specimen hand- E writing of accused Neeraj, Ex.PW15/F1 to F8, are in the same hand-writing of a person and he is accused Neeraj.” 62.