The accused is said to have changed his cellular telephone number without notice to the complainant, with the intent of evading his payment obligations. It is only in the year 2017, that the complainant managed to trace the accused-at which point, the accused sought for forgiveness and promised to repay the amounts borrowed along with interest, within three months. The accused had informed the complainant that he would source the funds to clear his outstanding dues by selling two plots of land he owns in Nepal, by taking a personal loan and from the 7th Pay Commission arrears that he was to receive. 5. Yet again, the accused defaulted on his promise. He was not to be found in his residential address. Having successfully concealed himself for about 7 months, the complainant appears to have located him at a new residential address. On direct confrontation, the accused is said to have issued a post-dated cheque No.163044 (dated 19.10.2017) for a sum of Rs.6,95,204/- towards part repayment of outstanding dues. The accused assured the complainant that the balance dues would be repaid by issuing a second cheque in the month of December 2017. 6. On its presentation, the cheque was returned with the endorsement ‘Funds Insuffi cient. The complainant issued a demand notice through his counsel on 26.10.2017 and called upon the accused to make repayment of the cheque amount (Rs. 6,95,204) and other expenses incurred within 15 days. Since the demand was not complied with, a complaint under Section 138 NI Act was instituted on 29.11.2017, before the Court of Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC), Jind. Proceedings before the Trial Court 7. The Trial Court took cognizance of the off ence, summoned the accused and issued notice of accusation. The accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. 8. In support of his case, the complainant had examined himself as CW- 1. Mr. Gulab Singh, a bank offi cial at SBI, Jind branch offi ce was examined 792 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. as CW-2 and Ms. Gita Sunar as CW3. The complainant had also produced the relevant documentary evidence3 including the cheque in question, cheque return memo, copy of the bank passbook, demand notice, postal register, statement of accounts of the complainant and cheque returned register. 9. In his statement under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Code 1973, the accused admits of having borrowed money to the extent of Rs.20 lakhs from the complainant. He admits of having paid some interest amount and has pleaded that he could not pay the remaining amount since complainant had started demanding higher amount. He further admits of having received the legal notice but denies having issued any cheque. 10. No defense evidence has been led on behalf of the accused. 11. On a consideration of evidence on record, the Trial Court returned a fi nding that the accused was not guilty. 12. The Trial Court found that (i) the complainant had discharged his initial onus of proving the essential facts underlying the off ence under Section 138 of the NI Act; (ii) the signature on the cheque [Exh.