N. K. Satpal was tried by GSFC and inflicted with reduction to the rank of Lance Naik (L/NK), and Constable Keshav Singh was tried by the GSFC and awarded sentence of rigorous imprisonment for 45 days in force custody. It was contended that the appellant cannot derive benefit from E the discharge of the two purported smugglers as they were charged with the offence of placing the contraband substance on the spot from where it was recovered, while the appellant was charged under Section 25 of the NDPS Act. It was submitted that the contraband items could not have been taken outside the area controlled by the Force, which was F under the overall control of the appellant, to the Pakistani side without it having passed through the gates which were manned by the personnel of the Force. Further, it was submitted that Surjit Singh @ Pahalwan was given relief by quashing the FIR concerned, as he was able to establish his incarceration in jail on the date of the incident. G 28. Learned counsel submitted that as per the secret information received by the appellant, the Jerrycans of Acetic Anhydride were placed near the international bs by the two smugglers with the help of the officials of the Force and even if the said two persons were the lead perpetrators, the role of the appellant and other officers/personnel of the Force, in aiding such movement was clearly established. It was submitted H B. S. HARI COMMANDANT v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 441 [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] that the appellant was in overall command of the area and is, hence, A responsible for the incidents narrated hereinbefore. 29. On the question of pension, gratuity and other retiral benefits being withheld, learned counsel for the respondents submitted that the appellant had been paid GPF and CGEIS. Further, it was stated at the Bar that he had also been paid provisional pension under Rule 69 of the B Pension Rules, and only later on, the same was stopped, taking recourse to Rule 24 of the Pension Rules, as dismissal from service entails forfeiture of past service. ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: C 30. Having perused the materials on record and surveyed the relevant judicial pronouncements, upon an overall examination, this Court is unable to uphold the view taken by the learned Single Bench of the High Court. 31. Procedural deficiencies in the process and/or trial, canvassed by learned counsel for the appellant, have purposely not been dealt with. D Expressing no opinion thereon, we leave those question(s) of law open for adjudication in a more appropriate case, as we are interfering on merits. 32. In Council of Civil Service Unions v Minister for the Civil Service, [1984] 3 WLR 1174 (HL), the House of Lords, speaking through E Lord Diplock, stated: “… Judicial review has I think developed to a stage today when, without reiterating any analysis of the steps by which the development has come about, one can conveniently classify under three heads the grounds on which administrative F action is subject to control by judicial review.