COMPANY LTD. v. M/S 721 NATIONAL BUILDINGS CONST. CORP. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] reasonably short time thereafter be entitled without prejudice to A any other right or remedy available on that behalf to recover by way of ascertained liquidated damages a sum equivalent to one per cent of the contract value of the works for each week or part of week the contractor is in default and allow the contractor such further extension of time as the Project Manager may decide. If B the Company (IRCON) is not satisfied that the works can be completed by the contractor and in the event of failure on the part of the contractor to complete the works within the further extension of time allowed as aforesaid the Company (IRCON) shall be entitled, without prejudice to any other right or remedy available in that behalf, to appropriate the contractor’s security deposit and C rescind the contract, whether or not actual damage is caused by such default. RIGHT OF COMPANY (IRCON) TO DETERMINE CONTRACT: D 59.1 The Company (IRCON) shall be entitled to determine and terminate the contract at any time should in the Company’s (IRCON) opinion, the cessation of work become necessary owing to paucity of funds or from any cause whatsoever, in which case the value of approved materials at site and of work done to date by the contractor will be paid for in full at the rates specified in E the contract. Notice in writing from the Company (IRCON) of such determination and the reason therefore shall be conclusive evidence thereof. DETERMINATION OF CONTRACT OWING TO DEFAULT F OF CONTRACTOR: 60.1 If the contractor should:- i. become bankrupt or insolvent or ii. make an arrangement with or assignment in favour of his G creditors, or agree to carry out the contract under committee of Inspection of his creditors, or iii. Being a company or corporation, go into liquidation (other than a voluntary liquidation for the purpose of amalgamation or reconstruction), or H 722 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A iv. have an execution levied on his good or property on the works, or v. assign the contract or any part thereof otherwise than as provided in Clause 7 of these conditions, or vi. abandon the contract, or B vii. persistently disregard the instructions of the Project Manager, or contravene any provision of the contract, or viii. fail to adhere to the agreed programme of work by a margin of 10% of the stipulated period, or C ix. fail to remove materials from the site or to pull down and replace work after receiving from the Project Manager notice to the effect that the said materials or works have been condemned or rejected under conditions, or x. fail to take steps to employ competent or additional staff D and labour as required under these conditions, or xi. fail to afford the Project Manager or Project Manager’s representative proper facilities for inspecting the works or any part thereof as required under these conditions, or xii.