D ARGUMENTS ADVANCED BY THE RESPONDENTS 19. Learned ASG, Mr. K.M Natraj appearing on behalf of the respondents contends that: I. There is no incongruity between the Pankaj case E (supra)and the Ashok Jalan case (supra) as contended by the appellant. The decisions relied upon by the appellant are in context of the Preventive Detention Act, whereas, the Ashok Jalan case (supra) and Adullah Kuni case (supra) are in context of the COFEPOSA Act, and if the Pankaj case (supra) is seen in the context of COFEPOSA F Act, due to their being a distinction between the detaining authority and the central Government in the COFEPOSA Act, there exists no friction between the two Constitutional Bench s. II. As per the Ashok Jalan Case (supra), due to the detaining G authority and the central Government being independent of 1 (1991) 1 SCC 476 2 (2020) 16 SCC 127 3 (1969) 3 SCC 400 4 (1970) 1 SCC 219 H 802 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A each other under COFEPOSA Act, the mandate to wait for the decision of the Advisory Board exists on the central Government, and hence the delay of 60 days is not grounds enough for the detention to be quashed. ISSUES B 20. In light of the abovementioned arguments raised by the Learned Counsels for the parties, following three issues arise for our consideration. I. Whether there exists an incongruity between the Pankaj Kumar case (supra) and the Abdullah Kunhi Case (supra), and if such a friction exists should the point of law C be referred to a Larger Bench? II. If there exists no friction between the two Constitutional s of this Court, can the impugned detention be quashed on grounds of the 60-day delay in consideration of the representation made by the appellant? D III. Whether the illegible documents written in Chinese submitted to the appellant herein are grounds enough for quashing the impugned detention ? ANALYSIS E 21. Before we deal with the issues framed, we find it important to note that preventive detention laws in India are a colonial legacy, and have a great potential to be abused and misused. Laws that have the ability to confer arbitrary powers to the state, must in all circumstances, be very critically examined, and must be used only in the rarest of rare cases. In cases of preventive detention, where the detenue is held in F arrest not for a crime he has committed, but for a potential crime he may commit, the Courts must always give every benefit of doubt in favour of the detenue, and even the slightest of errors in procedural compliances must result in favour of the detenue. ISSUE 1- Whether there exists an incongruity between the G Pankaj Kumar case and the Abdullah Kunhi Case and if such a friction exists should the point of law be referred to a Larger Bench? 22. For the purpose of deciding this question, we must first elaborate on the rights accrued to a detenue against his preventive H PRAMOD SINGLA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS.