This discourse, in no way seeks to pose a potential danger to peaceful dissenters, who exercise their right to freedom of speech H and expression in a critical, but measured fashion. 762 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A The present cases pertain specifically to derogatory, disparaging speech, which closely resembles hate speech. Such speech does not fall within the protective perimeter of Article 19(1)(a) and does not constitute the content of the free speech right. Therefore, when such speech has the effect of infringing the fundamental right under Article 21 of another individual, it would not constitute a case which requires balancing of B conflicting rights, but one wherein abuse of the right to freedom of speech by a person has attacked the fundamental rights of another. The Preambular goals of ‘equality’ and ‘fraternity’: 26. Equality, liberty and fraternity are the foundational values C embedded in the Preamble of our Constitution. ‘Hate speech’, in the sense discussed hereinabove, strikes at each of these foundational values, by marking out a society as being unequal. It also violates fraternity of citizens from diverse backgrounds, the sine-qua-non of a cohesive society based on plurality and multi-culturalism such as in India that is, Bharat. 27. Fraternity is based on the idea that citizens have reciprocal D responsibilities towards one another. The termtakeswithin its sweep,inter- alia, the ideals of tolerance, co-operation, and mutual aid. 27.1. The meaning of the term fraternity, in the context of criminal defamation and restraints on the freedom of speech and expression has been examined by this Court in E Subramanian Swamy vs. Union of India, (2016) 7 SCC 221(“Subramanian Swamy”) wherein it was observed that fraternity under the Constitution expects every citizen to respect the dignity of the other. Mutual respect is the fulcrum of fraternity that assures dignity. This Court qualified F its observations with the caveat that ‘fraternity’ does not mean that there cannot be dissent or difference, more so because all citizens have the right to freedom of speech and expression. However, it was unequivocally declared that a constitutional value which is embedded in the idea of fraternity is dignity of the individual, which is required to be G respected by fellow citizens. That the Preamble consciously chooses to assure the dignity of the individual, in the context of fraternity and therefore, rights enshrined in Part III have to be exercised by individuals against the back drop of the ideal of fraternity. This Court observed that the fraternal H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 763 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] ideal also finds resonance in Part IVA of the Constitution. A In upholding the permissibility of the law on criminal defamation, on the touchstone of the concept of constitutional fraternity, this Court speaking through Dipak Misra, J. (as his Lordship then was)observed in paragraphs 155 and 163, as follows: B “155. It is a constitutional value which is to be cultivated by the people themselves as a part of their social behavior. There are two schools of thought; one canvassing individual liberalization and the other advocating for protection of an individual as a C member of the collective.