No. 4634 of 2014). (iv) Pressing into service the proviso to Section 45, the submission was made that the appellant being a lady, she should be released on bail more particularly when she is in custody for more than one year and when the continued custody is not required. (v) There was no substantive evidence except the bare allegations made in the prosecution complaint lodged against her, and therefore the questions rebutting the presumption contained in Section 45 did not arise. (vi) There was no prima facie connection or relationship between the appellant and the co-accused- Suryakant Tiwari, Manish Upadhyay or Nikhil Chandrakar in the prosecution complaint fi led by the ED, nor any evidence legally maintainable has been produced by the ED. 17. The learned ASG Mr. S.V. Raju appearing for the respondent-ED made following submissions: (i) The prosecution during the course of investigation has collected substantive evidence showing strong nexus between the appellant and the other accused, and the documents produced in the Court indicate prima facie material establishing money laundering at the hands of the appellant. 1 2022 SCC Online SC 929 SAUMYA CHAURASIA v. DIRECTORATE OF 859 ENFORCEMENT [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] (ii) The prosecution has collected the documents showing incriminating evidence which disclose numerous cash transactions and other illegal transactions including purchase of immoveable properties in the name of the mother and other relatives of the appellant, showing involvement of the accused-Suryakant Tiwari and others, as to how Mr. Suryakant Tiwari used to extort money against the coal delivery s, at the connivance of the senior bureaucrats in Chhattisgarh including the appellant, and how the said money extorted was being utilized towards the payment of bribes and acquisition of immovable properties for the bureaucrats including the appellant. (iii) The appellant, the Deputy Secretary attached as an OSD to the CMO, though was relatively a junior offi cer, she used to exercise considerable infl uence and control because of her access to higher political powers, and the accused- Suryakant Tiwari was able to operate the syndicate and the extortion racket only because he had the backing of the appellant. (iv) Investigation has revealed that the appellant was one of the key persons in the creation of extortion racket run by Suryakant Tiwari and that approximately Rs.540 crores were extorted by Mr. Suryakant Tiwari. Further, Mr. Manish Upadhyay who was a relative of the Suryakant Tiwari, and who was a close associate of the appellant, was used as a layer of protection for the cash dealings between Suryakant Tiwari and the appellant. (v) The appellant had allegedly utilized the monies received from the extortion racket towards the purchase of properties in the names of her mother (Shanti Devi Chaurasia), her cousin (Anurag Chaurasia) and her husband (Sourabh Modi), the details of which have been given in the prosecution complaint. (vi) The use of the expression “may be” in the proviso to Section 45 of PMLA indicates that the benefi t of the proviso cannot be extended mandatorily or automatically, and the discretion has to be exercised by the Courts depending upon the facts of each case.