The intention of the legislature is F very clear and unambiguous that the moment any eventuality as mentioned in Section 45(5) occurs, the penalty shall be leviable as mentioned in sub-section (6) of Section 45. No other word like mens rea and/or satisfaction of the assessing officer and/or other language is used like in Section 11AC of the Central Excise Act. It is a well settled principle in law that the Court cannot read anything into a statutory provision which G is plain and unambiguous. A statute is an edict of the legislature. The language employed in a statute is the determinative factor of legislative intent. As per the settled position of law, the intention of the legislature is primarily to be gathered from the language used, which means that attention should be paid to what has been said as also to what has not H 502 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A been said. The courts cannot aid the legislatures’ defective phrasing of an Act;they cannot add or mend, and by construction make up deficiencies which are left there. 6.12 Under the circumstances, on strict interpretation of Section 45 and Section 47 of the Act, 1969, the only conclusion would be that the B penalty and interest leviable under Section 45 and 47(4A) of the Act, 1969 are statutory and mandatory and there is no discretion vested in the Commissioner/Assessing Officer to levy or not to levy the penalty and interest other than as mentioned in Section 45(6) and Section 47 of the Act, 1969. It is needless to observe that such an interpretation has been made having regard to the tenor of Sections 45 and 47 of the Act, C 1969 and the language used therein. 6.13 Inso far as the decisions relied upon by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent – assessee – dealer, referred to hereinabove, are concerned, none of the decisions shall be applicable to the facts of the case at hand, while dealing with Section 45 and Section D 47 of the Act, 1969. The words/language of the relevant provisions that fell for consideration in the decisions relied upon on behalf of the respondent is altogether different from the language used in Section 45 and Section 47 of the Act, 1969. In the case of Dharamendra Textile Processors(supra), this Court was considering Section 11AC of the E Central Excise Act. In Section 11AC, the words used are “fraud, collusion or any wilful misrepresentation or any wilful misstatement or suppression of facts” and “intent to evade payment of duty.” In that view of the matter, the mens rea will play an important role. Therefore, the said decision shall not be applicable while considering Section 45 and Section 47 of the Act, 1969. Asimilar decision in the case of Pepsi Foods Ltd F (supra) also shall not be applicable and/or of any assistance to the respondent – assessee – dealer. 6.14 In so far as the submissions on behalf of the respondent – dealer – assessee that as such the dealer shall not be liable to pay the tax at the rate of 12% and that it was incompetence on the part of the G authority to prove the difference of more than 25% and that the concession was wrongly given by the learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the respondent – assessee – dealer before the High Court are concerned, at the outset, it is required to be noted that a conscious decision was taken by the learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the dealer, who appeared before the High Court and therefore, he did not H STATE OF GUJARAT AND ANR.