115. It can thus be seen that when the Code has worked hardship to a class of enterprises, the Committee constituted by the Government, in overseeing the working of the Code, has been alive to such problems, and the Government in turn has followed the recommendations of the Committee in enacting Section 240A. This is an important instance of how the executive continues to monitor the application of the Code, and exempts a class of enterprises from the application of some of its provisions in deserving cases. This and other amendments that are repeatedly being made to the Code, and to subordinate legislation made thereunder, based upon Committee Reports which are looking into the working of the Code, would also show that the legislature is alive to serious anomalies that arise in the working of the Code and steps in to rectify them.” 16. Under the heading “exemption of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises from Section 29-A” the discussion begins. It is referred to the ILC report of March, 2018 and its fi nding that Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises form the foundation of the economy and are key drivers of employment, production, economic growth, entrepreneurship and fi nancial inclusion. The ILC report 2018 exempted these industries from Section 29-A (c) and (h) and the rationale for the same was contained in para 27.4 of the report which reads as under: “27.4 Regarding the fi rst issue, the Code is clear that default of INR one lakh or above triggers the right of a fi nancial creditor or an 930 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. operational creditor to fi le for insolvency. Thus, the fi nancial creditor or operational creditors of MSMEs may take it to insolvency under the Code. However, given that MSMEs are the bedrock of the Indian economy, and the intent is not to push them into liquidation and aff ect the livelihood of employees and workers of MSMEs, the Committee sought it fi t to explicitly grant exemptions to corporate debtors which are MSMEs by permitting a promoter who is not a wilful defaulter, to bid for the MSME in insolvency. The rationale for this relaxation is that a business of an MSME attracts interest primarily from a promoter of an MSME and may not be of interest to other resolution applicants.” 17. The aforesaid thus, makes it clear as opined in the said s also, that excluding such industries from disqualifi cation under 29A (c) and (h) is because qua such industries other resolution applicants may not be forthcoming which thus would inevitably lead not to resolution but to liquidation. 18. We may also note that in para 93 of this very the challenge to Section 29A was repelled and the statement of the then Finance Minister while moving the amendment Bill was extracted. The said statement reads as under: 93. ××× ××× ……….“The core and the soul of this new Ordinance is really clause 5, which is Section 29-A of the original Bill.