E 14. Now the next question which is posed for consideration before this Court is whether Section 10(a)(i) is required to be read down so as to save the said provision from being declared unconstitutional and is required to be read down as had been done in the case of Arup Bhuyan F (supra) and Raneep (supra) that mere membership of a banned organization will not incriminate a person unless he resorts to violence or incites people to violence and does an act intended to create dis or disturbance of public peace by resort to violence meaning thereby over and above the membership of a banned organization there must be a mens rea required to be established and proved and/or there must be a G further overt act? While deciding this issue elaborate submissions have been made by Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General, Shri Vinay Navare, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the State of Assam and Shri Sanjay Parikh, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant/intervener. H 544 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 14.1 While considering the aforesaid issue relevant provisions of the Constitution of India and the UAPA, 1967 are required to be referred to which are as under: “19. Protection of certain rights regarding freedom of speech, etc.—(1) All citizens shall have the right— B (c) to form associations or unions [or co-operative societies]; [(2) Nothing in sub-clause (a) of clause (1) shall affect the operation of any existing law, or prevent the State from making any law, in so far as such law imposes reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by the said sub-clause in the C interests of [the sovereignty and integrity of India,] the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public , decency or morality or in relation to contempt of court, defamation or incitement to an offence.] (4) Nothing in sub-clause (c) of the said clause shall affect D the operation of any existing law in so far as it imposes, or prevent the State from making any law imposing, in the interests of [the sovereignty and integrity of India or] public or morality, reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by the said sub-clause.” E Relevant provisions of UAPA of 1967 are as under: 2. Definitions.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,— (a) “association” means any combination or body of individuals; F [(ec) “person” includes— (i) an individual, (ii) a company, (iii) a firm, G (iv) an organisation or an association of persons or a body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, (v) every artificial juridical person, not falling within any of the preceding sub-clauses, and H ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 545 [M. R. SHAH, J.] (vi) any agency, office or branch owned or controlled by any person A falling within any of the preceding sub-clauses;] (k) “terrorist act” has the meaning assigned to it in Section 15, and the expressions “terrorism” and “terrorist” shall be construed accordingly; B (l) “terrorist gang” means any association, other than terrorist organisation, whether systematic or otherwise, which is concerned with, or involved in, terrorist act; (m) “terrorist organisation” means an organisation listed in the [First Schedule] or an organisation operating under the same name C as an organisation so listed; (p) “unlawful association” means any association,— (i) which has for its object any unlawful activity, or which encourages or aids persons to undertake any unlawful activity, or of which the members undertake such activity; or D (ii) which has for its object any activity which is punishable under Section 153-A or Section 153-B of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), or which encourages or aids persons to undertake any such activity, or of which the members undertake any such activity: E Provided that nothing contained in sub-clause (ii) shall apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir; 3.