A they are in relation to other people. Children are not to be deprived of this entitlement to influence and understand their sense of self simply by virtue of being children. [Para 21][720-D] 5. A parent may, in the best interests of the child, choose not to subject a child to a DNA test. It is also, antithetical to the B fundamentals of the right to privacy to require a person to disclose, in the course of proceedings in rem, the medical procedures resorted to in to conceive. The reasons for the parent’s refusal may be several, and hence, it is not prudent to draw an adverse inference under Section 114 of the Evidence Act, in every case where a parent refuses to subject the child to C a DNA test. [Para 22.3][723-D-E] 6. Questions as to illegitimacy of a child, are only incidental to the claim of dissolution of marriage on the ground of adultery or infidelity. Allowing DNA tests to be conducted on a routine basis, in to prove adultery, would amount to redefinition of D the maxim, “Pater est quemnuptiae demonstrant” which means, the father is he whom the nuptials point out. While dealing with allegations of adultery and infidelity, a request for a DNA test of the child, not only competes with the presumption under Section 112, but also jostles with the imperative of bodily autonomy. [Para E 24][724-B-C] Dukhtar Jahan vs. Mohammed Farooq, (1987) 1 SCC 624 : [1987] 1 SCR 1086 – relied on. 7. The case of the Respondent-husband is that if a DNA test is allowed and the same reveals that he is not the biological F father of ‘X’, as a corollary, it would be proved that the Appellant- wife committed adultery. This Court does not find favour with the approach suggested by the Respondent-husband to prove adultery, for the following reasons: i. It is not in dispute that Master ‘X’, the son stated to be born to the Appellant-wife from the wedlock, was born in the year 2013. DNA testing, cannot be G used as a short cut to establish infidelity that might have occurred over a decade ago or subsequently after the birth of Master ‘X’. ii. In the circumstances of the present case, a DNA test would not be the only way in which the truth of the matter can be H APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 689 established. The respondent-husband has categorically claimed A that he is in possession of call recordings/transcripts and the daily diary of the appellant, which may be summoned in accordance with law to prove the infidelity of the appellant. Therefore, it seems that the respondent is in a position to attempt to make out a case based on such evidence, as to adultery/infidelity on B the part of the appellant. iii. No plea has been raised by the respondent-husband herein as to non-access in to dislodge the presumption under Section 112 of the Evidence Act. Therefore, no prima-facie case has been made out by the respondent which would justify a direction to conduct a DNA test of Master ‘X’.