64. Discretion, it has been held by this Court in Bangalore Medical Trust vs. B.S. Muddappa27, is an eff ective tool in administration providing an option to the authority concerned to adopt one or the other alternative. When a statute provides guidance, or rule or regulation is framed, for exercise of discretion, then the action should be in accordance with it. Where, however, statutes are silent and only power is conferred to act in one or the other manner, the authority cannot act whimsically or arbitrarily; it should be guided by reasonableness and fairness. A legislature does not intend abuse of the law or its unfair use. 65. While considering the validity of an externment under the Maharashtra Police Act, 1951, this Court in Deepak vs. State of Maharashtra28 held: 27 (1991) 4 SCC 54 28 2022 SCC OnLine SC 99 1000 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. “When the competent authority passes an for the maximum permissible period of two years, the of externment must disclose an application of mind by the competent authority and the must record its subjective satisfaction about the necessity of passing an of externment for the maximum period of two years which is based on material on record.” 66. True it is, Deepak (supra) was not a case arising out of preventive detention laws. However, in situations where discretion is available with authorities to decide the period of detention, as articulated by Lord Halsbury in Susannah Sharp vs. Wakefi eld & Ors.29, this discretion should be exercised in accordance with “the rules of reason and justice, not according to private opinion; according to law, and not humour; it is to be, not arbitrary, vague, and fanciful, but legal and regular”. 67. We turn to A.K. Roy (supra) once again where the law is expounded in the following words: “70. *** We have the authority of the decisions in … for saying that the fundamental rights conferred by the diff erent articles of Part III of the Constitution are not mutually exclusive and that therefore, a law of preventive detention which falls within Article 22 must also meet the requirements of Articles 14, 19 and 21. ***” 68. Having held thus, we are not unmindful of the decision in Vijay Kumar vs. Union of India30 where this Court rejected the contention that the Government had not applied its mind while confi rming the detention of the appellant for the maximum period of 1 (one) year from the date of detention as prescribed in section 10 of the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act, 1974. Dealing with the contention that some reason should have been given why the maximum period of detention was imposed and while holding it to be without merit, the main of the presiding judge of the Bench reasoned that section 10 does not provide that any reason has to be given in imposing the maximum period of detention and that in confi rming the of detention it may 29 [1891] A.C. 173, 179 30 (1988) 2 SCC 57 AMEENA BEGUM v. THE STATE OF TELANGANA 1001 & ORS.