Bedi, J. observed in para 19 as under:- “19. … It must be borne in mind that it is impossible for an accused to prove by positive evidence that he had been shown to a witness prior to the identifi cation parade but if suspicion can be raised by the defence that this could have happened, no adverse inference can be drawn against the accused in such a case.” 50. Gyan Sudha Misra, J. while disagreeing with H.S. Bedi, J. took the view that it is not open to accused to refuse to participate in the TIP. The learned Judge observed in para 27 as under:- “27. In my considered view, it was not open to the accused to refuse to participate in the TI parade nor was it a correct legal approach for the prosecution to accept refusal of the accused to participate in the test identifi cation parade. If the appellant-accused had reason to do so, specially on the plea that he had been shown to the eyewitnesses in advance, the value and admissibility of the evidence of TI parade could have been assailed by the defence at the stage of trial in to demolish the value of the test identifi cation parade. But merely on account of the objection of the accused, he could not have been permitted to decline from participating in the test identifi cation parade from which adverse inference can surely be drawn against him at least in to corroborate the prosecution case.” [Emphasis supplied] 51. Ultimately, the matter was heard by a three-Judge Bench in the case titled Prem Singh v. State of Haryana, (2013) 14 SCC 88, and the appeal fi led by the convict was allowed. However, we do not fi nd any discussion in the said as regards the issue whether the accused can refuse to participate in the TIP. This Court on its own looked into the entire evidence and ultimately acquitted the appellant accused. 922 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 52. In Munna v. State (NCT of Delhi), (2003) 10 SCC 599, this Court took the view that if an accused himself refused to participate in the TIP, then it is not open to him to contend that the statement of the witnesses made for the fi rst time should not be relied upon. The Court held as under:- “10. In a case where an accused himself refuses to participate in a test identifi cation parade, it is not open to him to contend that the statement of the eyewitnesses made for the fi rst time in court, wherein they specifi cally point towards him as a person who had taken part in the commission of the crime, should not be relied upon. This plea is available provided the prosecution is itself responsible for not holding a test identifi cation parade. However, in a case where the accused himself declines to participate in a test identifi cation parade, the prosecution has no option but to proceed in a normal manner like all other cases and rely upon the testimony of the witnesses, which is recorded in court during the course of the trial of the case.” [Emphasis supplied] It is relevant to note that in the aforesaid decision, the accused in his statement under Section 313 CrPC had not stated that he had been shown to the witnesses at the police station.