If the Trial Court fails to exercise this power and discretion vested in it then the of the Trial Court may be said to be vitiated. H PULEN PHUKAN & ORS. v. THE STATE OF ASSAM 629 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] 14. In the present case, the informant (PW-1), the injured eye- A witness (PW-2), eye-witness (PW-3) and eye-witness (PW-4) have categorically stated that police personnel had accompanied the accused and they were there throughout the incident. This fact is noticed by the Trial Court in its judgement but it fails to get this clarification from the prosecution as to what occasioned the presence of the police personnel B accompanying the accused and standing outside the house of the deceased to watch the accused assault PW-2 and commit the murder of his brother. The Trial Court had simply brushed aside the argument of the defence on this count without giving a serious thought. 15. If the police personnel were present at the time of commission C of the offence, they should have immediately acted upon to set the criminal machinery in motion by first apprehending the accused from the spot itself rather than allowing them to get way by accompanying the police to the Police Station while continuing to assault the injured (PW-2) on the way. The entire version of the prosecution witnesses that the police personnel accompanied the accused and were standing outside D the house of the deceased creates a serious doubt on the very genesis of the prosecution story. 16. Coming to the evidence of the eye-witness PW-1, the informant in her report has not assigned any specific role to any accused. It is only stated that 13 persons came to her house, some of them chased and E followed the deceased who was trying to save himself by escaping from back courtyard and entering into the neighbour’s house where he was done to death. As per the FIR this role is given to Mozen Phukan, Dulen Phukan and Haren Saikia. However, in her statement in the trial she has stated that Kuleswar assaulted with an iron rod whereas Pulen Phukan F caused the injury on the neck of the deceased. Interestingly, she also states that the accused persons were taken to the Police Station. She along with Jogmaya came there and lodged the FIR (Ex.-1) which was written at the Police Station. In her cross-examination, she states that she did not read the Ex.-1,it was written at the Police Station and she had only put her signatures.Ex.-1 was not read over to her, she did not G know the contents of the same. Then she goes on to state that there were police along with accused. 17. The statement of PW-1 does not inspire confidence primarily for two reasons out of many. Firstly, that the FIR version and the statement during trial are materially different and secondly, once the H 630 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A deceased had escaped from the back door of the house of PW-4 and PW-5, followed by some of the accused, PW-1 would have no opportunity to reach the house of PW-4 and PW-5 where the actual assault took place and to witness the manner in which the crime was committed.