12. Despite the findings of fact recorded by the Assessing Officer D on the genuineness of the transactions, while refusing to allow the ITC, which came to be confirmed by the first Appellate Authority, the second Appellate Authority as well as the High Court have upset the concurrent findings given by the Assessing Officer as well as the first Appellate Authority, on irrelevant considerations that producing invoices or payments through cheques are sufficient to claim ITC which, as observed E hereinabove, is erroneous. As observed hereinabove, over and above the invoices and the particulars of payment, the purchasing dealer has to produce further material like the name and address of the selling dealer, details of the vehicle which has delivered the goods, payment of freight charges, acknowledgement of taking delivery of goods including actual F physical movement of the goods, alleged to have been purchased from the concerned dealers. 13. Now so far as the reliance placed upon Rules 27 and 29 of the Karnataka Value Added Tax Rules, 2005 and the submission on behalf of the purchasing dealers that under the provisions of the Rules 2005, G more particularly under Rules 27 & 29, the only requirement is to issue the tax invoice and to produce the same and there is no other requirement is concerned, the aforesaid has no substance. Rule 27 cast an obligation on the dealers to issue tax invoice and the particulars of the tax invoice are provided under Rule 29. Merely because the tax invoice as per Rule 27 and Rule 29 might have been produced, that by itself cannot be said H THE STATE OF KARNATAKA v. M/S ECOM GILL COFFEE 659 TRADING PRIVATE LIMITED [M. R. SHAH, J.] to be proving the actual physical movement of the goods, which is required A to be proved, as observed hereinabove. Producing the invoices as per Rules 27 and 29 of the Rules 2005 can be said to be proving one of the documents, but not all the documents to discharge the burden to prove the genuineness of the transactions as per section 70 of the KVAT Act, 2003. B 14. Now so far as the reliance upon the decision of the Delhi High Court in the case of On Quest Merchandising India Pvt. Ltd. v. Government of NCT of Delhi (Writ Petition (Civil) No. 6093/2017, decided on 26.10.2017), relying upon by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the purchasing dealers is concerned, at the outset, it is C required to be noted that before the Delhi High Court, Section 9(2)(g) of the Delhi Value Added Tax Act was under consideration, which reads as under: “9(2)(g) to the dealers or class of dealers unless the tax paid by the purchasing dealer has actually been deposited by the selling D dealer with the Government or has been lawfully adjusted against output tax liability and correctly reflected in the return filed for the respective tax period.” The burden of proof as per Section 70 of the KVAT Act, 2003 was not an issue before the Delhi High Court.