of their land as ‘Pushtaini’, namely, those landholders who had purchased A the land prior to the date of establishment of authority i.e., 28.01.1991 or thereafter got the land by partition or family settlement and ‘Gair- Pushtaini’ being those persons who purchased the land after its establishment. Thus, two classes of landholders were carved out for payment of compensation and those who were classified as ‘Pushtaini’ B landholders, a higher amount of compensation was decided to be awarded to them in the name of their rehabilitation. 13. Subsequently, on 15.07.2006, an agreement was entered into between Greater Noida and the appellants and other landholders under Rule 4(2) of the Land Acquisition Rules, 1997 (hereinafter referred to C as ‘1997 Rules’) and in accordance with the resolution passed by Greater Noida in its 26th Meeting, the ‘Pushtaini’ landholders were paid compensation @ Rs. 322 per sq. yard and the ‘Gair-Pushtaini’ landholders including the appellants herein were paid a lesser amount of compensation @ Rs.280 per sq. yard. 14. The landholders continued with their agitation making demand D of further compensation at the enhanced rate which resulted in constituting a Committee to consider the demand of enhanced rate of compensation in the form of bonus/ex-gratia compensation. The Committee submitted its report after making a recommendation for payment of the amount @ Rs.310 per square metre on account of Ex- E gratia to the Ancestral Agriculturists of the land situate in 8 Villages. 15. The report of the Committee dated 25.10.2008 is being reproduced hereunder for a ready reference :- “ ANNEXURE P-4 25.10.2008 F Recommendation of the Committee constituted in connection with making consideration on the demands of bonus/ex- gratia/ compensation enhancement at the enhanced rate in connection with the land of Village Ghodi Bachheda and other Villages as per No.4/4/1/2008 -C.X. (1) Lucknow dated G 4.09.2008 of the Government of Uttar Pradesh Following Committee has been constituted in connection with making consideration on these types of demands and bonus / ex-gratia /compensation enhancement at the enhanced rate in connection with the land of Village Ghodi Bachheda and H 434 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A other Villages vide No.4/4/1/2008 C.X. (1) Lucknow dated 4.09.2008 of the Government of Uttar Pradesh:- 1. Shri Thakur Jaibir Singh, Hon’ble Minister, Rural Engineering Service, Agricultural Foreign Trade and Agriculture Export Chairman B 2. Chief Executive Officer, Greater Noida - Member 3. District Magistrate, Gautam Buddh Nagar - Member Coordinator Examined and perused the records made available in evidence of the Memos submitted by the representatives of agriculture is organizations / Agriculturists C and perused the background of the and its different aspects by the Committee and while convening Committee Meeting of the Committee of Villages / their representatives, even consideration was made in respect of the above matter, particulars of which is given below:- D 1. Background- this decision was taken in the 26th meeting dated 28.10.1997 of the Greater Noida Authority Board that the rate of compensation be assessed on the basis of agreement by the Authority for each financial year and those Agriculturists, who are agreed for executing the consent at E the rates of the questioned Financial Years, they while executing the agreement/consent, may receive compensation under contract/consent regulation and those Agriculturists, who are not agreed with the prescribed rate, the compensation will be payable to them at the rate prescribed by the learned District Magistrate under provisions of Section 23 of the Land F Acquisition Act 1994.