A Srivastava v. State of Uttar Pradesh, reported in (2015) 6 SCC 287. It is submitted that the same is also contrary to the decision of the co- ordinate Bench of the Calcutta High Court in the case of Mukul Roy v. The State of West Bengal, 2018 SCC Online Cal. 4861, expressly following the in Priyanka Srivastava (supra). B 3.6 Learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the appellants have also heavily relied upon the decisions of this Court in the cases of Maksud Saiyed v. State of Gujarat, reported in (2008) 5 SCC 668; Anil Kumar v. M.K. Aiyappa, reported in (2013) 10 SCC 705; and Ramdev Food Products Private Limited v. State of Gujarat, reported in (2015) 6 SCC 439 and decision of this Court in the case of Suresh C Kankra v. State of U.P. & another (Criminal Appeal No. 52/2022, decided on 07.01.2022), in support of their submission that the Magistrate was well within its jurisdiction to verify the truth and veracity of the allegations made in the application, more particularly when such a serious allegation of rape was made after a period of two years after the D date of the alleged incident. 3.7 It is further submitted that the learned Single Judge of the High Court is not right and/or justified in taking a contrary view than the view taken by the co-ordinate Bench in the case of Mukul Roy (supra). It is submitted that if the learned Single Judge of the High Court was of E the opinion that the view taken in the case of Mukul Roy (supra) is not a correct law, in that case, propriety demands that the learned Single Judge ought to have referred the matter to the larger Bench, rather than taking a contrary view. 3.8 It is submitted that even otherwise the learned Single Judge ought to have appreciated that the decision of the High Court in the case F of Mukul Roy (supra) was expressly following the of this Hon’ble Court in the case of Priyanka Srivastava (supra). It is submitted that therefore also, the learned Single Judge ought not to have taken a contrary view. 3.9 It is further submitted by the learned Senior Advocates G appearing on behalf of the appellants that in the present case even the SHO after receiving the complaint in the month of October, 2020 conducted a preliminary enquiry as per the law laid down by this Court in the case of Lalita Kumari (supra) and thereafter refused to register the FIR. H KAILASH VIJAYVARGIYA v. RAJLAKSHMI CHAUDHURI 147 AND OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] 3.10 Learned Senior Advocates appearing on behalf of the A respective appellants have taken us to the number of emails and messages sent to one of the appellants – Kailash Vijayvargiya from 30.11.2018, i.e., the next day after the alleged incident up till March, 2020. It is submitted that if he had committed the rape on 29.11.2018, as alleged, in that case, subsequently there was no reason for her to send emails and B messages to the appellant – Kailash Vijayvargiya.