He cannot after having purchased the property on such terms then claim diminution in the price on the ground of defect in title or description of the property. The case of the Official Liquidator E selling the property of a company in liquidation under the s of the Court is altogether different from the case of an individual selling immovable property belonging to himself. There is, therefore, no merit in the application made on behalf of Triputi that there should be a diminution in price or that it should not be made liable to pay interest on the sum of Rs 1 crore 98 lakhs.” F 17.1. At the first blush, the said decision might appear to be standing somewhere near to the facts of the present case, for that had also been a case of sale of the assets by an OL with a somewhat similar stipulation that the sale was on “as is where is” basis. However, as rightly pointed out by the Division Bench of the High Court, there had G been a marked difference in the terms and conditions of sale in the case of United Bank of India (supra) and those of the present case. 17.2. As noticed and extracted in the impugned of the Division Bench of the High Court, in the case of United Bank of India (supra), the sale notice, inter alia, carried a significant stipulation whereby H the purchaser was put to notice to satisfy himself “in all respects as OFFICIAL LIQUIDATOR v. UJJAIN NAGAR PALIKA NIGAM 1107 & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] regards movable and immovable assets as to their title, A encumbrances, area, boundary, description, quality, quantity, and volume etc.” Therein, it was also stated that “the purchaser shall not be entitled to any compensation or deduction in price on any account whatsoever and shall be deemed to have purchased property subject to all encumbrances, liens and claims including those under the B existing legislation affecting labour, staff etc.” Such stipulations left nothing to chance and nothing of any ambiguity where the purchaser was required to satisfy himself not only about the physical attributes of the assets but also about all encumbrances, liens and claims. Unfortunately, the terms and conditions of the sale in the present case fell too short of such material stipulations. C 17.3. We have reproduced hereinbefore the contents of the sale notice dated 09.05.2003 in the present case and the relevant terms and conditions of sale of the assets of the company in liquidation. It is evident that expansive technical expressions were used in the present case by the appellant OL in the terms and conditions of the sale that the same D would be on “as is where is whatever there is” basis and then, further disclaimer was stated that the appellant OL was not providing any guarantee as to the quality, quantity or specification of the assets sold. Such stipulations and disclaimers were definitely putting the purchasers to notice to get themselves acquainted with what the property is (the E nature and extent); where the property is (the locational attributes); and whatever there is (quantity and condition of the property).