Consequently, the petitioners had a Constitutional right and there was on the State Government a corresponding Constitutional obligation to consider their representations irrespective of whether they were made before or after their cases were referred to the Advisory Board and G that not having been done the of detention against them cannot be sustained. In this view it is not necessary for us to examine the other objections raised against these s. The petition is therefore allowed, the s of detention against Petitioners 15 and 36 are set aside and we direct that they H should be set at liberty forthwith.” PRAMOD SINGLA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 807 [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] 26. Further, in the Jayanarayan Sukul Case (Supra), the same A issue was considered by another Constitution Bench of this Court, wherein it went on to reiterate the principles in the Pankaj Kumar Case (Supra), and held that the central Government must act independently of the Advisory Board, and can decide the representation made by the detenue without hearing from the Advisory Board. For the purpose of convenience, B the relevant paragraph of the said is being reproduced herein: “In the present case, the State of West Bengal is guilty of infraction of the Constitutional provisions not only by inordinate delay of the consideration of the representation but also by putting of the consideration till after the receipt C of the opinion of the Advisory Board. As we have already observed there is no explanation for this inordinate delay. The Superintendent who made the enquiry did not affirm an affidavit. The State has given no information as to why this long delay occurred. The inescapable conclusion in the present case is that the appropriate authority failed to D discharge its Constitutional obligation by inactivity and lack of independent .” 27. In the Harardhan Saha Case (Supra), yet another Constitution Bench of this Court considered the distinction between the consideration of the representation made by the detenue in cases of E preventive detention, and it was stated that if the representation was made before the matter is referred to the Advisory Board, the detaining authority must consider such representation, but if the representation is made after the matter is referred to the Advisory Board, the detaining authority would first consider it and then send it to the Advisory Board. F The relevant paragraph from the said is being reproduced hereunder: “The representation of a detenu is to be considered. There is an obligation on the State to consider the representation. The Advisory Board has adequate power to examine the entire G material. The Board can also call for more materials. The Board may call the detenu at his request. The Constitution of the Board shows that it is to consist of Judges or persons qualified to be Judges of the High Court. The Constitution of the Board observes the fundamental of fair play and principles H 808 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A of natural justice. It is not the requirement of principles of natural justice that there must be an oral hearing.