It states that by the year 2001, the density of Phase-I had already exceeded the designed density whereas that of Phase-II sectors was the same as was designed. It states that the city still has reasonable capacity to accommodate additional population. It further states that the density pattern is likely to undergo G considerable change in the years to come with the city recording higher growth and development. As per the existing trends, the sectors falling in Phase-I shall continue to have lower density as compared to the sectors falling in Phase-II. 71. Clause 5.7.4 of the CMP-2031 deals with the holding capacity of UT Chandigarh based on Master Plan recommendations. It H 638 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A specifically states that in to maintain the basic character of the city as an administrative city, unnecessary increase in the population should be avoided. It states that with the coming up of new towns in the periphery of Punjab and Haryana, the excess population can be easily accommodated in those towns. It states that since the land stock in Chandigarh is limited, the uses related to governance and administration B should get priority in the allocation of land. It states that additional population will have to be diverted to the adjoining settlements by viewing the entire context of planning in the regional framework. However, the table in the said clause, dealing with private plots, shows the total units to be 22,788 and number of dwelling units as triple this number, at 68,364. C 72. Clause 6.3 of the CMP-2031 deals with private housing. It states that nearly 1/3rd of the private plots have an area of one kanal or above. It states that the first phase of the city had low density with residential plots ranging from 5 marlas to 8 kanals. The second Phase has much higher density with a switch mostly to three to four storey flats with the largest plot size being 2 kanals. D 73. It will be pertinent to refer to the relevant parts of Clause 6.12 of the CMP-2031, which read thus: “6. HOUSING IN CHANDIGARH ……….. E 6.12 MASTER PLAN PROPOSALS ……….. Approval of the Chandigarh Heritage Conservation Committee Since Phase I sectors have been recommended for Heritage status, F the re-utilization of the identified housing /institutional pockets in the first phase shall be undertaken with the prior approval of the Chandigarh Heritage Conservation Committee. ……….. ADDITIONAL FAR AND GROUND COVERAGE TO G PRIVATE HOUSING The Chandigarh Administration vide notification dated 16/10/2008 has already permitted increased ground coverage and FAR for all sizes of private residential plots and introduced the concept of zoning in place of frame control. Under these regulations, all private plots can build upto 3 floors with each floor having potential of H RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 639 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] having an independent unit. There are approximately 23000 private A plots of all categories within the sectoral grid of the Chandigarh Master Plan.