30. Be that as it may, it is important to bear in mind that we are not hearing an application for condonation of delay but sitting in appeal over a discretionary of the High Court granting the prayer for condonation of delay. In the case of the former, whether to condone or not would be the only question whereas in the latter, whether there has been proper exercise of discretion in favour of grant of the prayer for condonation would be the question. Law is fairly well-settled that “a court of appeal SHEO RAJ SINGH (DECEASED) THROUGH LRS. 757 & ORS. V. UNION OF INDIA & ANR. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] should not ordinarily interfere with the discretion exercised by the courts below”. If any authority is required, we can profi tably refer to the decision in Manjunath Anandappa v. Tammanasa12, which in turn relied on the decision in Gujarat Steel Tubes Ltd. v. Gujarat Steel Tubes Mazdoor Sabha13 where it has been held that “an appellate power interferes not when the appealed is not right but only when it is clearly wrong”. 31. The under challenge in this appeal is dated 21st December 2011. It was rendered at a point of time when the decisions in Mst. Katiji (supra), Ramegowda (supra), Chandra Mani (supra), K.V. Ayisumma (supra) and Lipok AO (supra) were holding the fi eld. It is not that the said decisions do not hold the fi eld now, having been overruled by any subsequent decision. Although there have been some decisions in the recent past [State of M.P. v. Bherulal14 is one such decision apart from University of Delhi (supra)] which have not accepted governmental lethargy, tardiness and indolence in presenting appeals within time as suffi cient cause for condonation of delay, yet, the exercise of discretion by the High Court has to be tested on the anvil of the liberal and justice oriented approach expounded in the aforesaid decisions which have been referred to above. We fi nd that the High Court in the present case assigned the following reasons in support of its : a. The law of limitation was founded on public policy, and that some lapse on the part of a litigant, by itself, would not be suffi cient to deny condonation of delay as the same could cause miscarriage of justice. b. The expression suffi cient cause is elastic enough for courts to do substantial justice. Further, when substantial justice and technical considerations are pitted against one another, the former would prevail. c. It is upon the courts to consider the suffi ciency of cause shown for the delay, and the length of delay is not always decisive while exercising discretion in such matters if the delay is properly 12 (2003) 10 SCC 390. 13 (1980) 2 SCC 593. 14 (2020) 10 SCC 654. 758 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. explained. Further, the merits of a claim were also to be considered when deciding such applications for condonation of delay. d. Further, a distinction should be drawn between inordinate unexplained delay and explained delay, where in the present case, the fi rst respondent had suffi ciently explained the delay on account of negligence on part of the government functionaries and the government counsel on record before the Reference Court.