It also noticed another decision of this Court rendered in Oriental Insurance Company Ltd. v. Mohd. Nasir and Another2to observe that the extent of disability is to be determined having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case but not in an F arbitrary and illegal manner. 17. After observing as above and taking notice of a decision of the High Court, the High Court found that ends of justice will be met if 40% permanent disablement is taken into consideration for computing the compensation. Consequently, the High Court reduced the G compensation awarded to the extent indicated above. 1 (2007) 2 SCC 349 2 (2007) 2 SCC 349 H 854 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 18. Aggrieved by the and of the High Court, the appellant has preferred Special Leave Petition under Article 136 of the Constitution of India. 19. On this petition, notices were issued on 13.01.2023 to the respondents 1 and 2 and it was directed that no recovery of any excess B amount shall be made from the petitioner. As per the office report dated 05.04.2023, despite due service on the respondents, none has entered appearance on their behalf. 20. We have heard learned counsel for the appellant and have perused the record. C SUBMISSIONS OF THE APPELLANT 21. The learned counsel for the appellant submitted that, - firstly, appeal under section 30 of the Act is not to be entertained unless a substantial question of law arises. In absence of any perversity in the reasoning qua the extent of disability, it being a question of fact, the High D Court erred by delving into that issue. Secondly, the High Court fell in error by assessing the permanent disability as 40% instead of 100%. It was urged that total disablement, whether temporary or permanent, of a workman is to be adjudged on the basis of his incapacity to perform the work which he was capable of performing at the time of the accident resulting in such disablement. The appellant was a loading and unloading E labourer at the time of the accident. For the purposes of loading/unloading, use of both arms/hands are required. The evidence brought on record had clearly indicated that the appellant’s left hand was rendered useless therefore she was declared unfit for labour job. In such circumstances, the Commissioner was justified in assessing the permanent disability as F 100% (i.e., total disablement) whereas the High Court fell in error by assessing it as 40%. In support of his submissions, the learned counsel for the appellant placed reliance on decisions of this Court in Chanappa Nagappa Muchalagoda v. Divisional Manager, New India Insurance Co. Ltd.3 and Golla Rajanna and Others v. Divisional Manager and Another.4 G DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 22. We have considered the submissions and have perused the record. 3 (2020) 1 SCC 796 H 4 (2017) 1 SCC 45 INDRA BAI v. ORIENTAL INSURANCE COMPANY LTD. & 855 ANOTHER [MANOJ MISRA, J.] 23. There is no dispute between the parties in respect of the A following:- (a) that the appellant was under employment of R-2 as a loading and unloading labourer for Truck No.