of its turnover for each year of the continuance of such agreement, whichever is higher. C (c) Omitted by Competition (Amendment) Act, 2007 (d) direct that the agreements shall stand modified to the extent and in the manner as may be specified in the by the Commission; D (e) direct the enterprises concerned to abide by such other s as the Commission may pass and comply with the directions, including payment of costs, if any; (f) Omitted by Competition (Amendment) Act, 2007 (g) pass such other or issue such directions as it may deem E fit. Provided that while passing s under this section, if the Commission comes to a finding, that an enterprise in contravention to section 3 or section 4 of the Act is a member of a group as defined in clause (b) of the Explanation to section 5 of the Act, F and other members of such a group are also responsible for, or have contributed to, such a contravention, then it may pass s, under this section, against such members of the group.” 71. Section 28 provides for power to division of enterprise enjoying dominant position. G 72. The CCI is given power to pass interim s in Section 33. The CCI can regulate its procedure as provided in Section 36. Section 41 provides for the duty of the Director General. He is to assist the CCI by investigating into any controversies. Penalties are contemplated under the Act. An appeal is provided to the Tribunal and Section 53T provides H COAL INDIA LIMITED v. COMPETITION COMMISSION 865 OF INDIA [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] for an appeal to the Supreme Court against the of the Tribunal. A Section 54 deals with the power to exempt. It reads: “54. Power to exempt.— The Central Government may, by notification, exempt from the application of this Act, or any provision thereof, and for such period as it may specify in such notification— B (a) any class of enterprises if such exemption is necessary in the interest of security of the State or public interest; (b) any practice or agreement arising out of and in accordance with any obligation assumed by India under any treaty, agreement C or convention with any other country or countries; (c) any enterprise which performs a sovereign function on behalf of the Central Government or a State Government: Provided that in case an enterprise is engaged in any activity including the activity relatable to the sovereign functions of the D Government, the Central Government may grant exemption only in respect of activity relatable to the sovereign functions.” 73. Section 60 reads as follows: “60. The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the E time being in force.” 74. We must proceed on the basis that there is no challenge to the Act. This means that we must take the Act as it is and place an interpretation on it as would be most suitable in accordance with well- established principles.