The DSA test was conducted by the Hospital itself on 22.4.1998. However, since it became dysfunctional on 24.4.1998 and considering the critical condition of the patient, an alternative angiography test was advised and conducted and the re-exploration was thus planned. It is only a matter of chance that all the four operation theatres of the Hospital were occupied when the patient was to undergo surgery. We do not fi nd that the expectation of the patient to have an emergency operation theatre is reasonable as the hospital can provide only as many operation theatres as the patient load warrants. If the operation theatres were occupied at the time when the operation of the patient was contemplated, it cannot be said that there is a negligence on the part of the Hospital. A team of specialist doctors was available and also have attended to the patient but unfortunately nature had the last word and the patient breathed his last. The family may not have coped with the loss of their loved one, but the Hospital and the Doctor cannot be blamed as they provided the requisite care at all given times. No doctor can assure life to his patient but can only attempt to treat his patient to the best of his ability which was being done in the present case as well.” 29. In so far as the applicability of principles of Res Ipsa Locutor, in the fact and circumstances of the case, it is to bear in mind that the principles get attracted where circumstances strongly suggest partaking in negligent behaviour by the person against whom an accusation of negligence is made. 112 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. For applying the principles of Res Ipsa Locutor, it is necessary that a ‘Res’ is present to establish the allegation of negligence. Strong incriminating circumstantial or documentary evidence is required for application of the doctrine. 30. In Malay Kumar Ganguly v. Dr. Sukumar Mukherjee and Ors.8 this Court has observed in paragraph 34 as follows: “34. Charge of professional negligence on a medical person is a serious one as it aff ects his professional status and reputation and as such the burden of proof would be more onerous. A doctor cannot be held negligent only because something has gone wrong. He also cannot be held liable for mischance or misadventure or for an error of in making a choice when two options are available. The mistake in diagnosis is not necessarily a negligent diagnosis.” 31. The case in hand stands on a better footing, inasmuch as there was no mistake in diagnosis or a negligent diagnosis by Respondent no. 2. In the absence of the patient having any history of diabetes, hypertension, or cardiac problem, it is diffi cult to foresee a possible cardiac problem only because the patient had suff ered pain in the neck region. 32. For the foregoing, this Court is of the considered view that the appellant has failed to establish negligence on the part of Respondents in taking post operative care and the fi ndings in this regard recorded by the Commission does not suff er from any illegality or perversity.