When the parties are at loggerheads, the immediate lodging of the FIR provides credence to the prosecution case. B 32. Undisputedly, the present case rests on the evidence of interested witnesses. No doubt that two of them are injured witnesses. This Court, in the case of Vadivelu Thevar v. The State of Madras7, has observed thus: C “11. ……Hence, in our opinion, it is a sound and well-established rule of law that the court is concerned with the quality and not with the quantity of the evidence necessary for proving or disproving a fact. Generally speaking, oral testimony in this context may be classified into three categories, namely: (1) Wholly reliable. D (2) Wholly unreliable. (3) Neither wholly reliable nor wholly unreliable. 12. In the first category of proof, the court should have no difficulty in coming to its conclusion either way — it may convict or may E acquit on the testimony of a single witness, if it is found to be above reproach or suspicion of interestedness, incompetence or subornation. In the second category, the court equally has no difficulty in coming to its conclusion. It is in the third category of cases, that the court has to be circumspect and has to look for F corroboration in material particulars by reliable testimony, direct or circumstantial……” 33. It could thus be seen that in the category of “wholly reliable” witness, there is no difficulty for the prosecution to press for conviction on the basis of the testimony of such a witness. In case of “wholly G unreliable” witness, again, there is no difficulty, inasmuch as no conviction could be made on the basis of oral testimony provided by a “wholly unreliable” witness. The real difficulty comes in case of the third category of evidence which is partly reliable and partly unreliable. In such cases, the court is required to be circumspect and separate the chaff from the H 7 [1957] SCR 981 NAND LAL AND OTHERS v. THE STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 291 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] grain, and seek further corroboration from reliable testimony, direct or A circumstantial. 34. Undisputedly, in the present case, PWs 2 and 9 are injured witnesses. As such, their presence cannot be disputed. However, as already observed hereinabove, in case of proven previous enmity, a possibility of false implication cannot be ruled out. In the present case, it B would be seen that the entire family of accused No. 12 Paltan Jangde has been roped in. Though PW-2 has identified and named the accused in her cross-examination, she has stated that, though she recognized the relatives of the accused persons, she does not remember their names. As such, the possibility of implicating the entire family of Paltan cannot C be ruled out. 35. As already discussed hereinabove, the names of Nand Lal, Bhagwat and Ramdular are not mentioned in the merg report, which was lodged prior to the lodging of FIR, so also their names are not found in the inquest panchnama and spot panchnama.