It is submitted that the third variant of paying service tax on the total contract value including goods and correspondingly availing CENVAT Credit on the E input is not only misconceived but also legally untenable besides a Constitutional bar. 4.20 Now so far as the reliance is placed upon the decision of this Court in the case of Commissioner of Service Tax and Ors. Bhayana Builders Pvt. Ld. and Ors, (2018) 3 SCC 782 is concerned, it is F submitted that on facts it has no relevance. It is submitted that on the contrary the decision of this Court in the case of Larsen and Toubro (supra)would apply. It is submitted that even the circular dated 22.05.2005 makes it amply clear as to how a works contract service needs to be taxed and vide para 9.2 referred to Rule 2A of the Valuation Rules, 2006 to affirm that the value of works contract service shall be equivalent to G the gross amount charged for the works contract less the value of transfer of property in goods involved in the execution of the said contract and vide para 9.3 rings out the elements of services which matches exactly with the elements laid down by this Court in the case of Gannon Dunkerly (supra). H 996 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 5. Making above submissions it is prayed to allow the present appeal. 6. Present appeal is vehemently opposed by Shri V. Raghuraman, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent – assessee. B 6.1 While opposing the present appeal and in support of the impugned passed by the CESTAT, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent has made the following submissions: (i) That the composition scheme is optional as per Rule 3(1) of the Composition Rules; C (ii) Provisions of Rule 2A of the Valuation Rules are subject to the provisions of Section 67 of the Finance Act, 1994; (iii) Once the provisions of Section 67 of the Finance Act, 1994 have been complied with, neither the question of applicability of Rule 2A of the Valuation Rules arise nor was there any D question of forcibly applying option of Composition Scheme on the assessee; (iv) Even if the services of the respondent are considered as classifiable under ‘works contract service’ after 1st June, 2007, as claimed by the Revenue, the further claims of the E Revenue that there were only two options as above for valuation of the works contract service namely the composition rules and the Rule 2A of the Valuation Rules available to the assessee and consequential non-admissibility of CENVAT Credit has no merit. F (v) It is submitted that in case of ‘works contract service’ also, the assessment can be done under the provisions of Section 67 of the Finance Act, 1994 and that valuation methods prescribed under Rule 2A or composition scheme are merely options provided to the assessee; G (vi) Therefore, the benefit of CENVAT Credit on inputs cannot be denied to the respondents in absence of any specific bar or prohibition in the CENVAT Credit Rules, 2004 or the Finance Act, 1994.