It is reiterated that all queer persons have the right to relationship and choice of partner, co-habit and live together, as an integral part of choice, which is linked SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1467 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] to their privacy and dignity. Any further discussion on the rights which consenting partners may exercise, is unnecessary. No one has contested that two queer partners have the rights enumerated under Article 19 (1)(a); (c), and (d), or even the right to conscience under Article 25. The elaboration of these rights, to say that exercise of choice to such relationships renders these rights meaningful, and that the state is obliged to “recognise a bouquet of entitlements which fl ow from such an abiding relationship of this kind” is not called for. We therefore, respectfully disagree with that part of the learned Chief Justice’s reasoning, which forms the basis for some of the fi nal conclusions and directions recorded in his draft . V. Inapplicability of the Special Marriage Act A. Challenge to the SMA on the ground of impermissible classifi cation 71. The petitioners complained that provisions of the SMA, inasmuch as they excluded, or do not provide for marriage of non-heterosexual couples, is discriminatory, because the classifi cation made in its various provisions are heteronormative, thus discriminating against non-heterosexual couples. This exclusion, is the basis of their challenge. 72. Hostile classifi cation, which results in exclusion from benefi ts of a statute or policy, is based on the understanding that where “equals are treated diff erently, without any reasonable basis” as held in D.S. Nakara v. Union of India65: “The classifi cation must be founded on an intelligible diff erentia which distinguishes persons or things that are grouped together from those that are left out of the group and that diff erentia must have a rational nexus to the object sought to be achieved by the statute in question. There ought to be causal connection between the basis of classifi cation and the object of the statute. An executive action could be sustained only if the twin tests of reasonable classifi cation and the rational principle co-related to the object sought to be achieved are satisfi ed.” 73. What is an “intelligible diff erentia” on which the classifi cation is to be drawn distinguishing objects or persons, or conditions, for the 65 1983 (2) SCR 165 146 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. purpose of legislative or executive policy? The premise of classifi cation is to discriminate. The theory of permissible classifi cation rests, therefore, on the basis for diff erentiation, and its relation to the object of the measure or the law. Permissible classifi cation, therefore, should result in valid diff erentiation; but it crosses the line when it has a discriminatory eff ect, of excluding persons, objects or things which otherwise form part of the included group. Kedar Nath Bajoria v. State of West Bengal66 explained that Article 14 cannot mean that “all laws must be general in character and universal in application and that the State is no longer to have the power of distinguishing and classifying persons or things for the purposes of legislation.