8. A supplementary charge-sheet was fi led on 01.04.2006, slightly modifying the earlier charge-sheet, giving a narration that the accused broke open the house of the deceased and PW5, her husband, due to previous enmity and when she made her entry into the house, she was raped and murdered. The murder took place as she was resisting rape and tried to attack the accused with a sword, recovered from the place of occurrence, which was actually used by them. 9. Before the trial court, the prosecution has examined 16 witnesses, while a police offi cer has been examined on behalf of the accused based upon Exhibits D1 and D2, statements recorded under Section 161 of the CrPC, given by the minor children of the deceased, to elucidate the contradiction in the case of the prosecution. 10. PW1, as already stated, is the informant and PW2 is his wife. PW3 is the witness to the recoveries made from the house of the deceased. PW5 is the husband of the deceased and PW6 is the lady from Tibet to whom jewels were pledged. PW9 is the doctor who conducted the post-mortem. This witness had deposed that there was no evidence of rape. PW16 and PW13 116 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. are the Investigating Offi cers who fi led the initial and the supplementary charge sheets respectively. 11. The trial court, after a complete and thorough examination of the evidence placed before it, rendered an of acquittal. It disbelieved the testimony of PW1 on account of his unnatural conduct. This witness had chosen not to react and to take follow-up action even after the accused left the place. It took into consideration the statement given by the children under Section 161 of the CrPC that this witness advised the children to tell their mother to give a complaint to the police, though she was found dead. There were a number of houses adjoining the home of the deceased. It was not known as to how PW1 could come to the conclusion about the manner of the death, if according to his statement, he had not actually seen the occurrence. 12. The Court further found that there was no explanation as to why the fi ngerprint report has not been placed on record. The children of the deceased, her mother-in-law and her neighbour Chandrawati have not been examined, despite being material witnesses. Taking note of the statement of PW6, the trial court observed that the so-called recovery is highly doubtful as she has stated that the jewels have been pledged, but not sold. 13. The High Court in the impugned set aside the acquittal rendered by the trial court by substantially placing reliance upon the evidence of PW1. It held that the evidence of PW1 would indicate the prior enmity between PW5 and the accused. PW9 has clearly stated that the death was homicidal. Recovery of the sword and knife has been proved by the evidence of PW3, from the scene of occurrence.