It is only the High Courts or this Court that would have the power, upon G proper application of mind, to take recourse to special category sentencing, depending upon the nature of the offence and its gravity. To that extent, the sentence imposed by the learned Additional Sessions Judge was, therefore, without legal basis. 11. That being said, the fact still remains that the appellant was held guilty of the most heinous of offences, viz., the rape of his own little H 488 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A daughter. The trust and faith that a young girl would repose in her father and the sanctity of the very relationship were destroyed by his debauched and devastating acts. In such a situation, allowing him the freedom to seek liberal remissions, so as to cut short his life imprisonment, would be nothing short of a travesty of justice. Significantly, Section 376 IPC was amended with retrospective effect from 03.02.2013. The amended B provision now reads very differently. Section 376(2) IPC has been enlarged and presently comprises clauses (a) to (n). The new Section 376(2)(f) states that whoever, being a relative, guardian or teacher of, or a person in a position of trust or authority towards the woman, commits rape on such woman, shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a C term which shall not be less than 10 years, but which may extend to imprisonment for life, which shall mean imprisonment for the remainder of that person’s natural life, and shall also be liable to fine. Further, Section 376(3) has been inserted in the statute book and it provides that whoever commits rape on a woman under 16 years of age shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than 20 years, D but which may extend to imprisonment for life, which shall mean imprisonment for the remainder of that person’s natural life, and shall also be liable to fine. It may also be noted that the new Sections 376A, 376D and 376E, brought into the statute book by the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013, and the new Sections 376AB, 376DA and E 376DB inserted therein by the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2018, provide for the enlarged punishment of life imprisonment for the remainder of the convict’s natural life. 12. In the case on hand, the new Sections 376(2)(f) and 376(3) IPC would have had application had the offence been committed after 03.02.2013. However, as it is an admitted fact that the child was raped F by her father during the month of August, 2012, these amended provisions would have no role to play. Article 20(1) of the Constitution of India would come to the undeserving rescue of the appellant, as it provides that no person shall be subjected to a penalty greater than that which might have been inflicted under the law in force at the time of commission G of the offence.Suffice it to state, at this stage, that this Court is mindful of the fact that the lawmakers deemed it fit and appropriate to provide for more stringent punishment for the offence of rape in certain circumstances and made it clear that when imprisonment for life is imposed upon the perpetrator of the offence in those situations, such a perpetrator would be liable to remain in prison for the remainder of his H natural life.