Indeed, the right of an arbitrator to deliver a dissenting opinion is properly considered as an element of his/her adjudicative mandate, particularly in circumstances where a reasoned award is required. Only clear an explicit prohibition should preclude the making and publication to the parties of a dissenting opinion, which serves an important role in the deliberative process, and can provide a valuable check on arbitrary or indefensible decision making. [.] […] There is nothing objectionable at all about an arbitrator “systematically drawing up a dissenting opinion, and insisting that it be communicated to the parties”. If an arbitrator believes that the Tribunal is making a seriously wrong decision, which cannot fairly be reconciled with the law and the evidentiary record, then he/she may express that view. There is nothing wrong — and on the contrary, much that is right — with such a course as part of the adjudicatory process in which the Tribunal’s conclusion is expressed in a reasoned manner. And, if the arbitrator considers that the award’s conclusions require a “systematic” discussion, that is also entirely appropriate; indeed, it is implied in the adjudicative process, and the requirement of a reasoned award.” […] … the very concept of a reasoned award by a multi-member Tribunal permits a statement of diff erent reasons — if diff erent members of the Tribunal in fact hold diff erent views. This is an essential aspect of the process by which the parties have an opportunity to both, present their case, and hear the reasons for the Tribunal’s decision; not hearing the dissent deprives the parties of an important aspect of this process.” M/S HINDUSTAN CONSTRUCTION COMPANY LIMITED v. 641 M/S NATIONAL HIGHWAYS AUTHORITY OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 26. In Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Ltd, the court recollected the previous holding in Ssangyong Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd. v. NHAI (hereafter, “Ssangyong Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd.”)23, wherein the court had set aside the majority award, but issued consequential directions in the peculiar facts of the case: “In Ssangyong [Ssangyong Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd. v. NHAI, (2019) 7 SCR 522], this Court upheld the view taken by the dissenting arbitrator in exercise of its powers under Article 142 of the Constitution, in to do complete justice between the parties. The reason for doing so is mentioned in para 77 i.e. the considerable delay which would be caused if another arbitration was to be held. This Court exercised its extraordinary power in Ssangyong [Ssangyong Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd. v. NHAI,] keeping in mind the facts of the case, and the object of expeditious resolution of disputes under the Arbitration Act.” However, the court did not, in Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Ltd (supra) direct the dissenting opinion to be treated as an award. In the opinion of this court, that approach is correct, because there appears to be a slight divergence in thinking between Russel and Gary Born. The former, Russel is careful to point out that a dissenting opinion is not per se an award, but “is for the parties’ information only and does not form part of the award, but it may be admissible as evidence in relation to the procedural matters in the event of a challenge.” However, Gary Born does not expressly say that the opinion is not a part of the award.