Hence, it was urged that there is no warrant for the interference of this Court. 15. While considering the rival submissions, certain basic facts emerge from the record. An omnibus show cause notice was issued on 3 January 2020 to the cooperative society by the Regional Joint Director H (Sugar) acting on the basis of complaints raising a dispute with regard to DEEPAK ANANDA PATIL v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA 723 & ORS [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] the eligibility of nearly 2,000 members. The cooperative society forwarded A a copy of the show cause notice to each of the members. 16. The Single Judge of the High Court has recorded the submission of the counsel appearing on behalf of the complainants that a Committee was constituted to verify the allegations and that the Committee submitted its report to the Regional Joint Director (Sugar). B The report, insofar as it contained findings with regard to the eligibility of individual members, was crucial for the members to set up their defense in regard to the plea of their alleged ineligibility. A copy of the report was not supplied to the individual members or to the cooperative society. 17. It is a well-established principle of administrative law that an C adjudicatory body cannot base its decision on any material unless the person against whom it is sought to be utilized has been apprised of it and given an opportunity to respond to it. Surveying the precedents extensively, MP Jain & SN Jain’s treatise on Principles of Administrative Law1 notes that: D “If the adjudicatory body is going to rely on any material, evidence or document for its decision against a party, then the same must be brought to his notice and he be given an opportunity to rebut it or comment thereon. It is regarded as a fundamental principle of natural justice that no material ought to be relied on against a E party without giving him an opportunity to respond to the same. The right of being heard may be of little value if the individual is kept in the dark as to the evidence against him and is not given an opportunity to deal with it. The right to know the material on which the authority is going to base its decision is an element of the right to defend oneself. If without disclosing any evidence to the F party, the authority takes it into its consideration, and decides the matter against the party, then the decision is vitiated for it amounts to denial of a real and effective opportunity to the party to meet the case against him. The principle can be seen operating in several judicial G pronouncements where non-disclosure of materials to the affected party has been held fatal to the validity of the hearing proceedings. (emphasis supplied) 1 MP Jain & SN Jain, Principles of Administrative Law (LexisNexis, 8th ed.) at 490-91. H 724 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 18. In T. Takano v Securities and Exchange Board of India2, a two judge bench of this court, of which one of us was a part (D.Y.