It is not a commercial loss, and I think when the Act speaks of a loss connected with or E arising out of such trade it means a commercial loss, connected with or arising out of the trade.” In Strong & Co. v. Woodifield [(1906) AC 448] a brewing company owned a licensed house in which they carried on the business of inn-keepers. They incurred a liability to pay damages F on account of injuries caused to a visitor, by the falling in of a chimney. This sum was held not to be allowable as a deduction in computing the profits. Lord Loreburn, L.C., in his speech said no sum could be deducted unless it be money wholly and exclusively laid out or expended for the purpose of such trade and that only such losses could be deducted as were connected with it in the G sense that they were really incidental to the trade itself and they could not be deducted if they were mainly incidental to some other vocation or fell on the trader in some character other than that of a trader. Lord Davey observed: H 114 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A “I think the disbursements permitted are such as are made for that purpose. It is not enough that the disbursement is made in the course of, or arise out of, or is connected with the trade or is made out of the profits of the trade. It must be made for the purpose of earning profits.” B The following passage from Lord Sterndale’s at p. 566 in Von Glehn case [(1920) 2 KB 553] from which we have already quoted shows the effect of incurring a penalty as a result of a breach of the law: “During the course of the trading this company committed a C breach of the law. As I say, it has been agreed that they did not intend to do anything wrong in the sense that they were willingly and knowingly sending these goods to an enemy destination; but they committed a breach of the law, and for that breach of the law, they were fined. That, as it seems to me, was not a loss connected with the business, but was a fine imposed upon D the company personally, so far as a company can be considered to be a person, for a breach of the law which it had committed. It is perhaps a little difficult to put the distinction into very exact language, but there seems to me to be a difference between a commercial loss in trading and a penalty imposed E upon a person or a company for a breach of the law which they have committed in that trading. For that reason I think that both the decision of Rowlatt, J., in this case, and his former decision in Inland Revenue Commissioners v. Warnes & Co. [(1919) 2 KB 444] which he followed were right, and that this appeal should be dismissed with costs.” F In Spofforth and Prince v. Glider [(1945) 26 TC 310] the assessee was a firm of chartered accountants, who claimed a deduction for certain legal costs paid in connection with a successful defence of one of the partners in a Police Court.