And so, I H did.” STATE OF RAJASTHAN v. ASHARAM @ ASHUMAL 9 [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] 9. The impugned refers to s concerning Sections A 311 and 391 of the Cr.P.C., to observe that while it will be premature for the High Court to comment on whether the victim (PW-5) was tutored on the basis of some video recording of the crime scene, as referred to in the book written by Ajay Pal Lamba, his examination and the recording itself would be valuable as evidence, given the fact that the defence had B given definite suggestions to the victim (PW-5) and the Investigating Officer – Chanchal Mishra (PW-43) that a video recording of the crime scene was shown to the victim (PW-5) and on the basis thereof, the victim (PW-5) was familiarized with the crime scene. The impugned observes that the defence had relied on contradictions between the first version given by the victim (PW-5) in the ‘Zero’ FIR (Exhibit P- C 11) and the statement of the victim (PW-5) under Section 164 of the Cr.P.C. (Exhibit P-7), vis-à-vis the statement under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C (Exhibit D-2), stated to be recorded by the Investigating Officer – Chanchal Mishra (PW-43) on 21.08.2013, which contains a graphic description of the place/scene of the crime. The High Court observes D that the trial court had rejected the argument by the defence that videography of the crime scene was done by the police on 21.08.2013, and was shown to the victim (PW-5), and consequently placed reliance on the victim (PW-5)’s description of the scene of crime in view of her statement, Exhibit D-2, given to the Investigating Officer – Chanchal Mishra (PW-43) under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. on 21.08.2013. E Accordingly, the High Court allowed the application and has directed that Ajay Pal Lamba is to be summoned as a witness, for the following reason: “……. Now with the publication of the book, referred to supra, the defence has right to claim that video of the crime scene was F unquestionably recorded which fact is sufficient to convince the Court that it is absolutely essential in the interest of justice and for a just decision of the case to exercise the power under Section 391 Cr.P.C. for summoning and examining Shri Ajay Pal Lamba as a court witness in this case while giving access of cross G examination to the defence as well as the prosecution.” 10. In our opinion, the impugned is unsustainable and mistaken in both facts and law. The reasoning is based upon mere conjectures, and that too without appreciating the scope and object of Section 391 of the Cr.P.C. As stated above, we do not wish to make H 10 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A observations on merits, albeit in view of the stand taken by the respondent – Asharam @ Ashumal, we have to reproduce the relevant observations made in the trial court , to which our attention was drawn, and reliance was placed by the learned Senior Advocate appearing for the respondent – Asharam @ Ashumal in support of his submissions.