officers and other individuals” this is explicitly clear that the present accused are victims of the extortionists, such as Victo Swu and there is the imperative duty cast upon the court to differentiate between this two individuals – those who commit extortion on their own volition and those who D are compelled to pay tax by compulsion, this will serve the ends of justice. The mental exercise which is cast upon the special Judge to examine whether there is a prima facie true case in the instant case thus falls short of the requirement to tie the hands of the Court to consider bail in such cases. The prosecution has not been able to show that indeed the accused have been voluntarily E contributing to the funding of the outlawed outfits to execute their nefarious activities. There is also noting emanating from the C.D. brought for the perusal of the court that the accused persons are sympathizers of the extortionist or U.G. factions, nor is there any evidence to show that the accused persons are active members F of the outlawed organizations. There must be a line drawn which differentiate the likes of accused Victo Swu and the present accused persons. In the present facts the balance is more inclined to show that the accused are victims of circumstances and to hold them on equal footing with the terrorist would be grave injustice. Unless it can be shown that the accused are actually G sympathizers of the outlawed outfits and they are depriving fund on their own volition to sustain the outlawed organisations it would be prejudiced to conclude that there is a prima facie true evidence. The fact that the accused/petitioners have not taken security and have not reported the matter to the authority cannot equate them as terrorists. H 528 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Hence, I derive at the conclusion that there is no prima fade true evidences against the accused persons to show that they are sympathizers and they have been voluntarily contributing to the outlawed organizations. I rule that the investigation agency have also no hindrances at all in securing any information from the accused persons as the NIA have admitted that the accused B persons and voluntarily cooperating with the investigation by surrendering all relevant documents which wee needed by the investigation. The accused persons also being Govt. servants and having deep root in the society there is no chance for them to jump bail.” C 11. A perusal of the aforesaid would clearly reveal that even, according to the prosecution case, accused Nos.1 to 3, who were office bearers of the organization were regularly extorting money from various government servants and other individuals. The learned Special Judge has rightly observed that the Court has to differentiate between those D who commit extortion on their own volition and those who are coerced to pay by compulsion. The Court has found that the prosecution has not been able to show that the accused have been voluntarily contributing to the funding of the outlawed outfits to execute their nefarious activities.