The State Government, in our view, need not review the s of detention every three months after it has passed the confi rmatory . 44. Thus, in our view, the period of three months specifi ed in Article 22(4)(a) of Constitution of India is relatable to the period of detention prior to the report of the Advisory Board and not to the period of detention subsequent thereto. Further, the period of detention in terms of Article 22(4)(a) cannot be in force for a period beyond three months, if by then, the Advisory Board has not given its opinion holding that there is suffi cient cause for such detention. Therefore, under Article 22(4)(a), the Advisory Board would have to give its opinion within a period of three months from the date of detention and depending upon the opinion expressed by the Advisory Board, the State Government can under Section 12 of the Act, either confi rm the of detention or continue the detention of the person concerned for a maximum period of twelve months as specifi ed in Section 13 of the Act or release the detenu forthwith, as the case may be. If the of detention is confi rmed, then the period of detention can be extended up to the maximum period of twelve months from the date of detention. With respect, we observe that it is not necessary that before the expiration of three months, it is necessary for the State Government to review the of detention as has been expressed by this Court in Cherukuri Mani (supra). The Act does not contemplate a review of the detention once the Advisory Board has opined that there is suffi cient cause for detention of the person concerned and on that basis, a confi rmatory is passed by the State Government to detain a person for the maximum period of twelve months from the date of detention. On the other hand, when under Section PESALA NOOKARAJU v. THE GOVERNMENT OF 571 ANDHRA PRADESH & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 3(2) of the Act, the State Government delegates its power to the District Magistrate or a Commissioner of Police to exercise its power and pass an of detention. The delegation in the fi rst instance cannot exceed three months and the extension of the period of delegation cannot also be for a period exceeding three months at any one time. 45. The fi rst submission canvassed on behalf of the appellant is answered accordingly. SECOND SUBMISSION ON BAHALF OF THE APPELLANT 46. It was also vehemently argued by the learned counsel appearing for the appellant detenu that the registration of four First Information Reports (FIRs) under the Andhra Pradesh Prohibition Act, 1995 (as amended by the Act No. 18 of 2020) (for short, ‘the Act 1995’), by itself, is not suffi cient to arrive at a subjective satisfaction that the activities of the appellant detenu as a boot-legger is prejudicial to the maintenance of public . 47. We take notice of the fact that between 06.01.2021 and 09.03.2022 i.e.