It is submitted that in that case, an advance paid under an Agreement to Sell being a charge B on the property as per Section 55(6)(v) of the Transfer of Property Act was held to create an interest and hence, unregistered Agreement to Sell cannot be admitted in evidence. The explanation remedied the situation and save the Agreement to Sell from the requirement of compulsory registration. C 3.3 It is submitted that Section 54 of the Transfer of Property Act states that an Agreement to Sell by itself does not create any interest in or charge on the property. As per Section 17(2)(v) of the Registration Act with reference to Section 1(b) and (c), that an agreement/document simplicitor merely creating a right to obtain another document, was saved D from compulsory registration. It is submitted that thus prior to the amendment of 2012 and after the amendment, an Agreement to Sell simplicitor or reciting payment of earnest money was not required to be registered. For these savings, an Agreement to Sell would also have required registration, as it is a document affecting immovable property. It is submitted that now after the 2012 amendment, an Agreement to E Sell for Rs.100/- or upwards is to be compulsorily registered. An agreement recital for payment of advance is also to be compulsorily registered as the “explanation” in Section 17(2) introduced by 1927 amendment after Dayal Singh’s case, has been omitted by the present amendment. The advance amount and sale consideration are part and F parcel of the transactions between the parties. 3.4 It is submitted that as per Section 49(a) and (c) of the Registration Act, a document requires to be registered, if not registered shall not affect the immovable property comprised therein and shall not be received as evidence of any transaction affecting such property. It is G submitted that prior to 2012 amendment, when an Agreement to Sell was not required to be registered, Section 49(a) and (c) had no operation in relation to an Agreement to Sell. So an unregistered Agreement to Sell had no restriction in being received as evidence of any transaction affecting such immovable property or affecting immovable property as such. Thus, the terms of the document and the transaction embodied in H R. HEMALATHA v. KASHTHURI 839 [M. R. SHAH, J.] it could be relied on in its entirety in any proceeding in the pre-amendment A era. It is submitted that however now after the amendment, Section 49(a) and (c) of the Registration Act which are both substantive law and rule of evidence, apply to an unregistered Agreement to Sell and it shall not affect immovable property and shall not be received as evidence of transaction affecting immovable property. B 3.5 It is further submitted by the learned counsel for the defendant that if the interpretation of the Hon’ble High Court given in the impugned is followed, then the same would render the Amendment Act, 2012 otiose and meaningless, simply because the situation before the said amendment was exactly as has been laid down in the impugned C .