A close analysis of this decision would show that the following conditions must be fulfilled before a case against an accused can be said to be fully established: C (1) the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established. It may be noted here that this Court indicated that the circumstances concerned ‘must or should’ and not ‘may be’ established. There is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between ‘may be D proved’ and ‘must be or should be proved’ as was held by this Court in Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade v. State of Maharashtra [(1973) 2 SCC 793] where the following observations were made: 19. …”Certainly, it is a primary principle that the accused E must be and not merely may be guilty before a court can convict and the mental distance between ‘may be’ and ‘must be’ is long and divides vague conjectures from sure conclusions.” (2) The facts so established should be consistent only with F the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty, (3) the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency, G (4) they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved, and 3 (2013) 4 SCC 668 4 (1984) 4 SCC 116 H 670 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A (5) there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused. B 154. These five golden principles, if we may say so, constitute the panchsheel of the proof of a case based on circumstantial evidence.” 9. After noting the above five golden principles, it was held in Prakash’s case (supra), that they would constitute the Panchsheel of C the proof of a case based on circumstantial evidence and conviction could be sustained on the basis of last seen, motive and recovery of incriminating articles in pursuance of the information given by the accused if those five golden principles of the proof of a case based on circumstantial evidence are satisfied. 10. Virtually, the law laid down relating circumstantial evidence in D those decisions are unfailingly followed by this Court while dealing with the cases where conviction is rested on circumstantial evidence. 11. We are also fully aware of the position that normally in an appeal by special leave under Article 136 of the Constitution of India when concurrent findings of conviction and sentence are against the E appellants / convicts there would be no scope for interference except in exceptional circumstances. In the decision in Tomaso Bruno & Anr. v. State of Uttar Pradesh5, a Three Judge Bench of this Court held:- “42. By and large, this Court will not interfere with the concurrent findings recorded by the courts below.