as its members as defi ned under Section 2(oc) of the State Act, 1969 and functioning in accordance with the State Act, 1984. That Section 2(a) of the State Act, 1984, defi nes agricultural and rural development bank to mean the Kerala Co-operative Central Land Mortgage Bank Limited, registered under Section 10 of the State Act, 1951 which is known as “Kerala State Co-operative Agricultural and Rural Development Bank Limited”. This bank is diff erent from “Kerala State Co-operative Bank” which is a state co-operative bank defi ned under the NABARD Act, 1981. Therefore, the benefi t of Section 80P of the Act was sought by the appellant. Points for Consideration: 11. Having heard learned senior counsel for the petitioner and learned ASG for the respondent, the following points would arise for our consideration: i) Whether the appellant is a “co-operative bank” within the meaning of sub-section (4) of Section 80P of the Act? ii) Whether the ratio of the in Mavilayi Service Co- operative Bank and the tests laid down therein apply to the case of the appellant herein? iii) What ? The aforesaid points are inter-connected and shall be considered together. Legal Framework: 12. At the outset, it would be necessary to garner together the several relevant provisions applicable in the present case. i) The Income Tax Act, 1961 (‘the Act’, for short): Section 80P of the Act reads as under: “80P. Deduction in respect of income of co-operative societies.- (1) Where, in the case of an assessee being a co-operative society, the gross total income includes any income referred to in sub-section (2), there shall be deducted, in accordance KSCARDB v. THE ASSESSING OFFICER, TRIVANDRUM 333 AND ORS. [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] with and subject to the provisions of this section, the sums specifi ed in sub-section (2), in computing the total income of the assessee. (2) The sums referred to in sub-section (1) shall be the following, namely :— (a) in the case of a co-operative society engaged in— (i) carrying on the business of banking or providing credit facilities to its members, or (ii) a cottage industry, or (iii) the marketing of the agricultural produce of its members, or (iv) the purchase of agricultural implements, seeds, livestock or other articles intended for agriculture for the purpose of supplying them to its members, or (v) the processing, without the aid of power, of the agricultural produce of its members, or (vi) the collective disposal of the labour of its members, or (vii) fi shing or allied activities, that is to say, the catching, curing, processing, preserving, storing or marketing of fi sh or the purchase of materials and equipment In connection therewith for the purpose of supplying them to its members, the whole of the amount of profits and gains of business attributable to any one or more of such activities ; Provided that in the case of a co-operative society falling under sub-clause (vi), or sub-clause (vii), the rules and bye-laws of the society restrict the voting rights to the following classes of its members, namely:- (1) the individuals who contribute their labour or, as the case may be, carry on the fi shing or allied activities; 334 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R.