This is a matter which is covered in Section 19(4) of the Act. There are E several factors which are indicated. The rear is brought up by the residuary clause, viz., Section 19(4)(m) which provides for any other factor which the Commission may consider relevant for the enquiry. Thisis the second filter. In other words, it is not the abuse by any entity but it must be abuse by an enterprise. Next, the enterprise must enjoy a dominant position. As to what is a dominant position, has been detailed in F the second explanation to Section 4(2) of the Act. Thus, the Commission is governed by pre-determined and objective criteria to arrive at a finding as to whether an enterprise occupies the dominant position both with reference to the explanation provided in Section 4(2) as also the factors which have been elaborately laid down in Section 19(4). It is after the G second filter is passed, that CCI must pass on to actually find whether there is abuse of its dominant position. Section 4(2) appears to provide for what shall be abuse of dominant position. This being the scheme of the Act, he contends that there may be no merit in the attempt of the appellants to extricate themselves from a well thought out law provided by the same Law-Giver. H 842 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 18. He would point out that initially coal was an essential commodity under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955. When this Court delivered the relied upon by the appellants as well, viz., Ashoka Smokeless Coal India (P) Ltd. and Others v. Union of India and Others9, coal was an essential commodity. The Court proceeded on the said basis as well. However, in February, 2007, coal ceased to be an B essential commodity. Next, it is pointed out that the Nationalisation Act itself, which is projected as the sheet anchor of the appellants entire case was itself taken out from the Ninth Schedule in the year 2017. The Nationalisation Act itself stands repealed. Therefore, he would point out that the Court is being invited to pronounce on the basis of the ‘hallowed’ C position that the Nationalisation Act occupied,which itself is no longer the case. (We must notice here that even in his opening submissions Shri K. K. Venugopal, learned Senior Counsel, pointed out these developments. However, it is his contention that the contracts with which this Court is concerned all arose during the period of time when the Nationalisation Act continued to grace the Ninth Schedule.) D 19. Shri N. Venkataraman would point out again that the Court may not lose sight of the fact that while thefirst appellant was fully owned bythe Central Government in terms of its shareholding, after 2010, following disinvestment, the Government shareholding has declined to nearly 67 per cent. The balance of the shareholding is in private hands. E Reliance is placed on the of this Court in Waman Rao and Others v. Union of India and Others10.