Hearing on application ex parte.—Where on the date fixed for hearing the application, the applicant fails to appear without intimation, the Chief Wild Life Warden or the officer C authorised by the State Government in this regard may at their discretion adjourn or decide the application ex parte. 10. Inquiry by the Chief Wild Life Warden or Authorised Officer.—(1) The Chief Wild Life Warden or the officer authorised by the State Government in this regard shall D conduct a detailed inquiry and take all actions as provided in Section 41 of the Act. (2) A copy of the report pertaining to sub-rule (1) of this rule, shall be provided to the applicant. 11. Certificate of ownership.—(1) The Chief Wild Life E Warden shall provide a certificate of ownership to the applicant whose claim is found valid. (2) The certificate of ownership shall be provided as per the provisions of Section 42 of the Act. F (3) The certificate of ownership shall contain the facsimile of the identification mark and in case of live animals the identification number of the transponder (microchip) implanted shall be mentioned in the certificate. 12. Dealing with declared objects.—Any captive animal, G animal article, trophy or uncured trophy declared under sub-section (1) of Section 40-A and in respect of which certificate of ownership has not been granted or obtained, shall be treated as government property. H 1086 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 13. to be signed and dated.—Every of the Chief Wild Life Warden shall be in writing and shall be signed and dated by the Chief Wild Life Warden. 14. Communication of to parties.— Every passed on the application shall be communicated to the applicant B either in person or by registered post free of cost.” Therefore, as per Rule 4(2), the application to the Chief Wild Life Warden for such declaration, shall have to be presented in the prescribed format within a period of 180 days from the date of publication of these rules. C 2.3 In the present case, the aforesaid Rules, 2003 came to be published on 18.04.2003. Therefore, 180 days to file the application/ declaration expired on 18.10.2003. The appellant herein filed the application/declaration on 25.05.2011 that was beyond the prescribed period provided under Rule 4(2) of the Rules, 2003. The authorised authority refused to issue ownership certificate in respect of the deer D horn found from her house and which was in custody and possession of the appellant on the ground that the application/declaration was made beyond the prescribed period provided under Rule 4(2) of the Rules, 2003. The appellant herein preferred writ petition before the learned Single Judge. The learned Single Judge disposed of the said writ petition E by directing the Chief Wild Life Warden to consider whether time has been relaxed in any case for the purpose of granting the certificate of ownership and if so, under what circumstances, and if it is found that time has been relaxed in any case, consider the representation made on behalf of the appellant also in that background.