The absence of an affi davit or an affi davit in a form other than the one stipulated by the Rules does not by itself cause any prejudice to the successful candidate so long as the defi ciency is cured by the election petitioner by fi ling a proper affi davit when directed to do so.” We have no reason to take a diff erent view. The contention urged by Siddeshwar is rejected.” (emphasis supplied) 13. More recently, in A. Manju v. Prajwal Revanna(supra), this Court dealt with the same question as to whether an election petition containing an allegation of corrupt practice but not supported by an affi davit in Form 25, is liable to be dismissed at the threshold. This Court had observed: “26. However, we are not persuaded to agree with the conclusion arrived at by the High Court that the non-submission of Form 25 would lead to the dismissal of the election petition. We say so because, in our view, the observations made in Ponnala Lakshmaiah v. Kommuri Pratap Reddy, (2012) 7 SCC 788 which have received the imprimatur THANGJAM ARUNKUMAR v. YUMKHAM ERABOT SINGH 401 & ORS. [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] of the three-Judge Bench in G.M. Siddeshwar v. Prasanna Kumar, (2013) 4 SCC 776, appear not to have been appreciated in the correct perspective. In fact, G.M. Siddeshwar v. Prasanna Kumar, (2013) 4 SCC 776, has been cited by the learned Judge to dismiss the petition. If we look at the election petition, the prayer clause is followed by a verifi cation. There is also a verifying affi davit in support of the election petition. Thus, factually it would not be appropriate to say that there is no affi davit in support of the petition, albeit not in Form 25. This was a curable defect and the learned Judge trying the election petition ought to have granted an opportunity to the appellant to fi le an affi davit in support of the petition in Form 25 in addition to the already existing affi davit fi led with the election petition. In fact, a consideration of both the s of the Supreme Court referred to by the learned Judge i.e. Ponnala Lakshmaiah v. Kommuri Pratap Reddy, (2012) 7 SCC 788 as well as G.M. Siddeshwar v. Prasanna Kumar, (2013) 4 SCC 776, ought to have resulted in a conclusion that the correct ratio in view of these facts was to permit the appellant to cure this defect by fi ling an affi davit in the prescribed form.” (emphasis supplied) 14. The position of law that emerges for the above referred cases is clear. The requirement to fi le an affi davit under the proviso to Section 83(1) (c) is not mandatory. It is suffi cient if there is substantial compliance. As the defect is curable, an opportunity may be granted to fi le the necessary affi davit. 15. In the instant case, the election petition contained an affi davit and also a verifi cation. In this very affi davit, the election petitioner has sworn on oath that the paragraphs where he has raised allegations of corrupt practice are true to the best of his knowledge.