It is submitted that the Vision Plan postulates a University catering to 1,00,000 students and the University would be built in a phased manner. It is submitted that in Phase I, colleges in the field of Medicine, Liberal Arts, Science & Technology, Agriculture and Food Processing E and Institute of Design would be started. 4.12 It is submitted that eminent academicians are already on the advisory/academic board of the project. It is further submitted that adequate safeguards have been provided in Section 41 agreement that the land would be utilized for the University, and in case any portion of the land is not utilized for the University purpose, then the said portion F reverts to the State Government. 4.13 It is further submitted by the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respective appellants that even after the acquisition of the lands in question, the rehabilitation measures have been taken as per the policy of the State Government, which are as under:- G “1. R&R Policy of State Govt. followed whereunder an R&R Colony of 65.17 acres within the acquired land has been set apart to accommodate the 230 displaced families. It may be noted that site of the R&R Colony has been chosen by the displaced families themselves. H ANIL AGARWAL FOUNDATION ETC. ETC. v. STATE OF 983 ORISSA AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] 2. The project affected families are entitled to a preference A for employment in the University. 3. Appellant has agreed to appoint one graduate from all land losing families as an employee. 4. Appellant has agreed to engage landless agriculture B labourers as unskilled construction workers. In the event the same is not provided, then a subsistence allowance of Rs. 1500 per month would be paid to each family from date of possession to 2010. 5. Appellant has agreed to bear the expenditure for students C from land losing families to study at DAV School, Puri.” 4.14 It is further submitted by the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants that in the present case, there is a compliance of Part VII of the Act, 1894 and the Land Acquisition (Companies) Rules, 1963 ( hereinafter referred to as “Rules, 1963”). It is submitted that in the present case, Part VII has been complied with as under:- D “1. Part VII has been complied with as: (i) Section 39/40 consent has been given by the State Government. (ii) Enquiry under Section 40(2)/ Rule 4 has been carried out. E (iii) Agreement has been signed by the Foundation as mandated under Section 41. (iv) Section 44B not applicable since the Appellant is a public company.” F 4.15 It is further submitted that insofar as Rules, 1963 are concerned, it is the case on behalf of the appellant that a Rule 4 enquiry is relevant only in the case when the land is identified by the company and not by the State Government and thereafter an application is made by the company to acquire the said identified land.