Thereafter, the Appellant Defendant became the tenant of the suit property. What is sought to be conveyed by the Appellant Defendant is that the grandfather and father of the Plaintiffs were tenants in the suit property and a mortgage deed was also drawn and executed in the year 1957 with respect to the same property. It is also the case of the Plaintiffs that the Appellant Defendant has inducted sub-tenants in F the suit property. 42. A three-Judge Bench of this Court in the case of Firm Sriniwas Ram Kumar v. Mahabir Prasad and Others reported in AIR 1951 SC 177, has held that a party is entitled to take alternative pleas in support of its case. Where alternative pleas arose to some extent G from the admitted position of the defendant, such plea is not impermissible merely because it is inconsistent with the other plea. It held that a plaintiff may rely upon different rights alternatively and there is nothing in the CPC to prevent a party from making two or more inconsistent sets of allegations claiming relief therein in the alternative. It further observed H 920 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A that although, a Court should not grant relief to a plaintiff in a case in which there is no foundation in a pleading on which the other side was not called upon or had opportunity to meet yet when the alternative case which, the plaintiff could have made was not only admitted by defendant in his written statement but was expressly put forward as an answer to the claim which the plaintiff made in the suit, there would be nothing B improper in giving the plaintiff a decree upon the case which the defendant himself makes. 43. The view that a plaintiff is entitled to plead even inconsistent pleas while seeking alternative reliefs was reiterated by this Court in G. Nagamma and Another v. Siromanamma and Another reported in C (1996) 2 SCC 25. In that case, a suit for specific performance of an agreement of re-conveyance was filed by the appellants. Later, an application for amendment of the plaint was sought stating that the transactions of execution of sale deed and obtaining a document for re- conveyance came to be a single transaction, i.e., it was a mortgage by D conditional sale. So, alternatively plaintiff sought relief to redeem the mortgage. The trial court and the High Court rejected the same on the ground that the suit was filed for specific performance and that the amendment would change the nature of the suit as well as the cause of action. But this Court reversed the said decision and held that since the plaintiff therein was seeking alternative reliefs, he is entitled to plead E even inconsistent pleas and that the amendment of the plaint would neither change the cause of action nor would affect the relief. 44. In Praful Manohar Rele v. Krishnabai Narayan Ghosalkar and Others reported in (2014) 11 SCC 316, this Court followed the decision in Firm Sriniwas Ram Kumar (supra) and reiterated the F principle that alternative and inconsistent pleas can be taken by a plaintiff.