The ease of succession planning which the legislature intended would be rendered otiose if the interpretation given by the High Court on the implication for the nominee under S. 109A & S. 109B of the Companies Act is accepted. 16. Canvassing the opposite view, Mr. Rohit Anil Rathi, the learned counsel appearing for Respondent No. 1 would argue that on account of the consistent view taken by this Court while interpreting various legislative enactments pertaining to nominations and more particularly, in view of the latest interpretation in the case of Indrani Wahi v. Registrar of Cooperative Societies and Others8, departure from the consistent view is not warranted and ‘vesting’ provided under S. 109A would not create a third mode of succession. 16.1 The learned counsel submits that the Companies Act has nothing to do with the law of succession. In support of his contention, Mr. Rathi would refer to Part IV of the Companies Act, 1956 which deals with share capitals and debentures as well as S. 108 to S. 112 in Part IV which relate to ‘transfer of shares and debentures’. Adverting to the aforesaid provisions, it is argued that the limited object is to provide a facility for transfer of shares or debentures through a proper instrument of transfer and consequential actions such as registration and in case of grievances, appeal thereof. The introduction of S. 109A & S. 109B merely provides for facility of nomination aiding in the process of such transfer. Therefore, no third mode of succession by way of nomination has been contemplated and the position has remained unaltered, despite numerous amendments made to the Companies Act from time to time. 8 (2016) 6 SCC 440 708 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 16.2 On the other hand, the object behind the Indian Succession Act, 1925 is to provide for an act to consolidate and amend the law applicable to intestate and testamentary succession. It is argued by Mr. Rathi that the legislature in no uncertain terms recognised a transfer being made by a legal representative as a valid mode of transfer and the legal representative is vested with the properties of the deceased as a custodian subject to devolution in terms of the applicable law i.e., the Indian Succession Act, 1925 as per S. 211 within Part VIII of the same. 16.3 Further, it is argued by the learned counsel for the Respondent No. 1 that the terms ‘transfer’, ‘transmission’ and ‘transmission by operation of law’ are distinct and convey diff erent meanings, i.e., transfer inter vivos in case of the term ‘transfer’ and devolution by operation of law in case of ‘transmission’. Since these phrases have been retained even under the Companies Act, 2013, there is no alteration of the position of law on transfer and transmission of securities. In addition, several provisions provide an unfettered power to a company to register any person to whom rights to shares/debentures had been transmitted by operation of law as a shareholder/debenture holder (second proviso, S. 108 of the Companies Act, 1956).