For reasons best known to the prosecution, these three individuals, named both by PW-2 and PW-3 as other eye-witnesses, F were not examined leading this Court to draw an inference that had they been examined, the prosecution story would not have been supported by them. [Para 35][239-G-H; 240-A-B] 1.6. The statement of PW-3 under section 161, Cr. P.C. was recorded nearly 24 days after the incident. Since the G Investigating Officer did not enter the witness box, the appellants did not have the occasion to cross–examine him and thereby elicit the reason for such delay. Consequently, the delay in recording the statement of PW3 in course of investigation, is not referred to and, therefore, remains unjustified. The possibility of PW-3, H MUNNA LAL v. THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 227 being fixed up as an eye-witness later during the process of A investigation, cannot be totally ruled out. [Para 38][240-F] 1.7. Though PW-4 is said to have reached the place of occurrence at 1.30 p.m. on 5th September, 1985 and recovered a bullet in the blood oozing out from the injury at the hip of the dead body, no effort worthy of consideration appears to have been B made to seize the weapons by which the murderous attack was launched. It is true that mere failure/neglect to effect seizure of the weapon(s) cannot be the sole reason for discarding the prosecution case but the same assumes importance on the face of the oral testimony of the so-called eyewitnesses, i.e., PW-2 C and PW-3, not being found to be wholly reliable. The missing links could have been provided by the Investigating Officer who, again, did not enter the witness box. Whether or not non– examination of a witness has caused prejudice to the defence is essentially a question of fact and an inference is required to be drawn having regard to the facts and circumstances obtaining in D each case. The reason why the Investigating Officer could not depose as a witness, as told by PW-4, is that he had been sent for training. It was not shown that the Investigating Officer under no circumstances could have left the course for recording of his deposition in the trial court. It is worthy of being noted that neither E the trial court nor the High Court considered the issue of non– examination of the Investigating Officer. In the facts of the instant case, particularly conspicuous gaps in the prosecution case and the evidence of PW-2 and PW-3 not being wholly reliable, the instant case as one where examination of the Investigating Officer was vital since he could have adduced the expected evidence. F His non–examination creates a material lacuna in the effort of the prosecution to nail the appellants, thereby creating reasonable doubt in the prosecution case. [Para 39][240-G-H; 241-A-D] 1.8 As far as non-obtaining of ballistic report is concerned, it is no doubt true that its essentiality would depend upon the G circumstances of each case. Since no weapon of offence was seized, no ballistic report was called for and obtained.