The learned Single Judge disposed of the above Writ Petition by way of an dated 18.08.2005 in favour of the appellant herein by holding that notwithstanding any preliminary fi nding, it was still open to the Commissioner to agitate or to apprise the Commission of all the aspects of the matter that he may fi nd fi t to be placed before the Commission. The Single Judge was of the view that it was not necessary to examine the legal position that may require an interpretation of provisions of Section 245C at that stage when the matter itself was still at large before the Settlement Commission as the very object of Chapter-XIXA was to settle cases and to reduce the disputes and not to prolong litigation. Thus, the High Court disposed of the Writ Petition holding that it was open to the parties to raise all their contentions before the Commission at the stage of disposal of the application and the Commission may, independent of the fi ndings which it has given under the dated 11.12.2000, examine all the contentions and proceed to pass s on merits in accordance with the provisions of the Act. 2.9. As a result of the dated 18.08.2005 passed by the High Court of Karnataka, the Settlement Commission heard both parties on merits as well as on the issue of maintainability. The Settlement Commission upheld the maintainability of the application fi led by the appellant and passed an dated 04.3.2008 under Sections 245D(1) and 245D(4), determining the additional income at Rs.196,36,06,201/-. As regards the issue of immunity from penalty and prosecution, the Commission, having regard to the fact that the appellant had co-operated in the proceedings before the Settlement Commission and true and full disclosure was made by the appellant before the Commission in paragraph 18.2 of its granted immunity under Section 245H(1) from the imposition of penalty and prosecution under the Act and the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. Further, the Settlement Commission annulled the penalty levied by the Assessing Offi cer under Section 271(1)(c) for the assessment year 1997-1998 in respect of non-disclosure of lease rental income. The same was annulled considering that the non-disclosure was on account of RBI guidelines and subsequent disclosure on the part of the appellant, of additional income of the lease income before the Settlement Commission when the appellant realised the omission to disclose the same as per income tax law. The other pertinent fi nding of the Settlement Commission are as under: 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. i. As regards the disclosure of income by the appellant, the Settlement Commission noted that the application had to be considered within the framework of law as on the date the application was fi led i.e., 10.07.2000. On a reading of Section 245C (1), the Commission observed that many amendments have been made to Section 245C after its introduction in 1976 and what is clear from “the income disclosed before the Assessing Offi cer” is that it is the income disclosed in the return of income furnished and not income that could be computed on the basis of a scrutiny or interpretation of the documents accompanying the return.