75. Despite the appellant not having invited attention, I had the occasion to peruse the ‘MPLAD Scheme Guidelines, 2023’ (“MPLADS Guidelines”, hereafter) to understand the impact of a premature vacancy arising on a seat for a particular constituency. Portion of the MPLADS Guidelines, considered relevant, is reproduced below for convenience: “10.4.7 In case of sudden death or resignation of a Member of Parliament, notwithstanding the allocation formula in para 10.4.3 above, the works which may have been duly sanctioned by the Implementing District Authority as per original eligibility of that Member of Parliament, shall be completed. The entitlement for new incoming Members of Parliament would start afresh in accordance with the said formula.” 76. It is not necessary to closely examine the MPLAD Scheme or the MPLADS Guidelines, yet, Clause 10.4.7 is worth touching upon. It stipulates that upon the death or resignation of a member of 102 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Parliament, the works duly sanctioned as per their original eligibility under the MPLADS Guidelines shall be completed. Clause 10.4.7 does not expressly refer to a vacancy caused by disqualifi cation. It is, however, presumed that even in a case of disqualifi cation of a member of Parliament, the projects initiated by him are not abandoned but taken to its logical end in the manner stipulated in Clause 10.4.7. Such a provision makes this Court wonder as to the role to be played by a member of Parliament, especially at such a belated stage in the term, presuming that the machinery has already started functioning. 77. I am afraid, in case weight towards allowing the present appeal is lent, it could unwittingly cater to condoning the consequences looming large before the appellant arising from his conviction, rather than addressing the purported irreversible consequences faced by the constituency. 78. Indeed, the courts have acknowledged that legislators bear a special duty towards their constituents, and failure to secure a stay of conviction may lead to the loss of the opportunity to contest elections. In isolation, this consideration might serve as a compelling reason to grant a stay of conviction. However, when a parliamentarian/legislator seeks a stay of conviction, he shoulders an additional responsibility of demonstrating how his constituents are likely to endure adverse consequences if the conviction is not stayed. A parliamentarian/legislator cannot be allowed to obtain a ‘double advantage’ where he implores the Court for a stay of conviction being a parliamentarian/legislator while simultaneously failing to provide full disclosure of consequences regardless of what the reasons are, whether due to inadvertence, negligence, or mistake. Failing to do the same, the law should be allowed to take its own course. 79. As the court of last resort, it is the bounden duty of this Court to uphold the rule of law which entails equality before the law and equal subjection of all classes to the ordinary law of the land. No court, much less this Court, should feel chained by misplaced sympathy towards assumed or imagined ramifi cations on the constituency of the parliamentarian/legislator who has been convicted.