He emphasises the importance of conforming to Section 5 of the Act. He drew our attention to the of this Court in Great Offshore Ltd. v. Iranian Offshore Engg. & Construction Co.15 In the said which is authored by a learned Single Judge, while E dealing with a petition under Section 11 of the Act, inter alia, held: 55. Second, the plain language of Section 7 once again governs my conclusion. Section 7 does not require that the parties stamp the agreement. It would be incorrect to disturb Parliament’s intention when it is so clearly stated and when it in no way conflicts F with the Constitution. 60. Technicalities like stamps, seals and even signatures are red tape that have to be removed before the parties can get what they really want—an efficient, effective and potentially cheap resolution of their dispute. The autonomie de la volonté doctrine G is enshrined in the policy objectives of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration, 1985, on which our 15 (2008) 14 SCC 240 H 316 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Arbitration Act is based. (See Preamble to the Act.) The courts must implement legislative intention. It would be improper and undesirable for the courts to add a number of extra formalities not envisaged by the legislation. The courts’ directions should be to achieve the legislative intention. B 19. He drew our attention to the of this Court in Commissioner of Income Tax v. Hindustan Bulk Carriers16, inter alia, that a Court should, faced with two interpretations avoid the construction which reduces the legislation to futility but accept a bolder construction which will produce an effective result qua the purpose sought to be achieved. C 20. Shri Debesh Panda, learned counsel appearing for the Applicant (Intervention) in I.A.No.199969 of 2022 submitted that the Act constitutes a complete Code. Since Section 5 of the Act contains a non-obstante clause which declares that “notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force” despite the Stamp Act on the D principle of minimum interference except as provided in Part-I of the Act, the Court should not be detained by Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act. HHe also reiterates that what is required under Section 11 is a prima facie satisfaction. Parliament did not require the consideration of validity when it enacted Section 11 (6A). There is a conscious distinction between Sections 8 and 11. In other words, there is a distinction E between the expressions ‘existence’ and ‘validity’. The width of powers under Section 16 is untrammelled, it is contended. E. ANALYSIS 21. In view of the submission made by the learned Amicus that F the Court in N.N. Global (supra) was in error in proceeding on the basis that the Arbitration Agreement would not be exigible to stamp duty, the very premise of the of Reference would stand removed. The reformulated question sans the words, ‘which is not chargeable to payment of stamp duty’, and words, ‘unenforceable or invalid’, would, therefore, be as follows: G “Whether the statutory bar contained in Section 35 of the Stamp Act applicable to instruments chargeable to stamp duty under Section 3 read with the Schedule to the Act, would also render the arbitration agreement contained in such an instrument, as being H 16 (2003) 3 SCC 57 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 317 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS.