The test is done to check upon their veracity. In other words, the main object of holding an identifi cation parade, during the investigation stage, is to test the memory of the witnesses based upon fi rst impression and also to enable the prosecution to decide whether all or any of them could be cited as eyewitnesses of the crime. The identifi cation proceedings are in the nature of tests and signifi cantly, therefore, there is no provision for it in the Code and the Evidence Act. It is desirable that a test identifi cation parade should be conducted as soon as after the arrest of the accused. This becomes necessary to eliminate the possibility of the accused being shown to the witnesses prior to the test identifi cation parade. This is a very common plea of the accused and, therefore, the prosecution has to be cautious to ensure that there is no scope for making such an allegation. If, however, circumstances are beyond control and there is some delay, it cannot be said to be fatal to the prosecution. 17. It is trite to say that the substantive evidence is the evidence of identifi cation in court. Apart from the clear provisions of Section 9 of the Evidence Act, the position in law is well settled by a catena of decisions of this Court. The facts, which establish the identity of the accused persons, are relevant under Section 9 of the Evidence Act. As a general rule, the substantive evidence of a witness is 918 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. the statement made in court. The evidence of mere identifi cation of the accused person at the trial for the fi rst time is from its very nature inherently of a weak character. The purpose of a prior test identifi cation, therefore, is to test and strengthen the trustworthiness of that evidence. It is, accordingly, considered a safe rule of prudence to generally look for corroboration of the sworn testimony of witnesses in court as to the identity of the accused who are strangers to them, in the form of earlier identifi cation proceedings. This rule of prudence, however, is subject to exceptions, when, for example, the court is impressed by a particular witness on whose testimony it can safely rely, without such or other corroboration. The identifi cation parades belong to the stage of investigation, and there is no provision in the Code which obliges the investigating agency to hold or confers a right upon the accused to claim a test identifi cation parade. They do not constitute substantive evidence and these parades are essentially governed by Section 162 of the Code. Failure to hold a test identifi cation parade would not make inadmissible the evidence of identifi cation in court. The weight to be attached to such identifi cation should be a matter for the courts of fact. In appropriate cases it may accept the evidence of identifi cation even without insisting on corroboration. …” 46.