7. We wish to place reliance on the following decisions of this Court: • Surendra Mishra v. State of Jharkhand (2011) 11 SCC 495 H PRAKASH NAYI @ SEN v. STATE OF GOA 829 [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] “11. In our opinion, an accused who seeks exoneration from A liability of an act under Section 84 of the Penal Code is to prove legal insanity and not medical insanity. Expression “unsoundness of mind” has not been defined in the Penal Code and it has mainly been treated as equivalent to insanity. But the term “insanity” carries different meaning in different B contexts and describes varying degrees of mental dis. Every person who is suffering from mental disease is not ipso facto exempted from criminal liability. The mere fact that the accused is conceited, odd, irascible and his brain is not quite all right, or that the physical and mental ailments from which he suffered had rendered his intellect weak C and affected his emotions or indulges in certain unusual acts, or had fits of insanity at short intervals or that he was subject to epileptic fits and there was abnormal behaviour or the behaviour is queer are not sufficient to attract the application of Section 84 of the Penal Code.” D • Hari Singh Gond v. State of Madhya Pradesh (2008) 16 SCC 109 “10. “7 . Section 84 lays down the legal test of responsibility in cases of alleged unsoundness of mind. There, is no definition of “unsoundness of mind” in the IPC. The courts E have, however, mainly treated this expression as equivalent to insanity. But the term ‘insanity’ itself has no precise definition. It is a term used to describe varying degrees of mental dis. So, every person, who is mentally diseased, is not ipso facto exempted from criminal responsibility. A F distinction is to be made between legal insanity and medical insanity. A court is concerned with legal insanity, and not with medical insanity...” • Bapu @ Gajraj Singh v. State of Rajasthan 2007 8 SCC 66 G “10. Section 84 embodies the fundamental maxim of criminal law i.e. actus non reum facit nisi mens sit rea (an act does not constitute guiltunless done with a guilty intention). In to constitute an offence, the intent and act must concur; but in the case of insane persons, no culpability is H 830 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A fastened on them as they have no free will (furios is nulla voluntas est). 11. The section itself provides that the benefit is available only after it is proved that at the time of committing the act, the accused was labouring under such a defect of reason, B from disease of the mind, as not to know the nature and quality of the act he was doing, or that even if he did not know it, it was either wrong or contrary to law then this section must be applied. The crucial point of time for deciding whether the benefit of this section should be given or not, is the material time when the offence takes place.