39. We then come to the last issue that warrants our consideration. The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent contended E that any person who importing the impugned goods at the instance of another person, is a smuggler, and as such, the Settlement Commission cannot be approached in such cases. 40. This contention made by the learned counsel appearing on F behalf of the respondents, in our opinion, is also bad in law. In the case of Tata Teleservices (Maharashtra) Ltd vs Union Of India 20066, the High Court of Judicature at Bombay, while deciding on a similar issue, by relying on the Constitution Bench of this court in the case of Lilavati Bai v. State Of Mysore7, gave the phrase “or otherwise”, as mentioned in Section 127 B of the Act, an expansive interpretation, G and held that the jurisdiction of the Settlement Commission can be invoked by a person who has committed smuggling, fraud or deliberate 6 (201) ELT 529 (Bom) 7 AIR 1957 SC 521 H 930 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A misdeclaration. The relevant paragraph of the delivered by the High Court of Bombay is being reproduced herein:- “46..... On the contrary, in the Customs Act, the provision makes it mandatory that the Applicant can file an application only after show cause notice is issued, which show cause B notice as we have pointed out hereinabove, would pertain even to confiscation. i.e. to say the person who has committed fraud or smuggling or deliberate misdeclaration would only receive such show cause notice and such a show cause notice is essential ingredient before making an application.…” C 41. Further, the abovementioned of the Bombay high court was impugned in the Supreme Court by way of an appeal, and the same was dismissed by this Court vide dated 03.08.2011, further fortifying the of the High Court. 42. On the basis of the abovementioned discussions, we are of D the opinion that the contention of the respondent even in this regard is liable to be rejected. CONCLUSION 43. By way of additional submissions made by the petitioner, it has been brought to our notice that the Commissioner of Customs has E issued a show cause notice to the petitioner. Since a show cause notice has already been issued, no direction is that regard is warranted. If an application of settlement is filed by the petitioner, the same shall be dealt with by the Settlement Commission on its own merits and in accordance with law and the procedure prescribed u/s 127H of the Customs Act. F However, we deem it appropriate to observe that, if at all, the Settlement Commission would deem fit, it can always seek further report from the “Commission (Investigation)” appointed within the Settlement Commission even after issuance of the show cause notice for this one time opportunity of settlement. G 44. We refrain from making any observations on the merits of the case and leave the same for consideration by the Settlement Commission.