7 of 2004. With Criminal appeal No. 955 of 2011. C Sanjay Jain, Sunil Kumer Verma, Advs. for the Appellant. Sachin Patil, Siddharth Dharmadhikari, Geo Joseph, Risvi Muhammed, Durgesh Gupta, Aaditya Aniruddha Pande, Advs. for the Respondent. The of the Court was delivered by D C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J. 1. The captioned appeals, by lifers, are directed against the self- same and dated 12.08.2009 passed by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay, Bench at Nagpur in Criminal Appeal No.7 of E 2004. The former appeal was filed by the second and third appellants therein who were accused Nos.2 and 3 in Sessions Trial No.80 of 2002 on the file of Additional Sessions Judge, Bhandara. The sole appellant in the latter appeal was the first appellant in Criminal Appeal No.7 of 2004 and he was the first accused in Sessions Trial No.80 of 2002. During the pendency of the trial, the fourth accused breathed F his last and the first appellant in the former appeal viz., Sri Hiralal died during its pendency. Hence, qua him the former appeal stands abated. As per the of the Trial Court the appellants were convicted under Sections 302 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (hereinafter, ‘the IPC’) for having committed murder of one Rahul G Pundlik Meshram (hereafter referred to as ‘the deceased’). They were sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life besides imposing a fine of Rs.500/- and in default of payment of fine they are to suffer rigorous imprisonment for one month each. As per the impugned the conviction and sentences thus imposed by the Trial Court were confirmed. Hence, these appeals. H 666 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 2. The prosecution case, in nutshell, is as follows: - On 12.12.2001 at about 5.00 pm, the deceased along with a friend went to Indira Gandhi Ward at Bandhara where the house of Chintaman Giddu Gatey (PW-8) situates. After parking his Luna Moped the deceased went inside of the house of Chintaman Giddu Gatey (PW-8), leaving his B friend near the vehicle. Deceased and Chintaman Giddu Gatey (PW-8) smoked ganja and while so the deceased accused No.4 (Raju Pande), Hiralal, the first appellant in the former appeal who is no more and accused Nos.1 and 3, who are the surviving convicts (hereinafter referred to as ‘the appellants’), came there on two motorcycles and they too, went C inside the house of Chintaman Giddu Gatey (PW-8). All of them smoked ganja. While so, appellant in the latter appeal viz., accused No.1 questioned the deceased as to why he along with his friend Parag Sukhdeve assaulted his brother. It is worthy to note at this juncture that according to the prosecution, on 29.09.2001, the deceased along with his friend Parag Sukhdeve assaulted the brother of the appellant in the latter D appeal. Though, the deceased denied assault on his brother, the appellant in the latter appeal (the first accused) continued to say that the deceased did dishonesty and assaulted his brother.