(6) The expression of interest received after the time specified in E the invitation under clause (b) of sub-regulation (3) shall be rejected. (7) An expression of interest shall be unconditional and be accompanied by- (a) an undertaking by the prospective resolution applicant that it F meets the criteria specified by the committee under clause (h) of sub-section (2) of section 25; (b) relevant records in evidence of meeting the criteria under clause (a); (c) an undertaking by the prospective resolution applicant that it G does not suffer from any ineligibility under section 29A to the extent applicable; 66 Ins. by Notification No. IBBI/2021-22/GN/REG078, dated 30th September, 2021 H (w.e.f. 30-9-2021). M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 879 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] (d) relevant information and records to enable an assessment of A ineligibility under clause (c); (e) an undertaking by the prospective resolution applicant that it shall intimate the resolution professional forthwith if it becomes ineligible at any time during the corporate insolvency resolution process; B (f) an undertaking by the prospective resolution applicant that every information and records provided in expression of interest is true and correct and discovery of any false information or record at any time will render the applicant ineligible to submit resolution plan, forfeit any refundable deposit, and attract penal action under C the Code; and (g) an undertaking by the prospective resolution applicant to the effect that it shall maintain confidentiality of the information and shall not use such information to cause an undue gain or undue loss to itself or any other person and comply with the requirements D under sub-section (2) of section 29. (8) The resolution professional shall conduct due diligence based on the material on record in to satisfy that the prospective resolution applicant complies with- (a) the provisions of clause (h) of sub-section (2) of section 25; E (b) the applicable provisions of section 29A, and (c) other requirements, as specified in the invitation for expression of interest. (9) The resolution professional may seek any clarification or F additional information or document from the prospective resolution applicant for conducting due diligence under sub-regulation (8). (10) The resolution professional shall issue a provisional list of eligible prospective resolution applicants within ten days of the last date for submission of expression of interest to the committee G and to all prospective resolution applicants who submitted the expression of interest. (11) Any objection to inclusion or exclusion of a prospective resolution applicant in the provisional list referred to in sub- H 880 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A regulation (10) may be made with supporting documents within five days from the date of issue of the provisional list. (12) On considering the objections received under sub-regulation (11), the resolution professional shall issue the final list of prospective resolution applicants within ten days of the last date B for receipt of objections to the committee.] 67[37. Resolution Plan.- A resolution plan shall provide for the measures, as may be necessary, for insolvency resolution of the corporate debtor for maximization of value of its assets, including but not limited to the following: - C (a) transfer of all or part of the assets of the corporate debtor to one or more persons; (b) sale of all or part of the assets whether subject to any security interest or not; 68[(ba) restructuring of the corporate debtor, by way of merger, D amalgamation and demerger;] (c) the substantial acquisition of shares of the corporate debtor, or the merger or consolidation of the corporate debtor with one or more persons; E 69[(ca) cancellation or delisting of any shares of the corporate debtor, if applicable;] (d) satisfaction or modification of any security interest; (e) curing or waiving of any breach of the terms of any debt due from the corporate debtor; F (f) reduction in the amount payable to the creditors; (g) extension of a maturity date or a change in interest rate or other terms of a debt due from the corporate debtor; (h) amendment of the constitutional documents of the corporate G debtor; 67 Subs.