As sub-section (2) of Section 167 as well as proviso (1) of sub-section (2) of Section 309 relate to the powers of remand of a magistrate, though under diff erent situations, the two provisions call for a harmonious reading insofar as the periods of remand are concerned. It would, therefore, follow that the words “15 days in the whole” occurring in sub-section (2) of Section 167 would be tantamount to a period of “15 days at a time” but subject to the condition that if the accused is to be remanded to police custody the remand should be for such period as is commensurate with the requirements of a case with provision for further extensions for restricted periods, if need be, but in no case should the total period of remand to police custody exceed 15 days. Where an accused is placed in police custody for the maximum period of 15 days allowed under law either pursuant to a single of remand or to more than one , when the remand is restricted on each occasion to a lesser number of days, further detention of the accused, if warranted, has to be necessarily to judicial custody and not otherwise. The legislature having provided for an accused being placed under police custody under s of remand for eff ective investigation of cases has at the same time taken care to see that the interests of the accused are not jeopardised by his being placed under police custody beyond a total period of 15 days, under any circumstances, irrespective of the gravity of the off ence or the serious nature of the case.” The aforesaid passage has been taken note of in Anupam J.Kulkarni (supra) to mean that an investigation with custody is permissible only within the fi rst 15 days of remand. 79. Even assuming that the rationale behind Anupam J. Kulkarni (supra) is correct, the legal maxim actus curiae neminem gravabit would certainly apply. This aspect has not been taken note of in the said , V. SENTHIL BALAJI v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY 927 DEPUTY DIRECTOR AND ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] followed by the others. The larger Bench of this Court in Budh Singh v. State of Punjab (2009) 9 SCC 266, mainly gave its imprimatur to the fi ndings rendered in Anupam J. Kulkarni (supra). Allowing the said interpretation which in our respectful view is contrary to the very mandate of Section 167(2) of the CrPC, 1973 would cause serious prejudice to the investigation. While agreeing with the views expressed by this Court in Vikas Mishra (supra) which actually dealt with the issue of counting the days, we are inclined to refer the larger issue of the actual import of Section 167(2) of the CrPC, 1973 as to whether the 15 days period of custody in favour of the police should be only within the fi rst 15 days of remand or spanning over the entire period of investigation - 60 or 90 days, as the case may be, as a whole.