Thus, the suit was maintainable, notwithstanding no relief was sought to annul the notifi cation. In support of his submissions, the learned counsel for the respondents placed reliance on a Constitution Bench decision of this Court in Dhulabhai vs. State of Madhya Pradesh20 and a three-judge Bench decision in Firm Seth Radha Kishan vs. Municipal Committee21. Questions that arise for Our Consideration 23. On consideration of the rival submissions, in my view, the following questions arise for determination: (i) Whether for failure to serve notice under sub-section (2) of Section 52 of the 1959 Act on the plaintiff , the notifi cation acquiring the land under sub-section (1) of Section 52 of the 1959 Act could be treated as void by the Civil Court? (ii) Whether in respect of the land covered by the acquisition notifi cation, the suit of the plaintiff for injunction simpliciter, without seeking a declaratory relief and, that too, without impleading the State as defendant, maintainable? (iii) Whether the civil suit of the plaintiff was also barred by section 207 (2) of the 1955 Act? Discussion and Analysis 24. Though the aforesaid issues are interrelated but, for clarity, I propose to deal with them separately. Issue No. (i) — Whether the notifi cation under Section 52(1) of the 1959 Act could have been treated as void by the Civil Court? 25. Before proceeding further on issue no. (i), it is apposite to observe that when an act is void, it is a nullity and can be disregarded and impeached 20 (1968) 3 SCR 662 21 (1964) 2 SCR 273 558 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. in any proceeding before any court or tribunal whenever it is relied upon. In other words, it is subject to a “collateral attack”. But, in Nawabkhan Abbaskhan vs. State of Gujarat22, followed in Bharati Reddy vs. State of Karnataka23, this Court held that if illegal acts of authorities are defi ed on self-determined voidness, startling consequences will follow. In the light of settled legal position, the question which falls for consideration is, whether for want of service of notice of proposed acquisition under sub-section (2) of Section 52 of the 1959 Act, the acquisition notifi cation, under section 52 (1) of the 1959 Act, could be treated as void and, therefore, vulnerable to a collateral attack. 26. To appropriately address the aforesaid issue, it would be useful to fi rst examine the provisions of the 1959 Act which deals with compulsory acquisition of land. Chapter VII of the 1959 Act deals with acquisition and disposal of land. Section 52 deals with compulsory acquisition of land. For convenience, the same is reproduced below: “52. Compulsory acquisition of land- (1) Where on a representation from the Trust it appears to the State Government that any land is required for the purpose of improvement or for any other purpose under this Act, the State Government may acquire such land by publishing in the offi cial Gazette a notice specifying the particular purpose for which such land is required and stating that the State Government has decided to acquire the land in pursuance of this section.