ELDECO HOUSING AND INDUSTRIES LIMITED v. ASHOK 881 VIDYARTHI AND OTHERS [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] 16. It was not disputed at the time of hearing that pleadings in the earlier suits or documents which are sought to be referred to by respondent No.1, i.e., MoU dated 15.04.1998 and the agreement dated 02.09.1998 are not part of the record before the Trial Court. 17. In Kamala and others v. K. T. Eshwara Sa and others,15 this Court opined that for invoking clause (d) of VII Rule 11 C.P.C., only the averments in the plaint would be relevant. For this purpose, there cannot be any addition or substraction. No amount of evidence can be looked into. The issue on merits of the matter would not be within the realm of the Court at that stage. The Court at that stage would not consider any evidence or enter a disputed question of fact of law. Relevant paragraphs thereof are extracted below: “21. 7 Rule 11(d) of the Code has limited application. It must be shown that the suit is barred under any law. Such a conclusion must be drawn from the averments made in the plaint. Diff erent clauses in 7 Rule 11, in our opinion, should not be mixed up. Whereas in a given case, an application for rejection of the plaint may be fi led on more than one ground specifi ed in various sub-clauses thereof, a clear fi nding to that eff ect must be arrived at. What would be relevant for invoking clause (d) of 7 Rule 11 of the Code are the averments made in the plaint. For that purpose, there cannot be any addition or subtraction. Absence of jurisdiction on the part of a court can be invoked at diff erent stages and under diff erent provisions of the Code. 7 Rule 11 of the Code is one, 14 Rule 2 is another. 22. For the purpose of invoking 7 Rule 11(d) of the Code, no amount of evidence can be looked into. The issues on merit of the matter which may arise between the parties would not be within the realm of the court at that stage. All issues shall not be the subject-matter of an under the said provision. 23. The principles of res judicata, when attracted, would bar another suit in view of Section 12 of the Code. The question involving a mixed question of law and fact which may require not only examination of the plaint but also other evidence and the passed in the earlier suit 15 (2008) 12 SCC 661 882 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. may be taken up either as a preliminary issue or at the fi nal hearing, but, the said question cannot be determined at that stage. 24. It is one thing to say that the averments made in the plaint on their face discloses no cause of action, but it is another thing to say that although the same discloses a cause of action, the same is barred by a law.