The High Court held that propriety would require that trees shall not be felled in pursuance of the dated 15 March 2023 until a clarification 2 “Public Interest Litigation (L) No 2169 of 2023 H 3 Public Interest Litigation (L) No 8655 of 2023 IN RE: FELLING OF TREES IN AAREY FOREST (MAHARASHTRA) 395 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] was sought from this Court. It is in view of the above factual background, A that the application for clarification has been filed by MMRCL. 7. We have heard Mr Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General appearing on behalf of MMRCL, Mr Dhruv Mehta, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the Municipal Corporation, and Mr C U Singh and Mr Gopal Sankaranarayanan, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents. B 8. At the outset, the Court must take notice of the fact that when the dated 29 November 2022 was passed, it was on the specific request of MMRCL that it should be permitted to pursue its application before the Tree Authority for permission to fell 84 trees for the purpose of the work of the ramp. The Court modified the earlier of status C quo which held the field, to the above extent. If the number of trees that are required to be felled was in excess of the permission which was granted by this Court, to move the Tree Authority to fell 84 trees, propriety required that an application had to be moved before this Court for its permission and for modification of its dated 29 November 2022. D Instead, it appears from the record that though initially the application was made for felling 84 trees, subsequently, a stand was adopted that actual number of trees would be in excess of what was originally envisaged. 9. As a matter of fact, it would be necessary to refer to the affidavit E which was filed by the Chief Project Manager of MMRCL before the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in which the following averments were incorporated: “24) In the aforesaid and such other relevant background of facts, in the humble submission of this Respondent, the number of trees that are required to be felled is an aspect which is F incidental to the proposal which is pending for consideration before the first Respondent in respect of which the Hon’ble Supreme Court has granted liberty to the present Respondent to pursue, which is being done by the present Respondent. I therefore say that not permitting the answering G Respondents to prosecute the present application in issue covering more number of trees over and above the number of trees incidentally mentioned in the aforesaid of the Hon’ble Supreme court, in fact would amount to frustrating H 396 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A the said and/or preventing its implementation in its true letter and spirit. *** *** *** 26) I hasten to state that if the contention of the Petitioner is accepted that will in fact amount to causing impediment in B the effective implementation of the of the Hon’ble Supreme Court.