To put it in other words, the accused will have to rebut the presumption that such circumstances did not exist, by placing material before the court suffi cient to make it consider the existence of the said circumstances so probable that a prudent man would act upon them. The accused has to satisfy the standard of a “prudent man”. If the material placed before the court. such as, oral and documentary evidence, presumptions, admissions or even the prosecution evidence, satisfi es the test of “prudent man”, the accused will have discharged his burden. The evidence so placed may not be suffi cient to’ discharge the burden under Section 105 of the Evidence Act, but it may raise a reasonable doubt in the mind of a judge as regards one or other of the necessary ingredients of the off ence itself. It may, for instance, raise a reasonable doubt in the mind of the judge whether the accused had the requisite intention laid down RUPESH MANGER (THAPA) v. STATE OF SIKKIM 587 [PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, J.] in s. 299 of the Indian Penal Code. If the judge has such reasonable doubt, he has to acquit the accused, for in that event the prosecution will have failed to prove conclusively the guilt of the accused. There is no confl ict between the general burden, which is always on the prosecution, and which never shifts, and the special burden that rests on the accused to make out his defence of insanity… The doctrine of burden of proof in the context of the plea of insanity may be stated in the following propositions: (1) The prosecution must prove beyond reasonable doubt that the accused had committed the off ence with the requisite mens rea, and the burden of proving that always rests on the prosecution from the beginning to the end of the trial. (2) There is a rebuttable presumption that the accused was not insane, when he committed the crime, in the sense laid down by Section 84 of the Indian Penal Code: the accused may rebut it by placing before the court all the relevant evidence-oral, documentary or circumstantial, but the burden of proof upon him is no higher than that rests upon a party to civil proceedings. (3) Even if the. accused was not able to establish conclusively that he was insane at the time he committed the off ence, the evidence placed before the court by the accused or by the prosecution may raise a reasonable doubt in the mind of the court as regards one or more of the ingredients of the off ence, including mens rea of the accused and in that case the court would be entitled to acquit the accused on the ground that the general burden of proof resting on the prosecution was not discharged.” 21. The above proposition has been reiterated by this Court in Devidas Loka Rathod vs. State of Maharashtra4 and Ratan Lal vs. The State of Madhya Pradesh5 22. In Surendra Mishra vs. State of Jharkhand6, Hari Singh Gond vs. Stat eof M.P.7 and Bapu vs. State of Rajasthan8 this Court has held that an accused who seeks exoneration from liability of an act under Section 84 4 (2018) 7 SCC 718 5 (1970) 3 SCC 533 6 (2011) 11 SCC 495 7 (2008) 16 SCC 109 8 (2007) 8 SCC 66 588 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R.