5.4 It is contended that even before the date on which the B of the Constitution Bench in Indore Development Authority v. Manohar Lal (supra) was delivered, the matter had attained finality and rights of the respective respondents over the subject lands were crystallised. 5.5 It is urged that so far as the reliance placed upon para 365 of the decision in the case of Indore Development Authority v. Manohar C Lal (supra) is concerned, the Constitution Bench was only concerned with the correctness of the law laid down in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) and Sree Balaji Nagar Residential Assn. v. State of Tamil Nadu (2015) 3 SCC 353. That the Constitution Bench was not considering the appeals in relation to Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) or Sree Balaji Nagar Residential Assn. (supra), or for that D matter a review of the decision in the aforesaid cases or any other case for that matter. Therefore, the Constitution Bench could not have and did not intend to reverse or review the s, as an expression of adjudication by this Court either in Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) or Sree Balaji Nagar Residential Assn. (supra) or any other E of the competent Court that has followed the aforesaid s. That the effect of overruling of the could only be to address the precedential value of the s so overruled but cannot set at naught the decree that has been passed in that regard. It is submitted that by overruling a decision, the overruled will lose its precedential value and nothing more than that. Reliance is placed on the decision of F this Court in the case of BSNL v. Union of India (2006) 3 SCC 1. That in the said decision, it is observed that the overruling would not affect the binding nature of a decision between the parties to the lis. 5.5.1 Shri Divan, learned Senior Advocate has also relied upon the recent decision of this Court in the case of Neelima Srivastava v. G State of U.P. (2021 SCC OnLine SC 610) in support of his submission that as held by this Court that mere overruling of the principles by a subsequent will not dilute the binding effect of the decision inter-parties. It is urged that therefore para 365 of the Constitution Bench in Indore Development Authority v. Manohar Lal (supra) does not aid the review petitioners. H GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI THR. THE SECRETARY, LAND AND BUILDING 221 DEPT. v. M/S. K.L. RATHI STEELS LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] 5.6 It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing for A the respective respondents that even otherwise none of the conditions enumerated under 47 Rule 1 CPC and 47 of the Supreme Court Rules are satisfied. That the review petitions are filed under Article 137 of the Constitution r/w 47 of the Supreme Court Rules. That Article 137 states that “subject to the provisions of any law made by B Parliament or any rules made under Article 145”, this Court shall have power to review its decision.