This is the basic principle involved in the separation of church and State.” F (Emphasis supplied)” 172. The Model Code of Conduct, the views of this Court about appeal to religion, being a corrupt practice, and paragraph-16A of the Symbols , empowering the Commission to act in the face of defiance, constitute a powerful weapon in the hands of an independent G and impartial Election Commission. Placing the exclusive power to appoint with the Executive, hardly helps. 173. In regard to the Symbols , this Court in Shri Sadiq Ali and another v. Election Commission of India, New Delhi and others60, 60 (1972) 4 SCC 664 H 144 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A upheld the vires of the Symbols . This Court, inter alia, and held as follows: “40 … The Commission is an authority created by the Constitution and according to Article 324, the superintendence, direction and control of the electoral rolls for and the conduct of elections to B Parliament and to the Legislature of every State and of elections to the office of President and Vice-President shall be vested in the Commission. The fact that the power of resolving a dispute between two rival groups for allotment of symbol of a political party has been vested in such a high authority would raise a presumption, though rebuttable, and provide a guarantee, though C not absolute but to a considerable extent, that the power would not be misused but would be exercised in a fair and reasonable manner.” 174. It is further found that when the Commission issues directions, it does so on its own behalf and not as a delegate of some other Authority. D This was on the construction of Article 324(1). 175. This Court upheld the power of the Election Commission of India to rescind its according recognition to a political party, even without elections having been held in all the States in the country [See Janata Dal (Samajwadi) v. Election Commission of India61]. E 176. In Indian National Congress (I) v. Institute of Social Welfare and others62, no doubt, this Court took the view that the Election Commission has not been conferred with the express power to deregister a political party registered under Section 29A, on the ground that it violated the Constitution or any undertaking given to the Election Commission at F the time of its registration. This Court went on to hold also that while exercising its power to register a political party under Section 29A, the Commission acts quasi-judicially. The Court also set out the three exceptional cases where the Commission could review its for registering a political party. It includes obtaining registration by practicing fraud or forgery. We may notice that under Paragraph-16A of the Symbols G , the Commission has been empowered to suspend or withdraw the recognition of a party as a national or a state party, after giving a reasonable opportunity. One of the grounds on which it can be so done is 61 (1996 (1) SCC 235 62 (2002) 5 SCC 685 H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 145 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.]