Given an opportunity the Company might have explained that as a result of this indebtedness there was no likelihood of fall in production, which is one of the essential conditions in regard to which the Government F must be satisfied before taking action under Section 18A-A(1)(a). Secondly, what the rule of natural justice required in the circumstances of this case, was not only that the Company should have been given an opportunity to explain the evidence against it, but also an opportunity to be informed G of the proposed action of take over and to represent why it be not taken. (emphasis supplied) 64. Audi alteram partem has several facets, including the service of a notice to any person against whom a prejudicial may be passed H 520 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A and providing an opportunity to explain the evidence collected. In Tulsiram Patel (supra), this Court explained the wide amplitude of audi alteram partem: 96.The rule of natural justice with which we are concerned in these appeals and writ petitions, namely, the audi alteram B partem rule, in its fullest amplitude means that a person against whom an to his prejudice may be passed should be informed of the allegations and charges against him, be given an opportunity of submitting his explanation thereto, have the right to know the evidence, both oral or documentary, by which the matter is proposed to be decided C against him, and to inspect the documents which are relied upon for the purpose of being used against him, to have the witnesses who are to give evidence against him examined in his presence and have the right to cross- examine them, and to lead his own evidence, both oral and D documentary, in his defence. The process of a fair hearing need not, however, conform to the judicial process in a Court of law, because judicial adjudication of causes involves a number of technical rules of procedure and evidence which are unnecessary and not required for the purpose of a fair hearing within the meaning of audi alteram partem rule in a quasi-judicial or E administrative inquiry. […] (emphasis supplied) 65. Audi alteram partem, therefore, entails that an entity against whom evidence is collected must: (i) be provided an opportunity to explain the evidence against it; (ii) be informed of the proposed action, and (iii) F be allowed to represent why the proposed action should not be taken. Hence, the mere participation of the borrower during the course of the preparation of a forensic audit report would not fulfil the requirements of natural justice. The decision to classify an account as fraud involves due application of mind to the facts and law by the lender banks. The G lender banks, either individually or through a JLF, have to decide whether a borrower has breached the terms and conditions of a loan agreement, and based upon such determination the lender banks can seek appropriate remedies. Therefore, principles of natural justice demand that the borrowers must be served a notice, given an opportunity to explain the findings in the forensic audit report, and to represent before the account H is classified as fraud under the Master Directions on Frauds.