Further it is also evident from the minutes of the meeting dated 28.05.2018 where it was clarifi ed that the direction of the Central Government to include B.Ed. as a qualifi cation is a direction under Section 29 of the Act. The NCTE is bound to follow the directions of the Central Government in this regard and the direction in the present case was to include B.Ed. as a qualifi cation for teachers in primary school, which has been done by NCTE through notifi cation dated 28.06.2018, are the submission of the learned counsel for the appellants as well as that of the learned ASG Ms. Aishwarya Bhati on behalf of the Union of India. Moreover, as per sub-Section (2) of Section 29, the decision of the Central Government as to what constitutes a policy decision will ultimately matter, is also the argument. 36. The introduction of B.Ed. as a qualifi cation by NCTE on the directions of the Central Government is a policy decision of the Government, as has been submitted before this Court, and is also evident from the sequence of events, the minutes of the various meeting and the passed in this regard. Section 29 of NCTE Act which mandates that NCTE must follow the directions of the Central Government in discharging of its functions. It is a policy decision which binds NCTE. We have absolutely no doubt in our mind that policy decisions of the Government should normally not be interfered with, by a constitutional Court in exercise of its powers of judicial review. At the same time if the policy decision itself is contrary to the law and is arbitrary and irrational, powers of judicial review must be exercised. A policy decision which is totally arbitrary; contrary to the law, or a decision which has been taken without proper application of mind, or in total disregard of relevant factors is liable to be interfered with, as that also is the 194 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. mandate of law and the Constitution. This aspect has been reiterated by this Court time and again. Judicial review becomes necessary where there is an illegality, irrationality or procedural impropriety. These principles were highlighted by Lord Diplock in Council of Civil Service Unions v. Minister for the Civil Service17(commonly known as CCSU case). The above decision has been referred by this Court in State of NCT of Delhi v. Sanjeev18. This view was reiterated again by this Court in State of M.P. & Ors. v. Mala Banerjee19:- “6. We also fi nd ourselves unable to agree with the appellants’ submission that this is a policy matter and, therefore, should not be interfered with by the courts. In Federation of Railway Offi cers Assn. v. Union of India [(2003) 4 SCC 289] , this Court has already considered the scope of judicial review and has enumerated that where a policy is contrary to law or is in violation of the provisions of the Constitution or is arbitrary or irrational, the courts must perform their constitutional duties by striking it down...” In Brij Mohan Lal v. Union of India20 this Court reiterated on this aspect and made out a distinction as to where an interference to a decision is required, and whereas it is not :- “100.