On a perusal of Section 319 of the Cr.P.C., it is apparent that B a person who is not an accused may be added as an accused only when it appears from the evidence that he has committed any offence for which he could be tried together with the accused. The Section says that in such an eventuality, the Court “may proceed against such person” for the offence which he appears C to have committed. In other words, a person who is not an accused becomes liable to be added where he appears to have committed an offence. Thereupon, the effect is that the Court may proceed against such a person. 7. Section 227 of the Cr.P.C. on the other hand, provides that an D accused may be discharged if the Judge construes that there is no sufficient ground for the proceedings against him. In other words, if the Judge is of the view that there are no sufficient grounds for the proceedings against the accused, he may be discharged, whereupon the proceedings against him are dropped. E 8. It is apparent that both these provisions, in essence, have the opposite effect. The power under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C. results in the summoning and consequent commencement of the proceedings against a person who was hitherto not an accused and the power under Section 227 of the Cr.P.C., results in termination of proceedings against the person who is an accused.” F 29. The sheet anchor of the arguments advanced on behalf of the appellants is what has been observed by this Court in the said in paragraph 9, which reads as under – “9. It was, however, urged by learned counsel for the appellants that in to avail of the remedies of discharge under Section G 227 of the Cr.P.C., the only qualification necessary is that the person should be accused. Learned counsel submitted that there is no difference between an accused since inception and accused who has been added as such under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C. It is, however, not possible to accept this submission since there is a H 1218 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A material difference between the two. An accused since inception is not necessarily heard before he is added as an accused. However, a person who is added as an accused under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C., is necessarily heard before being so added. Often he gets a further hearing if he challenges the summoning before the High Court and further. It seems incongruous B and indeed anomalous if the two sections are construed to mean that a person who is added as an accused by the court after considering the evidence against him can avail remedy of discharge on the ground that there is no sufficient material against him. Moreover, it is settled that the extraordinary power under Section C 319 of the Cr.P.C., can be exercised only if very strong and cogent evidence occurs against a person from the evidence led before the Court.” (emphasis by us) Much emphasis has been laid on the expression “a person who is D added as an accused under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C.