[Paras 74 and 78][295-B-E; 297-B-C] Whether the State Government could have exercised its powers under Article 138 of the AoA of RIICO to direct cancellation? F 4. The State Government has directed RIICO to recall its permission for conversion of the usage of land, sub – division of plots and supplementary lease deeds executed in favour of Respondent No. 1. All these actions of RIICO pertained to its business affairs. Since RIICO took these decisions exceeding G its powers and in a completely unauthorised and illegal manner, the State Government was well within its rights to invoke Article 138 of AoA and nullify the unauthorised and unlawful decisions taken by RIICO. The very objective behind reposing power in the State Government under Article 138 of the AoA is to enable H 236 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A it to undo and annul the decisions taken by RIICO in the conduct of its business affairs, which the State Government may find is derogating from public interest or in conflict with its own policy. The State Government is entitled to resort to Article 138 where it finds that the business affairs have been conducted by RIICO detrimental to the State’s interest as a Principal stake holder. B [Para 81][298-B-D] Whether the Rules of Business were not followed? 5. It appears to this Court that the Rules of Business have been substantially complied with. The entire Cabinet was called C on 29.12.2018 to consider various decisions taken by RIICO during the previous regime. Among these were the supplementary leases and connected permissions to Respondent No. 1 by RIICO. The Cabinet, which included the Minister for Industries, then proceeded to constitute three subcommittees to investigate these alleged irregularities, along with an inter – departmental D committee. The Minister for Industries is not expected to look into each individual matter pertaining to RIICO as this would render the entire working of government unviable. It was a collective decision of the Council of Ministers to constitute the Committees to look into irregularities of various kinds. The E specific committee that was authorized to investigate RIICO and its alleged misuse of non – existent powers in favor of Respondent No. 1, was a creation of the entire Council, including the Minister for Industries. The sub – committee’s actions in this context were completely validated and backed by the Minister and the rest of the Council. It is, thus, difficult to hold that Rules of Business F have not been followed by the State Government in the course of its decision making process. [Para 85 and 90][300-H; 301-A-B; 302-E-G] Does the Doctrine of Legitimate Expectations and Promissory Estoppel apply in favour of Respondent No. 1? G 6. It is clear that no legitimate expectation could have arisen in favor of Respondent No. 1. There was no implicit or explicit representation made by the State Government in favour of its request for conversion of the land, nor for sub – division of plots. RIICO, in completely untenable fashion, took over the role of H BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s.