22 of 2015. H 482 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 25.01.2015, the appellant and the other accused became aware that a complaint had been lodged; as a result, they abandoned M and left Madurai. She then returned to her father’s house at Erode, when he took her to the police station and reported what had occurred to the investigating officer (IO), viz. PW-16. PW-16 recorded the victim’s statement under Section 161 of the Criminal Procedure Code (hereafter B “Cr. PC”). M’s statement was also recorded under Section 164 of the Cr. PC. In this, she stated that she had known the accused, and both loved each other, for about a year; this was known to her father and grandmother, who objected to their relationship. This led to her consuming rat poison to commit suicide; however, she was hospitalized and treated. C She further stated that she eloped with the appellant voluntarily- a fact known to her aunt and PW-4, her sister. She also stated that the appellant and his relatives solemnized her marriage with him, and they lived as a married couple. According to her, when they were living together, the police came in search of her, after which she came to know that her father had filed a police complaint. She further clarified that she was D never abducted nor married forcibly and that she married the appellant as per her wishes. 4. After M was traced, the police altered the complaint; the first information report now included Section 6 and 17 of the POCSO Act as well as other offences, such as Section 506 of the IPC, Section 10 of the E Child Marriage Prohibition Act, 2006. The appellant and other accused (i.e., his parents and relatives, A-2 to A-9) were alleged to have committed the offences they were accused of in the charge sheet. The appellant and other accused were charged with commission of the offences; they abjured guilt and faced trial. The key witnesses relied upon by the F prosecution were PW-3 (the victim, i.e., M); PW-4, her sister; PW-5, who turned hostile; PWs 6, 7 and 8, who deposed in relation to a motorcycle said to have been borrowed by the appellant’s father. The doctor who examined M was PW-9, as well as PW-11. PW-15, the sub- inspector who registered the case and PW-16, IO, who concluded the investigation. The trial court held the appellant and others guilty; the G appellant was sentenced inter alia under Section 6 of the POCSO Act to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life. 5. The High Court, by the impugned modified the conviction. The accused A3, A4, A6 to A9 were convicted under Section 10 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006; the second accused H (A2) was acquitted of all charges and the appellant’s conviction under P. YUVAPRAKASH v. STATE REP. BY INSPECTOR OF POLICE 483 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] the POCSO Act was confirmed but his sentence of life imprisonment A with rigorous imprisonmentwas reduced to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment; he was also convicted under Section 10 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006.