H 832 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A (b) Accordingly, considering the above, in the given circumstances and on the basis of the material as placed on the record, the only irresistible conclusion that can be drawn is that the accused Prem Singh had murdered both this sons namely Jitesh and Sunny by manually strangulated them and caused their deaths which injuries have been proved to be antemortem and sufficient B in ordinary course of nature to cause their deaths and it is also proved on the record that after murdering them, he had thrown their dead bodies in the canal, so that the evidence regarding commission of his offence of murdering his sons is destroyed with intention to save and screen himself from the legal punishment. C Since prosecution has succeeded in bringing home guilt of the accused on record beyond reasonable doubt, accordingly, accused Prem Singh is convicted for committing offences as punishable under section 302/201 IPC. Let he be heard on the point of sentence.” D 8.2. The Trial Court further heard the parties on the question of sentence. The submissions on behalf of the appellant in this hearing had been for leniency in view of the facts that he had no criminal antecedents and had been undergoing trial since the year 2009; and further that he had a family to support and was the sole bread earner. The Trial Court, in its dated 08.09.2011, after taking note of all the facts and E circumstances of the case and the nature of crime committed by the appellant, considered it appropriate to award the necessary punishments and, accordingly, sentenced him to rigorous imprisonment for life with fine of Rs. 10,000/- and default stipulation for the offence punishable under Section 302 IPC; and to rigorous imprisonment for a period of 3 F years with fine of Rs. 2000/- and default stipulation for the offence punishable under Section 201 IPC, with concurrent running of punishments. High Court dismissed the appeal filed by the appellant 9. In challenge to the conviction before the High Court, it was G essentially contended on behalf of the appellant that all the independent witnesses did not support the prosecution case and there were missing links in the chain of events, particularly when the allegations of strained relationship of the appellant and his wife as also the allegations of the appellant doubting the chastity of his wife having fallen to the ground. It was contended that in the given circumstances, there were no reason H PREM SINGH v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 833 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] for which the appellant would have killed his own children. Per contra, A it was submitted on behalf of the respondent-State that the scientific evidence clearly established the fact that the children died because of manual strangulation and not on account of drowning; and when they were lastly seen in the company of the appellant, burden was heavy on him to explain the whereabouts of his children as also the manner in B which they came to be strangulated.