From the first lease deed executed in 1967, till date, the State Government has maintained the position of lessor; B. The lease with JKSL, and all leases thereafter with JKSL D and/or Respondent No. 1, have been signed under the 1959 Rules. The terms of the lease are clearly in compliance with the 1959 Rules; C. The land in LIA, Kota was never transferred to RIICO under the Government dated 18.09.1979. The State E Government has always maintained title and ownership of the area; D. The land was also never allotted to RIICO on a leasehold basis under Rule 11A of the 1959 Rules. Thus, RIICO was never expressly given any leasehold rights, and had no authority to F further sub – lease the land, along with other corresponding powers, under Rule 12 of the 1959 Rules; E. In any case, Rule 11A of the 1959 Rules is of no importance, as there had to be an express allotment of the land to RIICO on a leasehold basis after the coming into force of Rules G 11A and 12. No such express allocation was ever made in favour of RIICO; F. The 1979 Rules are not statutory in nature. The reference to the 1979 Rules in Rule 12 of the 1959 Rules, does not accord any statutory recognition to the former; H BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 239 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. G. There was no violation of the Principles of Natural Justice A in this case. The entire basis for granting permission for conversion of the land subdivision of the plots, was on an incorrect assumption of power by RIICO under the 1979 Rules, to act as the lessor of LIA, Kota. RIICO was never given any leasehold rights over the land. When the basis for a benefit received by a B party is itself invalid, there is no question of giving the party a chance to be heard; H. The State Government was competent to issue directions under Article 138 of the AoA of RIICO, to cancel the supplementary lease deeds and attendant permissions. This fell squarely within the ambit of Article 138 of the Articles of C Association; I. There was no violation of the Rajasthan Rules of Business as the sub – committee which recommended the cancellation of the permissions/approvals to Respondent No. 1, was acting for and on behalf of the entire Council of Ministers. Hence, the Rules D of Business were complied with; J. There was no legitimate expectation nor promissory estoppel that could operate to the benefit of Respondent No. 1, as, once again, no such defences could be raised on the back of RIICO’s own erroneous utilization of powers that vest only with the rightful lessor of LIA, Kota, which is the State Government. E Further, public interest overrides both these doctrines, and cannot come to the aid of a private party, when the larger interests of society are involved; K. The Appellant Unions and workers are at liberty to approach the Appropriate Government and various judicial forums F to pursue their remedies in accordance with law.