The Court answered the said question in the negative by adverting to several decisions on the point which had consistently held that the plaint can either be rejected as a whole or not at all. The Court held that it is not permissible to reject plaint qua any particular portion of a plaint including against some of the defendant(s) and continue the same against the others. In no uncertain terms the Court has held that if the plaint survives against certain defendant(s) and/or properties, 7 Rule 11(d) CPC will have no application at all, and the suit as a whole must then proceed to trial. ... 12. Indubitably, the plaint can and must be rejected in exercise of powers under 7 Rule 11(d) CPC on account of non-compliance with mandatory requirements or being replete with any institutional defi ciency at the time of presentation of the plaint, ascribable to clauses (a) to (f) of Rule 11 of 7 CPC. In other words, the plaint as presented must proceed as a whole or can be rejected as a whole but not in part...” (emphasis supplied) 12. In view of the above referred principle, we have no hesitation in holding that the High Court committed an error in rejecting the plaint in part with respect to Schedule-A property and permitting the Plaintiff s to prosecute KUM. GEETHA, D/O LATE KRISHNA v. NANJUNDASWAMY 163 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J. ] the case only with respect to Schedule-B property. This approach while considering an application under VII Rule 11, CPC is impermissible. We, therefore, set aside the and of the High Court even on this ground. 13. For the reasons stated above, the Civil Appeal arising out of SLP (C) No. 8147 of 2016 is allowed and the impugned and of the High Court of Karnataka in Civil Revision Petition No. 158 of 2010 dated 09.11.2015, is set-aside. 14. In view of the fact that the present proceedings arise out of a suit instituted in 2005, we request the Trial Court to take up the trial and dispose of the suit expeditiously. 15. Parties will bear their own costs. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal allowed. Divya Pandey