The appellant paid Rs.11,89,08,385/- towards income tax and penalty on 8th September 2016. The return was fi led on 12th September 2016. Therefore, the appellant had a source of money for acquiring the second property for the consideration of Rs.2.47 crores. Both the properties acquired by the appellant had no nexus at all with the proceeds of crime of the scheduled off ences. The learned senior counsel pointed out that consideration of Rs.2.47 crores was agreed upon, as it is mentioned in the sale deed that it was a distress sale made by the accused no.1–Madhukar Angur. 8. The second limb of the submissions of the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant is that as the appellant has not been arraigned as an accused in the chargesheets fi led pertaining to the alleged scheduled off ences, she cannot be roped in as an accused for the off ences punishable under Section 3 of the PMLA. She relied upon what is held in paragraphs 251 to 253 of the decision of this Court in the case of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary1. She submitted that in the decision, this Court held that if an accused in the scheduled/predicate off ence is acquitted/discharged, he cannot be prosecuted for the off ence punishable under the PMLA. She submitted that the appellant’s case stands on a better footing as she was not even shown as an accused in any scheduled/predicate off ences. She would, therefore, submit that the cognizance of the crime under the PMLA could not have been taken against the appellant. 9. The third submission of the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant is that out of the four scheduled/predicate off ences, chargesheets have been fi led in the case of three off ences, and in these chargesheets, only one off ence covered by the Schedule to the PMLA has been mentioned, which is Section 120-B of IPC. She pointed out that in FIR no.119 of 2016 and FIR no.52 of 2017, Section 420 of IPC was included. However, in FIR no.119 of 2016, the closure report was fi led, and in FIR no.52 of 2017, while fi ling the chargesheet, Section 420 of IPC was excluded. She contended that 105 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Section 120-B of IPC alone, in the absence of any other scheduled off ence, cannot sustain a charge under the PMLA. Unless there is an allegation regarding a conspiracy to commit any scheduled off ence, the prosecution under the PMLA cannot lie. Relying upon the proviso to Section 120-A of IPC, the learned senior counsel submitted that an illegal act or a legal act by illegal means, in furtherance of an agreement, committed by any person is a sine qua non for attracting the off ence of conspiracy under Section 120-B of IPC. If Section 120-B of IPC can be treated as a standalone off ence to attract prosecution under the PMLA, by that logic, a complaint under the PMLA can be fi led where the allegation is of criminal conspiracy to commit an off ence which is not a scheduled off ence.