of the products. 14.8. Adjudicating authority also rejected the contention of the respondents that the supplier had purchased the goods on stock clearance basis at a lower price for which reason it could sell the goods to M/s Ganpati Overseas at lower price. Such a contention was held to be an afterthought as M/s Ganpati Overseas did not produce any invoice etc. of purchase of goods on stock clearance basis. Since neither transaction value of similar goods nor price of contemporaneous imports etc. were available, adjudicating authority held that the department had rightly invoked Rule 8 of the Customs Valuation Rules instead of going through Rules 5, 6 and 7 sequentially. 14.9. The -in-original was assailed by the respondents in appeals before the CESTAT. Vide the and dated 27.06.2008, CESTAT set aside the -in-original passed by the adjudicating authority. CESTAT recorded that the initial export declarations fi led by the foreign supplier before the Hong Kong customs authority could not be relied upon for enhancing the declared value of the imported goods. Copies of those export declarations available with the department were unattested photocopies. COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS (IMPORTS), MUMBAI v. M/S GANPATI 191 OVERSEAS THR. ITS PROP. SHRI YASHPAL SHARMA [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] That apart, the foreign supplier had fi led a second set of export declarations before the Hong Kong customs authority declaring the price as shown in the invoices of the imports. This was accepted by the Hong Kong customs authority but on imposition of penalty on the supplier which was paid by the supplier. CESTAT noted that no investigation was carried out by the customs authority with the Hong Kong customs authority to support their allegation. Therefore, CESTAT held that the value of the goods shown in the initial export declarations could not form the basis for enhancing the value. Nothing incriminating was recovered from the importers. There was no evidence before the customs department of any contemporaneous import having higher value. Thus, the department could not prove under-valuation by adducing evidence. 14.10. As regards statements of Mr. Yashpal Sharma and Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma, CESTAT observed that those statements were retracted at the earliest available opportunity. In the absence of any corroborative material or evidence, CESTAT declined to give much credence to the two statements. 14.11. Further, it was observed that while respondents had produced invoices of contemporaneous imports by M/s Bharat Electronics and M/s K.S. International at price comparable with the price declared by the respondents, those were summarily rejected by the adjudicating authority without the department discharging the burden to prove the contrary. 14.12. In such circumstances, CESTAT vide the and dated 27.06.2008 set aside the -in-original and allowed the appeals of the respondents. 15. As we have seen, both the department and the adjudicating authority had relied upon the initial export declarations fi led by the foreign supplier before the Hong Kong customs authority for the purpose of enhancing the value of the goods. CESTAT had interfered with the same. We believe, CESTAT was justifi ed in doing so.