In Ashish Jain v. Makrand Singh &Others12, it was held that the object of the provisions of Section 5 of the 1920 Act for obtaining an from a Magistrate to take specimens is to eliminate possibility of fabrication of evidence. There it was also held that those C provisions are directory and not mandatory. Similar view has been taken in Sonviralias Somvir v. State (NCT of Delhi)13. 50. On scanning the provisions of the Code, prior to insertion of section 311-A in the Code, we could find no statutory provision proscribing an investigating agency from collecting specimen signature and D handwriting of an accused or a suspect for the purposes of obtaining an expert report. As the provisions of Section 311-A of the Code prescribing the procedure for obtaining specimen signature/handwriting were inserted in the Code much after completion of investigation in this case, it would have no material bearing on this case. E 51. In the instant case, Neeraj’s specimens of handwriting and signature were obtained by the investigating agency during investigation when there existed no specific provision in the Code regulating the procedure for obtaining such specimens and there existed no provision proscribing the investigating agency from obtaining specimens of handwriting/signature of an accused or a suspect. As far as the provisions F of Section 73 of the IEA, 1872 are concerned, they apply when a proceeding such as an inquiry or trial is pending in a Court. Since no proceedings were pending before any Court when the specimens in question were obtained, provisions of section 73 of the IEA, 1872 could not have been invoked. In such a situation, as there existed no legal G provision proscribing an investigating agency from obtaining specimens of handwriting/signature of a suspect or an accused, in our view, the investigating agency had the power to collect such material including specimen handwriting/ signature as toassist the prosecution to introduce 11 (2016) 14 SCC 183 12 (2019) 3 SCC 770 H 13 (2018) 8 SCC 24 SANTOSH @ BHURE v. STATE (G.N.C.T.) OF DELHI 753 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] a relevant fact or corroborate any piece of evidence on a relevant fact/ A fact in issue. For the reasons above, in our considered view, the expert report (i.e. FSL report) obtained during investigation by the investigating agency, predicated on specimens of handwriting/signature of Neeraj obtained during investigation, could not have been discarded merely because it was obtained during investigation and without an / B permission of the Court as contemplated under section 73 of the IEA, 1872. 52. Now, we shall test another leg of the argument made on behalf of the defence to question the admissibility of the expert report, which is, that the specimen was forcibly obtained, therefore, its usage would C infringe the fundamental right against self-incrimination enshrined in Article 20(3) of the Constitution of India. 53. In Kathi Kalu Oghad (supra), while interpreting the phrase “to be a witness against himself”, as occurs in Article 20(3), a Constitution Bench of this Court, in paragraph 16, per majority view D authored by B.P.