46. Learned Single Judge and Division Bench in their impugned s have concurred with the finding that such of the employees F who were discontinued by passing of the dated 8th November, 2011 are not only entitled to reinstatement but deserve to be regularised in service after creation of post. In our considered view, what is being observed by the Division Bench of the High Court is not legally sustainable in law. G 47. There cannot be a quarrel with the proposition that the Courts cannot direct for creations of posts. In the case of Divisional Manager Aravali Golf Club and Another Vs. Chander Hass and Another5, it has been held as under:- H 5 2008(1) SCC 683 THE GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU v. TAMIL NADU 407 MAKKAL NALA PANIYALARGAL [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] “15. The court cannot direct the creation of posts. Creation and A sanction of posts is a prerogative of the executive or legislative authorities and the court cannot arrogate to itself this purely executive or legislative function, and direct creation of posts in any organisation. This Court has time and again pointed out that the creation of a post is an executive or legislative function and it B involves economic factors. Hence the courts cannot take upon themselves the power of creation of a post. Therefore, the directions given by the High Court and the first appellate court to create the posts of tractor driver and regularise the services of the respondents against the said posts cannot be sustained and are hereby set aside.” C 48. Later, in Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation and Another Vs. Casteribe Rajya Parivahan Karamchari Sanghatana6, this Court held as under:- “41. Thus, there is no doubt that creation of posts is not within D the domain of judicial functions which obviously pertains to the executive. It is also true that the status of permanency cannot be granted by the Court where no such posts exist and that executive functions and powers with regard to the creation of posts cannot be arrogated by the courts.” E 49. The respondents were not in employment of the Government or holding a civil post and also not appointed against the cadre post in any of the Government establishment where the service conditions are governed/regulated by the statutory rules framed under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution. F 50. In fact, the respondents were engaged in a scheme and were paid honorarium and we do find justification that as long as the scheme continues in the State of Tamil Nadu under the mandate of Act, 2005, at least there appears no reason to discontinue such persons who are working under the respective schemes undertaken by the Government G in fulfilment of the object of the Act, 2005 unless the later found to be unsuitable for retention in service or has attained the age of superannuation. 6 2009(8) SCC 556 H 408 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 51. But as already observed, such employees are not entitled for reinstatement and for regularization of service for the reason that if the passed on 8th November, 2011 is not sustainable, the respondents and other similarly situated persons engaged could be restored on the same terms as they were placed before passing of the dated 8th November, 2011.