The following extract is useful for our consideration: “[005.066] Adequacy of reasons Sufficiency of reasons, in a particular case, depends on the facts of each case. It is not necessary for the authority to write out a judgement as a court of law does. However, at least, an outline of process of B reasoning must be given. It may satisfy the requirement of giving reasons if relevant reasons have been given for the , though the authority has not set out all the reasons or some of the reasons which had been argued before the court have not been expressly considered by the authority. A mere repetition of the statutory language in the will not make the a reasoned one. C Mechanical and stereotype reasons are not regarded as adequate. A speaking is one that speaks of the mind of the adjudicatory body which passed the . A reason such as ’the entire examination of the year 1982 is cancelled’, cannot be regarded as adequate because the statement does explain as to why the D examination has been cancelled; it only lays down the punishment without stating the causes therefor.”(Halsbury’s Laws of India (Administrative Law) (Lexis Nexis, Online Edition). 24. Thus, an opinion accompanied by inadequate reasoning would not satisfy the requirements of Section 432 (2) of the CrPC. Further, E it will not serve the purpose for which the exercise under Section 432 (2) is to be undertaken, which is to enable the executive to make an informed decision taking into consideration all the relevant factors. 25. In view of the above discussion, we hold that the petitioner’s F application for remission should be re-considered. We direct the Special Judge, Durg to provide an opinion on the application afresh accompanied by adequate reasoning that takes into consideration all the relevant factors that govern the grant of remission as laid down in Laxman Naskar v. Union of India (supra). The Special Judge, Durg must provide his opinion within a month of the date G of the receipt of this . We further direct the State of Chhattisgarh to take a final decision on the petitioner’s application for remission afresh within a month of receiving the opinion of the Special Judge, Durg.” H 600 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 7. Since the case of the present petitioners is also similar to the case of the co-accused Ram Chander, in as much as the Presiding Officer’s opinions contained in the letters dated 02.07.2021, 10.08.2021 and 01.10.2021 do not contain reasons with regard to the factors to be taken into consideration as laid down in case of Laxman Naskar vs. Union of India (supra), we propose to pass similar as passed in B the case of co-accused Ram Chander. 8. In that view of the matter, it is held that the petitioners’ applications for remission are required to be reconsidered by the respondent authorities afresh. Accordingly, we direct the Special Judge, Durg to provide an opinion on the applications of the petitioners afresh C accompanied by adequate reasoning after taking into consideration the relevant factors that govern the grant of remission as laid down in Laxman Naskar vs. Union of India (supra).