The deceased being a professional heavy vehicle driver when undertakes the job of such driving as his regular avocation it can be safely held that such constant driving of heavy vehicle, being dependent solely upon his physical and mental resources and endurance, there was every reason to assume that the vocation of driving was a material SMT. DARIYAO KANWAR & ORS. v. M/S UNITED INDIA 593 INSURANCE CO. LTD. & ANR. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] contributory factor if not the sole cause that accelerated his unexpected death to occur which in all fairness should be held to be an untoward mishap in his lifespan. Such an “untoward mishap” can therefore be reasonably described as an “accident” as having been caused solely attributable to the nature of employment indulged in with his employer which was in the course of such employer’s trade or business. 30. …………………..In such circumstances, we are convinced that the conclusion of the Commissioner of Workmen’s Compensation that the death of the deceased was in an accident arising out of and in the course of his employment with the second respondent was perfectly justifi ed and the conclusion to the contrary reached by the learned Judge of the High Court in the impugned in this appeal deserves to be set aside.” (emphasis supplied) 11. Similar view was expressed by this Court in Northeast Karnataka Road Transport Corpn’s case. (supra). 12. To be fair to the counsel for the respondents, we may deal with the s relied upon by him. In our view, the s relied upon by him do not support his case. 13. In Ved Prakash Garg’s case (supra), the issue before this Court was whether the Insurance Company is liable to meet the award of the Commissioner imposing penalty and interest against the insured employer. This is not an issue under consideration in the case in hand. The issue under consideration in Prembai Patel and Ors’s case (supra) was also diff erent as this Court was called upon to examine as to whether the Insurance Company is liable to pay the compensation awarded or its liability is restricted to the extent prescribed under the 1923 Act. In any case, the claimants in the present case have been awarded compensation as assessed under the 1923 Act and in the Insurance Policy there was no limit prescribed. 14. For the reasons stated above, we fi nd merit in the present appeal. The same stands allowed. The impugned passed by the High Court is set aside. The of the Commissioner is restored with no as to costs. Headnotes prepared by : Appeal allowed. Ankit Gyan