Prima facie we think that at this stage it is not a case warranting quashing of the complaint fi led in the Court of Judicial Magistrate, Ist Class at Nasik. To that extent, the High Court was right in refusing to quash the complaint under Section 500 IPC.” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 12 (1996) 6 SCC 263 M/S IVECO MAGIRUS BRANDSCHUTZTECHNIK GMBH v. 235 NIRMAL KISHORE BHARTIYA [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 20. Then followed M.N. Damani v. S.K. Sinha13 where this Court, after applying the law laid down in Sewakram Sobhani (supra) and Shatrughna Prasad Sinha (supra), set aside the of the Karnataka High Court and restored the of the Magistrate issuing summons to the accused for off ence under section 500, IPC. 21. In M.A. Rumugam v. Kittu Alias Krishnamoorthy14, the respondent fi led a private complaint against the appellant for commission of the off ence of defamation under section 500, IPC. Taking cognizance of the said complaint, the Magistrate issued summons to the appellant. Aggrieved thereby, he fi led a petition before the High Court of Judicature at Madras praying to call for the records pertaining to the complaint petition fi led by the respondent and to quash the same. Before the High Court, a contention was raised that the backdrop of events and the manner in which the complaint petition had to be fi led by the appellant would clearly establish that the action on his part was not in good faith. The said contention was negatived by the High Court. This Court had the occasion to consider the applicability of the provisions of section 482, Cr. PC for quashing of a complaint petition fi led by the respondent against the appellant under section 500, IPC. While dismissing the appeal, the Court went on to apply the well-settled principle of law that those who plead exception must prove it and, therefore, the burden of proof that his action was bona fi de would, thus, be on the appellant alone. 22. In Subramanian Swamy v. Union of India15, this Court considered the issue from a diff erent angle. We can do no better than reproduce the contention and how the same was unhesitatingly repelled in the following words: “209. We will be failing in our duty if we do not take note of the submission of Mr. Bhambhani, learned Senior Counsel. It is submitted by the learned Senior Counsel that Exceptions to Section 499 are required to be considered at the time of summoning of the accused but as the same is not conceived in the provision, it is unconstitutional. It is settled position of law that those who plead Exception must prove it. It 13 (2001) 5 SCC 156 14 (2009) 1 SCC 101 15 (2016) 7 SCC 221 236 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. has been laid down in M.A. Rumugam that for the purpose of bringing any case within the purview of the Eighth and the Ninth Exceptions appended to Section 499 IPC, it would be necessary for the person who pleads the Exception to prove it.