Had the intention of the contract been measuring soil separately then it would be necessary to take cross sections repeatedly of every intermediate layer at the junction of the core fl y ash with soil side cover and also at top of fl y ash layer before covering it with 1m soil layer, which is not stipulated so in the mode of measurement for payment in the Contract. […] 4.1.8 The item is for construction of embankment with fly ash. The words “with Fly Ash” are the adjective qualifying the type of Embankment. Thus, if is necessary to measure embankment as a whole and not the individual materials comprising embankment. Had the item been described as “Providing fl y ash for embankment” then it would have been appropriate to measure fl y ash material only. The intention of contract is to measure the embankment. This is also corroborated from the description of BoQ item no.2.02(a), which is only in one type of material i.e. approved material; the phrase used in description is “construction of embankment with approved materials”. Here too embankment as an item and the words approved material is the adjective qualifying the type of embankment.” In other appeals too, the DRP gave similar directions and instructions. In Oriental Structures’ (supra) appeal (CA 4662/2023), the DRB’s decision, inter alia, was that: “The decision of DRB is to measure the soil cover & Pond Ash together for Pond Ash embankment& be paid under BOQ item 2.02 (b). The fi nal quantity under BOQ item 2.02(b) are with Engineer & shall be submitted to Employer & to be paid at the rates approved after the Arbitration in vogue as on the days after allowing the rebate provided by Contractor in his off er.” 20. It is quite evident that in most cases, the view of DRPs and tribunals, and in two cases, majority awards of tribunals, favoured the arguments of contractors, that composite embankment construction took place, as a result of which measurement was to be done in a composite, or unifi ed manner. Dissenting or minority views, wherever expressed, were premised on M/S HINDUSTAN CONSTRUCTION COMPANY LIMITED v. 637 M/S NATIONAL HIGHWAYS AUTHORITY OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] separate measurements. This opinion was of technical experts constituted as arbitrators, who were versed in contractual interpretation of the type of work involved; they also had fi rst hand experience as engineers who supervised such contracts. When the predominant view of these experts pointed to one direction, i.e., a composite measurement, the question is what really is the role of the court under Section 34 the Act. 21. This court, in M/s. Voestalpine Schienen GmbH v DMRC15 commenting on the value of having expert personnel as arbitrators, emphasized that “technical aspects of the dispute are suitably resolved by utilising their expertise when they act as arbitrators.” Such an approach was commended also in Delhi Airport Metro Express (P) Ltd v DMRC16 wherein this court held that: “The members of the Arbitral Tribunal, nominated in accordance with the agreed procedure between the parties, are engineers and their award is not meant to be scrutinized in the same manner as one prepared by legally trained minds.