Dismissing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1. The prosecution relied on the following E circumstances: (a) Motive; (b) Disclosure Statement and Recovery; (c) Extra Judicial Confession; and (d) Accused taking the deceased with him and soon thereafter the deceased was found in an injured state [Para 24][618-G] 2. (a) Motive F According to the prosecution, the appellant and the deceased used to quarrel because the deceased had kept her jewellery with her sister. However, the above reason for the quarrel was not found proved because the prosecution evidence led revealed that the jewellery had already been returned back G much before the date of the incident. Therefore, to prove motive, during trial, prosecution developed another story, which is, that the appellant desired his wife to claim a share in her ancestral property which resulted in quarrels. This motive neither appealed to the High Court nor to this Court. [Para 24 (i)][619-A-C] H STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH v. PHOOLCHAND RATHORE 603 (b) Disclosure Statement and Recovery A The disclosure statement, as per the memorandum (Ex.P- 9), was prepared at Seoni Trisection and witnessed by PW6; the recovery memo (Ex.P-10), was prepared at accused’s hut near railway line in Model village at 1400 hours 02.02.2010 and the same was witnessed by PW6. Interestingly, PW6 is the only public B witness of disclosure and recovery to be examined and he has not supported the prosecution case. What is even more interesting is that the other seizure memorandum prepared in respect of lifting blood-stained saree, gravel, slippers etc. from near the railway line, that is the spot from where the deceased was lifted, C was prepared at 1400 hours on 02.02.2010. How could it be possible that the police prepared two memorandums at the same time at different places. The answer to it lies in the testimony of PW6, a witness to both, who stated that he was made to sign the papers at the police station. Meaning thereby that all papers were prepared at one go rendering the entire exercise of disclosure D and consequential discovery/recovery doubtful. Not only that, there appears no cogent reason for the accused to carry stones from the spot and hide them in his hut while leaving several blood- stained stones near the railway line. In such circumstances, it appears to us that those stones were picked from the spot near E the railway track to show recovery from the hut. Insofar as the recovery of blood-stained clothes is concerned, in addition to the above reasons, the same is doubtful also because of the statement of PW4 that her father on return had washed those clothes and had spread them to dry over the cattle shed in the house therefore, how could they be recovered from the hut. It be F noted that the house is shown located in the village, whereas the hut is shown in the field at quite a distance from the house. For all the reasons above, the High Court was justified in doubting the recovery of blood-stained clothes etc.