552 SUPREME CO[U2R02T3 ]R 3E PSO.CR.RT.S 552 [2023] 3 S.C.R. A SH. RAKESH RAMAN v. SMT. KAVITA (Civil Appeal No. 2012 of 2013) B APRIL 26, 2023 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA AND J. B. PARDIWALA, JJ.] Hindu Marriage Act, 1955: s. 13(1)(ia) and (ib) – Divorce – Grounds of cruelty and desertion – Marital discord between the parties – Petition for dissolution of marriage by the husband on the C ground that the wife treated him with cruelty and deserted him,that there was no co-habitation between the parties, and that the wife had filed multiple false and frivolous criminal cases against him – Trial court passed a decree of divorce holding that the wife had deserted the husband and had meted out cruel behaviour against D him – However, the High Court set aside the – On appeal, held: There are bitter allegations of cruelty and desertion from both the sides, the marital relationship has broken down irretrievably, there is a long separation of 25 years, absence of cohabitation, no child out of the wedlock, with multiple court cases between the parties – Repeated efforts for reconciliation by the Courts has failed E – Marital relationship which has only become more bitter and acrimonious over the years, does nothing but inflicts cruelty on both the sides – To keep the façade of this broken marriage alive would be doing injustice to both the parties – Marriage being irretrievably broken down spells cruelty, thus, a ground for F dissolution of marriage u/s.13(1)(ia) – Judgement by the High Court set aside and decree of divorce is granted. Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 The husband and wife, have been living separately since the last 25 years. There is no child out of the G wedlock. There are bitter allegations of cruelty and desertion from both the sides and multiple litigations between the two in the last more than 25 years. This embittered relationship between the appellant and the respondent which has not witnessed any moment of peace for the last 25 years is a marital relationship H only on paper. The fact is that this relationship has broken down 552 SH. RAKESH RAMAN v. SMT. KAVITA 553 irretrievably long back. Other aspect to be considered is the fact A that for the last 25 years the appellant and respondent, are living separately, and have not cohabitated. There is absolutely no scope of reconciliation between the parties. There is in fact no bond between the two and as the Law Commission in its 71st report said about such a marriage, which is a marriage which has de B facto broken down, and only needs a de jure recognition by the law. The same was reiterated by the Law Commission in its 217th report. [Paras 10, 12][558-A-B, E-F] 1.2 The view taken by the High Court that mere filing of criminal cases by the wife does not constitute cruelty as what has C also to be seen are the circumstances under which cases were filed, is a finding is not to be disregarded totally, in fact as a pure proposition of law it may be correct, but then the entire facts of the case are to be closely examined.