Adv., (AC), Gopal Sankaranarayan, Sr. Adv., Ms. Harshika Verma, Dipanshu Krishan, Gauravjit Singh Patwalia, Manan Daga, Ms. Samradhi Srivastava, Gaurav Agrawal, Kanu Agarwal, Ms. Chinmayee Chandra, K Parmeshwar, Udai Khanna, Akshay Amritanshu, Anmol Chandan, Ankur Talwar, Anandh Venkataramani, Mrs. Vijayalakshmi Venkataramani, Vinayak Mehrotra, Ms. Mansi Sood, Chitvan Singhal, Ms. Sonali Jain, Abhishek Kumar Pandey, Raman Yadav, Kartikey Aggarwal, Arvind Kumar Sharma, Dr. Vivek Sharma, Anand Nandan, Aakarsh, Ms. Shivangi, Hasan Zubair Waris, Mrs. Mohd. Faiz, Ms. Savita Kumari, Amit Pawan, Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, Ashwani Kumar Dubey, Ms. Tanya Srivastva, Vishal Sinha, Ms. Shivani Vij, Rameshwar Prasad Goyal, Advs. for the Respondent. SITA SOREN v. UNION OF INDIA 755 / OF THE SUPREME COURT O R D E R 1. The Criminal Appeal arises from a and dated 17 February 2014 of the High Court of Jharkhand in Writ Petition (Criminal) No 128 of 2013. 2. An election was held on 30 March 2012 for two members of the Rajya Sabha representing the State of Jharkhand. The appellant was a member of the Legislative Assembly belonging to the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha. The allegation against the app ellant is that she accepted a bribe from an independent candidate for casting her vote in his favour. However, as borne out from the open balloting for the Rajya Sabha seat, she did not cast her vote in favour of the alleged bribe giver and instead cast her vote in favour of a candidate belonging to her own party. The round of election in question was rescinded and a fresh election was held at which the appellant voted in favour of the candidate belonging to her own party. 3. The appellant moved the High Court for quashing the charge-sheet and the criminal proceedings instituted against her. The appellant relied on the provisions of Article 194(2) of the Constitution. The High Court by the impugned judgement declined to quash the criminal proceedings on the ground that the appellant had not cast her vote in favour of the alleged bribe giver and thus, is not entitled to the protection under Article 194(2). 4. The of the High Court has given rise to the present appeal. 5. On 23 September 2014, when the proceedings were placed before a bench of two judges of this Court, the Court was of the view that since the issue arising for consideration is “substantial and of general public importance”, it should be placed before a larger bench of three judges of this Court. 6. On 7 March 2019, when a Bench of three judges of this Court took up the appeal, it noted that the gravamen of the charge against the appellant is that she had accepted a bribe to vote in favour of a particular candidate in the Rajya Sabha election for a member representing Jharkhand. The precise question, as the three Judge Bench observed, was dealt with in a of a Bench of fi ve judges in PV Narasimha Rao Vs State (CBI/ 756 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R.