The position was compared to a shareholder of a railway company who buys a ticket to travel by train; for this purpose, he is merely an outsider. 1014 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 8.9.8 The aforesaid analysis of Rowlatt J. was affi rmed by the Court of Appeal as well as by the House of Lords. The House of Lords clarifi ed that insofar as surplus income arising from a fi re policy, they are really entitled to the money as being those who contributed it and, accordingly, it has been admitted that any profi t made on the fi re policies is governed by the Styles case (supra). But as regards employers’ liability business and miscellaneous business the surplus it did not go to the contributors for, as fi re policy holders in a body, they had not contributed and therefore this business was in the same position as business with complete outsiders, the surpluses in which are admitted to be profi t. 8.9.9 Reference was also made to another Australian decision in the case of Social Credit Savings and Loans Society Limited vs. Commissioner of Taxation, (1971) 125 CLR 560, wherein the necessity for identicality between the contributors to the common fund and the participators in it, was emphasised. 8.9.10 Reference was also made to Sydney Water Board Employees’ Credit Union Limited vs. Commissioner of Taxation, (1973) 129 CLR 446 which is a decision of the Full High Court of Australia. In the said case, the facts are interesting. The taxpayer was a credit union which borrowed money from its members. It also borrowed money, to a smaller amount, from non-members, on fi xed deposit. The money borrowed was re-lent by it to members, but the class of borrowing members was not identical with the class of lending members; some borrowing members did not lend money to the taxpayer, and some lending members did not borrow. The taxpayer received interest on the money lent by it, and obtained surpluses over its expenditure. The issue was whether the interest received by the credit union from its members was taxable under the Australian Income Tax Act. The Court unanimously held that the interest was taxable. 8.9.11 While considering the application of the mutuality principle in the said case, it was held that there were two impediments: that precise identicality between the individuals contributing to a fund and the participants in that fund was no longer required. However, there ought be a “reasonable relationship” between contributions and benefi ts and that no such relationship existed, as all members of the Association had not taken space at the 1984 Australian Music Exhibition. Secondly, it was observed SECUNDRABAD CLUB ETC. v. C.I.T.-V ETC. 1015 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] that the money received by the Association in respect of the exhibition was not the money held on behalf of individual members. The money became part of the general funds of the Association, to be dealt with as the members of the Association might see fi t from time to time, but without any obligation to those members who had taken space at the 1984 exhibition.