In the income tax return for assessment year 2008-09 (during which the relevant events as mentioned above took place) the transaction in question was duly offered to tax under the head “profit and gains of business and profession”. All these facts were considered by the tribunal and findings of fact as mentioned above were given. H COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX 8 MUMBAI v. GLOWSHINE 1019 BUILDERS & DEVELOPERS PVT. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] 5.9 Making the above submissions that the High Court is correct A in holding that the Tribunal’s findings were findings of fact supported by written documents and corroborating materials and that there was nothing perverse in the tribunal’s findings and the case did not involve any substantial question of law, it is prayed to dismiss the present appeal. 6. Heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective B parties at length. 7. In the present case, the AO treated the transaction as capital assets. ITAT has reversed the said findings and held that the transaction was stock in trade. It appears that the AO specifically recorded the findings on examining the balance sheets for the AY 2006-07 to 2009-10 C that there was not even a single sale during all these years and that there were negligible expenses and the transaction in question was the only transaction i.e., transfer of development rights in respect of land and consequently, it was held that the transaction was one of transfer of capital assets and not one of transfer of stock in trade. However, the D ITAT after examining the opening and closing balance for the AY 1996- 97 to 2007-08 observed that in multiple years, inventory was shown in the balance sheet, without discussing the claim of the assessee and held that the transaction in question is sale of stock in trade. It appears that ITAT has neither dealt with the findings given by the AO nor verified/ examined the total sales made by the assessee during the relevant time E and during the previous years. Merely on the basis of recording of the inventory in the books of accounts, the transaction in question would not become stock in trade. As per the settled position of law in to examine whether a particular transaction is sale of capital assets or business expense, multiple factors like frequency of trade and volume of F trade, nature of transaction over the years etc., are required to be examined. From the passed by the ITAT, it appears that the ITAT has without examining any of the relevant factors confirmed that the transaction was transfer of stock in trade. 7.1 The High Court has also failed to appreciate that even in the event of acceptance of claim made by the assessee, including the assertion G that Rs. 15,94,06,500/- was shown in the tax return in the earlier AY i.e., 2008-09, the differential amount of Rs. 10,69,79,146/- on account of reduction in sale consideration of development rights was to be assessed in the current year as either capital gain or business income.