To fortify this submission, the learned counsel relied on the decision of this Court in the case of SK. Raju alias Abdul Haque alias Jagga v. State of West Bengal reported in (2018) 9 SCC 708. According to the learned counsel, the ratio of the decision of this Court in SK. Raju (supra) is that if the search is of both the bag as well as the person of the accused, Section 50 of the NDPS Act would be attracted. 13. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel prayed that there being merit in her appeals, the same be allowed and the and of conviction and sentence passed by the High Court may be set aside. 300 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE STATE 14. Mr. Anil Nag, the learned counsel appearing for the State, on the other hand, vehemently opposed these appeals submitting that no error, not to speak of any error of law, could be said to have been committed by the High Court in passing the impugned and of conviction and sentence. He would argue that the High Court was justifi ed in holding the appellant herein guilty of the off ence punishable under Section 20 of the NDPS Act. It was vehemently argued that Section 50 of the NDPS Act is not applicable at all in the present case as the search was made only of the bag which the appellant was carrying on his shoulder and the person of the appellant was not searched. It was argued that the decision of this Court in SK. Raju (supra) is of no avail to the appellant herein as in the said case not only the person of the accused was searched but even the bag was searched and as the recovery of the contraband was from the bag, this Court took the view that Section 50 of the NDPS Act would be attracted. 15. The learned counsel appearing for the State in support of his aforesaid submission placed strong reliance on the decision of this Court in the case of State of Punjab v. Baljinder Singh reported in (2019) 10 SCC 473. 16. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel appearing for the State prayed that there being no merit in the appeals, those may be dismissed. ANALYSIS 17. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the only question that falls for our consideration is, whether the High Court committed any error in holding the appellant herein guilty of the off ence punishable under Section 20 of the NDPS Act? 18. Before we advert to the rival submissions canvassed on either side, we must look into the relevant fi ndings recorded by the High Court as well as by the Trial Court. 19. The Trial Court in its of acquittal, while discussing Section 50 of the NDPS Act and its compliance, held as under:- RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 301 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J.