PW-22, the father of the deceased, who was not an eyewitness, deposed in support of the case C that the appellant intentionally opened fire. But his testimony on motive has been disbelieved by the High Court. Moreover, admittedly, his second statement in which the aforesaid allegation was made, was recorded three to four months after the incident. In his earlier statement recorded by the police after the incident, this version was not found as can be seen from his cross-examination. D 13.There are four reports/opinions of the ballistic expert on record. Two reports mention that the bullets were shot at a close distance about which there is no dispute. Pursuant to the queries made by the investigating officer, a second report dated 18th August 1995 was submitted by the ballistic expert, Smt. Asha Dhir. Clauses 4 and 5 of the E said report read thus: “4. The 9 mm carbine marked A under reference received in the laboratory having change lever in ‘A’ (i.e. auto) position, it could fire if the firearm would have been cocked and the trigger was pressed and could go on firing as long as having trigger remain F pressed. 5. The firearm under reference can be cocked by entangling with the chain, provided, if the change lever is not at ‘S’ (safety) position. If the trigger is pressed in cocked condition, it will fire.” G (emphasis added) There is also an opinion dated 22nd December 1995 of the same expert which records that the possibility of simultaneously cocking and pressing the trigger of SAF after entangling with a chain is ruled out. If this opinion is read with the opinion dated 18th August 1995, it is apparent H 720 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A that if the change lever is not in safety position, the firearm can be cocked by entangling with a chain. 14.Going by the evidence of prosecution witnesses, it will have to be held that the SAF got entangled with the chain attached to the belt of the appellant. Considering the opinion of the expert, it is obvious that B when the incident occurred, the change lever was not kept in a safety position by the appellant and therefore, SAF got cocked which resulted in the firing of five bullets. The appellant must take the blame for not taking the elementary precaution of keeping the change lever in the safety position. C 15. Having carefully perused the statement of the appellant recorded under Section 313 of CrPC, the case of the prosecution that he intentionally opened fire by aiming at the deceased was not put to the appellant. 16.What remains is the statement attributed to the appellant and the response of PW-12 to the appellant’s statement. These statements D were read in evidence in view of Section 6 of the Evidence Act. According to the prosecution witness PW-13-Karim Baksh, after the firing was heard, the appellant was heard telling PW-12 that “Madam aapne yeh kya karva diya, Mere to bache barbad ho jayenge”.