Commenting on the procedure adopted by the Sessions Court, the High Court fi nally expressed its opinion by saying: NAVEEN @ AJAY v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 987 [PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, J.] “Practices like this would reduce to a farce the engagement of counsel under Rule 21 of the Criminal Rules of Practice which has been made for the purpose of eff ectively carrying out the duty cast on courts of law to see that no one is deprived of life and liberty without a fair and reasonable opportunity being aff orded to him to prove his innocence. We consider that in cases like this counsel should be engaged at least some 10 to 15 days before the trial and should also be furnished with copies of the records.” In our opinion, no hard and fast rule can be laid down as to the time which must elapse between the appointment of the counsel and the beginning of the trial; but, on the circumstances of each case, the Court of Session must ensure that the time granted to the counsel is suffi cient to prepare for the defence. In the present case, when the counsel was appointed just before the trial started, it is clear that there was failure to comply with the requirements of the rule of procedure in this behalf.” 12. In Bashira (supra), this Court concluded that the conviction of the appellant in a trial held in violation of Rule and the award of death sentence will result in the deprivation of his life in breach of the procedure established by law. Holding further that, the conviction is void because of an error in the procedure adopted at the trial, it was directed that the accused shall be tried afresh, and the matter be remitted back to the Sessions Court. 13. The issue concerning importance of a fair trial was considered by this Court in Zahira Habibulla H. Sheikh & Anr. Vs. State of Gujarat & Ors.5 (known as ‘Best Bakery Case’) wherein this Court made the following observations in paragraphs 38 to 40:- “38. A criminal trial is a judicial examination of the issues in the case and its purpose is to arrive at a on an issue as to a fact or relevant facts which may lead to the discovery of the fact issue and obtain proof of such facts at which the prosecution and the accused have arrived by their pleadings; the controlling question being the 5 (2004) 4 SCC 158 988 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. guilt or innocence of the accused. Since the object is to mete out justice and to convict the guilty and protect the innocent, the trial should be a search for the truth and not a bout over technicalities and must be conducted under such rules as will protect the innocent, and punish the guilty. The proof of charge which has to be beyond reasonable doubt must depend upon judicial evaluation of the totality of the evidence, oral and circumstantial, and not by an isolated scrutiny.