The argument that the mere generation of proceeds of crime is not sufficient to constitute the offence of money- C laundering, is actually preposterous. As we could see from Section 3, there are six processes or activities identified therein. They are, (i) concealment; (ii) possession; (iii) acquisition; (iv) use; (v) projecting as untainted property; and (vi) claiming as untainted property. If a person takes a bribe, he acquires proceeds of crime. So, the activity of D “acquisition” takes place. Even if he does not retain it but “uses” it, he will be guilty of the offence of money-laundering, since “use” is one of the six activities mentioned in Section 3. 100. The FIRs for the predicate offences identify all the three components of Section 3, namely, (i) persons; (ii) process; and (iii) E product. Persons accused in the FIRs are those who have indulged in the process or activity. The illegal gratification that they have taken, represents the proceeds of crime. The (i) acquisition of such illegal gratification in the first instance; (ii) the possession of the tainted money before putting it to use; and (iii) today projecting it as untainted money, is the process or activity in which the accused have indulged. The F corruption money represents the proceeds of crime. 101. Therefore, all the arguments as though there are no foundational facts or jurisdictional facts, are simply aimed at hoodwinking the Court. 102. It is true that there are some offences, which, though G scheduled offences, may or may not generate proceeds of crime. For instance, the offence of murder punishable under Section 302 is a scheduled offence. Unless it is a murder for gain or murder by a hired assassin, the same may or may not generate proceeds of crime. It is in respect of such types of offences that one may possibly H 1090 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A argue that mere commission of the crime is not sufficient but the generation of proceeds of crime is necessary. In the case of an offence of corruption, the criminal activity and the generation of the proceeds of crime are like Siamese twins. 103. In fact, PMLA defines the word “property” in Section 2(1)(v) B as follows: “2. Definitions.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,— xxx xxx xxx (v) “property” means any property or assets of every description, C whether corporeal or incorporeal, movable or immovable, tangible or intangible and includes deeds and instruments evidencing title to, or interest in, such property or assets, wherever located; Explanation.—For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that the term “property” includes property of any kind D used in the commission of an offence under this Act or any of the scheduled offences;” 104. Therefore, even if an intangible property is derived as a result of criminal activity relating to a scheduled offence, it becomes proceeds of crime under Section 2(1)(u). In view of the above, we are not E impressed with the contention that the investigation by ED was triggered without any foundational/jurisdictional facts.