In a case involving required reservation of land for a public park the argument F that this would be an unconstitutional taking of land was rejected on the theory that the subdivider would be compensated by the share of the benefits to the whole community which accrued to his particular development. The Pennsylvania Supreme Court has taken a contrary view, however. And where the need for a G particular improvement is a general one, not specifically attributable to the subdivider’s activity, the entire municipality must bear the cost.” We would therefore come to the conclusion that the word ‘communal’ must be understood as where the layout exceeds 10000 H sq.meters entitling members of the general public also to avail the benefit ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1163 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] of the OSR area. Once, the word ‘communal’ is so understood it further A fortifies us in our conclusion that there would be no infraction of Article 300A or Article 14 as understanding the execution of the gift deed as obligating the donee only to act as a trustee to ensure the fulfilment of the sublime goal of the law and since the owner/developer would not have a right to exclude others or to claim exclusive right to possession B which would be incongruous to recognising the right of the members of the general public to access to the OSR area.This discussion furnishes our rationale to uphold the Rule / Regulation and to hold that it can withstand the challenge based on Article 300A on the basis that properly appreciated the “so called compelled gift” would be valid. Even proceeding on the basis that a challenge to Rule 19(b) would imply a challenge to C the Explanation as well, on the reasoning which has appealed to us, namely, about the nature of the right under the Gift Deed as also finding that the word ‘communal’ is intended to reach the benefit of the OSR area to the members of the public as well, there would be no merit in the contention. D THE UPSHOT OF THE ABOVE DISCUSSION: 178. The upshot of the above discussion may be summed-up as follows: E I. Rule 19 of the DCR, which is impugned, is statutory in nature; II. Rule 19 is not ultra vires the Act; F III. The impugned Regulation is not ultra vires the Act; IV. Neither the impugned Rule nor the Regulation violates Article 14 of the Constitution of India; V. The impugned Rule/Regulation does not violate Article 300A of the Constitution of India; G VI. The areas covered by the OSR cannot be diverted for any other purpose. The respondents are duty-bound to ensure that the area set apart as OSR is stringently utilised only for the purpose in the Rule/Regulation. We direct that no H 1164 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A area meant for OSR shall be utilised as dumping yards or any other purpose other than as OSR; VII.