60. Coming to the fi nding of High Court, we fi nd again, there has been fundamental error in the approach with which the High Court has proceeded to consider the evidence on record. In paragraph 6 of the impugned , the High Court fi nds that the complainant has proved the issuance of cheque, which means that the presumption would come into immediate eff ect. In paragraph 13, it rightly observes that the burden is on the accused to rebut such presumption. In the very next paragraph, it fi nds that the accused has rebutted the presumption by putting questions to the complainant and explaining the circumstances under section 313 Cr.P.C. 61. There is no elucidation of material circumstances/basis on which the Court reached such conclusion. It notes the allegation made in the complaint that the complainant had given the loan on 01.03.2014 and on several dates thereafter. Based on this averment, the High Court rather shockingly concludes that: “If the complainant had given loans on various dates, he must have maintained some document qua that, because it was not a one-time, loan but loan along with interest accrued on the principal, which made the amount to Rs.6,95,204/-.” Therefore, according to the High Court, ‘the burden was primarily on the complainant to prove the debt amount’. 62. The fundamental error in the approach lies in the fact that the High Court has questioned the want of evidence on part of the complainant in to support his allegation of having extended loan to the accused, when it ought to have instead concerned itself with the case set up by the accused and whether he had discharged his evidential burden by proving that there existed no debt/liability at the time of issuance of cheque. 63. In the teeth of the aforesaid analysis, we have not the slightest of hesitation in concluding that this case calls for interference, notwithstanding RAJESH JAIN v. AJAY SINGH 809 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] that both the courts below have concurrently held in favour of the accused. Since we have answered point No:(i) in the negative, the need to examine point No:(ii) does not arise. 64. Hence, we proceed to allow the appeal by setting aside the of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana at Chandigarh rendered in CRM-A No.148 of 2020 dated 01.02.2022 and allow the complaint fi led under Section 138 of Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 and convict the respondent accused with fi ne of twice the amount of the cheque namely Rs.13,90,408/- (Rupees thirteen lakh ninety thousand four hundred and eight only) failing which he shall undergo simple imprisonment for one year. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal allowed. Ankit Gyan