[2023] 13 S.C.R. 1135 : 2023 INSC 901 CASE DETAILS UNION OF INDIA v. UZAIR IMRAN & ORS. (Civil Appeal Nos. 6668-6669 of 2023) OCTOBER 11, 2023 [BELA M. TRIVEDI AND DIPANKAR DATTA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether the concurrent fi ndings returned by the tribunal and the High Court that denial of appointment to the third respondent was unwarranted, is justifi ed. Service Law – Appointment/selection – Post of Postal Assistant – Third respondent considered ineligible for the post placed, though placed in the merit list, sent for training but later excluded on basis of the certifi cate of educational qualifi cation, whereby he completed 10+ 2 education from the vocational stream – Tribunal and the High Court decided in favour of the respondent – Correctness: Held: Third respondent was not considered ineligible at the threshold based on the certifi cate but he went through selection process, was sent for training, and later excluded on certifi cate’s connotation – Unfettered discretion, unaccountable approach and arbitrariness in State action are antithesis to Art. 14, and, particularly when two views could possibly emerge looking at the certifi cate of educational qualifi cation, with both views not being wholly unworthy of acceptance, fairness in administrative procedure demanded that the appellant-Department ought to have given reason – It was highly improper for the appellant to reject the candidature of the third respondent outright in the absence of a proper appreciation of the certifi cate – There has been utter carelessness on part of the appellant in not producing the Amendment Rules and the gazette notifi cation before the tribunal – Third respondent cannot suff er for such carelessness and should be given what is due to him – He has been discriminated against and arbitrarily deprived of the selection – Furthermore, third respondent has crossed the maximum age 1135 113 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. for entry into public employment – Appellant being responsible for the lis being prolonged in excess of two decades not worth to remand the matter – In view thereof, issuance of directions to appoint the third respondent, initially on probation on the post of Postal Assistant, and if no post is vacant, a supernumerary post to be created. [Para 16, 17, 20, 21] Service Law – Appointment – Equivalence of the educational qualifi cation required for the post – Determination of, by the court: Held: It is not the function of the court to determine equivalence of two qualifi cations and/or to scrutinise a particular certifi cate and on the basis thereof, hold that the holder thereof satisfi es the eligibility criteria and, thus, is qualifi ed for appointment – It is entirely the prerogative of the employer, to decide whether any such candidate intending to participate in the selection process is eligible in terms of the statutorily prescribed rules for appointment and also as to whether he ought to be allowed to participate in the selection process – When evidence of a sterling quality is produced before the court which tilts the balance in favour of one party, the court could decide either way based on acceptance of such evidence.