vi. The Report clearly demonstrates that there was a long E discussion on the role, responsibility, duties and regulation of auditors and the regulatory and enforcement provisions. Particularly, the Report records that various suggestions were received to make the provisions pertaining to audit and auditors more stringent. Significantly, it was suggested that Clause 123(10) of the 2009 Bill (which provides for removal of an F auditor by the NCLT on finding that there is a fraud and corresponds to Section 140(5) of the Act) should be made more stringent and should contemplate that an auditor removed by the Tribunal should not be eligible to be appointed as an auditor of any company for a period of 5 years. The relevant extracts G are as follows: “34.Suggestions have been received by the Committee that there is a need to make provisions relating to Audit and Auditors more stringent such as following:- H UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER V. DELOITTE HASKINS 971 AND SELLS LLP [M. R. SHAH, J.] (d) Suitable penalty may be provided in case of A contravention of these provisions. (e) (i) Clause 123(10) of the Bill empowers the Tribunal, if it is satisfied that the auditor of a company has acted in a fraudulent manner or abetted/colluded in any fraud, to direct the company to change its auditors. Suggestions have been B made that these provisions should be modified to clarify to cover act of fraud or abetment by auditor whether directly or indirectly. It has also been suggested that the Bill may provide that if auditor, whether individual or firm, against whom an has been passed by the Tribunal under this C clause should not be eligible to be appointed as an auditor of any company for a period of five years.” b. The Companies Bill, 2011 i. In view of the recommendations of the Standing Committee and that of various stakeholders, the Central Government D withdrew the 2009 Bill with a view to introduce a fresh Bill incorporating the recommendations of the Standing Committee and various stakeholders. Consequently, the 2011 Bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha in December, 2011, accepting and incorporating most of the recommendations E made by the previous Standing Committee in respect of the Companies Bill, 2009. This aspect has been recorded in the Statements of Objects and Reasons of the Companies Bill, 2011. ii. At this juncture, it is important to bear in mid that the suggestion of the Standing Committee to Clause 123(10) of F the 2009 Bill (which provides for removal of an auditor by the NCLT on finding that there is a fraud) was to: • Make the provision more stringent; and • To provide for consequences for an auditor when such G auditor is found to have been perpetrating a fraud and is removed by the NCLT for such fraud. iii. The 2001 Bill consolidates the provisions pertaining to removal of auditors into one clause namely Clause 140 of the 2011 Bill. Further, the 2011 Bill (like the 2009 Bill) retains H 972 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R.