We need not go into the reasons necessitating fi ling of the second set of export declarations simply because, the Hong Kong customs authority had accepted the second set of export declarations albeit imposition of penalty for mis-declaration of price at the initial stage. It has also come on record that the foreign supplier had paid the penalty. If this be the position, there can be no justifi able reason for the appellant to harp upon the price of the goods as per the initial export declarations by placing reliance on the unattested photocopies of the fi rst set of export declarations to prove under-invoicing for the purpose of evading customs duty. 18. This brings us to the statements of Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma and Mr. Yashpal Sharma recorded under Section 108 of the Customs Act. Statement of Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma was recorded on 08.03.1999 whereas the statement of Mr. Yashpal Sharma was recorded on 15.03.1999. Reference to the full details of the two statements so made may not be relevant. Suffi ce it to say, according to Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma, Mr. Yashpal Sharma, who was his co-brother, was the proprietor of the importer M/s Ganpati Overseas. He had supplied tuners and saw fi lters to M/s Ganpati Overseas through his fi rm M/s Arise Enterprises, Hong Kong. He stated that the price of the goods shown in the import invoices did not refl ect the actual price. Price of the goods in the import invoices was deliberately declared low with the intention of saving customs duty. Actual price of the goods was quite high. While the invoice amount after sale upon import used to be sent to him by Mr. Yashpal Sharma through the banking channel, the diff erential amount was retained in India by Mr. Yashpal Sharma who paid the same to Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma whenever he visited India. 18.1. Mr. Yashpal Sharma in his statement also stated more or less the same thing as stated by Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma. He was arrested on 15.03.1999 itself under Section 135 of the Customs Act. However, he was enlarged on bail on 30.03.1999 by the Additional Sessions Judge, Delhi subject to deposit of Rs. 30 lakhs within a specifi ed period, which he paid. It has come on record that the Additional Sessions Judge in his bail dated 26.05.1999 had mentioned that the statement of Mr. Yashpal Sharma recorded under Section 108 of the Customs Act may not have been a 194 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. voluntary one. It may be mentioned that Mr. Yashpal Sharma vide his letter dated 25.08.1999 had retracted the statement made by him under Section 108 of the Customs Act. CESTAT noted the factum of retraction of the statement and therefore, refused to give credence to such confessional statement. In our view, no fault can be found with the approach of the CESTAT. 19. Section 108 of the Customs Act deals with the power to summon persons to give evidence and produce documents.