The conduct of affairs of the IL&FS Group which was set out in the Interim Report of the SFIO dated November 30, 2018 clearly set forth that there were a number of interlinkages within the group, routing transactions etc; F iii. IFIN is one of the subsidiaries in the IL&FS Group and the financial services arm. It facilitated borrowings for different group companies in the IL&FS Group from third party borrowers and at times routed funding from one group company to another; G iv. Given the nature of interlinkages and overlaps between different entities in the IL&FS Group, the SFIO IFIN Report sets out that the SFIO IFIN Report is a report in respect of IFIN and is a report upon completion of investigation into IFIN; and H UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER V. DELOITTE HASKINS 983 AND SELLS LLP [M. R. SHAH, J.] v. Finally, the SFIO IFIN Report sets forth, in light of the A complex structure of the IL&FS Group and the interlinkages between entities etc, that if any further instances or transactions are uncovered qua IFIN during the investigation of the other group companies of IL&FS then a further report will be filed. This does not mean that the investigation into IFIN is incomplete. B In fact, even the direction to call for a further report on certain aspects (which may be related to third parties) does not detract from the position that the investigation is complete in all other respects. The Hon’ble Bombay High Court has failed to appreciate the purport of the submission and has fundamentally erred in holding C that the SFIO IFIN Report is incomplete and/or that the investigation into IFIN is incomplete. In the case at hand, the SFIO IFIN Report was submitted by the SFIO after a detailed and extensive investigation of IFIN and the multiple parties involved. It is submitted that there were conclusive findings against each auditor/ CA pointing out multiple breaches, violations of statutory duties D and fraudulent conduct with respect to inter alia functioning of auditors at the relevant point of time. b. The Bombay High Court has proceeded to accept the surface level argument of the respondents that the 212(14) direction was issued within 30 hours which demonstrates non-application of mind E without considering the following: i. The 212(14) direction itself demonstrates application of mind from the fact that the direction requests the SFIO to prosecute additional persons whose involvement was discernible from a reading of the SFIO IFIN Report. This would have been F possible only if the SFIO IFIN Report had been considered. In fact, the 212(14) Direction also rectifies a typographical error by the SFIO in the charging section applied in the SFIO IFIN Report; ii. The affidavit in reply of the UOI before the Hon’ble High G Court provided an explanation/justification for the time taken to process and also set out the process leading up to the 212(14) Direction. As against the Respondent’s surface level allegation, the Union of India provided a clear, transparent and cogent response; H 984 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R.