A context. Under that definition, the expression “State” as respects any period after the commencement of the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956 “shall mean a State specified in the First Schedule to the Constitution and shall include a Union territory”. But this inclusive definition is repugnant to the subject and context of Article B 246.There, the expression “States” means the State specified in the First Schedule. There is a distribution of legislative power between Parliament and the legislatures of the States. Exclusive power to legislate with respect to the matters enumerated in the State List is assigned to the legislatures C of the States established by Part VI. There is no distribution of legislative power with respect to Union territories. That is why Parliament is given power by Article 246(4) to legislate even with respect to matters enumerated in the State List. If the inclusive definition of “State” in Section 3(58) of the General Clauses Act were to apply to Article 246(4), Parliament would have D no power to legislate for the Union territories with respect to matters enumerated in the State List and until a legislature empowered to legislate on those matters is created under Article 239-A for the Union territories, there would be no legislature competent to legislate on those E matters; moreover, for certain territories such as the Andaman and Nicobar Islands no legislature can be created under Article 239-A, and for such territories there can be no authority competent to legislate with respect to matters, enumerated in the State List. Such a construction is repugnant to the subject and context of Article 246.” F (emphasis supplied) 60. The position that Section 3(58) of the General Clauses Act is inapplicable to Article 246 was reiterated by a nine Judge Bench of this Court in NDMC v. State of Punjab15. The Seventh Schedule was G inserted under Article 246. In view of the position laid down in Kanniyan (supra) and NDMC (supra), the word “State” used in entries in the Seventh Schedule would also not include Union Territories. Thus, the legislative competence of NCTD would not extend to entries which mention ‘State’. The usage of the phrase “insofar as such matter is H 15 1997 (7) SCC 339 GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 537 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] applicable to Union Territories” was included to avert such a consequence. A The phrase has extended the legislative power of NCTD to all the entries in List II, which use the word “State”. 61. Any amendment to the State List as well as the Concurrent List, being an amendment to the Seventh Schedule must be in accordance with Article 368 of the Constitution. The proviso to Article 368(2) of the B Constitution stipulates that an amendment to the Seventh Schedule would need a special majority of two-thirds of the members of each House of Parliament present and voting. The amendment would also need to be ratified by the legislatures of not less than one-half of the States.