exclusion produced humiliation, resulting in dehumanization of the human “self”. The relation of self to other self, the dominant or powerful self to the oppressed self, ventures on the concept of equality. It thus tries to eliminate untouchability, sex and caste-based discrimination, and ensure dignity. 32. Dignity is understood to mean the intrinsic worth of a person or the inherent value of a human being which entitles one to respect. The crucial aspect of substantive dignity lies in the state’s role in providing basic conditions of life which enable individuals to fully realise the potential of intrinsic dignity by living, what is called, a ‘dignifi ed life’. 33. In the Indian context the idea of equality and dignity is to reach its constitutional commitment to be a republic, based on democracy. In Francis Coralie Mullin v. Administrator, Union Territory of Delhi28, this court said that the “right to life includes the right to live with human dignity”. Prem Shankar Shukla v. Delhi Admn29 voiced the same idea, i.e. that the Preamble set the “humane tone and temper of the Founding Document and highlights justice, equality and the dignity of the individual.” The court went on to hold that Article 21 “is the sanctuary of human values, prescribes fair procedure and forbids barbarities, punitive or procedural”. 34. This court, in Jeeja Ghosh v. Union of India30, spoke about human dignity as a “core value” and that the “right to life is given a purposeful meaning by this Court to include right to live with dignity”. The court quoted from Aharon Barak31 that human dignity has a “central normative role” and that as a constitutional value it is “the factor that unites the human rights into one whole. It ensures the normative unity of human rights” expressed in diff erent ways i.e., normatively as a basis for constitutional rights; an interpretive principle for determining the scope of constitutional rights and that dignity has “an important role in determining the proportionality of a statute limiting a constitutional right.” In Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Kerala (hereafter, “Kesavananda Bharti”)32 too the value of dignity 28 1981 (2) SCR 516 29 1980 (3) SCR 855 30 2016 (4) SCR 638 31 Aharon Barak “Human Dignity - The Constitutional Value and the Constitutional Right” Cambridge University Press (2015) 32 1973 Supp SCR 1 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1449 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] was underlined: “the basic dignity of man does not depend upon the codifi cation of the fundamental rights nor is such codifi cation a prerequisite for a dignifi ed way of living”. This view has been adopted in several other decisions. It would be to borrow the words of Justice K.K. Mathew “an idle parade of familiar learning to review the multitudinous cases”33 underpinning this aspect. 35. This court in K.S. Puttaswamy (supra) too, recognized the value of dignity34. The of this court in National Legal Services Authority v. Union of India & Ors., (hereafter, “NALSA”)35 is signifi cant; it underlines how dignity can be said to form the basis of enjoyment of fundamental freedoms.