This is evident from the very opening sentence of the said , which reads thus : (Bhavesh Motiani case [Bhavesh Motiani v. Union of India, 2019 SCC OnLine Del 11541] , SCC OnLine Del para 1) “1. The present petition has been fi led being aggrieved by dated 30-11-2018 [Ministry of Commerce v. Bhavesh Motiana, 2018 SCC OnLine CAT 24765] passed by the Central Administrative Tribunal, Principal Bench, New Delhi (“the Tribunal”), by which OA No. 421 of 2018 pending before the Ahmedabad Bench has been transferred to the Principal Bench of the Tribunal.” 43. In the instant case, the High Court at Calcutta has usurped jurisdiction to entertain the writ petition viz. WPCT No. 78 of 2021, challenging the passed by the Central Administrative Tribunal, New Delhi, in Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions v. Alapan Bandyopadhyay [Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions v. Alapan Bandyopadhyay, 2021 SCC OnLine CAT 3242] , even after taking note of the fact that the Principal Bench of the Tribunal does not lie within its territorial jurisdiction.” 4. Learned counsel appearing for the petitioner has brought to our notice a coordinate Bench decision of this Court in the case of Union of India vs. Sanjiv Chaturvedi [(2023) 2 SCR 59] in which the point of law laid down in the earlier passed by this Court in the case of Alapan Bandyopadhyay (supra) has been referred to a larger Bench. But so far as this Bench is concerned, we do not think judicial propriety permits ignoring the ratio laid down by the coordinate Bench in the case of Alapan Bandyopadhyay (supra) as no decision has come as yet from the larger Bench on the point of territorial jurisdiction of the High Court in a similar context. If we were to take a diff erent view, the only course open for us RAJNISH KUMAR RAI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 705 [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] would have been to refer the petition to the Hon’ble the Chief Justice for being adjudicated by a larger Bench, as has been done in the case of Sanjiv Chaturvedi (supra). No argument has been raised before us that the decision in the case of Alapan Bandyopadhyay (supra) is per incurium. 5. We have examined point involved in this petition independent of the ratio laid down in the case of Alapan Bandyopadhyay (supra) and tested the petitioner’s plea for transfer on merit. We have done so with the objective that in case we found any outstanding legal merit in petitioner’s plea for transfer of the case to Ahmedabad, we could have directed so in exercise of our jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution of India. 6. But so far as the plea of the petitioner is concerned, it is not a case of the petitioner that the Tribunal, which is hearing the matter at present is without jurisdiction. He himself had instituted the application in the Tribunal at Hyderabad. His submission is the Bench of the Tribunal at Ahmedabad also has jurisdiction to hear the case, as at present he is residing in Ahmedabad after retirement.