For award of compound interest, relevant factors shall have to be taken into account which would include uncertainties of market and several other imponderables. We would hasten to observe that if at all by way of C compensation, the Consumer Forum considers it proper to examine the time value for money, an in-depth and thorough analysis would be required while taking into account all the facts and the material surrounding factors, including those of realities as also uncertainties of market. 24. In our view, awarding of compound interest with reference to D Dr. Monga’s case and without examining any other factor has led to serious inconsistencies; and if the award as made is approved, it could only lead to unjust enrichment of the respondent in the name of disgorgement of benefits purportedly derived by the appellants. As noticed, the State Commission and the National Commission have passed E rather assumptive s on the basis of the decision in Dr. Monga that compound interest was required to be allowed. Various factors recounted on behalf of the respondent, including excessive harassment and denial of the fruits of her investment could all lead to a reasonable amount of compensation but, there appears absolutely no reason that compound interest be allowed in this matter. F 25. Having regard to the proposed to be passed, we are not entering into the minute calculations and variety of alternatives presented by the parties before us but, on a broad consideration of the matter, it is clear that even as per the exemplar sale deeds relating to the same area and similar flats, the cost of 3 flats booked by the respondent, as at G present, is in the range of 2.25 crore, whereas the amount payable under the award in question would be above Rs. 7.35 crore. The respondent has attempted to compare the circle rates of the land in the area in question with the submissions that there were no circle rates of the flats in the year 1989 and the attempt on her part was to make “apples-to- apples” comparison and then factorising on the cost of flats. In the first H M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR. v. ANITA 1149 MERCHANT [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] place, no such efforts of calculation and assessment were made before A the State Commission or the National Commission by the respondent. Secondly, the said Consumer Fora have not returned cogent and convincing findings on the loss or injury of the respondent with reference to the relevant factors. We have referred to these aspects only to indicate that award of compound interest in the present case had neither any B foundation in the record nor any backing in law nor the Consumer Fora took care to examine the contours of their jurisdiction and the requirements of proper assessment, if at all any compensation and/or punitive damages were sought to be granted. The impugned s are difficult to be sustained. C 26. Even while we have disapproved the award of compound interest by the Consumer Fora in the cases of the present nature, there is yet another factor for which the impugned s are required to be interfered with.