In essence, States are governed by their own governments and are directly accountable to the citizenry whereas Union territories are governed by the Union Government. There is no gainsaying that the relationship that the States have with the Union is diff erent from the relationship that the Union Territories have with the Union. Generally, States have a degree of autonomy in comparison to Union Territories. This remains true even if a Union Territory like Puducherry has a legislative assembly. However, there is no homogenous class of Union territories. They each have diff ering levels of autonomy. 486. The Report of the States Reorganisation Commission formed the basis for the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act 1956 by which the constituent units of India were organised into States and Union territories. The report is therefore an authoritative source in the endeavour to understand the reasons for the creation of two categories of constituent units and the reasons for the creation of Union Territories in particular. 487. The report recommended the creation of two categories of constituent units – states and territories. States would be the “primary constituent units” and “cover virtually the entire country” while the territories would be centrally administered.330 The report indicated that for the States to enjoy a uniform status, it was necessary that each of them is capable of surviving as a “viable administrative unit” which has the fi nancial, administrative and technical resources to sustain itself.331 It stated that each state should be able to establish and maintain institutions to educate and equip its people to carry out the various functions that it would be required 327 Article 239A, Constitution of India. Delhi is a sui generis unit which also has a Legislative Assembly and a Chief Minister; See Article 239AA. 328 Article 239 329 Article 240 330 Paragraph 285, Report of the States Reorganisation Commission 1955 331 Paragraph 238, Report of the States Reorganisation Commission 1955 278 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. to undertake.332 It recommended the creation of centrally administered territories (or, as we now know them, Union Territories) if, for “strategic, security or other compelling reasons,” it was not practical to integrate a small territory with an adjoining State.333 488. The report recommended that most of the Part C States merge with adjoining States inter alia because: a. Of the six Part C States with legislatures, only Coorg was in a position to administer itself without assistance from the Centre and that the other fi ve were highly dependent on fi nancial assistance from the Centre; b. The administrative services in the Part C States were inadequate and had anomalies; and c. Part C States continued to have close economic links with the adjacent areas.334 In addition, for three Part C States – Himachal Pradesh, Kutch, and Tripura – it recommended that the Union Government should retain supervisory power for some time to maintain the pace of development.335 489. The Commission recommended that three constituent units or areas be retained as territories administered by the Union Government: “1.