Subsequently, villagers called the appellant, who disclosed that he was not having the key and he pretended, as if, key was left with his brother Fuchan Pandey, who was away and staying in his in-laws house. This time again this appellant gave false information. By way of searching, day time had come to end of the day and in the evening, informant side and villagers noticed some light coming from the house of the appellant, then suspicion got strengthened. Thereafter, again the villagers called the appellant for opening the door. On his denial, the villagers told that they will break the lock of the door, in that event, this appellant threatened the villagers that if lock is broken, he will fi le a case of dacoity against them. All those things depict about the criminal mind of the appellant. Only in the next morning, when his brother Fuchan arrived, who was telephonically asked to come, and he disclosed that he was not having the key, the villagers started 1030 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. to assault the appellant and one lock was broken and only thereafter, this appellant took out the key. Ofcourse subsequently, the room, which was said to be in possession of the appellant, was opened and beneath the bed of the appellant, dead body in ruptured condition of the victim was found. Everything has already been discussed hereinabove, as was explained by the informant/P.W.2, P.W.3/Priya and P.W.1/Babloo.” (Emphasis supplied) 21. Thus, all throughout, the High Court proceeded on the footing that it was the appellant convict who came to the house of the victim in the morning of 31.05.2015 and lured her to come to his house to watch TV. The High Court took the view that since the dead body of the victim was recovered from the room owned by the appellant and he was seen by the PW 3 Priya Kumari locking the door attached to his house, it could be none other than the appellant who could be said to have committed the crime. The High Court completely forgot that there was a co-accused also namely Pritam Tiwari in the picture. Pritam Tiwari being a juvenile was tried in accordance with the provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015 and was held guilty and sentenced to three years imprisonment. FSL REPORT NOT OBTAINED: 22. We noticed few very serious lapses in the entire investigation and, more particularly, the oral evidence of the investigating offi cer PW 5 Rita Kumari disturbed us a lot. The investigating offi cer in her cross examination deposed that in accordance with the dated 29.06.2015 a letter on behalf of the offi cer-in-charge of the Police Station, Sabour, was fi led before the Trial Court seeking permission to send the muddamal articles to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL), Patna for examination. However, the PW 5 Rita Kumari in her cross examination before the Trial Court admitted that following the instructions of her senior offi cers, she did not take any steps to procure FSL report.