5. While considering the above controversy, we dispose of these appeals by holding that the in Bangalore Club does not call for reconsideration and these appeals could be disposed of in terms of the said . We proceed to delineate on the subject and support our conclusion by fi rst discussing the cases concerning Commissioner of Income Tax, Bihar vs. Bankipur Club Ltd., (1997) 5 SCC 394 (“Bankipur Club”); Cawnpore Club and Bangalore Club. SECUNDRABAD CLUB ETC. v. C.I.T.-V ETC. 987 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Triology of cases: a) Bankipur Club In this case, twenty-three cases including seven appeals which were de-linked were classifi ed into fi ve groups which are as under: (i) Group A concerned the question with regard to profi ts arising from the sales made to regular members of a club, being entitled to exemption on the doctrine of mutuality. (ii) Group B was with regard to the question, whether, the income derived by a club from its house property let to its members and their guests was not chargeable to income tax and whether income derived by a club from the sale of liquor to its members and their guests was not taxable in its hands. (iii) Group C cases pertained to the question, whether, chambers in the building of a club let out to members, annual value of a club house and pavilions and income earned from such properties owned by a club was liable to be taxed. (iv) Group D cases were with regard to the question as to whether, an association consisting of fi lm distributors and exhibitors incorporated as a company under Section 25 of the Companies Act, 1956 was liable to be taxed in respect of (a) admission fees, readmission fees, periodical subscriptions from the members etc., under the head “others” and (b) service charges from the members for rendering specifi c services to the members under the head “service to the members”, or the same would not be taxable on the principle of mutuality. (v) Group E concerned cases where the assessee clubs had derived income from property let out and also interest received from Fixed Deposit Receipt (FDR), National Savings Certifi cate (NSC), etc. by the clubs. Paragraphs 4 and 19 of the Bankipur Club are relevant and they read as under: 4. …. the appeals coming within Group E — CIT v. Cawnpore Club Ltd. (seven appeals) are de-linked and they will be posted 988 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. separately to be heard on merits. We shall indicate the reason for this a little later. XXX 19. The above four sets of cases falling in Groups A to D shall alone be covered by this . With regard to 7 cases/appeals falling in Group E, the assessee is Cawnpore Club Ltd. It is seen that the income that was sought to be assessed in the case of the assessee, was one derived from property let out and also interest received from FDR, NSC etc. In these cases, the Court held that income should be assessed as one from “other sources” and not income from property.