It has a residuary power to pass any other as is deemed fit. Section 28, no doubt, contemplates a E division. Section 31 deals with s that may be passed on certain combinations. Chapter V deals with the duty of the Director General. The Director General is provided with powers available to the CCI under Section 36(2). We may notice in this regard that the CCI under Section 36 is to be guided by Principles of Natural Justice and subject to the provisions of the Act and any of the Rules made by the Central F Government, the CCI is to have powers to regulate its own procedure. Section 36(2) confers powers vested in a civil Court in regard to certain matters on the CCI. Section 36(3) is significant. It reads: “The Commission may call upon such experts, from the fields of economics, commerce, accountancy, international trade or from G any other discipline as it deems necessary, to assist the Commission in the conduct of any inquiry by it.” 90. We have already noticed that the CCI itself is to consist of persons of ability, integrity and standing who have special knowledge of and such professional experience of not less than 15 years in international H COAL INDIA LIMITED v. COMPETITION COMMISSION 873 OF INDIA [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] trade, economics, business, commerce, law, finance, accountancy, A management, industry, public affairs or competition matters including competition law and policy. We notice this for the reason that both the composition of the CCI and it being enabled to call for inputs from experts would go a long way in assuring the Court that the decision-making process would be meticulous, fair and informed. There is alsoa provision B for an appealto the Tribunal and further appeal to the Supreme Court. 91. As contended by the learned Additional Solicitor General in the matter of proceeding under Section 4 read with Section 19 of the Act, in the matter of abuse of dominant position, there are three stages. There must be an enterprise as defined or a group as provided under C Section 5.Once it is so found, then, it must be inquired as to whether the said enterprise or group enjoys a dominant position. We have explained how this is to be found with the aid of Sections 19(4) and the second explanation to Section 4. After it is found that there is an enterprise or group which enjoys a dominant position, the matter progresses to the third stage. At this stage, the CCI would have to inquire in an appropriate D case as to whether there is abuse of dominant position by the enterprise or group. The third stage is embraced by Section 4 (2) of the Act. Under Section 4(2), the law giver has declared certain acts or omissions to constitute abuse of dominant position. We have already extracted the provision. While on Section 4, we posed the question as to whether E Section 4(2), which declares that there shall be an abuse of dominant position, if the facts attract Clauses (a) to (e), is a species of a genus, which genus is contained in Section 4(1).