C-586 but at the front portion of C-586 and C-587. According to the learned counsel, the appellant had attempted to mislead the Court and C had concealed the facts germane to the present case. It has also been submitted that when the brother-in-law of the appellant had sold the suit premises to the appellant, the bona fide requirement of the family members of the said brother-in-law of the appellant is obviously non-existent and the appellant, after having purchased the suit premises from her brother- D in-law, would be rather estopped from claiming bona fide requirement as a ground for eviction of the respondents. It has been contended that the findings of the High Court are in accord with the material available on record which the Rent Controller had totally omitted to consider. 11. Having given thoughtful consideration to the rival submissions E and having examined the record, we are clearly of the view that the impugned s cannot be sustained and the s of eviction as passed by the Rent Controller deserve to be restored in these cases. 12. In a conspectus of the entire matter, the essential salient features are that the premises in question were let out to the respective tenants for residential purposes. The appellant-landlord is said to be a F widowed lady having no issues of her own but residing with her brother- in-law and other members of the family including the wife and children of her brother-in- law. The appellant-landlord is said to have acquired title to the property in question on being transferred by her brother-in- law; and has sought eviction of the respective tenants from suit premises G on the ground that the premises were required bona fide by her for use and occupation of herself and the other members of her joint family. The petitions as filed by the appellant-landlord are governed by Section 14(1)(e) of the Act of 1958 that reads as under: - “14. Protection of tenant against eviction.—(1) H Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other KUSUM LATA SHARMA v. ARVIND SINGH 507 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] law or contract, no or decree for the recovery of possession A of any premises shall be made by any court or Controller in favour of the landlord against a tenant: Provided that the Controller may, on an application made to him in the prescribed manner, make an for the recovery of possession of the premises on one or more of the following grounds only, B namely — *** *** *** (e) that the premises let for residential purposes are required bona fide by the landlord for occupation as a residence for himself C or for any member of his family dependent on him, if he is the owner thereof, or for any person for whose benefit the premises are held and that the landlord or such person has no other reasonably suitable residential accommodation. Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause, “premises let for residential purposes” include any premises which having D been let for use as a residence are, without the consent of the landlord, used incidentally for commercial or other purposes;” 13.