(iii) As to whether the impugned Notification dated 8th G November 2016 is liable to be struck down on the ground that the decision making process is flawed in law? (iv) As to whether the impugned notification dated 8th November 2016 is liable to be struck down applying the test of proportionality? H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 63 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] (v) As to whether the period provided for exchange of notes A vide the impugned notification dated 8th November 2016 can be said to be unreasonable? (vi) As to whether the RBI has an independent power under sub-section (2) of Section 4 of the 2017 Act in isolation of provisions of Section 3 and Section 4(1) thereof to accept B the demonetized notes beyond the period specified in notifications issued under sub-section (1) of Section 4? VIII. STATUTORY SCHEME 96. Before we proceed to consider the various issues reframed C by us, we find it appropriate to refer to the scheme of the RBI Act. 97. The preamble of the RBI Act would itself reveal that the RBI Act was enacted since it was found expedient to constitute a Reserve Bank of India to regulate the issue of Bank notes and for the keeping of reserves with a view to securing monetary stability in India and generally to operate the currency and credit system of the country to its advantage. D The preamble of the RBI Act would also show that it was amended in the year 2016 with effect from 27th June 2016 by Act No. 28 of 2016. Post amendment, it was stated in the preamble that, whereas it was essential to have a modern monetary policy framework to meet the challenge of an increasingly complex economy, and whereas the primary E objective of the monetary policy is to maintain price stability while keeping in mind the objective of growth and whereas the monetary policy framework in India shall be operated by the RBI, the RBI Act was enacted. 98. Section 3 of the RBI Act would reveal that the RBI was F constituted for the purposes of taking over the management of the currency from the Central Government and of carrying on the business of banking in accordance with the provisions of the RBI Act. 99. Section 8 of the RBI Act deals with composition of the Central Board and term of office of the Directors. It will be relevant to refer to G sub-sections (1) and (5) of Section 8 of the RBI, which read thus: “8. Composition of the Central Board, and term of office of Directors.— (1) The Central Board shall consist of the following Directors, namely:- H 64 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A (a) a Governor and not more than four Deputy Governors to be appointed by the Central Government; (b) four Directors to be nominated by the Central Government, one from each of the four Local Boards as constituted by section 9; B (c) ten Directors to be nominated by the Central Government; and (d) two Government officials to be nominated by the Central Government.