Since the sale deed was executed in favour of Respondent 1 in the teeth of the of injunction passed by the trial court, the same appears to be unlawful.. (Emphasis supplied) 88. Thus, although Section 52 of the Act 1882 does not render a transfer pendente lite void yet the court while exercising contempt jurisdiction may be justifi ed to pass directions either for reversal of the transactions in question by declaring the said transactions to be void or proceed to pass appropriate directions to the concerned authorities to ensure that the contumacious conduct on the part of the contemnor does not continue to enure to the advantage of the contemnor or anyone claiming under him. 89. The High Court declared all the sale deeds executed by the contemnors in favour of the purchasers as non est. The High Court ed that the sale deeds stand cancelled and set aside. The contemnors were directed to restore the position which was prevailing at the time of the dated 14.10.2015 passed by the High Court. In our opinion, the High Court was fully justifi ed in declaring the sale deeds as non est or void. 1118 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. IMPLEADMENT OF PURCHASERS AS NECESSARY PARTIES 90. We now proceed to answer the question whether the clients of Mr. Shyam Divan i.e., purchasers should have been impleaded as party respondents in the contempt proceedings before the High Court and whether they should have been heard before passing the fi nal . 91. In the case of Satyabrata Biswas (supra), it was held that no person can gain an advantage in derogation of rights of the parties. In the said matter an was passed, directing the parties to maintain status quo with respect to the disputed property. The appellant therein however, acted in contempt and created a sub-tenancy in favour of one Somani Builders, who was not made a party to the contempt proceedings before the High Court. Somani Builders contended that they should have been made a party to the proceedings as they possessed a right in the disputed property. This Court rejected the said contention and observed as under: “23. … It is no use contending as Mr. Chidambaram, learned counsel for the respondents does, that there was a bar to such a sublease under the terms of the status quo . It has the eff ect of violating the preservation of status of the property. This will all the more be so when this is done without the leave of the court to disturb the state of things as they then stood. It would amount to violation of the . The principle contained in the maxim ‘actus curiae neminem gravabit’ has no application at all to the facts of this case when in violation of status quo a sub-tenancy has been created. Equally, the contention that even a trespasser cannot be evicted without recourse to law is without merit, because the state of aff airs in relation to property as on September 15, 1988 is what the court is concerned with.