LRS. & ANR. [M. R. SHAH, J.] in case of the Piara Singh (supra) as the same pertained to an assessee A who was engaged in the business of smuggling of currency notes and for whom confiscation of the currency notes was a loss occasioned in pursuing his business, i.e., a loss which sprung directly from carrying on of his business and was incidental to it. It is submitted that due to this, the assessee in the aforesaid case was held entitled to deduction under B Section 10(1) of Income Tax Act, 1922. It is submitted that however in para 7 of the aforesaid which refers to three cases where an exception to the aforesaid rule was noted by the Court. It is submitted that in the said decision this Court noted earlier decisions of this Court as well as the Andhra Pradesh High Court and the Bombay High Court. It is submitted that in the case of Haji Aziz & Abdul Shakoor Bros. v. C CIT, AIR 1961 SC 663, the assessee’s claim for deduction of fine paid by him for release of his dates confiscated by customs authorities, was rejected on the ground that the amount paid by way of penalty for breach of law was not a normal course of business carried on by it. In the other two cases, customs authorities had confiscated gold from assessees D otherwise engaged in legitimate businesses. It is submitted that in two relied upon cases of Andhra Pradesh High Court and the Bombay High Court the assessees claimed the value of gold seized as a trading/business loss which is identical to the Respondent-Assessee’s claim in the facts of the present SLP. It is submitted that therefore the decision of this Court in Haji Aziz & Abdul Shakoor Bros. v. CIT, AIR 1961 SC 663, E of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the case of Soni Hinduji Kushalji & Co. vs. CIT, (1973) 89 ITR 112(AP) and of the Bombay High Court in the case of JS Parkar v. VB Palekar, (1974) 94 ITR 616 (Bom) shall be applicable with full force to the facts of the case on hand. F 3.2 It is submitted that the Andhra Pradesh High Court observed in para 10 of the in case of Soni Hinduji Kushalji (supra) that when a claim for deduction is made, the loss must be one that springs directly from or is incidental to the business which the assessee carries on and not every sort or kind of loss which has absolutely no nexus or G connection with his business. In paras 11 and 12, the High Court relied on various s to state that confiscation of contraband gold is an action in rem and not a proceeding in personam and thus, a proceeding in rem in the strict sense of the term is an action taken directly against the property (i.e., smuggled gold) and even if the offender is not known, customs authorities have power to confiscate the contraband gold.