The court cannot entertain a second appeal unless a substantial question of law is involved, as the second appeal does not lie on the ground of erroneous fi ndings of fact based on an appreciation of the relevant evidence. The existence of a substantial question of law is a condition precedent for entertaining the second appeal; on failure to do so, the cannot be maintained. The 486 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. existence of a substantial question of law is a sine qua non for the exercise of jurisdiction under the provisions of Section 100 CPC. It is the obligation on the court to further clear the intent of the legislature and not to frustrate it by ignoring the same.” d) Umerkhan v. Bismillabi, (2011) 9 SCC 684: “11. In our view, the very jurisdiction of the High Court in hearing a second appeal is founded on the formulation of a substantial question of law. The of the High Court is rendered patently illegal, if a second appeal is heard and and decree appealed against is reversed without formulating a substantial question of law. The second appellate jurisdiction of the High Court under Section 100 is not akin to the appellate jurisdiction under Section 96 of the Code; it is restricted to such substantial question or questions of law that may arise from the and decree appealed against. As a matter of law, a second appeal is entertainable by the High Court only upon its satisfaction that a substantial question of law is involved in the matter and its formulation thereof. Section 100 of the Code provides that the second appeal shall be heard on the question so formulated. It is, however, open to the High Court to reframe substantial question of law or frame substantial question of law afresh or hold that no substantial question of law is involved at the time of hearing the second appeal but reversal of the and decree passed in appeal by a court subordinate to it in exercise of jurisdiction under Section 100 of the Code is impermissible without formulating substantial question of law and a decision on such question.” e) Raghavendra Swamy Mutt v. Uttaradi Mutt, (2016) 11 SCC 235 “18. In the instant case, the High Court has not yet admitted the matter. It is not in dispute that no substantial question of law has been formulated as it could not have been when the appeal has not been admitted. We say so, as appeal under Section 100 CPC is required to be admitted only on substantial question/questions of law. It cannot be formal admission like an appeal under Section HEMAVATHI AND ORS. v. V. HOMBEGOWDA 487 [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 96 CPC. That is the fundamental imperative. It is peremptory in character, and that makes the principle absolutely cardinal.” In the circumstances, the impugned dated 13.04.2022 and impugned dated 23.06.2022 passed in the Regular Second Appeal as well as the Review Petition are set aside. The matters are remanded to the High Court to consider the same in accordance with law and by being mindful of the aforementioned fl aws in the impugned and .