The language of Article 105(2) indicates that the immunity attaches to a Member of Parliament “in respect of anything said or any vote given by him” in Parliament or any committee thereof. The expression “anything said, or any vote given” would postulate that the immunity is attached with respect to conduct, namely, a vote which has been given or a speech which has been made in Parliament or any committee of Parliament. The expression 8 (2019) 3 SCC 39, paragraph 10 at page 79. SITA SOREN v. UNION OF INDIA 759 “in respect of anything said or any vote given” arose for consideration before the Constitution Bench in PV Narasimha Rao. The charge in that case was that the bribe takers had taken a bribe to secure the defeat of a No Confi dence Motion on the fl oor of the House. In analysing the above expression, Justice SP Bharucha, took the view that Article 105(2) would have to be interpreted broadly so as to protect Members of Parliament against proceedings in Court that relate to or are concerned with or have connection or nexus with anything said or vote given by them in Parliament (Paragraph 133 at page 729). Justice Bharucha was of the view that the nexus between the alleged conspiracy/bribe and the No Confi dence Motion was explicit, the charge being that the alleged bribe takers had received bribes to secure the defeat of the No Confi dence Motion in Parliament. 17. The Attorney General for India, in that case, had urged before the Constitution Bench that though the words “in respect of” must receive a broad meaning, the protection under Article 105(2) of the Constitution is limited to court proceedings that impugn the speech that is given or the vote that is cast or anything that arises therefrom. Noting that the object of the protection was to enable Members of Parliament to speak their minds in Parliament and vote in the same way without the fear of being made answerable, the of Justice S.P. Bharucha contains the following observations (Paragraph 136 at pg. 730): “… It is not enough that Members should be protected against civil action and criminal proceedings, the cause of action of which is their speech or their vote. To enable Members to participate fearlessly in parliamentary debates, Members need the wider protection of immunity against all civil and criminal proceedings that bear a nexus to their speech or vote. It is for that reason that a Member is not “liable to any proceedings in any court in respect of anything said or any vote given by him”. Article 105(2) does not say, which it would have if the learned Attorney General were right, that a Member is not liable for what he has said or how he has voted. While imputing no such motive to the present prosecution, it is not diffi cult to envisage a Member who has made a speech or cast a vote that is not to the liking of the powers that be being troubled by a prosecution alleging that he had been party to 760 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R.