On both versions of the form the provision was clearly titled “Arbitration.” None of the preprinted clauses had been modifi ed in any manner, which suggests that they were nonnegotiable. Several of the borrowers stated that they believed they would not have been able to obtain a bank loan. In these circumstances we think it indisputable that the contract was one of adhesion. ITT argues that arbitration has become such a common means of dispute resolution that it must be considered within the reasonable expectation of the borrowers. While arbitration per se may be within the reasonable expectation of most consumers, it is much more diffi cult to believe that arbitration in Minnesota would be within the reasonable expectation of California consumers. The arbitration clause says only that the dispute will be “resolved by binding arbitration by the National Arbitration Forum, Minneapolis, Minnesota.” xxx xxx xxx In to obtain a participatory hearing, however, the responding party must make a prompt demand for one and accompany it with prepayment of fees. Prepayment of hearing fees can be waived for individuals, but only after fi ling an affi davit of indigency. However, the rule explaining the fee waiver process is, as the trial court aptly noted, “incomprehensible,” since it requires compliance with rules concerning involuntary dismissals. The likely eff ect of these procedures is to deny a borrower against whom a claim has been brought any opportunity to a hearing, much less a hearing held where the contract was signed, unless the borrower 102 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. has considerable legal expertise or the money to hire a lawyer and/ or prepay substantial hearing fees. The latter is especially unlikely given the small dollar amounts at issue. In a dispute over a loan of $2,000 it would scarcely make sense to spend a minimum of $850 just to obtain a participatory hearing. In short the procedure seems designed to discourage borrowers from responding at all. In the event that they do not respond, an award may be entered against them if the documents submitted by ITT support its claim.” (Emphasis supplied) 101. Similarly, the United States District Court, W.D. Michigan in the case of Vegter v. Forecast Financial Corporation reported in 2007 WL 4178947, while discussing the principle of procedural and substantive unconscionability in arbitration agreements, held as under: “B. Unconscionability Generally applicable contract defenses, such as unconscionability, can invalidate an arbitration agreement consistent with the FAA. Doctor’s Assocs., Inc. v. Casarotto, 517 U.S. 681, 687 (1996). Whether an arbitration clause is unconscionable is governed by state law. Stutler v. T.K. Constructors, Inc., 448 F.3d 343, 345 (6th Cir. 2006). Under Michigan law, in to invalidate a contract provision for unconscionability, the Court must fi nd the provision is both procedurally and substantively unconscionable. Pichey v. Ameritech Interactive Media Servs., Inc., 421 F. Supp. 2d 1038, 1044-45 (W.D. Mich. 2006) (Bell, C.J.). The inquiries for fi nding procedural and substantive unconscionability have been phrased as: “(1) What is the relative bargaining power of the parties, their relative economic strength, the alternative sources of supply, in a word, what are their options?