Therefore, the High Court has rightly held that the acquisition was illegal on the aforesaid ground. 8.10 At this stage, it is required to be noted that even at the relevant time, the University in question was/is non-existent as no university has E come into existence under the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 nor under the Orrisa Universities Act. The case on behalf of the appellant that the State legislature has already passed a bill to establish the university is neither here nor there as even as per the appellant’s response, the same is pending assent of the Governor. F 8.11 Even the High Court has given specific findings on Issue No. 3 that the entire acquisition proceedings in favour of the beneficiary company by issuing a notification under Section 4(1) of the Act were without complying with the mandatory provisions of Sections 39, 40 and 41 of the Act, 1894 read with Rules 3(2) and (4) of the Rules, 1963. Rules 3 and 4 of the Rules, 1963 are as under:- G “3. Land Acquisition Committee. - (1) For the purpose of advising the appropriate Government in relation to acquisition of land under Part VII of the Act, the appropriate Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute a Committee to be called the Land Acquisition Committee. H 1018 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (2) The Committee shall consist of - (i) The Secretaries to the Government of the Departments of Revenue, Agriculture and Industries or such other officers of each of the said Departments as the appropriate Government may appoint; and B (ii) such other members as the appropriate Government may appoint, for such term as that Government may, by specify, and (iii) the Secretary to the Department or any officer nominated by him dealing with the purposes for which the company C proposes to acquire the land. (3) The appropriate Government shall appoint one of the members of the Committee to be its Chairman. (4) The Committee shall regulate its own procedure. D (5) It shall be duty of the Committee to advise the appropriate Government on all matters relating to or arising out of acquisition of land under Part VII of the Act, on which it is consulted and to tender its advice within one month from the date on which it is consulted : E Provided that the appropriate Government may on a request being made in this behalf by the Committee and for sufficient reasons extend the said period to a further period not exceeding two months. 4. Appropriate Government to be satisfied with regard F to certain matters before initiating acquisition proceedings. - (1) Whenever a Company makes an application to the appropriate Government for acquisition of any land, that Government shall direct the Collector to submit a report to it on the following matters, namely :- G (i) that the Company has made its best endeavour to find out lands in the locality suitable for the purpose of the acquisition; (ii) that the Company has made all reasonable efforts to get such lands by negotiation with the persons interested therein on payment of reasonable price and such efforts have failed; H ANIL AGARWAL FOUNDATION ETC.