Therefore, the authorities below were totally justified in taking into consideration the value of these plant and machineries along with the value of the land for the purpose of the Act.” F (Emphasis supplied) 33. In Chief Controlling Revenue Authority (supra), the respondent secured financial assistance from a few lenders who formed a consortium and executed an agreement appointing one bank as its lead G trustee. The respondent executed the mortgage with the lead trustee. The Revenue contended that the respondent had availed assistance from 13 lenders and, therefore, it was required to execute the mortgage deed in respect of 13 lenders.Thus, in substance the single mortgage deed with the lead trustee was a combination of 13 mortgages. This Court noted, inter alia, that the instrument of mortgage had come into existence H THE SUB REGISTRAR, AMUDALAVALASA & ANR. v. M/S 1133 DANKUNI STEELS LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] only after separate loan agreements were entered into by the borrower A with regard to separate loans advanced. The Court drew inspiration from Member, Board of Revenue(supra) and held that had the borrowers entered into separate mortgage deeds with the 13 financial institutions there would have been a separatedocuments. It was consequently found that the single mortgage must be treated as dealing with distinct matters B within the meaning of Section 5 of the Act and justified the stand of the Revenue. 34. We have set out the Preamble and also the recitals in the sale deed. This is besides capturing the background leading up to the execution of the sale deed in favour of the first respondent. The second respondent C was, undoubtedly, the auction purchaser. The auction sale related to the assets of the company, which included the land, the building, the plant and machinery and other assets. The vendee, who under the sale deed is the first respondent, being the nominee of the second respondent.It has been recited in Clause (H) that the vendee has paid the full consideration. More significantly, it is stated therein also that as per the D terms of the sale properties have been sold by the vendor to the vendee on ‘as is where is whatever there is basis’. The total sale consideration, it is clear again from the sale deed itself, is Rs.8.35 crores, for the land, building, civil works, plant and machinery and current assets, etc. However, what had been done is an amount of Rs.10105000/- has been E taken as the value of the land, building and civil works based on the offer received by the Liquidator, when the assets were put up for sale individually. It is further stated that the purchaser has agreed to pay the stamp duty/registration fees/transfer fees as per the value derived by the Sub-Registrar. This last statement is traceable to dated 15.06.2004 passed in civil Appeal 1202 of 2004 which we have referred F to in paragraph 6. A copy of the said is enclosed with the sale deed. It is further stated that the 46 acres and a few cents was ‘now’ registered in favour of the vendee.