5. According to the applicant, Varun Gopal is the sole heir of the petitioner and stands to inherit 11 shops in ancestral property, which the Petitioner got on the basis of Decree dated 29.5.1959. Further, Mr. Varun Gopal is settled in Australia where he obtained an ex-parte divorce decree dated 21.12.2017, by the family court of Australia. R2 has fi led a suit for cancellation of divorce on 8.11.20215 in the family court of Bilaspur, which is pending disposal. In the meantime, husband has remarried and now has two kids from his second marriage. 6. Previously, this court by dated 02.09.2021, observed the following “It is accepted by Mr. Hargovind Jha, learned Advocate for Manmohan Gopal that those 11 shops which had fallen to the share of Manmohan Gopal by virtue of decree passed in the year 1959 continue to be under his control and the proprietary interest has not been transferred or parted with. He also accepts that Varun Gopal being son of Manmohan Gopal and coparcener, would have interest in said 11 shops. As a matter of fact, Mr. Hargovind Jha, learned Advocate went to the extent of submitting that his client would consent to the appointment of receiver to the extent of the interest of Varun Gopal in those properties.” and had directed to attach 11 shops on the consent given by petitioner/father-in-law which is reproduced in verbatim as below- “(a). Those 11 shops, the details of which are available in decree passed in the year 1959 are hereby attached. (b) It shall be open to the Executing Court to consider whether said shops need to be sold or dealt with in any other manner so as to ensure payment of all the arrears of maintenance to Shilpi Shrivastava. 3 CR. R. No. 90/2017 4 CR. R. No. 1102/2019 5 Bearing case No. 139/2022 MANMOHAN GOPAL v. THE STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 1077 & ANR. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (c) Till such exercise is undertaken, all the rentals and other incomes from said shops shall be credited to a separate account to be maintained under the direction and control of the Executing Court. From and out of the sum so received, the Executing Court shall be at liberty to make over such sums towards maintenance to Shilpi Shrivastava, as it deems appropriate. (d) If any or all shops are required to be sold, the Executing Court shall maintain accounts and revert back to this Court at the earliest.” Submissions on behalf of applicant 7. Ms. Jaspreet Gogia, learned Amicus Curiae on behalf of R2 submitted that the said 11 shops have gone through three unsuccessful auction sale as the shops were occupied by tenants. As per R2, the current outstanding arrears of maintenance amounts to ₹1.25 Cr. Approx. (as of the dated 02.09.21) and further asserts that all available modes for the execution of her maintenance have been exhausted. The father-in-law was in prison for 10 months, and the auction of property also failed. Given this situation, R2 is seeking transfer of ownership of the said shops in her name as a means to settle her outstanding maintenance arrears and future maintenance as well.