12. We have perused the replies/affi davits fi led by numerous states pursuant to receiving notice; seen together, they are marked by a lack of uniformity in terms of implementation of the Act. Numerous states have tried to force-fi t the institutional requirements of the Act, within their existing bureaucratic frameworks (for instance, some states have assigned its implementation to departments other than their Women and Child 18 [1964] SCR (2) 197 688 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Development Ministry, like the departments dealing with Social Welfare, Social Security, Legislative Aff airs, etc.). The affi davit fi led by the petitioner in response to the replies by the States, highlights the many lacunae and lack of uniformity in the implementation of the POSH Act, by various state governments. District Offi cers were in most states notifi ed after notice of this writ petition was served on them, and even among those states that have taken action – they have simply notifi ed a specifi c post as District Offi cer, without providing any specifi c details of the offi cers, their contact information, etc. Most states have failed to provide documentation on constitution of LCs, and even those who have, many have not constituted one in each district. Only a handful of states have provided any details of ‘nodal offi cers’– but even among these, the nodal offi cers are specifi c posts notifi ed, and not individuals at every taluka, ward, municipality, etc. as contemplated under Section 6(2). The information on annual reports is perhaps most alarming– only three have provided a consolidated report (relying on diff ering sources, or just the LCs). Each State, has notifi ed a diff erent Ministry as the ‘nodal’ ministry for implementation of the Act – some have notifi ed the Social Welfare Ministry or its allied departments, while others rely on the Women and Child Development department. 13. The general thrust of the affi davits, especially that of the Union of India – has been to highlight the generation of awareness through a massive publicity campaign and issuance of advisories, publication of handbooks, etc. However, it is quite plainly clear that though the generation of awareness is necessary, if a woman suff ers sexual harassment at the workplace – the framework for redressal has to in fact exist. The failure to notify district offi cers specifi cally, has a snowballing eff ect on appointment of the LCs and nodal offi cers, in addition to other aspects. The complaint mechanism, and larger framework - no matter how eff ective, remain inadequate if the authorities set out in the Act, are not duly appointed/notifi ed. Therefore, the State/UT government must ensure that every district, at all times has a notifi ed District Offi cer; in case of vacancy caused by retirement, or any other reason, it must be duly remedied, to enable smooth transition between offi cers, and ensure that there is always someone in-charge of this position. Furthermore, eff ort has to be undertaken to orient, train and sensitise these district offi cers, with regards to the provisions of the Act and Rules, with an emphasis on their roles and obligations.