Mere long period of separation could not tantamount to irretrievable break down of the marriage. She lastly submitted that the appellant having failed to make out any ground either of cruelty or desertion, the Court may not interfere with the concurrent fi ndings recorded by the Single Bench and the Division Bench of the High Court in this regard. 9. We have given anxious thought and consideration to the submissions made by the learned advocates for the parties in the light of the evidence on record. There could not be any disagreement with the proposition of law canvassed by the learned counsel for the appellant that the allegations of ‘cruelty’ and ‘desertion’ are legitimate grounds for seeking a decree of divorce under Section 13(1) of the said Act. It is well accepted proposition that “cruelty” is a course or conduct of one party which adversely aff ects the other. The “cruelty” may be mental or physical, intentional, or unintentional. This court in Naveen Kohli (supra) has summarised the principles of law on “cruelty” as under: - “46. The principles of law which have been crystallised by a series of s of this Court are recapitulated as under: In Sirajmohmedkhan Janmohamadkhan v. Hafi zunnisa 1 (2006) 4 SCC 558 2 2023 SCC Online SC 544 DR. NIRMAL SINGH PANESAR v. MRS. PARAMJIT KAUR PANESAR @ 837 AJINDER KAUR PANESAR [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] Yasinkhan [(1981) 4 SCC 250 : 1981 SCC (Cri) 829] this Court stated that the concept of legal cruelty changes according to the changes and advancement of social concept and standards of living. With the advancement of our social conceptions, this feature has obtained legislative recognition, that a second marriage is a suffi cient ground for separate residence and maintenance. Moreover, to establish legal cruelty, it is not necessary that physical violence should be used. Continuous ill-treatment, cessation of marital intercourse, studied neglect, indiff erence on the part of the husband, and an assertion on the part of the husband that the wife is unchaste are all factors which lead to mental or legal cruelty. 47. In Shobha Rani v. Madhukar Reddi [(1988) 1 SCC 105 : 1988 SCC (Cri) 60] this Court had an occasion to examine the concept of cruelty. The word “cruelty” has not been defi ned in the Hindu Marriage Act. It has been used in Section 13(1)(i-a) of the Act in the context of human conduct or behaviour in relation to or in respect of matrimonial duties or obligations. It is a course of conduct of one which is adversely aff ecting the other. The cruelty may be mental or physical, intentional or unintentional. If it is physical, it is a question of fact and degree. If it is mental, the enquiry must begin as to the nature of the cruel treatment and then as to the impact of such treatment on the mind of the spouse. Whether it caused reasonable apprehension that it would be harmful or injurious to live with the other, ultimately, is a matter of inference to be drawn by taking into account the nature of the conduct and its eff ect on the complaining spouse.