Similarly, the proposal to nominate Shri Sunil Prabhu as Chief Whip of ShivSena Legislative Party is to be cancelled and to recognize the nomination of Shri Bharat Gogavale as Chief Whip of ShivSena Legislature Party has been approved and D recorded in the registry.” 118. It is important to note that the above communication (i) recognizes that the faction led by Mr. Shinde objected to the communication of the Deputy Speaker replacing Mr. Shinde as the Leader by a resolution dated 22 June 2022; and (ii) appreciates the objection of E the faction led by Mr. Shinde to the appointment of Mr. Choudhari to the role of Leader. We will proceed on the assumption that the objection by the faction led by Mr. Shinde was received by the Speaker on 22 June 2022 since the communication of the Speaker notes this date. 119. The Speaker was aware of the emergence of two factions in F the legislature party on 3 July 2022 when he appointed a new Whip and a new Leader because the resolution of the respondents specifically mentions that a “split” had occurred due to prevailing dissatisfaction in some MLAs of the Shiv Sena. Further, the fact that there were two resolutions appointing two different Whips and two different Leaders G would no doubt have resulted in the Speaker inferring that there were two factions of the Shiv Sena. The Speaker on taking cognizance of the resolution passed by the faction of SSLP led by Mr. Shinde, did not attempt to identify which of the two persons who were nominated (Mr. Prabhu or Mr. Gogawale) were authorised by the political party. In a contentious situation such as this, the Speaker should have conducted an H 936 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A independent inquiry based on the rules and regulations of the political party to identify the Whip authorised by the Shiv Sena Political Party. For the reasons detailed in the preceding paragraphs, the Speaker must only recognize the Whip appointed by the political party. The decision of the Speaker recognizing Mr. Gogawale as the Chief Whip of the Shiv Sena is illegal because the recognition was based on the resolution of a B faction of the SSLP without undertaking an exercise to determine if it was the decision of the political party. 120. Rule 2(f) defines ‘Leader’ in relation to the legislature party as a member of the party chosen by it asits leader. The term ‘party’ is ambiguous. It is not preceded by either ‘political’ or ‘legislature’. It may C be interpreted to mean ‘legislature party’ because the definition clause defines a Leader in relation to ‘legislature party’ and then proceeds to use the phrase ‘party.’ Alternatively, it could also take the meaning of ‘political party’ because ‘party’ in common parlance means ‘political party.’ D 121. Under Paragraph 8(1)(b) of the Tenth Schedule and Rule 3(5) of the 1986 Rules, the Leader of the legislature party is required to inform the Speaker if the political party condoned the prohibitory act under Paragraph 2(1)(b) of the Tenth Schedule.