For the fi rst time, a legal status was given to unmarried couples, which enabled women, subjected to domestic violence, to the right to residence (quite apart from remedies through its provisions). The culture of the Constitution, thus, has impelled the removal of barriers which hitherto existed. Traditional barriers – such as those based on social practice, and stereotypes such as gender roles, have, through express constitutional provisions like Articles 14, 15 and 16 which shaped legislation (and where this fell short, through judicial intervention), been overcome and in some cases eliminated. 26. The role of the legislature has been to act as codifi er, and in many instances, not enact or codify existing customs or practices, and, wherever necessary, intervene, and in furtherance of Article 14 and 15(3) enact laws. Parliament, has intervened and facilitated creation of social status (marriage) through SMA, and enabled the creation of the institution of adoption, which was available amongst only certain communities. These, and other legislative interventions, are a result of state interest in reforms or furthering the interests of given communities or persons. For these reasons, we do not particularly subscribe to the characterisation of ‘democratizing intimate zones’ as discussed in the learned chief justice’s draft opinion. These outcomes were driven by enacted law; furthermore, there was state interest, which impelled regulation of such relationships, as for instance, in ensuring that the minimum age for marriage of girls. Likewise, there is state interest in regulating what kind of relationships, i.e. prohibited 16 [1985] Supp. (3) SCR 71 144 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. degrees of relationship, should be enacted as disqualifi cations to marriage. Marital “off ences” such as desertion, or “cruelty” [not confi ned to physical violence or cruelty] are also grounds aff orded to spouses, to seek matrimonial remedies. The absence of such legislation would have meant that children of any age, would continue to have been married off , much to the peril of the girl child’s health and life; likewise, the codifi cation and enactment of prohibited degrees of relationships, were meant to further certain public health interests. III. Tracing the rights enjoyed by queer persons A. The trinity - autonomous choice, dignity and non-discrimination i. Importance of personal choice under the Constitution 27. The journey of our constitutional progression, and our understanding of the personal liberties, especially right to life (Article 21) and equality (Article 14) has peeled and laid bare, so to say, multiple layers of prejudice, insensitivity and indiff erence of the social or other collectives, in regard to a person’s freedom to exercise her volition, and free will, in several matters. For instance, a woman’s choice and bodily autonomy in regard to exercise of her reproductive rights has been acknowledged as a fundamental right–- integral to the right to life, in Suchita Srivastava & Ors. v. Chandigarh Administration17 reiterated in Devika Biswas v. Union of India18; X v. Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department (hereafter, “X v. Principal Secretary”)19; Independent Thought (supra) and other decisions.