All the three bovine sports, after Amendment, assume different character in their performance and practice and for these reasons we do not accept the petitioners’ argument that the Amendment G Acts were merely a piece of colourable legislation with cosmetic change to override judicial pronouncement. Once we read the amended Statutes with the respective Rules or Notification, we do not find them to encroach upon the Central legislation. Respondents have cited a large body of authorities to defend their stand that these are not cases of colourable legislation but we do not consider it necessary to refer to all these H 468 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A s individually as we have come to this conclusion after analysing various statutory instruments covering the field. 31. Can the Amendment Acts be struck down for being arbitrary? There is a body of cases in which legislations have been invalidated on this ground. So far as the subject of the present B controversy is concerned, the bulls form a distinct species referred to as draught or pack animals as opposed to horses, which are adapted to run. But we decline to hold that just because bulls lack the natural ability to run like a horse, the subject-sports which are seasonally held shall be held to be contrary to the provisions of the 1960 Act. In fact, on behalf of the respondents it was argued that these genre of bulls C are specially bred and have natural ability to run. There are contrary views on this point. But in our opinion, no irrational classification as regards these bull sports have been made by the legislature so as to attract the mischief which Article 14 of the Constitution of India seeks to prevent. The validity of a legislative Act can also be negated on the D ground of it being unreasonable. The element of unreasonableness here is that the bovine species involved herein are being subjected to unnecessary pain and suffering mainly for entertainment purpose. But the 1960 Act itself categorizes several activities which cause pain and suffering, even to a sentient animal. The in the case of A. Nagaraja (supra) was largely founded on factual basis that bulls were E sentient animals, and the sports involved were unnecessary, as opposed to being necessary for human survival. But the 1960 Act, on which the petitioners’ case largely rests, proceeds on the basis of perceived human necessity to employ animals in certain load carrying and entertainment activities. For instance, while other means of carriage F of goods are available, why should bulls be permitted to undertake such activities - which are apparently involuntary and subject these sentient bovine species to pain and suffering? Horse racing is allowed under Performing Animals (Registration) Rules, 2001. Horse is also a sentient animal. But the fact remains that by making them perform in races, some element of pain and suffering must be caused to horses. G Here, the focus shifts from causing pain and suffering to the degree of pain and suffering to which a sentient animal is subjected to while being compelled to undertake certain activities for the benefit of human beings.