Our attention was invited to the statement of law by M.C. Desai, J., in Mst Bittan Bibi v. Kuntu Lal [ILR (1952) 2 All 984] : “A court is prohibited from admitting an instrument in evidence and a court and a public officer both are prohibited from acting upon it. Thus a court is prohibited from both D admitting it in evidence and acting upon it. It follows that the acting upon is not included in the admission and that a document can be admitted in evidence but not be acted upon. Of course it cannot be acted upon without its being admitted, but it can be admitted and yet be not acted upon. E If every document, upon admission, became automatically liable to be acted upon, the provision in Section 35 that an instrument chargeable with duty but not duly stamped, shall not be acted upon by the Court, would be rendered redundant by the provision that it shall not be admitted in evidence for any purpose. To act upon an instrument is to F give effect to it or to enforce it.” “In our , the learned Judge attributed to Section 36 a meaning which the legislature did not intend. Attention of the learned Judge was apparently not invited to Section 42(2) of the Act which expressly renders an instrument, G when certified by endorsement that proper duty and penalty have been levied in respect thereof, capable of being acted upon as if it had been duly stamped.” 52. We draw the following conclusions, as to what has been laid down by a Bench of three learned Judges in Hindustan Steel (supra): H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 337 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] i. The Stamp Act is a fiscal measure intended to raise revenue; A ii. The stringent provisions of the Act are meant to protect the interest of the Revenue; iii. It is not intended to be used as a weapon by a litigant to defeat the cause of the opponent; B iv. Upon the endorsement being made under Section 42(2) of the Stamp Act, the document would be admissible in evidence and can be acted upon. We may only observe that the Court did not take into consideration Section 17 of the Stamp Act, which provides for the precise time, at C which, the instrument is to be stamped. Equally, the Court did not bear in mind that Section 62 of the Stamp Act, penalises transgression of Section 17, inter alia. Still further, the Court was dealing with an instrument after it was impounded, and the payments made which were certified under Section 42(2). D It is true that an unstamped instrument is compulsorily impoundable under Section 33 of the Stamp Act. The procedure to be followed thereafter is also provided in the Act. After the procedure is followed and the duty and the penalty is paid, the instrument would come to be visited with the endorsement under Section 42(2).