v. 1457 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] D. Right to ‘union’, or abiding relationship 51. The conclusion arrived at by the learned Chief Justice is that while there is no express fundamental right to marry, there is a right or freedom to enter into a union [spelt out in Navtej Johar (supra), K.S. Puttaswamy (supra), NALSA (supra), Shakti Vahini (supra), Shafi n Jahan (supra), etc.] and that having regard to our constitutional values, which entail respect to the choice of a person whether or when to enter into marriage and the right to choose a marital partner. The learned Chief Justice also traces this right to enter into an abiding cohabitational relationship to express provisions of Article 19(1)(a), (c), and (e), Article 21, and Article 25. 52. While we agree, that there is a right - which we will characterise as a ‘right to relationship’ to avoid confusion – we squarely recognise it to fall within Article 2150, as already recognised in the afore-cited cases. The right to relationship here, includes the right to choose a partner, cohabit and enjoy physical intimacy with them, to live the way they wish to, and other rights that fl ow from the right to privacy, autonomy and dignity. They are, like all citizens, entitled to live freely, and express this choice, undisturbed in society. Whenever their right to enjoyment of such relationship is under threat of violence, the state is bound to extend necessary protection. This is a natural consequence of this court’s s in Navtej Johar (supra), K.S. Puttuswamy (supra), Shafi n Jahan (supra) and Shakti Vahini (supra). 53. The learned Chief Justice in a detailed discussion of the ‘goal of self-development’, rights under Article 19 (including the right to freedom of 50 See Navtej Johar (supra). Some of the opinions, notably of Chief Justice Dipak Misra (with whom Justice Khanwilkar concurred) highlighted the need to protect choice of one’s partner, in case of non-heterosexual persons. Citing previous decisions of this court, including Shakti Vahini (supra)and Shafi n Jahan (supra), Justice Dipak Mishra (Chief Justice, as he then was), concluded that: “167. The above authorities capture the essence of the right to privacy. There can be no doubt that an individual also has a right to a union under Article 21 of the Constitution. When we say union, we do not mean the union of marriage, though marriage is a union. As a concept, union also means companionship in every sense of the word, be it physical, mental, sexual or emotional. The LGBT community is seeking realisation of its basic right to companionship, so long as such a companionship is consensual, free from the vice of deceit, force, coercion and does not result in violation of the fundamental rights of others.” (emphasis supplied) 145 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. speech and expression, and to form ‘intimate’ associations, to settle in any part of India), Article 21, and Article 25, arrives at the conclusion that the right to union (or right to enter into an abiding cohabitational relationship) can be traced to these express provisions, which in turn enrich this right.