Further, the appellant also claimed that the allegation of cruelty was not backed by any substantial proof and that the appellant was convicted on the same evidence based on which his parents were acquitted. 6. Having heard the arguments of both the parties, we fi nd that there are two issues that arise in the instant case. i) Whether the prosecution has proved the charge under Section 498A IPC beyond reasonable doubt? ii) Whether the prosecution has proved the charge under Section 306 IPC beyond reasonable doubt? 7. Applicability of Section 498A IPC. 7.1. Section 498A the IPC penalizes husbands or their relatives who subject a woman to cruelty, with penalties of up to three years’ imprisonment and a possible fi ne. “Cruelty” encompasses actions that could drive the woman to suicide or cause severe mental or physical harm, and harassment aimed at coercing her or her family into unlawful property or valuable security demands. 7.2. In the instant case, the death of the deceased has taken place within seven years of her marriage and as such, there will be a presumption as to harassment meted out to the deceased. Even though it is rebuttable presumption, the appellant has not provided substantial evidence in his favour. It is an undisputed fact that the appellant took the deceased to Bombay for approximately a week from her parents’ residence. Shortly after their return, she was left at her parents’ home again, and she took her own life a few days later. 792 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 7.3. In so far as the appellant’s argument of parity with the acquittal of his parents is concerned, the same cannot be granted to the appellant. As held by the Trial Court, the evidence adduced by the prosecution was not suffi cient to convict accused no. 2 and 3, i.e., the parents of the appellant. However, there is a specifi c overt act attributable to the appellant wherein he assaulted and ill-treated the deceased on the ground that she was not doing household work properly and that he also refused to take her back with him to their matrimonial house despite repeated requests made by the deceased’s parents. The same was fully supported by the evidence of PW 1 to 3 as well as PW 5 and the Trial Court rightly held that there were no reasons to disbelieve the said evidence. 7.4. Hence the conviction of the appellant under Section 498A IPC is upheld. 8. Applicability of 306 IPC. 8.1. Section 306 deals with abetment of suicide wherein whoever abets the commission of suicide of another person, he/she shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding ten years and shall also be liable to fi ne. This provision has to be read with Section 107 IPC which reads as: “107. Abetment of a thing.—A person abets the doing of a thing, who— First.—Instigates any person to do that thing; or Secondly.—Engages with one or more other person or persons in any conspiracy for the doing of that thing, if an act or illegal omission takes place in pursuance of that conspiracy, and in to the doing of that thing; or Thirdly.—Intentionally aids, by any act or illegal omission, the doing of that thing.