No rent was ever paid by the Defendant’s father D or the Defendant to the Plaintiffs. Xxx xxx xxx 6. That Para-6 of the plaint is vague and indefinite. Plaintiffs have deliberately not given particulars of the case. It is true that according to correct facts I the Defendant filed my true E written statement in Small Cause Suit No. 3/Year 2007 filed by the Plaintiffs in the Court of Judge Small Causes Civil Judge (S.D.) Ballia. This case was dismissed on date 20.10.2010. 7. That Para-7 of the plaint is false and baseless, not admitted. F Plaintiffs had the knowledge about the mortgage deed from the beginning. The mortgage money was never returned by the father of the Plaintiffs Original mortgage deed is till today in the custody of I the Defendant. Father of the or I the Defendant have never been the tenant of the Plaintiffs or their father. G Xxx xxx xxx Additional Statement Xxx xxx xxx H 902 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 2. That factually as mentioned above Plaintiffs’ father had executed registered possessory mortgage deed on date 12.05.57 time limit for redemption whereof 30 years was till 12-02-87. Father of the Plaintiffs was a habitual litigant. He willingly did not redeem the mortgage within the time limit. Death of the father of the Plaintiff also happened 6 years B after the end of this time period. Thus father of the Defendant became owner and in possession of the room mentioned below on the basis of adverse possession. Suit is barred by limitation. Xxx xxx xxx C 4. That the suit of the Plaintiff is not legally maintainable. 5. That the suit is barred by issue estopped and acquiescence. 6. That the Plaintiffs filed Small Cause Suit No.3/year 2007 Rajeshwar etc. versus Dr. Ganesh Prasad etc. which was dismissed on date 20-10- 2010. Thus this suit was finally D decided against the Plaintiffs and in favour of me the Defendant. Present suit is barred on this ground also by res- judicata.” 15. It further appears from the materials on record that in the Suit No. 154 of 2009, the Plaintiffs filed an application seeking to amend the E plaint under VI Rule 17 of the CPC. The amendment prayed for, reads thus:- “1. That in the title of the case after the name and address of Defendant No. 1 where the word “Defendant” has been written, after that the words “First Party” may be added and F below the name and address of Defendant No. 1 names and addresses of the following persons may be added as Defendant Nos. 2 to 5. 2. Rajeev Kumar age about 35 years Sons of late 3. Munna age about 33 years Om Prakash G 4. Golu age about 23 years 5. Shyam Devi age about 57 years wife of late Om Prakash R/o Joplinganj, City Ballia, Paragana and District Ballia. …. Defendants Second Party H GANESH PRASAD v. RAJESHWAR PRASAD AND ORS. 903 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.]