consideration for the spare part used by the dealer from his stock A from the manufacturer in the form of a credit note. When the entire transaction is viewed in the aforesaid perspective and in juxtaposition with the expression “sale” under the Central Sales Tax Act as well as the respective State enactments under consideration which is of a wider connotation than the definition B of sale under the Sale of Goods Act, the amount shown in the account of the dealer in the form of a credit note is nothing but a price received for a sale of a spare part by the dealer which is from his stock and which belongs to him. Where there is transfer of property by the dealer to the customer while acting under a warranty and the dealer being paid by the manufacturer, when C viewed in the aforesaid prism, the credit note shown in the account of the dealer is a valuable consideration pursuant to the sale that has taken place of a spare part from his stock. The aforesaid transaction may be juxtaposed with the transaction of sale which the customer who would buy a spare part de hors a warranty. In D such an event, the dealer would have collected the sales tax along with the price of the spare part and would have remitted the same to the revenue. Merely because the dealer is acting as an intermediary or on behalf of the manufacturer pursuant to a warranty and receives a recompense in the form of a credit note, the same cannot escape liability of tax under the Sales Tax Acts E under consideration. [Para 48][1336-B-G] 17. It is necessary to take into consideration that all the credit notes received by the dealer are not indicative of the value of the spare part supplied by the dealer from his own stock or when he buys it from the open market, to the customer under a F warranty. It could be for rendering a service under a dealership agreement which can cover a situation when the manufacturer sends the spare part to the dealer to replace a defective part and receives a consideration for the said service. In such a case, there is no recompense for spare part. It is only when a credit note is G issued for a spare part used by a dealer from his own stock or when he has purchased it from the open market or from another manufacturer of a spare part that it becomes a sale within the meaning of the sales tax enactments under consideration. [Para 53][1338-A-C] H 1278 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 18. The manufacturer gives the warranty to the consumer by making a representation with regard to the automobile. It is in the nature of a promise which the dealer assessee carries out on behalf of the manufacturer. There is transfer of property in the spare part from the stock of the dealer to the customer for which the manufacturer pays by way of a credit note.