In the course of the trial, the prosecution examined ten witnesses as under: P.W. 1 Raj Kumar Sahni, P.W. 2 Anil Kumar Sahni, F P.W 3 Rup Kala Devi, P.W. 4 Dr. Shashidhar Kumar, P.W. 5 Lal Babu Sahni, P.W. 6 Laldeo Sahni, G P. W. 7 Om Prakash Sahni/ informant, P. W. 8 Saroj Kumar Singh, P.W. 9 Shobhakant Paswan (Investigating Officer) and P.W. 10 Sunil Kumar Singh (Investigating Officer). H OMPRAKASH SAHNI v. JAI SHANKAR CHAUDHARY & 147 ANR. ETC. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 7. The Trial Court, upon evaluation of the oral as well as A documentary evidence on record, in the final analysis observed in paras 40 and 41 respectively as under: “40. On considering the submissions made by learned counsel of parties and the conjoint perusal of prosecution evidence including the cross-examination done by learned counsels for B defence this court finds that the prosecution has led credible evidence that on 13-08-2018, at about 03:00 PM at Jandaha block, the accused Ram Babu Sahni and Binod Chaudhary exhorted Jai Shankar Chaudhary and Abhay Kumar Sahni to kill Manish Sahni. On such provocation, Jai Shankar C Chaudhary and Abhay Kumar Sahni shot the bullet over Manish Sahni. He was then taken to doctor Bindu Jha in Jandaha and was referred from there to Hajipur. He was taken to Hajipur Ganpati Hospital by an ambulance, where the doctor declared him dead. As per the evidence of PW-7/ informant, the Manish Sahni alongwith him and the driver D P.W. 2 reached the block Jandaha at about 01:00 P.M., they were sitting in his chamber, when the B.D.O. called him through his driver and he went to meet the B.D.O. to his resident from the B.D.O’s vehicle. When he arrived back at about 03:00 P.M., as he was heading towards his chamber, the accused E Ram Babu Sahni and Binod Chaudhary exhorted Jai Shankar Chaudhary and Abhay Kumar Sahni to kill Manish Sahni. On such provocation, Jai Shankar Chaudhary and Abhay Kumar Sahni shot the bullet over Manish Sahni and he fell on the ground. All the four accused fled away from northern gate towards Mahua road. Manish Sahni was then taken to F doctor Bindu Jha in Jandaha and was referred from there to Hajipur. He was taken to Hajipur Ganpati Hospital by an ambulance, where the doctor declared him dead. His autopsy was performed at Sadar Hospital, Hajipur. The reason behind the occurrence in question is that the accused Jai Shankar G Chaudhary was earlier elected the block Pramukh, but was defeated by Manish Sahni in no confidence motion. The Manish Sahni then became Block Pramukh. All the accused persons are said to conspire for commission of the alleged offence. The P.W. 1 Raj Kumar Sahni in his evidence has proved that the Pramukh Manish Sahni came from B.D.O’s H 148 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A vehicle and was heading towards his chamber, when accused Jai Shankar alongwith another opened fire over Manish Sahni. He has stated that it was Jai Shankar, who shot Manish Sahni.