Mr Gautam Narayan, counsel appearing on behalf of the High Court of Delhi states that the response would be fi led within a week. Permission is granted to do so. 4. The High Court of Manipur and the High Court of Tripura have not fi led any response until date. They are granted a further extension of time until 13 October 2023 to fi le their responses failing which the Registrars General of the High Courts concerned and the Registrars (IT) shall personally remain present on the next date of hearing. SARVESH MATHUR v. THE REGISTRAR GENERAL 1121 HIGH COURT OFPUNJAB AND HARYANA 5. Mr Himanshu Shekhar, counsel appearing on behalf of the NGT states that hybrid hearings are being held by the NGT both at the Principal Bench at Delhi and at the Regional Benches. Likewise, it has been stated by Mr K.M. Nataraj, Additional Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission that the tribunal is holding hybrid hearings. 6. As regards the NCLAT, it has been stated that infrastructural requirements have to be upgraded and funds have been sought from the Union Government. The Additional Solicitor General states that requisite funds shall be made available to the NCLAT. We direct that a joint meeting be held between the Secretaries of the Ministries of Finance and Corporate Aff airs with the President of the NCLAT within a period of one week and that all pending issues, including the availability of funds are sorted out so as to enable the NCLAT to conduct hybrid hearings. Simultaneously, a meeting shall also be held with the Chairperson of the National Company Law Tribunal4 within a period of two weeks. The NCLAT and NCLT shall ensure that hybrid hearings are made available at the option of the appearing lawyers, or the litigants, as the case may be, within a period of four weeks from the date of this . 7. Mr K M Nataraj states that a tabulated statement indicating the position of other Tribunals falling under various Ministries of the Union Government shall also be placed on the record by the next date of hearing. 8. During the course of the hearing, we have heard the following counsel on behalf of the High Courts: (i) Mr K Parameshar for the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad; (ii) Dr Birendra Saraf, Advocate General has appeared on behalf of the State of Maharashtra with Mr Sandeep Deshmukh for the High Court of Judicature at Bombay; (iii) Mr Kunal Chatterji for the High Court at Calcutta; (iv) Mr Apoorv Kurup for the High Court of Chhattisgarh; 4 “NCLT” 112 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. (v) Mr P I Jose for the Gauhati High Court; (vi) Mr Nikhil Goel for the High Court of Gujarat; (vii) Mr Tapesh Kumar Singh for the High Court of Jharkhand; (viii) Ms Anagha N Sharma for the High Court of Karnataka; (ix) Mr T G Narayanan Nair for the High Court of Kerala; (x) Mr Arjun Garg for the High Court of Madhya Pradesh; (xi) Mr S. Gurukrishna Kumar, senior counsel for the High Court of Judicature at Madras; (xii) Mr Sanjai Kumar Pathak, counsel for the High Court of Meghalaya; (xiii) Mr Shibashish Misra for the High Court of Orissa; (xiv) Mr Gaurav Agrawal for the High Court of Judicature at Patna; (xv) Mr Nidhesh Gupta, senior counsel for the High Court of Punjab and Haryana; (xvi) Dr Charu Mathur for the High Court of Rajasthan; (xvii) Ms Enakshi Mukhopadhyay Siddhanta for the High Court of Sikkim; and (xviii) Ms Uttara Babbar for the High Court for the States of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.