930 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 3P SO.RCT.RS. 930 [2023] 3 S.C.R. A AJAI ALIAS AJJU ETC. ETC. v. THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH (Criminal Appeal Nos.598-600 of 2013) B FEBRUARY 15, 2023 [B. R. GAVAI AND VIKRAM NATH, JJ.] Penal Code, 1860 – ss. 302/149, 307 – Arms Act, 1959 – Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – ss. 161, 164 – The case of prosecution was that the accused persons, entered into the house C of the PW-1 and her sister and had caused the death of the four of their family members – In the course of committing the offence, the accused persons also inflicted the injuries upon the PW-1 and her sister – Presuming them to be dead, the accused persons left the house – Thereafter, the PW-1 and her sister came out of the house D shouting and the villagers and the accused persons reached but since they were frightened of the accused persons, they both deliberately concealed the names of the accused persons and upon being asked by the accused persons that whether they have seen someone, they told them that they haven’t seen anyone – After that the names of the accused persons were disclosed to the investigating E officer by PW-1 and thereafter the investigation were carried out and the charge-sheet were filed against the accused persons – The trial court, taking into consideration the evidence adduced convicted the accused persons of the death sentence along with other lesser punishments for other offences – Aggrieved by it, the accused F persons approached the High Court – High Court affirmed the sentence imposed by the trial court but commuted the death penalty to life imprisonment – On appeal, held: PW-1 is an injured witness and there is no reason why PW-1 would make false implication and allow the real assailants to go scot-free – Also, a perusal of her testimony shows that she has fully supported the prosecution story G as narrated by her in her statement under section 161 CrPC and even during cross-examination nothing was elicited from her which in any way may weaken or demolish her testimony and therefore, she was a fully reliable witness and has stated the things in natural course – Non-disclosure of the name of the accused persons by the H 930 AJAI ALIAS AJJU ETC. ETC. v. THE STATE OF UTTAR 931 PRADESH PW-1 was a wise step on her part as they were close relatives of her A and such non-disclosure was done for protecting her own life. Dismissing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1. PW-1 is an injured witness. Her injuries have not been challenged. There is no reason why PW-1 would make B false implication and allow the real assailants to go scot-free. A perusal of her testimony shows that she has fully supported the prosecution story as narrated by her in her statement under section 161 CrPC. Even during cross-examination nothing has been elicited from her which in any way may weaken or demolish her testimony.