(See : Srihari HanumandasTotala v. Hemant Vithal Kamat, (2021) 9 SCC 99) 34. The general principle of res judicata under Section 11 of the CPC contain rules of conclusiveness of , but for res judicata C to apply, the matter directly and substantially in issue in the subsequent suit must be the same matter which was directly and substantially in issue in the former suit. Further, the suit should have been decided on merits and the decision should have attained finality. Where the former suit is dismissed by the trial court for want of jurisdiction, or for default of the plaintiff’s appearance, or on the ground of non-joinder or mis- D joinder of parties or multifariousness, or on the ground that the suit was badly framed, or on the ground of a technical mistake, or for failure on the part of the plaintiff to produce probate or letter of administration or succession certificate when the same is required by law to entitle the plaintiff to a decree, or for failure to furnish security for costs, or on the E ground of improper valuation, or for failure to pay additional court fee on a plaint which was undervalued, or for want of cause of action, or on the ground that it is premature and the dismissal is confirmed in appeal (if any), the decision, not being on the merits, would not be res judicata in a subsequent suit. F 35. In the present case, before examining the defendants’ ground of res judicata to oppose the eviction petition, several aspects may have to be looked into. Whether such an issue was substantively at issue in the previous suit and similar such other questions may crop up. Powers under 7 Rule 11 of CPC under such circumstances would not be available. The High Court therefore, committed an error in rejecting the G plaint. 36. The seminal question that we need to decide in the present appeal is whether the first suit i.e. the Eviction Petition No. 149 of 1996 filed by late Samey Singh was dismissed on merits. To put it in other words, whether the finding recorded by the Rent Controller while H PREM KISHORE & ORS. v. BRAHM PRAKASH & ORS. 655 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] dismissing the Eviction Petition No. 149 of 1996 that the eviction petition A deserves to be dismissed as the plaintiff Samey Singh had failed to establish the relation of landlord and tenant between the parties could be said to be on merits so as to render the second Eviction Petition No. 136 of 2001 not maintainable on the principles of res judicata. 37. The High Court took the view that the first suit i.e. Eviction B Petition No. 149 of 1996 could be said to have been dismissed under the provisions of 17 3 of the CPC and, therefore, the finding recorded therein as regards the relationship of landlord and tenant could be said to be on merits and thus binding in the subsequent proceedings.