Fundamental right is a limitation on the power of the State”. Rustom Cavasjee Cooper v. Union of India (hereafter, “R.C. Cooper”)54 is salient, for the observations it made about the common thread that runs through Part III rights, which again, sets out distinct enforceable rights: “it is necessary to bear in mind the enunciation of the guarantee of fundamental rights which has taken diff erent forms. In some cases it is an express declaration of a guaranteed right: Articles 29(1), 30(1), 26, 25 & 32; in others to ensure protection of individual rights they take specifi c forms of restrictions on State action--legislative or executive- -Articles 14, 15, 16, 20, 21, 22(1), 27 and 28; in some others, it takes the form of a positive declaration and simultaneously enunciates the restriction thereon: Articles 19(1) and 19(2) to (6); in some cases, it 53 2011 (5) SCR 488 54 1970 (3) SCR 530 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1461 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] arises as an implication from the delimitation of the authority of the State, e.g., Articles 31(1) and 31(2); in still others, it takes the form of a general prohibition against the State as well as others: Articles 17, 23 & 24. The enunciation of rights either express or by implication does not follow a uniform pattern. But one thread runs through them: they seek to protect the rights of the individual or groups of individuals against infringement of those rights within specifi c limits. Part III of the Constitution weaves a pattern of guarantees on the texture of basic human rights. The guarantees delimit the protection of those rights in their allotted fi elds: they do not attempt to enunciate distinct rights.” 59. The right to freedom of speech, is distinct, because it - unlike others in Article 19, is preceded by the word “freedom” of speech and expression whereas the others are rights. Whilst this does not call for elaboration on this distinction, yet the common element, in respect of all the rights spelt out in Article 19 is the assertion of the right, which is a curb or restraint, on state action, whose limits can only be through laws, made by the state, to promote some state concern, such as sovereignty and integrity of the state, etc. reasonably restricting speech in the interests of inter alia, “public , decency or morality”. The same pattern is followed in relation to freedom to associate by Article 19(4). In relation to the right under Article 19(1)(g) a broader state interest, inter alia, i.e., “in the interests of the general public”. These expressions are common grounds on which reasonable restrictions can be enacted, validly by law. Kharak Singh v. State of UP55, Bijoe Emmanuel v. State of Kerala56, and Union of India (UOI) v. Naveen Jindal & Ors.57 are all authorities for the proposition that regulating the exercise of rights guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) to (e) and (g) - through reasonable restrictions, can be only through a law.