It has been further held that the learned CJM ought F not to have dismissed the application under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. on the ground that there was a delay of two years in lodging the complaint, which aspect can be considered only at the time of trial. 2.5 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned and passed by the High Court, quashing and setting aside the G passed by the learned CJM dated 12.11.2020 dismissing the application under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. and remanding the matter to the learned CJM to reconsider the application filed by the complainant under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. in light of the observations made in the impugned and and pass a reasoned , the original respondents – alleged accused have preferred the present appeals. H KAILASH VIJAYVARGIYA v. RAJLAKSHMI CHAUDHURI 145 AND OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] 3. S/Shri Mahesh Jethmalani, Maninder Singh and P.S. Patwalia, A learned Senior Advocates have appeared on behalf of the respective appellants. Shri R. Basant, learned Senior Advocate has appeared on behalf of the State of West Bengal and Shri Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya, learned Senior Advocate has appeared on behalf of the original complainant. B 3.1 Learned Senior Advocate Shri Mahesh Jethmalani appearing on behalf of one of the appellants-accused has vehemently submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case, the High Court has committed a grave error in quashing and setting aside the well-reasoned passed by the learned CJM dismissing the complaint under Section C 156(3) Cr.P.C. 3.2 It is submitted that the High Court ought to have appreciated that the learned CJM dismissed the application under section 156(3) Cr.P.C. upon verifying the truth and veracity of the allegations made in the application, more particularly considering the fact that there was a D delay of almost two years after the date of the alleged incident which has not been explained. It is submitted that therefore the learned CJM was well within its jurisdiction to verify the truth and veracity of the allegations made in the application when such serious allegations were made after a period of almost two years after the date of the alleged incident and that in between though number of other complaints were E filed against the accused and others, at no point of time, any allegation of rape on 29.11.2018 was made. 3.3 It is submitted that while passing the impugned and and quashing and setting aside the passed by the learned CJM, the High Court has wrongly relied upon and/or considered and/or F applied the decision of this Court in the case of Lalita Kumari (supra). 3.4 It is submitted that the High Court has materially erred in observing that while considering the application under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., Magistrate has no jurisdiction at all to verify the truth and veracity of the allegations. G 3.5 It is submitted that the observations made by the High Court in the impugned and that while considering the application under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., Magistrate has no jurisdiction to even prima facie verify the truth and veracity of the allegations made in the application are just contrary to the law laid down by this Court in the case of Priyanka H 146 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R.