Explanation.—In this sub-section, “High Court” means the High Court of the State in which a Sessions Court designated as Special Court was functioning immediately before such designation. D (2) While trying an offence under this Act, a Special Court shall also try an offence, other than an offence referred to in sub- section (1), with which the accused may, under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), be charged at the same trial.” E 22. Section 44 deals with the question of territorial jurisdiction of the Special Court, constituted under Section 43(1). At the outset, Section 44(1) takes note of two different contingencies, namely, (i)cases where the scheduled offence as well as the offence of money-laundering are committed within the territorial jurisdiction of the same Special Court F constituted under Section 43(1); and (ii)cases where the Court which has taken cognizance of the scheduled offence, is other than the Special Court which has taken cognizance of the complaint of the offence of money- laundering. Section 44(1) reads as follows: “44. Offences triable by Special Courts.— (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal G Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974),— (a) an offence punishable under section 4 and any scheduled offence connected to the offence under that section shall be triable by the Special Court constituted for the area in which the offence has been committed: H 902 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Provided that the Special Court, trying a scheduled offence before the commencement of this Act, shall continue to try such scheduled offence; or; (b) a Special Court may, upon a complaint made by an authority authorised in this behalf under this Act take cognizance of offence B under section 3, without the accused being committed to it for trial; Provided that after conclusion of investigation, if no offence of money-laundering is made out requiring filing of such complaint, the said authority shall submit a closure report before the Special C Court; or (c) if the court which has taken cognizance of the scheduled offence is other than the Special Court which has taken cognizance of the complaint of the offence of money-laundering under sub- clause (b), it shall, on an application by the authority authorised to file a complaint under this Act, commit the case relating to the D scheduled offence to the Special Court and the Special Court shall, on receipt of such case proceed to deal with it from the stage at which it is committed. (d) a Special Court while trying the scheduled offence or the offence of money-laundering shall hold trial in accordance with E the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), as it applies to a trial before a Court of Session. Explanation.—For the removal of doubts, it is clarified that,— (i) the jurisdiction of the Special Court while dealing with the F offence under this Act, during investigation, enquiry or trial under this Act, shall not be dependent upon any s passed in respect of the scheduled offence, and the trial of both sets of offences by the same court shall not be construed as joint trial; (ii) the complaint shall be deemed to include any subsequent G complaint in respect of further investigation that may be conducted to bring any further evidence, oral or documentary, against any accused person involved in respect of the offence, for which complaint has already been filed, whether named in the original complaint or not.” H RANA AYYUB v. DIRECTORATE OF ENFORCEMENT 903 THROUGH ITS ASSISTANT DIRECTOR [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.]