150. Pronouncement of .- (1) The Tribunal, after hearing the applicant and respondent, shall make and pronounce an either at once or, as soon as thereafter as may be practicable but not later than thirty days from the fi nal hearing. (2) Every of the Tribunal shall be in writing and shall be signed and dated by the President or Member or Members constituting the Bench which heard the case and pronounced the . 322 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. (3) A certifi ed copy of every passed by the Tribunal shall be given to the parties. (4) The Tribunal, may transmit made by it to any court for enforcement, on application made by either of the parties to the or suo motu. (5) Every or or notice shall bear the seal of the Tribunal. 151. Pronouncement of by any one member of the Bench.-(1) Any Member of the Bench may pronounce the for and on behalf of the Bench. (2) When an is pronounced under this rule, the Court Master shall make a note in the sheet, that the of the Bench consisting of President and Members was pronounced in open court on behalf of the Bench.” (emphasis supplied) 18. The above provisions of the NCLT Rules, 2016 make a clear distinction between the ‘hearing’ of an appeal and the ‘pronouncement’ of the . Rule 150(1) provides that after hearing the parties, the may be pronounced either at once or soon thereafter, as may be practicable, but not later than thirty days from the fi nal hearing. Further, Rule 151 indicates that a member of the bench may pronounce the for and on behalf of the Bench. When the is pronounced, the court master shall make a note in the sheet to that eff ect. The language of the above rules indicates that the pronouncement of the is necessary and cannot be dispensed with. 19. In the present case, the cause list for 17 May 2023 placed on record by the appellant indicates that the case was listed for admission and not for pronouncement. Further, on a specifi c query of the Court, it is not in dispute between counsel for the appellant and the respondent, that no substantive was passed on 17 May 2023 by the NCLT. In these circumstances, limitation would not begin to run on 17 May 2023 which was the date on which hearings concluded. As no was passed before 30 May 2023, there was no occasion for the appellant to lodge an application for a certifi ed copy on 17 May 2023. Time for fi ling an appeal would commence only SANJAY PANDURANG KALATE v. VISTRA ITCL (INDIA) 323 LIMITED [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] when the appealed from was uploaded since prior to that date no was pronounced. 20. In V Nagarajan (supra), there was an unequivocal pronouncement of the before the upload of the and thus, the decision is not applicable to the facts of the case. In the facts of the present case, the date of upload of the is the same as the date of pronouncement.