Therefore, the acquisition in establishment of the proposed question is illegal. B Vedanta University (not in ii) The University in question is non- existence) in view of Section 44-B existent as no University has come of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894? into existence under the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 or under the Orissa Universities Act. iii) The State Government has promulgated an Ordinance to C establish an University which is untenable in law. Issue No. 3 i) Section 4(1) notification in favour of Whether the State Government on the beneficiary company were the requisition of Vedanta made on the basis of a requisition Foundation could have initiated the filed by Vedanta Foundation, but acquisition proceedings in favour of not Anil Agarwal Foundation, D the beneficiary company by issuing which is the beneficiary company. notifications under Section 4(1) of ii) No enquiry has been made by the the LA Act without complying with State Government in terms of the mandatory provisions of Section Rule-4 read with Rule 3 of the 39, 41 and 42 of the Land Land Acquisition (Companies) Acquisition Act read with Rules Rules, 1963 3(2) and 4 of the Land Acquisition iii) Acquisition of lands by publishing E (Companies) Rules, 1963? Section 4(1) Notifications in favour of the beneficiary company is vitiated in law for the reason that before putting the provisions of Section 4 to 16 and 18 to 37 in to acquire land no previous consent of the State Government F under Section 39 was there and such consent shall not be given unless the company has executed the agreement under Section 41 of the Act. iv) Declaration under Section 6 has G been made by the State Government without consulting the Land Acquisition Committee to be constituted under Rule- 3 of the Land Acquisition (Companies) Rules, 1963. H ANIL AGARWAL FOUNDATION ETC. ETC. v. STATE OF 1001 ORISSA AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] Issue No. 4 i) The sheet of the records A maintained by Collector discloses (A) Whether the Collector was required that the Collector has not caused to conduct an inquiry as public notice, by way of beat of contemplated under Section 5-A of drums, of the substance of such the Land Acquisition Act even in notification to be given at the absence of filing objections to convenient places in the locality. the show cause notice along with preliminary notification proposing ii) No notice along with the to acquire the lands of the land preliminary notification was B owners/interested persons in favour issued and served upon either to of a beneficiary company? the owners/ interested persons of the acquired lands as required in and law. Therefore, the question of filling of objections by the land (B) Whether the Collector was required owners interested persons didn't to submit his report to the State arise. Govt. in relation to certain matters as referred to under Clause (1) of iii) The Collector has not submitted Rule-4 as it is mandatory for further report under Section 5-A of the C action under Section 6 of the LA Act or Rule 4 of the Land Act, 1894 in view of the fact that Acquisition (Companies) Rules, the acquisition will entail serious 1963. civil consequences of the owners of the lands?