In the said circumstances, to know the meaning of the words ‘transfer of any land’ used in Section 9 (1) of D the Fragmentation Act, one may have to see the definition of ‘transfer of property’ under Section 5 of the ‘Transfer of Property Act, 1882, (hereinafter referred to as, the TP Act’), which reads thus:- 5. “Transfer of property” defined. —In the following sections “transfer of property” means an act by which a living person E conveys property, in present or in future, to one or more other living persons, or to himself, [or it himself] and one or more other living persons; and “to transfer property” is to perform such act. [in this section “living person” includes a company or association or body of individuals, whether incorporated or F not, but nothing herein contained shall affect any law for the time being in force relating to transfer of property to or by companies, associations or bodies of individuals.] 16. In the contextual situation it is also relevant to refer to the definition of ‘sale’ given under Section 54 of the TP Act, which reads G thus:- 54. “Sale” defined.—”Sale” is a transfer of ownership in exchange for a price paid or promised or part-paid and part- promised. H DAMODHAR NARAYAN SAWALE (D) THROUGH LRS. v. SHRI 191 TEJRAO BAJIRAO MHASKE & ORS. [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] 17.The term ‘transfer’ is a word in a broader sense and the word A ‘sale’ is a specific word. Sale, going by the definition under T.P. Act, presupposes transfer from one person to another of the right in property and in other words, in sale, the ownership of the property is transferred. A conjoint reading of Section 54 of the TP Act and Section 17 of the Indian Registration Act, 1908, mandates that transfer of ownership of B any land worth more than Rs.100/- shall be effected by a registered deed. Therefore, transfer of a land worth more than Rs.100/- by a registered deed implies transmutation of all rights as the vendor possessed in the property concerned. We are not oblivious of the fact the mere registration of a document is no proof of its execution. We will deal with this aspect a little later. It will not be inappropriate to look into the object C of the Fragmentation Act, in the context of the contentions. It runs as under:- “Whereas it is expedient to prevent the fragmentation of agricultural holdings and to provide for the consolidation of agricultural holdings for the purpose of the better cultivation D thereof;” 18. Thus, obviously, it is not the object or purpose of the Fragmentation Act to totally prohibit or prevent transfer of land within any notified ‘local area’, but it is only aimed at preventing the fragmentation of agricultural holdings and to provide for the consolidation E of agricultural holdings for the purpose of the better cultivation thereof. 19. In the context of the above mentioned rival pleadings, contentions and the position revealed from the facts and the provisions, the question to be considered is whether the second defendant herein had made out any case for attracting the provisions of the Fragmentation F Act /or in other words, whether the trial Court was right in applying the provisions under the said Act and the High Court was legally correct in restoring the decree of the trial Court after reversing the and decree of the First Appellate Court, in view of the mutually annihilative pleas taken up by the second defendant viz., the first respondent herein G and accepted by the trial Court and the High Court.