There is no attempt to recover the knife from the appellant as it is a specific case of the prosecution that he committed the offence by threatening to harm the prosecutrix. The prosecution, for the reasons G best known to them, has not chosen to examine him as well. PW4 is not the eye-witness. There is absolutely no reason as to why the son of PW4, who is incidentally the brother of PW6, has not been examined being the sole eye-witness. On the issue of non-examination of material witness, we wish to place reliance on the decision of this Court in Takhaji H Hiraji v. Thakore Kubersing Chamansing, (2001) 6 SCC 145, DAVINDER SINGH v. STATE OF PUNJAB 989 [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] “19. So is the case with the criticism levelled by the High Court A on the prosecution case finding fault therewith for non-examination of independent witnesses. It is true that if a material witness, who would unfold the genesis of the incident or an essential part of the prosecution case, not convincingly brought to fore otherwise, or where there is a gap or infirmity in the prosecution case which B could have been supplied or made good by examining a witness who though available is not examined, the prosecution case can be termed as suffering from a deficiency and withholding of such a material witness would oblige the court to draw an adverse inference against the prosecution by holding that if the witness would have been examined it would not have supported the C prosecution case. On the other hand if already overwhelming evidence is available and examination of other witnesses would only be a repetition or duplication of the evidence already adduced, non-examination of such other witnesses may not be material. In such a case the court ought to scrutinise the worth of the evidence D adduced. The court of facts must ask itself — whether in the facts and circumstances of the case, it was necessary to examine such other witness, and if so, whether such witness was available to be examined and yet was being withheld from the court. If the answer be positive then only a question of drawing an adverse inference may arise. If the witnesses already examined are reliable E and the testimony coming from their mouth is unimpeachable the court can safely act upon it, uninfluenced by the factum of non- examination of other witnesses…” 9. In Rajesh Yadav v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (2022) 12 SCC 200: F “Non-examination of witness 34. A mere non-examination of the witness per se will not vitiate the case of the prosecution. It depends upon the quality and not the quantity of the witnesses and its importance. If the court is satisfied with the explanation given by the prosecution along with G the adequacy of the materials sufficient enough to proceed with the trial and convict the accused, there cannot be any prejudice. Similarly, if the court is of the view that the evidence is not screened and could well be produced by the other side in support of its case, no adverse inference can be drawn.