[2023] 4 S.C.R. 969 969 THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. A v. RACHNA HILLS & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 1882 of 2023) APRIL 27, 2023 B [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI AND PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] Service Law: Uttar Pradesh Intermediate Education Act, 1921: ss. 16-E, 16-FF – Appointment of teachers in minority institutions – Procedure for selection and appointment – Initiation C of the process of selection of teachers – Proposals forwarded to the District Inspector of Schools-DIOS for approval – However, before the grant of the requisite approval, Regn 17 was amended, prescribing a new selection procedure – Thereafter, DIOS returned the proposal for compliance with the new procedure – Writ petitions challenging D the decision of DIOS – High Court held that once the names are forwarded for approval of the DIOS, the selection process concludes and the proposed candidates acquire a vested right to be appointed; and that the vacancies that arise prior to the amendment of Rules have to be governed by the Rules that existed at the time such vacancies arose – On appeal, held: Approval of DIOS is mandatory E for appointment and that the Act injuncts the appointment of a teacher without such approval – Legal regime does not contemplate any concept of deemed appointment if the DIOS does not decide upon the proposal within 15 days – Reliance on the principle that Rules that existed at the time when vacancies arose will govern the appointments is misplaced – Candidate has a right to be considered F in the light of existing Rules, which implies Rules in force as on the date of consideration – On facts, the process of appointment cannot be said to have been concluded without obtaining the mandatory approval of the DIOS, and as such, there is no vested right of the candidate to be appointed before the amendment of Regulation – G Unless the approval contemplated u/s. 16-FF(3) is accorded, no appointment could take place – Thus, the appointment would be governed by the amended Regulations which is in force at the time of consideration – High Court erred in holding that the shortlisted candidates acquired a vested right to be appointed – passed by the High Court is set aside – Regn 17, 18. H 969 970 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 Sub-section (3) of section 16-FF of the U.P. Intermediate Education Act 1921 provides that no person selected and proposed to be appointed as a teacher by the Management shall be appointed till the proposal is approved by B the DIOS. If the expressions ‘no person’, ‘shall be appointed’, and ‘unless’ employed in sub-section (3) are given their ordinary meaning, which is the foremost of the linguistic canons of construction of legislation, there is no hesitation in holding that appointment is subject to the mandatory approval of DIOS. The process of appointment cannot be said to have been concluded C without obtaining the mandatory approval of the DIOS, and as such, there is no right, much less a vested right, of the candidate to be appointed.