The context requires that association or connection of such persons with the deceased government servant must be direct and not remote. The said Rule requires that the family member must have a close nexus C with the deceased government servant, and must have been dependent on him during his lifetime. Therefore, a son or daughter adopted by the widow of a deceased government servant, after the death of the government servant, could not be included within the definition of ‘family’ under Rule D 54(14)(b) of the CCS (Pension) Rules. 12. It may also be appropriate to refer to the decision of this Court in Poonamal vs. Union of India, (1985) 3 SCC 345, wherein the purpose for which ‘family pension’ is granted, was highlighted by this Court in the following words: E “Family pension came to be conceptualised in the year 1950. When a Government servant die in harness or soon after retirement, in the traditional Indian family on the death of the only earning member, the widow or the minor children were not only rendered orphans but faced more often destitution and starvation. F Traditionally speaking the widow was hardly in a position to obtain gainful employment. She suffered the most in as much as she was deprived of the companionship of the husband and also became economically orphaned. As a measure of socioeconomic justice family pension scheme was devise to help the widows tie G over the crisis and till the minor children attain majority to extend them some succour. This appeared to be the underlying motivation in devising the family pension scheme. It was liberalised from time to time. The liberalisation was however subject to the condition that the Government Servant had in his life time agreed H 946 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A that he shall make a contribution of an amount equal to two months’ emoluments or Rs. 5,000 whichever is less out of the death-cum- retirement gratuity. Those Government servants who did not accept this condition were denied the benefit of family pension scheme.” It is evident from the passage quoted above that family pension B was devised as a means to help the dependents of the deceased government servant tide over the crisis and to extend to them some succour. Therefore, the definition of the term ‘family’ cannot be extended to include those persons who were not even dependents of the government servant, at the time of his death. C 12.1. The cannon of construction described in the principle, Nocitur a Sociis, may be applied to the present case. The said principle posits that the meaning of a phrase must be construed having regard to the words immediately surrounding it. In the present case, the heirs listed under D Rule 54(14)(b) of the CCS (Pension) Rules are the immediate dependents of the deceased government servant. Therefore, persons who were not dependant on the government servant prior to his death cannot be held to be included in the definition of ‘family’ under Rule 54(14)(b) of the CCS (Pension) Rules.