B. PARDIWALA, J.] With reference to Ftr. Hqrs. Ghy. letter No. FG-II/VC-VIG/08(Part)/5660 dt 08-09-11, I visited Offi ce ·Of the Area Organiser, SSB, Rangia on 1st November, 2011 and enquired into the matter. All the staff present in the offi ce on the date, were summoned one after another individually. I obtained their statements individually and on the basis of the interaction with each of them; I opine as follow: i) From the statements of the staff it is observed that Shri Dilip Paul, Area Organiser sometimes shout to some of the staff in the offi ce, for the purpose of offi cial work only. No proof has been found regarding use of unoffi cial language. One or two offi cial stated that the Area Organiser used to be rude and shouted at them on some occasions on matters of offi cial work only. ii) Regarding passing of TA/DA, MR Bills etc. it is found that these works are going smoothly. There has been no occasion when he took interest of passing his own bill by neglecting that of others. iii) Regarding granting of leave to staff and passing of bills etc. it is found that no refusal or delay occurred. However, while granting leave sometimes staff position and administrative convenience has been taken in to account. iv) It is observed that Area Organiser is using his own vehicle to attend offi ce. v) On the basis of statement given by each staff and from the para-wise reply given by the Area Organiser, it is observed that there is no evidence regarding use of unnecessary slang language by the Area Organiser, to his sub-ordinate staff but at times he used to be rude to get the work done within the time limit, from some of the subordinate staff . It is further observed that there is no cordial inter personal relation between Shri P.B. Gohain, SAO, Shri K. Siga, SAO, Shri J Singh, UDC and Area Organiser, Shri Dilip Paul. Therefore, these offi cers/offi cials may be shifted out in to bring back cordial working atmosphere in the Area Offi ce. At the same time, Shri Dilip Paul, Area Organiser may be advised to improve upon his man management, administration and other offi cial dealings, skills and tactics with his sub-ordinate staff to bring back congenial atmosphere in the offi ce. 486 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Yours faithfully Sd/- Deputy Inspector General Sector Hqrs. SSB, Tezpur” A.2 Frontier Complaints Committee’s Inquiry Report 5. Simultaneously, a Frontier Complaints Committee comprising of three women members was constituted by the IG, Frontier HQ, Guwahati to inquire into the allegations of sexual harassment levelled by the complainant in her fi rst complaint dated 30.08.2011. The Frontier Complaints Committee upon completion of the inquiry, submitted its report dated 17.01.2012 to the Frontier Headquarters SSB, New Delhi through the IG, Guwahati, stating that the allegations levelled by the complainant could not be said to have been fully established or proved. The Committee further observed that the complainant had lodged her fi rst complaint after a delay of more than two years and had also failed to produce any documentary evidence in support of her allegations.