8.3. In Amol Singh v. State of M.P.11, “13. … However, if some inconsistencies are noticed between one dying declaration and the other, the court has to examine the nature of the inconsistencies, namely, whether they are material or not. While scrutinising the contents of various dying declarations, in such a situation, the court has to examine the same in the light of the various surrounding facts and circumstances.” 8.4. Faced with multiple dying declarations, this Court in Lakhan v. State of M.P12 observed- “21. … In case there are multiple dying declarations and there are inconsistencies between them, generally, the dying declaration recorded by the higher offi cer like a Magistrate can be relied upon, provided that there is no circumstance giving rise to any suspicion about its truthfulness. In case there are circumstances wherein the declaration had been made, not voluntarily and even otherwise, it is not supported by the other evidence, the court has to scrutinise the facts of an individual case very carefully and take a decision as to which of the declarations is worth reliance.” This was also referred to by this court recently in Makhan Singh v. State of Haryana13. 8.5. In Ashabai v. State of Maharashtra,14 the court observed:- “15. When there are multiple dying declarations, each dying declaration has to be separately assessed and evaluated and assessed independently on its own merit as to its evidentiary value and one cannot be rejected because of certain variations in the other.” 11 (2008) 5 SCC 468 ( 2-Judge Bench) 12 (2010) 8 SCC 514 (2-Judge Bench) 13 (2022) SCC OnLine SC 1019 (2-Judge Bench) 14 (2013) 2 SCC 224 (2-Judge Bench) ABHISHEK SHARMA v. STATE (GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI) 901 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] 8.6. In Jagbir Singh v. State (NCT of Delhi),15 the following principles were observed: 31. A survey of the decisions would show that the principles of declarations can be culled out as follows: …. 31.6. However, there may be cases where there are more than one dying declaration. If there are more than one dying declaration, the dying declarations may entirely agree with one another. There may be dying declarations where inconsistencies between the declarations emerge. The extent of the inconsistencies would then have to be considered by the court. The inconsistencies may turn out to be reconcilable. 31.7. In such cases, where the inconsistencies go to some matter of detail or description but is incriminatory in nature as far as the Accused is concerned, the court would look to the material on record to conclude as to which dying declaration is to be relied on unless it be shown that they are unreliable; 31.8. The third category of cases is that where there are more than one dying declaration and inconsistencies between the declarations are absolute and the dying declarations are irreconcilable being repugnant to one another. In a dying declaration, the Accused may not be blamed at all and the cause of death may be placed at the doorstep of an unfortunate accident.