d. It has been held recently, in a of this Court in Gambhirdan K. Gadhvi (supra) (2 Judges) which is followed in Anindya Sundar Das (supra) (2 Judges), that the UGC Regulations form a part of the UGC Act, 1956 for the reason that it requires that the regulations made under the Act shall be laid before the Parliament. Even though Section 26 of the UGC Act does not provide for these regulations being part of the Act, nevertheless the Court held that the mere fact of laying would result in the regulations being made part of the Act. e. A catena of s of this Court have held to the same eff ect. What has been missed in holding so is that the subordinate legislation, whether of rules or regulations, could be read as part of the Act, but, for diff erent purposes. The real eff ect of this statement of the law is that Article 254 of the Constitution would have to be read as – where a law made by Parliament as well as the regulations or rules made under any Central Act is repugnant to the provisions of a law made by the legislature of a State, the law made by Parliament as well as the regulations or rules made under any Central Act will prevail. The provision will now mean that the law made by Parliament, or the regulations or DR. PREMACHANDRAN KEEZHOTH & ANR. v. THE 401 CHANCELLOR KANNUR UNIVERSITY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] rules made under any Central Act, if repugnant to the law made by the legislature of a State, then the law made by the State, to the extent of the repugnancy, shall be void. f. By reading as aforesaid, the consequences would be far reaching. For this purpose, one should look at the very nature and source of making regulations or rules under the Central Act. The Government of India (Allocation of Business) Rules, 1961 would allocate the particular subject of the Act to a particular minister, who would then have to decide on what the rule should be. It is possible, as in the case of the UGC Act, that many of the provisions made in the rules or regulations may not fi nd a place in the body of the Act, and, the only provision, which could be possibly invoked would be the main provision of sub-section (1) of the rule making section, in which it would be stated that the regulations or rules may be made for the purposes of the Act. In the case of the UGC Act, the regulation making power is conferred upon the UGC, a statutory body acting under the Government, and not on the Government itself. g. The result is that a vast unbridled arbitrary power is vested in the executive where no defi nite guidelines are provided for in any particular section of the Act, and where the Act is totally silent on the aspects that are covered by the legislations.