A child should not be lost in its search for paternity. Precious F childhood and youth cannot be lost in a quest to know about one’s paternity. Therefore, the wholesome object of Section 112 of the Evidence Act which confers legitimacy on children born during the subsistence of a valid marriage, subject to the same being rebutted by cogent and strong evidence, is to be preserved. G Children of today are citizens and the future of a nation. The confidence and happiness of a child who is showered with love and affection by both parents is totally distinct from that of a child who has no parents or has lost a parent and still worse, is that of a child whose paternity is in question without there being any cogent reason for the same. The plight of a child whose paternity and thus his legitimacy, is H APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 723 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] questioned would sink into a vortex of confusion which can be confounded A if Courts are not cautious and responsible enough to exercise discretion in a most judicious and cautious manner. Further, questions surrounding paternity have a significant impact on the identity of a child. Routinely ing DNA tests, particularly in cases where the issue of paternity is merely incidental to the controversy B at hand, could, in some cases even contribute to a child suffering an identity crisis. It is also necessary to take into account that some children, although born during the subsistence of a marriage and on the desire and consent of the married couple to beget a child, may have been conceived through processes involving sperm donation, such as intrauterine C insemination (IUI), in-vitro fertilisation (IVF). In such cases, a DNA test of the child, could lead to misleading results. The results may also cause a child to develop a sense of mistrust towards the parents, and frustration owing to the inability to search for their biological fathers. Further, a child’s quest to locate its biological father may compete with the right to anonymity of the sperm donor. Having regard to such factors, D a parent may, in the best interests of the child, choose not to subject a child to a DNA test. It is also, antithetical to the fundamentals of the right to privacy to require a person to disclose, in the course of proceedings in rem, the medical procedures resorted to in to conceive. The reasons for the parent’s refusal may be several, and hence, it E is not prudent to draw an adverse inference under Section 114 of the Evidence Act, in every case where a parent refuses to subject the child to a DNA test. Therefore, it is necessary that only in exceptional and deserving cases, where such a test becomes indispensable to resolve the F controversy, the Court can direct such test. Further, a direction to conduct DNA test of a child, is to be ed even rarely, in cases where the paternity of a child is not directly in issue but is merely collateral to the proceeding, such as in the instant case.