The statements made by the Member (Judicial) before the Chairperson of NCLAT seem to indicate that he did not permit mentioning in accordance with the practice of his Bench to the ORBIT ELECTRICALS PRIVATE LIMITED v. 1035 DEEPAK KISHAN CHHABRIA & ORS. eff ect that mentioning is taken up after s are delivered. The Member (Technical) indicates that while some lawyers had sought to intervene, the Presiding Judge had not heard them. Both these statements are belied by the fact that it is common ground between the parties, who are seriously contesting a dispute before NCLAT, that the Bench was dully apprised of the of this Court when it assembled at around 2.15 pm before the was pronounced. Moreover, the passing of the further on 16 October 2023 compounds the situation. If indeed the had been declared after the NCLAT was duly apprised of the result of the AGM, there was no occasion for it to suspend the operation of its . The Members forming part of the Bench have not purported to say so. 25 In this view of the matter, insofar as the lis is concerned, we are of the view that it is necessary for this Court to ensure that the dignity of the Court is maintained. A party cannot be allowed by recourse to devious means to obviate compliance with a solemn passed by this Court. 26 We accordingly, in exercise of the jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution, direct that the of the NCLAT dated 13 October 2023 shall stand set aside without this Court expressing any opinion on the merits. We consequently direct that the appeal shall be heard afresh by a Bench presided over by the Chairperson of NCLAT. We clarify that we have not entered any fi nding on the merits of the rival contentions of the parties in the pending appeal. This Court has been constrained to pass this in extraordinary circumstances which we have referred to above. 27 We are prima facie of the view that Shri Rakesh Kumar, Member (Judicial) and Dr Alok Srivastava, Member (Technical) of the NCLAT are liable to be proceeded against in the exercise of the contempt jurisdiction of this Court. We accordingly issue a notice to show cause to Mr Rakesh Kumar, Member (Judicial) and Dr Alok Srivastava, Member (Technical) of the NCLAT to show cause as to why they should not be committed under the 103 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Contempt of Courts Act 1971 for having willfully defi ed the directions of this Court. They shall remain personally present before this Court on 30 October 2023 at 10.30 am, by which date, they shall submit their replies to the notice. 28 The scrutinizer shall fi le their explanation in response to the notice which has been issued by this Court on or before the next date of listing and shall remain personally present before this Court on that day.” 10 In pursuance of the above , affi davits have been fi led before this Court by the two members who constituted the Bench of the NCLAT and by the Scrutiniser.