61. The matter may also be looked at from a different angle. Let E us assume for the moment that in the first suit also the plaintiffs had prayed for a relief, seeking redemption of mortgage as prayed for in the present suit. Even in such circumstances, whether with both the reliefs identical in the two suits and the cause of action also the same, the provisions of IX Rule 9 of the CPC would operate as a bar for the F maintainability of the present suit. The right to redeem, is a right conferred upon the mortgagor by an enactment, of which he can only be deprived by means and in manner indicated for that purpose and strictly complied with. In Shridhar Sadba Powar v. Ganu Mahadu Kavade and others reported in ILR (1928) 52 Bom 111, a suit for redemption was filed but was dismissed under IX, Rule 8, of the CPC. The mortgagor G brought a second suit for redemption and it was contended that it was barred under IX Rule 9 of the CPC. Marten, C.J. and Crump, J. rejected this plea. The learned judges relied on the previous decisions of the Bombay High Court including Ramachandra Kolaji Patil v. Hanmantha reported in ILR (1920) 44 Bom 939, and pointed out that H 928 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A the decision of the Privy Council in Thakur Shankar Baksh v. Dya Shankar and Others reported in (1887) LR 15 IA 66, was not against the view taken by them, as it was decided on a different state of law. In Vithal Rajaram Sutar and another v. Ramchandra Pandu Jadhav and others reported in AIR 1948 Bom 226, a Full Bench of the Bombay High Court held that the general terms of XXII Rule 9 of the B CPC, which provided that where a suit abated or was dismissed under the , no fresh suit shall be brought on the same cause of action, cannot override the specific terms of Section 60 of the TP Act. It was pointed out that the CPC dealt with the procedure relating to all suits. There was a special law which dealt with the rights of mortgagors and C mortgagees and that substantive law was to be found in the Transfer of Property Act. That substantive law provided only two ways in which the right of redemption can be extinguished and they were: (i) by act of the parties, or (ii) by decree of the court. The right of redemption is an incident of a subsisting mortgage and it subsists so long as the mortgage itself subsists. As held by the Privy Council in Bhaiya Raghunath Singh D and others v. Musammat Hansraj Kunwar and others reported in (1933-34) 61 IA 362, the right of redemption can be extinguished as provided in Section 60 of the Transfer of Property Act and when it is alleged to have been extinguished by a decree, the decree should run strictly in accordance with the form prescribed for the purpose.