244 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 3P OS.RCT.RS. 244 [2023] 3 S.C.R. A C. HARIDASAN v. ANAPPATH PARAKKATTU VASUDEVA KURUP & OTHERS (Civil appeal no. 4072 of 2022) B JANUARY 13, 2023 [M. R. SHAH AND B. V. NAGARATHNA, JJ.] Specific Relief Act, 1963 : ss. 10, 16(c), 20 – Discretion as to decreeing specific performance – On facts execution of the agreement to sell land between the parties and receipt of C consideration by the appellant-buyer – Balance amount to be paid within six months provided the respondent-seller made available the document of title and purchase certificate after measuring the property – Thereafter notice served by the appellant to the respondent to execute the sale deed – Refusal of the respondent to D execute the sale deed and cancelled the agreement – Suit for specific performance of the agreement to sell by the appellant – Trial court allowed the suit and also directed the appellant to pay 25% more amount, over and above the agreed consideration – High Court while considering s. 20, set aside the decree for specific performance and directed the respondent to pay the consideration amount to the E appellant – On appeal held: In view of difference of opinion, matter referred to the larger bench – Reference to larger Bench. Referring *the matter to larger Bench, the Court HELD : F PER M. R. SHAH, J. 1.1. It was never the case on behalf of the defendants in the written statement and/or even before the trial court that the agreement to sell was inequitable and/or was a forced agreement to sell. Even the trial court also did not frame the issue, “whether G agreement to sell was a forced agreement to sell/contract or not”. Ed. Note : Hon'ble Mr. Justice M.R. Shah and Hon’ble Mrs. Justice B.V. Nagarathna pronounced separate reportable s of the Bench comprising Their Lordships. In view of difference of opinion in the matter it was directed to place the papers before Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India for appropriate s for constituting a larger Bench H to decide the controversy. 244 C. HARIDASAN v. ANAPPATH PARAKKATTU VASUDEVA 245 KURUP On appreciation of entire evidence on record, the trial court after A recording the findings on the execution of the agreement to sell by the defendants and receipt of part sale consideration and that the plaintiff was always ready and willing to perform his part of the contract, decreed the suit for specific performance. The High Court, as such, has not commented upon and/or set aside any of B the findings recorded by the trial court, recorded while passing a decree for specific performance. Straightway, the High Court considered Section 20 of the Specific Relief Act and observed and held that by enhancing the amount of sale consideration, the trial court has wrongly exercised the discretion in favour of the plaintiff. The High Court commented upon the passed by C the trial court enhancing the amount of sale consideration and directing the plaintiff to pay more amount than the sale consideration mentioned in the agreement to sell.