261 D Paul Sullins, Child Attention-Defi cit Hyperactivity Dis (ADHD) in same-sex parent families in the United States: Prevalence and Comorbidities, British Journal of Medicine & Medical Research 6(10):987-998, 2015 262 Douglas W.Allen, High School graduation rates among children of same sex households, Rev Econ Household (2013) 11:635-658 263 Henry M.W Bos & Frank Van Balen, Children in planned lesbian families: Stigmatisation, psychological adjustment and protective factors, Culture, Health and Sexuality: An International Journal for Research, Intervention and Care, 10:3, 221- 236. 264 Solirios Sarantakos, Children in three contexts: Family, education, and social development, Children Australia Volume 21, No. 3, 1996 139 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, learned ASG conclude that non-heterosexual couples cannot eff ectively take up the role of parents. The studies neither indicate that only married (and not unmarried) couples can be in a stable relationship nor that only married couples have the ability to eff ectively parent children. Thus, the Union of India has not submitted any cogent material to substantiate the claim that unmarried couples cannot be in a stable relationship. The Union of India has not been able to demonstrate that a single parent who adopts a child will provide a more stable environment for a child who is adopted than an unmarried couple. For all these reasons, Regulations 5(2)(a) and 5(3) of the Adoption Regulations are violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. 306. Further, in terms of Section 58(2) of the JJ Act, the Specialised Adoption Agency is required to prepare a home study report of the prospective adoptive parents. It is only when the prospective adoptive parents are found eligible after the home study report that a child is referred to them for adoption. Section 58(5) provides that the progress and wellbeing of the child shall be ascertained after the adoption. The procedure for adoption provides for the assessment of a couple and their capacity and ability to care for a child. Any areas of concern relating to a couple’s capability as a parent would be discernible in the home study. This is true of both heterosexual couples as well as queer couples. The home study must consider the couple’s capability without reference to their sexual orientation. III. Regulation 5(3) of the Adoption Regulations violates Article 15 of the Constitution 307. Ms. Aishwarya Bhati referred to the of this Court in Shabnam Hashmi v. Union of India265 to argue that the fundamental right to adopt is not recognised under the Constitution and thus, the exclusion of queer persons from the scheme for adoption is not violative of Part III of the Constitution. In Shabnam Hashmi (supra), a petition was fi led under Article 32 of the Constitution seeking a declaration that the Constitution guarantees the right to adopt, and in the alternative, requesting the court to law down guidelines enabling adoption by persons irrespective of religion, caste, and creed. This Court disposed of the petition by observing that the adjudication of the question of whether adoption must be elevated to the status of a fundamental right must await the “dissipation of confl icting 265 (2014) 4 SCC 1 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR.