According to the learned counsel, C the Panchayat has a public duty to safeguard the areas and persons within its jurisdiction against environmental pollution and that the precautionary principle requires to be applied. The learned counsel relied upon the decisions of this Court in Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) vs. Abhilash Lal & Ors.4 and A.P. Pollution Control D Board vs. Prof. M.V. Nayudu (Retd.) and Ors.5 16. But the above argument is completely misconceived. Section 10 of the Kerala MSME Act does not override the provisions of any of the pollution control laws such as Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, Water (Prevention E and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974. The Kerala MSME Act overrides the 1994 Act and a few other local enactments. This is why the writ petitioners have taken “consent” from the Pollution Control Board. Once consent is taken from the Pollution Control Board, the necessity for reading down Section 10 of the Kerala MSME Act, for the purpose of protecting the environment, does not arise. F 17. The argument that Panchayat being the grassroot institution, has the right of participation in decision making, is again misconceived. All Panchayats want motorable roads. But if they do not want road construction materials to be manufactured within their Panchayat, we do not know where from these materials can be imported. Therefore, the reliance placed G by the learned counsel for the objectors on the decision of this Court in Lafarge Umiam Mining Private Limited in T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad vs. Union of India and Ors.6, is also misplaced. 4 (2020) 13 SCC 234 5 (1999) 2 SCC 718 H 6 (2011) 7 SCC 338 JOLLY GEORGE AND ANR. v. GEORGE ELIAS AND 421 ASSOCIATES AND ORS. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] 18. In fact, arguments were advanced also on the question whether A the Hot Mix Plant is portable or whether it is a temporary or permanent structure etc. But we do not think that it is necessary to go into the said question, because the Acknowledgement Certificate obtained under the Kerala MSME Act, alone is sufficient to clinch the issue in favour of the writ petitioner. B 19. In view of the above, the writ petitioner who is respondent No.1 in three of these appeals and the appellant in one of these appeals is entitled to the reliefs sought in both the writ petitions. Accordingly, the appeal filed by the writ petitioner George Elias and Associates is allowed, the impugned s are set aside and the writ petitions filed by George C Elias and Associates are allowed. The appeals filed by the objectors, namely, the people of the locality are dismissed. There will be no as to costs. Ankit Gyan Appeals disposed of. D (Assisted by : Aarsh Choudhary, LCRA) E F G H