However, no evidence was adduced on the side of the prosecution to establish that Poonam is actually the sister of the appellants or at least one of them. The materials on record would reveal that Poonam is the daughter of one Balwan Singh, and the fi rst appellant Krishan Kumar is the son of one Om Prakash and the second appellant Joginder Singh is the son of one Zile Singh. This fact, which is evident from the evidence on record, would undoubtedly reveal that they are not sibship and then, the question is what is the proximity of the blood between them. Virtually, no evidence was adduced by the prosecution in that regard and in fact, on that aspect also prosecution relies only on the extra judicial confession made by the appellants before PW-7. 34. As noted hereinbefore the next link in the chain of circumstances relied on by the prosecution is the extra judicial confession allegedly made by the appellants to PW-7. True that the extra judicial confession cannot always be taken as a weak piece of evidence and the question whether it is worthy to be taken as admissible and to form basis for conviction in KRISHAN KUMAR AND ANR. v. THE STATE OF 881 HARYANA [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] a criminal trial would depend upon veracity of the witness to whom the confession was allegedly made. 35. In the decision in Chattar Singh and Anr. v. State of Haryana11 this Court held that after subjecting the evidence of the witness to a rigorous test on the touchstone of credibility the extra judicial confession could be accepted and it could be the basis of a conviction if it passes the touchstone of credibility. 36. In the decision in Balwinder Singh v. State of Punjab12, this Court held thus: - “An extrajudicial confession by its very nature is rather a weak type of evidence and requires appreciation with a great deal of care and caution. Where an extrajudicial confession is surrounded by suspicious circumstances, its credibility becomes doubtful and it loses its importance.” 37. In Ajay Singh v. State of Maharashtra13, this Court held thus:- “8. We shall fi rst deal with the question regarding claim of extra- judicial confession. Though it is not necessary that the witness should speak the exact words but there cannot be vital and material diff erence. While dealing with a stand of extra-judicial confession, court has to satisfy that the same was voluntary and without any coercion and undue infl uence. Extra-judicial confession can form the basis of conviction if persons before whom it is stated to be made appear to be unbiased and not even remotely inimical to the accused. Where there is material to show animosity, court has to proceed cautiously and fi nd out whether confession just like any other evidence depends on veracity of witness to whom it is made. It is not invariable that the court should not accept such evidence if actual words as claimed to have been spoken are not reproduced and the substance is given.