(2) For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that- (a) nothing in sub-section (1) shall be construed in preventing any person- (i) from questioning, in accordance with the provisions of this Act, the assessment, levy, charge, payment or collection of the aforesaid tax; or (ii) from claiming refund of the aforesaid tax paid by him in excess of the amount due from him under this act; and NHPC LTD. v. STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH 33 SECRETARY & ORS.[B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] (b) no act or omission on the part of any person, before the commencement of this act, shall be punishable as an off ence which would not have been so punishable as if this Act had not come into force.” Analysis: “It is when things go wrong that the retroactive validating statute often becomes indispensable as a curative measure; though the proper movement of law is forward in time, we sometimes have to stop and turn about and pick up the pieces.” - Lon Fuller, The Morality of Law (1960). 10. Since these appeals concern, inter-alia, the issue, as to, whether, by enacting the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997, the Himachal Pradesh State Legislature has validly removed the basis of the of the Division Bench of the High Court dated 27 March, 1997, it would be useful to discuss the law on the adoption of the legislative device of abrogation, to remove the basis of a of a Court in a legislation. 10.1. In the following decisions, this Court has laid down the law with regard to the permissible extent and manner of removing the material basis of a , by correcting the anomalies pointed out by a Court in a legislation: i. In M/s. Tirath Ram Rajendra Nath, Lucknow vs. State of Uttar Pradesh, A.I.R. 1973 SC 405, this Court held that there is a distinction between encroachment on the judicial power and nullifi cation of the eff ect of a judicial decision by changing the law retrospectively. The former is outside the competence of the legislature but the latter is within its permissible limits. In that case, the U.P. Sales Tax Act (Amendment and Validation) Act, 1970 was upheld by this Court. ii. In Hindustan Gum and Chemicals Ltd. vs. State of Haryana, (1985) 4 SCC 124, this Court held that it is permissible for a competent legislature to overcome the eff ect of a decision of a court setting aside the imposition of a tax by passing a suitable Legislation, by amending the relevant provisions of the statute 34 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. concerned with retrospective eff ect, thus taking away the basis on which the decision of the court has been rendered and by enacting an appropriate provision validating the levy and collection of tax made before the decision in question was rendered. In that decision, reliance was placed on Shri Prithvi Cotton Mills Ltd. vs. Broach Borough Municipality, A.I.R 1970 SC 192, a Constitution Bench decision of this Court, which has laid down the requirements which a validating law should satisfy in to validate the levy and collection of a tax which has been declared earlier by a court as illegal.