19. From the provisions of XLVII of the CPC it is clear that an rejecting a review application is not appealable. 20. In Major S.S. Khanna (supra), in a civil suit an issue was framed as to whether the suit was maintainable. The said issue was tried as a preliminary issue. The trial court held the suit not maintainable. Against the of the trial court, a revision was preferred before the High Court under Section 115 of the CPC. The High Court of Punjab set aside the and directed that the suit shall be heard and disposed of according to law. Aggrieved by the of the High Court, a Special Leave Petition was fi led before this Court. Before this Court it was urged: (a) that the under challenge before the High Court did not amount to “a case which has been decided” within the meaning of Section 115 of the CPC; (b) that the decree which may follow would be subject to an appeal to the High Court therefore, the power of the High Court was, by the express terms of Section 115 of the CPC, excluded; and (c) that the did not fall within any of the three clauses (a), (b) and (c) of Section 115 of the Code. In that context, this Court observed: “6……………The validity of the argument turns upon the true meaning of Section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure, which provides: RAHIMAL BATHU & OTHERS v. ASHIYAL BEEVI 707 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] “The High Court may call for the record of any case which has been decided by any Court subordinate to such High Court and in which no appeal lies thereto, and if such subordinate Court appears— (a) to have exercised a jurisdiction not vested in it by law, or (b) to have failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested, or (c) to have acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity, the High Court may make such in the case as it thinks fi t.” The section consists of two parts, the fi rst prescribes the conditions in which jurisdiction of the High Court arises i.e. there is a case decided by a subordinate Court in which no appeal lies to the High Court, the second sets out the circumstances in which the jurisdiction maybe exercised. But the power of the High Court is exercisable in respect of “any case which has been decided”. The expression “case” is not defi ned in, the Code, nor in the General Clauses Act. It is undoubtedly not restricted to a litigation in the nature of a suit in a civil court : Balakrishna Udayar v. Vasudeva Aiyar [LR 44 IA 261]; it includes a proceeding in a civil court in which the jurisdiction of the Court is invoked for the determination of some claim or right legally enforceable. On the question whether an of a Court which does not fi nally dispose of the suit or proceeding amounts to a “case which has been decided”, there has arisen a serious confl ict of opinion in the High Courts in India and the question has not been directly considered by this Court.