(2) Where the said quota is in the proportion of 1:3 the seniority shall be in the following - G First … Promotee Second to Fourth … Direct recruits Fifth … Promotee Sixth to eight … Direct recruits H SUSHIL PANDEY v. STATE OF U.P. THR. PRINCIPAL 219 SECRETARY (HOME) [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] and so on: A Provided that- (i) Where appointment from any source are made in excess of the prescribed quota, the persons appointed in excess of the prescribed quota, the persons appointed in excess of quota B shall be pushed down, for seniority, to subsequent year or years in which there are vacancies in accordance with the quota; (ii) Where appointments from any source fall short of the prescribed quota and appointment against such unfilled C vacancies are made in subsequent year or years, the persons so appointed shall not get seniority of any earlier year but shall get the seniority of the year in which their appointments, are made, so however, that their names shall be placed at the top followed by the names, in the cyclic of the other appointees; D (iii) Where, in accordance with the service rules the unfilled vacancies from any source could, in the circumstances mentioned in the relevant service rules be filled from the other sources and appointment in excess of quota are so made, the persons so appointed shall get the seniority of that very year E as if they are appointed against the vacancies of their quota.” (quoted verbatim from the paperbook) 9. Appellants have also argued against inclusion of the names of expired or superannuated persons in the selection list. Their contention is that the names of the dead or superannuated persons ought not to F have been included at all in the selection list and those promotee officers with seniority ranking lower than them ought to have been pushed up and accommodated in the position allocated to the dead or superannuated officers. 10. On the question of granting seniority to the directly recruited G officers in the select list treating them as senior to the appellants, three authorities have been relied upon by the appellants. These are State of Uttar Pradesh vs. Ashok Kumar Srivastava & Anr. [(2014) 14 SCC 720], K. Meghachandra Singh & Ors. vs. Ningam Siro & Ors. [(2020) 5 SCC 689] and B. S. Murthy & Ors. vs. A. Ravinder Singh H 220 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A & Ors. [2022 SCC Online SC 317]. These decisions hold against giving retrospective seniority. In the case of B. S. Murthy (supra) it has been held:- “60. From the above discussion, it is clear that no appointee from any one channel (direct recruits or promotees) can lay B claim to seniority from a date before her or his appointment. That being the position in law, it would be now necessary to consider the reasons which weighed with the High Court to hold that promotees (in regular and substantive capacity from 1988) had to make way for direct recruits, who were appointed in 1991-92.