After MWL signs, the colonies are not in submerged area. The survey numbers mentioned above the green ink of the map are recognised beyond the limits of MWL. After marking D MWL signs, the permission of construction can be granted. I examined the case and minutely perused the aforesaid investigation report, Panchnama, and map submitted by the Committee constituted by this Court. Being consented (sic satisfied) with the report of investigation team and as per the E Mandsaur Development Scheme 2001, the MWL. (Maximum Water Level) Limit signs which are mentioned in Green ink and the demarcation map of MWL limits of Telia Talab in the report of Investigation Team, as the colonies situated outside the Signs are not submerged and hence, construction F permission can be given to the colonies situated outside the signs. This map shall be a part of this .” 8. The report submitted to the Collector and made by him became the subject matter of controversy before the NGT. An application (No. 17/2018), objecting to the correction of the submergence area and the MWL, was filed by the applicant who moved the earlier O.A. No. G 100/2015. The applicant’s grievance was that the NGT had prohibited any construction in the water bound area and within limits of the MWL and FWL of the talab. The argument made out was that the map prepared subsequently and taken on record by the Collector’s dated 06.06.2017, could not be sustained. The Madhya Pradesh Pollution H 1074 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Control Board in its reply stated that the alteration of the boundaries of the talab did not fall within its jurisdiction. It was stated, however, that the Board had issued notice to the Parishad from time to time to comply with provisions of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act 1974 (hereafter ‘Water Act’). This was recorded by the NGT in its . It was further recorded that the Collector’s team had inspected B the area and found that 10 colonies were existing within 3 kilometres from the talab, and further that untreated sewage water was being discharged in it. By its dated 21.09.2020 (hereafter ‘second ’) the NGT severely chastised the State, the Parishad, and district revenue authorities, and directed them to immediately proceed to demarcate the C water body and the area which was previously within the area of the water body, to ensure that it was not reduced in any manner. The NGT also prohibited grant of permission for construction without the demarcation of the area of the water bodies, and up to the MWL. It further directed that the entire Khasra No. 1238 should be protected and that the water body should not be disturbed. D Contentions of counsel for the parties 9. Ms. Meenakshi Arora, learned senior counsel appearing for the society, argued that the NGT’s impugned s are erroneous on two counts. Firstly, that it did not consider or deal with the fact that the E portions of KhasraNo.1238 was purchased by the society over four decades ago, with the hard-earned money of its members, who were lowly paid workers.