It may be noticed that there is a slight difference in Section 14(3) of the said Act, which uses the term ‘shall lie’ as against the aforesaid statutory provision where the expression used is ‘shall be instituted’. Further, the relevant provision in B. Banerjee’s7 case was E introduced by amendment retrospectively. 10. Appellant contended that ‘shall lie’, which is the expression used in Section 14(3) of the said Act, implies that the suit would lie defective for five years and thereafter stand cured. In this regard, the appellant relied on Martin & Harris Ltd. v. VIth Additional Distt. Judge and Ors.8, where it wasnoticed in the context of the U.P. Urban F Buildings (Regulation of Letting, Rent and Eviction) Act, 1972, that the bar was only on deciding the suit and not filing it. A suit could thus be entertained after expiry of three years. In Vithalbhai (P) Ltd. v. Union Bank of India,9it was opined that a premature suit does not affect the jurisdiction of the Court, and the suit can be entertained after maturity, G particularly if it does not prejudice the other side. 7 (supra). 8 (1998) 1 SCC 732. 9 (2005) 4 SCC 315. H 592 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 11. It was stated that the observations in R. Rajagopal Reddy (Dead) by LRs and Others v. Padmini Chandrasekharan (Dead) by LRs10 were not applicable, as the said case dealt with Section 4(1) of the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988, which provided for an absolute bar on filing of the suit unlike Section 14(3) of the said Act. B Respondent’s Contentions before this Court: 12. On behalf of the respondent, it was urged that the word ‘lie’ used in Section 14(3) of the said Act had not been defined. The dictionary meaning of the expression would be ‘For an action, claim appeal etc. to subsist; be maintainable or admissible’, as enunciated in R. C Rajagopal’s11 case. Since the suit itself was not maintainable, no decree can be passed. 13. It was also urged that if the intention of the legislature was that the eviction decree can be passed after expiry of five years, then Section 14(3) of the said Act would have been worded differently. D 14. The in B. Banerjee’s12 case was sought to be distinguished, as it pertained to the constitutional validity of a retrospective amendment introduced in Section 13(3A) of the West Bengal Premises Tenancy Act, 1956, and whether the said bar could be applied to pending litigation. E Our Consideration: 15. In to analyze the expression used in Section 14(3) of the said Act, we think it is appropriate to consider the objective of this provision. This provision is for the protection of a tenant. The objective is that from the date a tenant acquires a right, he must have a right to F continue in the premises for a period of five years, subject to his fulfillment of the terms and conditions of the lease. 16. When we turn to the facts of the present case, what stares us in the face is that while the suit may have been defectively instituted within five years of the tenancy, more than 38 years have now elapsed G since the suit was filed.