Therefore, on this ground also the land acquisition proceedings have been vitiated. 8.13 There is a non-compliance of mandatory requirement under Rule 4 of the Rules, 1963. Before initiating land acquisition proceedings for the company, the Government shall direct the Collector to submit a E report to it on the mattes mentioned in Rule 4 including which are:- “(i) that the Company has made its best endeavour to find out lands in the locality suitable for the purpose of the acquisition; (ii) that the Company has made all reasonable efforts to get such lands by negotiation with the persons interested therein on payment F of reasonable price and such efforts have failed; (iii) that the land proposed to be acquired is suitable for the purpose; (iv) that the area of land proposed to be acquired is not excessive; (v) that the Company is in a position to utilise the land expeditiously; G and (vi) where the land proposed to be acquired is good agricultural land, that no alternative suitable site can be found so as to avoid acquisition of that land.” H ANIL AGARWAL FOUNDATION ETC. ETC. v. STATE OF 1021 ORISSA AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] 8.14 As per Rule 4(2)(i) in any case where the land proposed to A be acquired is agricultural lands, the Collector is required to consult the Senior Agricultural Officer of the District whether or not such land is good agricultural land. The Collector is also required to satisfy and determine having regard to the provisions of Sections 23 and 24 of the Act, the approximate amount of compensation likely to be payable in B respect of the land, which, in the opinion of the Collector, should be acquired for the company. 8.15 From the material on record, the High Court has given the specific findings that there is a non-compliance of mandatory provisions under Rules 3 and 4 of the Rules, 1963 and therefore, the entire acquisition C proceedings for the beneficiary company has been vitiated and there are checks and balances and certain mandatory procedures and requirements are to be satisfied, more particularly, when the lands are to be acquired for the company, the same have to be adhered to and non- consideration of the relevant aspects, which are mandatory to be considered under Rule 4 would vitiate the entire acquisition proceedings D as the subjective satisfaction by the State Government has been vitiated on non-consideration of the relevant aspects, more particularly, the aspects mentioned in Rule 4. 8.16 Even there is a specific finding recorded by the High Court that the beneficiary company has not executed the MoU as required E under Section 41 of the Act that the State Government even undertaking as provided in sub-sections (1), (2) and (3) of Section 41. While ing so, in paragraph 53, the High Court has observed as under:- “53. Further as could be seen from the original records of the State Government that issuance of the preliminary notifications F and obtaining agreements from the Vedanta Foundation and the beneficiary company are also bad in law for the reason that we have answered point no.