C 18. Having reached to the conclusion that family of petitioner includes her brother-in-law, his wife and their children also, the present eviction petition is maintainable at the instance of the petitioner. Now, I shall proceed to discuss the bonafide requirement as claimed by the petitioner. D 19. Apparently, only two bedrooms are available with the petitioner/ landlady. She alongwith her family consists of six members. Out of six members, two are young unmarried daughters and one is a teenage son. It goes without saying that young children require separate rooms to sleep and study. Three children of brother-in- E law of petitioner require at least two bedrooms if two out of three share one bedroom. Similarly, they require at least one study room. The Petitioner’s brother-in-law and his wife require one bedroom. The petitioner also require a separate bedroom. One bedroom is also required for the temporary stay of married daughter of petitioner’s brother-in-law as she comes to the suit property to F visit petitioner as well as her family and stay with the petitioner out of love and affection. The petitioner being an old lady also requires a puja room to spend her spare time to explore the spiritual path. She being an old lady also requires assistance of a servant to perform her daily chores and so needs one room for her servant. G Hence, the need of rooms by the petitioner condensed to at least eight rooms, whereas she has only two bedrooms and it is not the business of the court to ask the petitioner to carve out the space for rooms from the existing drawing room, lobby, storerooms etc. 20. The other ground taken for bonafide requirement is that the H 502 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A third daughter of her brother in law Ms. Charu Sharma wants to open play way to sustain herself and her family and she requires at least two rooms with toilet, kitchen and veranda for opening a play way. This fact has been mentioned in para no.9 of column no. 18(a) of the eviction petition and the same has not been denied in the written statement of the respondent. Further, no cross- B examination on this point has been done either of the petitioner or Charu Sharma, who appeared as a witness on behalf of the petitioner. Thus, it seems that petitioner has accepted this ground of bonafide requirement. Therefore, the petitioner has proved by preponderance of probabilities that she requires the tenanted C premises for her bonafide requirement.” 5.1. As regards the description of property, learned Rent Controller found the same duly clarified and not operating against bona fide requirement of the appellant with the following observations and findings:- “21. So far as the sales of the property no. C-588 and C-600, Gali D no.12, Majlispark, Azadpur, Delhi by petitioner’s brother-in-law and his wife are concerned, it is observed here that the said properties were sold on 23.06.2010 for consideration of Rs.16,00,000/- and there may be hundreds of reasons to sell the property and that too were in the year 2010.Therefore, this fact E does not go against the bonafide need of the petitioner because at that time petitioner might not have felt the need for more accommodation.