The extract of the clarification made by the Government in meeting out the exigencies as demanded and to F streamline the on-going litigation, under its directive dated 17th October, 2022 is reproduced as under:- “If for any reason a candidate has not produced a certificate issued till the last date of application form and produces a certificate which is issued after the last date of filling application form then in that case candidate should write an affidavit to this aspect that G he was having the qualification of respective class and if the information is found incorrect then the appointment shall be cancelled.” 14. For the sake of repetition, it may be noticed that it is not the case of the respondent that either the appellant is not holding eligibility of H SAKSHI ARHA v. THE RAJASTHAN HIGH COURT AND 599 OTHERS [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] the respective category of which he/she belongs in terms of advertisement A dated 22nd July, 2021 and their only fault is that their certificate relating to category is of a date later to the last date of application (i.e. 31st August, 2021) in terms of notice dated 04th October, 2022 demanding for furnishing the certificate relating to category to which they were provisionally called for interview. B 15. On a writ petition being filed by the appellants assailing the action of the respondent in not permitting them of claiming benefit of reservation to which they belong and each of them have qualified after securing more marks over the cut-off of respective category, the Division Bench of the High Court has non-suited their claim on the premise that C each of them had failed to furnish certificate of their category as required on the last date of application i.e. 31st August, 2021 by placing reliance on the of this Court in Ashok Kumar Sonkar vs. Union of India and Others (2007) 4 SCC 54 held that the last date of application is a touchstone for determining the eligibility and since each of them had failed to furnish their respective certificate relating to category on or D before 31st August, 2021, they are held ineligible from being considered in the respective category and since each of them had not been able to qualify in the open category considered unsuitable for appointment to the post of Civil Judge, under the impugned dated 18th August, 2022 in the case of Jyoti Beniwal vs. The Rajasthan High Court, E Jodhpur Through Its Registrar General and Another (D.B. Civil Writ Petition No.11784/2022) and that was referred to in the subsequent writ petitions filed and all were disposed of placing reliance on the of Jyoti Beniwal (Supra)by subsequent impugned dated 06th September, 2022 and in the case of appellant Parul Jain, separate was passed on 18th November, 2022 relying on the F same of High Court in Jyoti Beniwal (Supra)and that became the subject matter of challenge in appeal before us. 16. Learned counsel for the appellants jointly submit that it was nowhere indicated at any stage that certificate of the category upto which date is to be furnished by the applicants/candidates while claiming G reservation and each of the appellant holds the certificate of their respective category and accordingly, each of them mentioned in their application form with regard to the category they intend to participate in the selection process and although the permission granted to appear in the preliminary examination was provisional but no one has examined at H 600 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R.