(13) It shall be the responsibility of the SJPU, or the local police to keep the child and child’s parent or guardian or other person in whom the child has trust and confi dence, and where a support person has been assigned, such person, informed about the developments, including the arrest of the accused, applications fi led and other court proceedings. (14) SJPU or the local police shall also inform the child and child’s parents or guardian or other person in whom the child has trust and confi dence about their entitlements and services available to them under the Act or any other law for the time being applicable as per Form-A. It shall also complete the Preliminary Assessment Report in Form B within 24 hours of the registration of the First Information Report and submit it to the CWC. (15) The information to be provided by the SJPU, local police, or support person, to the child and child’s parents or guardian or other person in whom the child has trust and confi dence, includes but is not limited to the following:- (i) the availability of public and private emergency and crisis services; (ii) the procedural steps involved in a criminal prosecution; (iii) the availability of victim’s compensation benefi ts; 666 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. (iv) the status of the investigation of the crime, to the extent it is appropriate to inform the victim and to the extent that it will not interfere with the investigation; (v) the arrest of a suspected off ender; (vi) the fi ling of charges against a suspected off ender; (vii) the schedule of court proceedings that the child is either required to attend or is entitled to attend; (viii) the bail, release or detention status of an off ender or suspected off ender; (ix) the rendering of a verdict after trial; and (x) the sentence imposed on an off ender. 5. Interpreters, translators, special educators, experts and support persons.– […] (10) The interpreter, translator, special educator, expert, support person or person familiar with the manner of communication of the child engaged to provide services for the purposes of the Act shall be unbiased and impartial and shall disclose any real or perceived confl ict of interest and shall render a complete and accurate interpretation or translation without any additions or omissions, in accordance with section 282 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974). (11) In proceedings under section 38, the Special Court shall ascertain whether the child speaks the language of the court adequately, and that the engagement of any interpreter, translator, special educator, expert, support person or other person familiar with the manner of communication of the child, (12) Any interpreter, translator, special educator, expert or support person appointed under the Act shall be bound by the rules of confi dentiality, as described under section 127 read with section 126 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872). 10. Procedure for imposition of fi ne and payment thereof.–– (1) The CWC shall coordinate with the DLSA to ensure that any amount of fi ne imposed by the Special Court under the Act which is to be paid to the victim, is in fact paid to the child.