C In the recommendation meeting, a recommendation has been made by the committee to approve your proposal as a theme- based mall as per the policy promulgated. Sent for information and necessary action.” 4. Acting on and relying upon the letter aforesaid, the petitioner D appears to have addressed various communications on 12.12.2016, 30.05.2017 and 19.02.2018 to UPSIDC for conversion of the subject land from leasehold to freehold but, all these communications were of no avail. 5. In the backdrop of events as aforesaid, it shall now be apposite E to refer to the other writ petition pending in this Court, which has been filed by the director of petitioner-company, Satinder Singh Bhasin, being W.P. (Crl.) 242 of 2019, and wherein the came to be passed for transfer of the present writ petition to this Court. 5.1. Shorn of unnecessary details, it appears that various persons F were allotted commercial spaces in the mall and the commercial tower by the petitioner-company and its directors but, in due course of time, several FIRs were registered against them, alleging fraud, failure to give assured returns, non-completion of project on time, and siphoning of money and using it for advertising and procuring other projects. The allegations in those FIRs and refutation thereof are not of much relevance G for the present purpose and do not require dilation herein. 5.2. The relevant aspect of the matter is that the petitioner of W.P. (Crl.) No. 242 of 2019, director of the present petitioner-company, with reference to the position that several FIRs had been registered in the State of Uttar Pradesh and NCT of Delhi, has made the prayer in H BHASIN INFOTECH AND INFRASTRUCTURE PRIVATE LTD. 1075 v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] the said writ petition, inter alia, for consolidation of investigation and A trial against him. While entertaining that writ petition, this Court, by the dated 06.11.2019, granted the concession of bail to the petitioner in relation to all the FIRs referred to in prayer clause (c) and concerning the project “Grand Venice” in NCR. While laying down conditions for bail, this Court also expressed hope that the petitioner therein (director B of the present petitioner-company) shall be making all possible attempts to settle the claims of complainants concerned. Again, by dated 24.01.2020, it was clarified that the parties were free to approach Delhi High Court Mediation Centre for resolution of disputes inter-se through mediation process. Thereafter, in the dated 20.08.2020, willingness of the said petitioner was recorded to offer possession as also to facilitate C execution of necessary agreement/sub-lease in favour of the complainants. 5.3. Thereafter, an application (I.A. No. 124952 of 2021), came to be filed in W.P. (Crl.) 242 of 2019 for cancellation of bail granted to the said petitioner on the ground that he was not facilitating execution of D tripartite agreement amongst the builder, unit buyers and UPSIDA. During the course of consideration of the said application, this Court took note of the submissions of learned counsel for the petitioner that the apprehension, which formed the basis for filing the application, could be dispelled by calling upon the State of Uttar Pradesh to decide the proposal E for converting the user of subject land to freehold, particularly when the Committee concerned had already recommended so.