Except in one D case, namely, Rekha Rani (supra), in all other cases, the Allahabad High Court as such has upheld the levy of development charges/fees. However, the other levies/demands are concerned, i.e., other than development fees/charges, more particularly the sub-division charges etc., the High Court has set aside the said levy and/or demand notices on the ground that U.P. Urban Planning and Development Act, 1973 (hereinafter E referred to as the ‘Act, 1973’) does not permit the levy of other charges other than provided under Section 15(2-A) of the Act, 1973. The High Court has also observed and held that such levy on the basis of the s issued by the State Government, issued in exercise of powers under Section 41 of the Act, 1973, is illegal and bad in law. The levy of F other charges, other than development fees/charges is held to be bad in law and in violation of Article 265 of the Constitution of India. 3.1 Quashing and setting aside the levy/demand notices with respect to external/internal development charges, inspection fee/ supervision fee while granting of sanction layout plan, sub-division charges, G stacking charges and impact fee etc. is the subject matter of present appeals. The State of U.P. has also preferred appeal being Civil Appeal No. 4489/2014 [Rekha Rani (supra)] challenging the impugned and passed by the High Court by which the High Court has set aside the levy/demand with respect to development charges/fees also. H 904 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 4. Shri Rana Mukherjee, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the State of U.P. has vehemently submitted that the State of U.P. in exercise of powers under Section 41 of the Act, 1973 issued s permitting the Development Authorities in the State to recover the charges /fees with respect to external/internal development charges, inspection fee/supervision fee while granting of sanction layout plan, B development charges, sub-division charges, stacking charges and impact fee etc. It is submitted that the said s came to be issued in exercise of powers under Section 41 of the Act, 1973, which as such were in the larger public interest and for development of the area including the development plan/scheme and for development of other areas included C within the limits of Development Authorities. 4.1 It is further submitted by Shri Rana Mukherjee, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the State of U.P. that as such the levy towards the development charges/fees has been upheld by this Court in the case of State of U.P. & Others v. Malti Kaul (Smt.) & Another, D reported in (1996) 10 SCC 425. It is submitted that therefore the High Court in the case of Rekha Rani (supra) (Civil Appeal No. 4489/2014) ought not to have and could not have set aside the levy of development charges/fees which as such came to be affirmed by this Court. 4.2 Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective E Development Authorities, while adopting the submissions made by Shri Rana Mukherjee, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the State of U.P., have further submitted that in fact they collected the respective charges, other than development charges/fees, under the s issued by the State Government.