From the above, it will be seen that in spite of the fact that the Council of Ministers is collectively responsible to the House D of the People, there may be an occasion where the conduct of a Minister may be censured if he or his subordinates have blundered and have acted contrary to law.” 124. Again in paragraph 36 this Court held as follows: “36. Even in England, all Ministers and servants of the Crown E are accountable to the courts for the legality of their actions, and may be held civilly and criminally liable, in their individual capacities, for tortious or criminal acts. This liability may be enforced either by means of ordinary criminal or civil proceedings or by means of impeachment, a remedy which is probably obsolete. They are F also subject to the judicial review jurisdiction of the courts. [See: Halsbury’s Laws of England, Fourth Edn., (Re-issue), Vol. 8(2), para 422. ]” 125. In State (NCT of Delhi) vs. Union of India111, the Constitution Bench of this Court was concerned with the interpretation G of Article 239AA of the Constitution. The concept of collective responsibility was dealt with extensively by Dipak Misra, C.J., as he then was, from paragraphs 82 to 85. In his independent but concurring opinion Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, J. also dealt with the question of collective responsibility from paragraphs 318 onwards. H 111 (2018) 8 SCC 501 KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 701 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] 126. What follows from the above discussion is, (i) that the concept A of collective responsibility is essentially a political concept; (ii) that the collective responsibility is that of the Council of Ministers; and (iii) that such collective responsibility is to the House of the People/Legislative Assembly of the State. Generally, such responsibility correlates to (i) the decisions taken; and (ii) the acts of omission and commission done. B It is not possible to extend this concept of collective responsibility to any and every statement orally made by a Minister outside the House of the People/Legislative Assembly. 127. Shri Kaleeswaram Raj, learned counsel appearing for the special leave petitioner drew our attention to the code of conduct for C Ministers of the Government of Australia, code of conduct for Ministers of the Government of India and the Ministerial Code of the United Kingdom. However, attractive such prescriptions may be, it is not possible to enforce such code of conduct in a court of law. Government servants stand on a different footing, as any misconduct on their part with reference to the Government Servants (Conduct) Rules, may attract disciplinary D action under the Civil Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules. Even in the case of Government servants, it may not be possible to justify a dismissal/removal from service on the basis of a statement uttered by a Government servant, as it may not pass the proportionality test, viz-a- viz the gravity of the misconduct. E 128. The suggestion made by Shri Kaleeswaram Raj that the Prime Minister, in the case of a Minister of the Union of India and the Chief Minister, in the case of a Minister of the State should be allowed to take appropriate action, against the erring Minister, is just fanciful.