9. During the course of investigation, it was revealed that the B petitioner Anoop Bartaria, his companies M/s World Trade Park Ltd. and M/s Sincere Infrastructure Private Ltd. had received more than Rs. 160 crores defrauded funds from the accounts of fictitious firms/ companies created and operated by Bharat Bomb namely M/s B.K. Builders, M/s Raj Darbar Material Trading Pvt. Ltd., M/s Raj Darbar C Material Trading LLP, Jai Hanuman Construction & M/s Omnia Entertainment and Hospitality etc. 10. The petitioner-Anoop Bartaria therefore filed the writ petition being S.B. Criminal Writ Petition No. 704 of 2018 before the High Court, seeking prayer to quash the said ECIR dated 11.07.2016. However, pending the said petition, the Prosecution complaint based on the said D ECIR came to be filed against several persons including the present petitioners on 17.07.2018. The petitioners therefore filed S.B. Criminal Writ Petition No. 757 of 2018 seeking prayer to quash the said Prosecution complaint. Both the writ petitions came to be dismissed with cost of Rs. 50,000/- by the High Court vide the impugned . E 11. The bone of contention raised by the learned counsel Mr. Swadeep Hora for the petitioners is that the petitioners were neither named in the FIR registered by the CBI against the officers of the Syndicate Bank and Mr. Bharat Bomb nor they were named in the subsequent ECIR registered by the ED, however, the ED after the F investigation of the said ECIR has filed the Prosecution complaint falsely involving the petitioners in the same. According to him, the sine qua non and the essential ingredient for the offence of money laundering as defined in Section 3 read with Section 4 of the PMLA is that the person must be knowingly or actually involved in any process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime as defined under Section 2(1)(u) of the said Act G and, therefore, unless the said essential ingredient of knowledge is met out, no complaint or proceedings under the said Act could be initiated. In the instant case, the said pre-requisite for filing the complaint against the petitioners being missing, the complaint was not tenable in the eye of law, and that the continuation of any proceedings against the petitioners under the PMLA would be an abuse of process of law. H 536 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 12. Elaborating his submissions on the allegations made against the petitioners, Mr. Hora submitted that the petitioners had only “buyer- seller” relationship with Mr. Bharat Bomb and his associates, and that the petitioners had no knowledge that the money received by them was the proceeds of crime. In this regard Mr. Hora has placed reliance on Nikesh Tarachand Shah Vs. Union of India and Another1. He further B submitted that though initially Mr. Bharat Bomb had requested the petitioners to book certain units in the name of M/s Raj Darbar Material Trading Pvt. Ltd., subsequently he had requested to execute sale deeds in the name of various associated entities, and therefore 34 separate registered sale deeds were executed by the petitioners, and respective C amounts were received separately from each of the entity through demand drafts or RTGS, after refunding the amount received from M/s.