E 143. In the in support of the preliminary decree, the Trial Judge framed two issues as Issue Nos.7(a) and 7(b). Issue No.7(a) was as to whether the suit property detailed in Plaint Schedules IV, IVA and IVB were the Mathruka properties of Khurshid Jah. Issue No.7(b) was about the effect of the conclusions reached by Mirza Yar Jung F Committee in this behalf. 144. In the in support of the preliminary decree, the discussion under Issue Nos. 7(a) and 7(b) begins on a correct note to the effect that for a success in the case, the plaintiffs have to prove that the property was the property left behind by Khurshid Jah. It is G also noted at the very beginning of the discussion that the Mathruka property of Zafar Jung and Imam Jung is distinct from the Mathruka of Khurshid Jah. Interestingly, the in support of the preliminary decree records that while considering Issue No.7(a) it would be necessary to consider other connected issues, such as Issue No.8(a) which dealt with a settlement made by Khurshid Jah; Issue No.9 which H 350 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A dealt with the claim of defendant No.1 to be the sole owner of certain items of properties; Issue Nos.10 and 11which dealt with the ownership of two items and four items of property, respectively; Issue No.12 which dealt with the claim of defendant No.1 to specific items of properties; and Issue No.20 which dealt with the claim of defendant No.1 to be in adverse possession. B 145. Therefore, the discussion on Issue Nos.7(a) and 7(b) were divided by the Trial Judge into separate parts, with the first part dealing with Issue Nos.8(a), 11 and 12 and the next part dealing with Issue Nos.9 and 20 along with Issue Nos.7(a) and (b). C 146. By combining all these issues with Issue Nos. 7 (a) and (b), the Trial Judge seems to have simply lost his way out,resulting in no direct finding on Issue Nos.7(a) and 7(b). 147. The findings recorded by the Trial Judge under the heading “Issues 7(a) and 7(b) covering Issues 8(a) and 8(b), 9, 11, 12 and 20” are as follows: D (i) that there were two documents, one of partition and another of gift marked as Exhibits D.1(6) and D.1(29), relied upon by defendant Nos.1 and 2; (ii) that under these documents, Khurshid Jah made a E disposition of all his properties; (iii) that in one of the recitals contained in the document, he directed that the immovable properties divided among his two sons shall remain in his possession and at his disposal; (iv) that this recital gave the document, the colour of a Will; F (v) that the second document was in the nature of a codicil; (vi) that under Muslim law, a testamentary disposition can be made in respect of not more than 1/3rd of the properties; (vii) that if the disposition is in favour of an heir, it is invalid G unless consented to by the other heirs; (viii) that one of the heirs of Khurshid Jah did not give his consent and hence the Will was of no avail; (ix) that according to the testimony of DW-25 (Vittal Rai, an old employee of the Paigah), after the death of Khurshid H M/s TRINITY INFRAVENTURES LTD. & ORS.