22.4. The product in question, being undoubtedly covered by Serial No. 35 of Schedule K to the Rules of 1945 and being manufactured in G terms of the license issued under the Act of 1940, in our view, clearly satisfies the ingredients test. In other words, on its ingredients, the product is indeed a medicament carrying the combination of Homeopathic medicines. 23. In regard to the overt reliance of the appellant on the expression H “Hair Oil” used for the product by the respondent, it may also be observed COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 347 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] that small doses of the medicines in question would invariably require A some medium of administration. Learned counsel for the respondents has rightly submitted that in relation to the product in question, hair oil is only a medium through which the medicine is to be applied on the scalp, particularly when it is meant for nourishing the hair roots. 23.1. It is also apparent in the present case that the stand of the B Department to classify the product in question as ‘cosmetic’ under Chapter 33 is essentially based on the distinct entry “Hair Oil” occurring therein; and it appears that the expression “Hair Oil” occurring on the label of the product has been taken as decisive by them. For what has been discussed hereinabove, it would also follow as a natural corollary C that the expression “Hair Oil” occurring on the label of the product is only indicating the medium through which Homeopathic medicines comprising the product are to be applied. We are unable to accept the submissions and the efforts on the part of the appellant to take the product in question to Chapter 33 merely because of its label carrying the expression “Hair Oil” while ignoring the preceding significant expressions D “Homeo” and “Arnica”. As observed by this Court in BPL Pharmaceuticals (supra), for a product to be taken to Chapter 33, it has first to be a ‘cosmetic’. Similarly, reference to Note 1(e) of Chapter 30 also turns out to be of no relevance because the product in question cannot be said to be a preparation of Heading 3305 and then having E insignificant or subsidiary therapeutic or prophylactic properties. As regards the product in question, which is essentially made of Homeopathic medicines which have therapeutic and prophylactic uses, it cannot be said to be carrying only subsidiary pharmaceutical value. Putting it differently, we are satisfied that the product in question, AHAHO, is predominantly of pharmaceutical value and the item of cosmetic therein, F i.e., hair oil, is nothing but a medium for appropriate use of that pharmaceutical value. 23.2. In regard to the above, we find the consideration of this Court in the case of BPL Pharmaceuticals (supra) to be apposite to the questions before us. Therein, this Court was considering a product G sold by the assessee under the brand name “Selsun shampoo”. This Court found it to be medicament with reference to a variety of tests applied from different angles and after finding that its active ingredient was selenium sulfide.