No doubt, there was no interim , restraining such appointment but, at the same time, I.A. No. 63145 of 2021 in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 569 of 2021, seeking a direction to make appointment to the vacant post by an independent Body, was pending D consideration. Shri Prashant Bhushan would seek the invalidation of the appointment itself on the said score. 189. Since the Constitution Bench has been constituted to consider the need for a different method of appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioners, the procedure involved E in the appointment as has been followed throws up certain pertinent questions. Appointment is, admittedly, made from a panel of Senior Civil Servants, both retired and serving. Learned Attorney General would contend that the appointment is made from a panel of Officers. The current appointee was due to retire on 31.12.2022. From the date of birth of the other three persons, who formed the panel, we find that one F of the persons had superannuated, apparently, in the year 2020. Another Officer, whose name figured in the panel had also superannuated in the year 2020. The only other Officer, who was considered with the appointee, had also superannuated in the year 2020. As on 18.11.2022, if any of the three were considered and appointed, they would have had a tenure of G less than three years. This is for the reason that, under Section 4 of the 1991 Act, an Election Commissioner is entitled to a term of six years, subject, however, to the condition that the Officer would have to vacate the Office upon his reaching the age of 65 years. In fact, even the appointed Officer was due to retire on 31.12.2022, at the age of sixty years. He would have a term of a little over five years, on the basis of H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 155 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] the appointment made on 18.11.2022. He would be appointed not as a A Chief Election Commissioner but as an Election Commissioner. Both the Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioner, as per Section 4 of the 1991 Act, are to be appointed for a term of six years. 190. This brought up the question of Section 4, declaring a fixed term of six years from the date of assumption of Office, for a Chief B Election Commissioner and an Election Commissioner, being observed in its breach. The learned Attorney General would respond as follows. He pointed out that since the time, when the Election Commission became a multi-Member team, a convention has grown up of making appointments of persons, initially as Election Commissioners and the senior-most C Election Commissioner, unless considered unfit, is appointed as the Chief Election Commissioner. As far as Section 4, declaring that the Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioner are to be appointed for a term of six years and the appointments falling foul of the said mandate, the learned Attorney General would point out that the term of the Election Commissioner and the term as Chief Election Commissioner, D for those who are appointed as the Chief Election Commissioner, is aggregated.