Section 108 of the Customs Act as it stood at the relevant time is extracted as under:- 108. Power to summon persons to give evidence and produce documents.- (1) Any gazetted offi cer of customs duly empowered by the Central Government in this behalf shall have power to summon any person whose attendance he considers necessary either to give evidence or to produce a document or any other thing in any inquiry which such offi cer is making in connection with the smuggling of any goods. (2) A summons to produce documents or other things may be for the production of certain specifi ed documents or things or for the production of all documents or things of a certain description in the possession or under control of the person summoned. (3) All persons so summoned shall be bound to attend either in person or by an authorised agent, as such offi cer may direct; and all persons so summoned shall be bound to state the truth upon any subject respecting which they are examined or make statements and produce such documents and other things as may be required: Provided that the exemption under section 132 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), shall be applicable to any requisition for attendance under this section. (4) Every such inquiry as aforesaid shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning of section 193 and section 228 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (45 of 1860). 20. From a reading of the provisions of Section 108 of the Customs Act, as it stood at the relevant point of time, we fi nd that any gazetted offi cer of customs duly empowered by the Central Government had the authority COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS (IMPORTS), MUMBAI v. M/S GANPATI 195 OVERSEAS THR. ITS PROP. SHRI YASHPAL SHARMA [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] to summon a person whose attendance be considered necessary either to give evidence or to produce a document or any other thing in any inquiry which such offi cer was making with respect to the smuggling of any goods. A person so summoned was bound to make a statement as regards the subject which was being examined. Such an enquiry by the customs offi cer would be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning of Sections 193 and 228 of the Indian Penal Code. 21. While we are on Section 108 of the Customs Act, we may also advert to Section 24 of the Evidence Act, 1882 which deals with admissibility of a confession. Section 24 of the Evidence Act reads as under: 24. Confession caused by inducement, threat or promise, when irrelevant in criminal proceeding.––A confession made by an accused person is irrelevant in a criminal proceeding, if the making of the confession appears to the Court to have been caused by any inducement, threat or promise, having reference to the charge against the accused person, proceeding from a person in authority and suffi cient, in the opinion of the Court, to give the accused person grounds which would appear to him reasonable, for supposing that by making it he would gain any advantage or avoid any evil of a temporal nature in reference to the proceedings against him.