The second round of insurgency holds its origin to the latter part of 1980s. There was a troubled situation at the ground level, which was apparently not redressed. It culminated in the migration of one part of the population of the State 1989-90. It is something that our country has had to live with and without any redressal for the people who had to leave their home and hearth. It was not a voluntary migration. IINN RREE:: AARRTTIICCLLEE 337700 OOFF TTHHEE CCOONNSSTTIITTUUTTIIOONN 371 [[SSAANNJJAAYY KKIISSHHAANN KKAAUULL,, JJ..]] 114. The situation became so aggravated that the very integrity and sovereignty of our country was endangered and, thus, the Army had to be called in. Armies are meant to fight battles with enemies of the State and not really to control the law and situation within the State but then, these were peculiar times. The entry of the Army created its own ground realities in their endeavour to preserve the integrity of the State and the nation against foreign incursions. The men, women and children of the State have paid a heavy price. 115. During my travels home over the years, I have observed the social fabric waning, and the consequences of intergenerational trauma on an already fractured society. I cannot help but feel anguish for what peoples of the region have experienced and am constrained to write this Epilogue. 116. In to move forward, the wounds need healing. What is at stake is not simply preventing the recurrence of injustice, but the burden of restoring the region’s social fabric to what it has historically been based on – coexistence, tolerance and mutual respect. It is worth noting that even the partition of India in 1947 did not impair Jammu & Kashmir’s communal and social harmony. In this context, Mahatma Gandhi is famously quoted to have said that Kashmir was a ray of hope for humanity! 117. The first step towards this is to achieve a collective understanding of the human rights violations perpetrated both by State and non-State actors, against peoples of the region. There have been numerous reports documenting these incidents over the years. Yet, what is lacking is a commonly accepted narrative of what happened, or in other words, a collective telling of the “truth”. Internationally, the right of victims of human rights violations to the truth is an end in itself.131 It encompasses a structural investigation of the events and socio-political structures that led to the atrocity, the particular circumstances of individual suffering, and an authoritative reporting of 131 M. Klinkner and H. Davis, Tඁൾ Rං඀ඁඍ ඍඈ ඍඁൾ Tඋඎඍඁ ංඇ Iඇඍൾඋඇൺඍංඈඇൺඅ Lൺඐ: Vංർඍංආ’ඌ Rං඀ඁඍඌ ංඇ Hඎආൺඇ Rං඀ඁඍඌ ൺඇൽ Iඇඍൾඋඇൺඍංඈඇൺඅ Cඋංආංඇൺඅ Lൺඐ, 372 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. the results of the investigation.132 Additionally, truth-telling provides an opportunity for victims to narrate their stories, which facilitates an acknowledgement from those responsible for perpetuating the wrongs, and from society as a whole. This paves the way for reconciliation. 118. While there are different ways of achieving these objectives, truth and reconciliation commissions have been particularly effective globally.