H 708 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Therefore, by suitable legislation the protection should be made not to extend to negligent acts however honestly done and for this purpose the relevant clauses in such enactments should be examined. (v) The State should be subject to the same duties and should B have the same rights as a private employer under a statute, whether it is specifically binding on the State or not. (vi) If an Act negatives or limits the compensation payable to a citizen who suffered damage, coming within the scope of the Act, the liability of the State should be the same as under that Act C and the injured person should be entitled only to the remedy, if any, provided under the Act. III. Miscellaneous: Patents, Designs and Copyrights: The provisions of Sec. 3 of the Crown Proceedings Act may be adopted. D IV. General Provisions: (i) Indemnity and contribution: To enable the State to claim indemnity or contribution, a provision on the lines of Sec. 4 of the Crown Proceedings Act may be adopted. E (ii) Contributory negligence: In England, the Law Reform (Contributory Negligence) Act,1945 was enacted amending the law relating to contributory negligence and in view of the provisions of the Crown Proceedings Act the said Act also binds the Crown. In India, the trend of judicial opinion is in favour of holding that the rule in Merryweather v. Nixan [(1799) 8 T.R. 186] does not apply F and that there is no legal impediment to one tortfeasor recovering compensation from another. But the law should not be left in an uncertain state and there should be legislation on the lines of the English Act. (iii) Appropriate provision should be made while revising G the Civil Procedure Code to make it obligatory to implead as party to a suit in which a claim for damages against the State is made, the employee, agent or independent contractor for whose act the State is sought to be made liable. Any claim based on indemnity or contribution by the State may also be settled in such proceeding H as all the parties will be before the court. KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 709 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] V. Exceptions: A (i) Acts of State: The defence of “Act of State” should be made available to the State for any act, neglect or default of its servants or agents. “Act of State” means an act of the sovereign power directed against another sovereign power or the subjects of another sovereign power not owning temporary allegiance, in B pursuance of sovereign rights. (ii) Judicial acts and execution of judicial process:The State shall not be liable for acts done by judicial officers and persons executing warrants and s of judicial officers in all cases where protection is given to such officers and persons by Sec. 1 of the C Judicial Officers Protection Act, 1850. (iii) Acts done in the exercise of political functions of the State such as acts relating to: (a) Foreign Affairs (entry 10, List I, Seventh Schedule of the Constitution); D (b) Diplomatic, Consular and trade representation (entry 11); (c) United Nations Organisation(entry 12); (d) Participation in international conferences, E associations and other bodies and implementing of decisions made thereat (entry 13); (e) entering into treaties and agreements with foreign countries and implementing of treaties, agreements and conventions with foreign countries (entry 14); F (f) war and peace (entry 15); (g) foreign jurisdiction (entry 16); (h) anything done by the President, Governor or Rajpramukh in the exercise of the following functions: G Power of summoning, proroguing and dissolving the Legislature, vetoing of laws and anything done by the President in the exercise of the powers to issue Proclamations under the Constitution; H 710 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R.