A 5. The trial Court found those circumstances proved and forming a chain so complete as to conclusively indicate that it was the accused and no one else who committed the murder and thus convicted and sentenced the accused accordingly. 6. Aggrieved by his conviction, the accused went in appeal to the B High Court. 7. The High Court noticed that the accused in his statement under section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 had denied the incriminating circumstances appearing against him in the prosecution evidence and had claimed that he was arrested on 12.12.1998 itself on C false implication. Thereafter, the High Court, on a careful analysis of the evidence, more particularly the statement made by PW-2 that on 13.12.1998 he had disclosed to the police about the involvement of the accused, doubted the date of arrest of the appellant (i.e., 25.12.1998), as set up by the prosecution, and opined that the statement of PW-2 probabilizes the claim of the accused that he was arrested on 12.12.1998 D itself. The High Court found PW-2’s evidence of last seen not convincing and reliable inasmuch as if on 13.12.1998 PW-2 had informed the police about his suspicion in respect of the involvement of the accused, the police would have arrested the accused forthwith and not waited till 25.12.1998. But the record indicated that the name of the accused came E to light for the first time on 25.12.1998. In these circumstances, the High Court found PW-2 unreliable, as being a witness who was set up later. Otherwise also, the High Court found that last seen circumstance did not conclusively point towards the guilt of the accused by excluding all hypotheses consistent with his innocence, inasmuch as there was a huge time gap between the date and time when the deceased was last seen in F the company of the accused and discovery of deceased’s dead body. Further, the High Court took note of the circumstance that the autopsy conducted on 12.12.1998 at 4.15 pm indicated occurence of rigor mortis on lower limbs, which suggested that death could have occurred within 30 hours of the autopsy, thereby throwing open the possibility of death G occurring much later than at 7.00 pm on 10.11.1998, when the deceased was allegedly seen in the company of the accused. Taking note of the above and bearing in mind that the accused did not reside with the deceased and no evidence was led that except the accused no one else could have entered the house of the deceased in the interregnum, the last seen circumstance was found inconclusive. H STATE OF PUNJAB v. KEWAL KRISHAN 5 8. In respect of the circumstance of recovery of the knife, the A High Court, firstly, doubted the date of arrest, as noticed above, and, secondly, noticed that there was no serologist report to ascertain whether the knife was stained with human blood as to connect it with the crime. 9. The High Court also discarded the extra judicial confession on the ground that there was no cogent explanation set out in the prosecution B evidence to demonstrate as to why the accused would make a confession to P.W.3, particularly, when the accused had no significant relationship with PW-3 and PW-3 could not have helped him.