The State Governments, must organise periodic, and regular training sessions at the District level which are to be attended by the District Officer, members of the LC, and nodal officers [ref: Section 24(b)]. E. Larger efforts towards awareness ix. In furtherance of Section 24, the State/UT Governments, and Union Government are hereby directed to set out the financial resources allocated and or needed, to developing educational, communication and training material for spreading awareness of the provisions of this Act to the public, and formulate orientation and training programmes as elaborated in direction (viii) above. This plan of action, must form part of the compliance affidavit filed by each State. The discussion in paragraph 16 is to be read along with this direction. x. The District Officers, once nominated by the State are hereby directed to identify the non-governmental organisations working with women and their protection within the district, and take action pursuant to their duty under Section 20(b) for creation of awareness. xi. The appropriate government or district officers in question, must also undertake effort to spread awareness on the existence of LCs, and make them approachable for the unorganized sector – thus operationalizing the horizontal import of this Act. 698 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. xii. The directions (iv) and (v) passed in Aureliano Fernandes v. State of Goa & Ors.28 (supra) cover specifically the direction to authorities, management and employers to familiarize the members of the ICCs and LCs of their duties and detailed step-wise manner in which an enquiry ought to be conducted on receiving a complaint of sexual harassment; conduct orientation programmes, workshops, seminars, awareness programmes, etc. and to educate women employees and women groups about the Act, Rules, and regulations are reiterated. The modules prepared by NALSA [as per direction (vi) in Aureliano Fernandes] to conduct workshops and organize awareness programmes to sensitise authorities, managements, employers could be used in this regard. xiii. It is relevant to add here that the Ministry of Women and Child Development, Government of India, has prepared a Handbook for implementation of POSH Act29, which serves as a useful guide for not just employees seeking information, but also more pertinently those who are nominated or appointed as members of the ICs (by the employer) or LCs (by the District Officer). It is hereby directed that a targeted effort be made to share this information with each District Officer, who may in turn disseminate it to their respective LCs, the nodal officers appointed under Section 6(2), and employers who constitute their own ICCs. F. Annual Compliance Reports xiv. Due compliance with Section 21(1) and (2), and Section 22, must be undertaken by each District Officer, of the State – including collecting the reports from the IC/employers (or information where no report is available), and from the LC, and preparation of a brief report to be shared with the State 28 dated 12.05.2023 in Civil Appeal No. 2482/2014.R 29 Government of India, Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (2015) https://wcd.nic.in/sites/default/fi les/Handbook%20on%20Sexual%20Harassment%20 of%20Women%20at%20Workplace.pdf (accessed on 26.09.2023).