3 and 4, the respondents have stated that they are “Under examination”. In reply, the appellant has stated that the complaint at Sr. No.3, of the year 2016 H 22 For short ‘ CBI’ CAPTAIN PRAMOD KUMAR BAJAJ v. UNION OF INDIA 53 AND ANOTHER [HIMA KOHLI, J.] was closed by the ADG (Vigilance)(NZ) on 10th February, 2016 and the A complaint at Sr. No.4, made by a relative of an officer within the Department, was rejected because the complainant did not provide his PAN number despite being afforded two opportunities. There is no rebuttal to the said assertions. Coming to the complaint at Sr. No. 5, the Review Committee constituted by the respondents has recorded the status of B the said complaint as having been closed on 22nd January, 2019. This is apparent from a perusal of para 26 of the dated 09th December, 2020, passed by the Tribunal. Now remains the complaint at Sr. No.9, which was made by the appellant’s ex-wife alleging bigamy, moral turpitude etc. against the appellant. In the remarks column, the respondents have stated that necessary information in respect of the C said court proceedings between the parties was sought by the department. The appellant has clarified that a decree of divorce was granted to the parties by the concerned Court and a copy of the said was duly supplied to the department against receipt on 21st March, 2018. 29. Insofar as the matrimonial dispute of the appellant is concerned, D the material placed on record reveals that the same had attained quietus by virtue of a settlement arrived at between him and his estranged wife, vide Settlement Agreement dated 18th June, 2016 recorded by the learned Mediator appointed by the Delhi High Court Mediation and Conciliation Centre. The said Settlement Agreement was duly taken on record by E the Division Bench of the High Court of Delhi vide dated 14th July, 2016 passed in MAT. APP. (F.C.) Nos.148 of 2014, 34 of 2016 and 36 of 2016. Both the parties had agreed that they would take joint steps to get their marriage dissolved by filing a petition before the concerned Family Court. One of the terms and conditions of the Settlement was that the appellant would arrange a residential flat for his wife, which his brother F had agreed to purchase in her name, as a one-time settlement towards all her claims of maintenance, alimony, stridhan, etc. This condition was subsequently complied with and is borne out from the Sale Document of the flat dated 3rd October, 2016 that records the fact that a sum of ` 6,00,000/- (Rupees six lakhs) was paid by the appellant’s brother to G the seller towards the sale price of the flat. 30. Once the parties had arrived at a settlement and a decree of divorce by mutual consent was passed by the concerned Court, the allegations of bigamy etc. levelled by the appellant’s wife loses significance since the case was never taken to trial for any findings to H 54 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R.