The allegations made against the appellants are so absurd G and improbable that no prudent person can ever reach to a conclusion that there is a sufficient ground for proceeding against the appellants- accused. 12 2004 (6) SCC 522 13 2022 SCC Online SC 1732 H CHANCHALPATI DAS v. THE STATE OF WEST BENGAL & 667 ANR. [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] 18. Before parting, a few observations made by this Court with A regard to the misuse and abuse of the process of law by filing false and frivolous proceedings in the Courts need to be reproduced. In the Court. In Dalip Singh vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and Others14 it was observed that: “1. For many centuries Indian society cherished two basic values B of life i.e. “satya” (truth) and “ahimsa” (non-violence). Mahavir, Gautam Buddha and Mahatma Gandhi guided the people to ingrain these values in their daily life. Truth constituted an integral part of the justice-delivery system which was in vogue in the pre- Independence era and the people used to feel proud to tell truth in C the courts irrespective of the consequences. However, post- Independence period has seen drastic changes in our value system. The materialism has overshadowed the old ethos and the quest for personal gain has become so intense that those involved in litigation do not hesitate to take shelter of falsehood, misrepresentation and suppression of facts in the court D proceedings.” 19. In Subrata Roy Sahara vs. Union of India and Others15 it was observed as under: “191. The Indian judicial system is grossly afflicted with frivolous E litigation. Ways and means need to be evolved to deter litigants from their compulsive obsession towards senseless and ill- considered claims.” 20. We would like to add that just as bad coins drive out good coins from circulation, bad cases drive out good cases from being heard on time. Because of the proliferation of frivolous cases in the courts, the F real and genuine cases have to take a backseat and are not being heard for years together. The party who initiates and continues a frivolous, irresponsible and senseless litigation or who abuses the process of the court must be saddled with exemplary cost, so that others may deter to follow such course. The matter should be viewed more seriously when G people who claim themselves and project themselves to be the global spiritual leaders, engage themselves into such kind of frivolous litigations and use the court proceedings as a platform to settle their personal scores or to nurture their personal ego. 14 (2010) 2 SCC 114 15 (2014) 8 SCC 470 H 668 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 21. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the present case and for the reasons stated hereinabove, we deem it appropriate to quash the criminal proceedings pending against the appellants in the Court of Chief Judicial Magistrate, Alipore, arising out of the FIR No. 33 of 2009 registered at Ballygunge Police Station, and quash the same.