APPC along with REC pricing is what was intended to be incorporated as part of the tariff clause in the PPA. If either component is pegged or capped artificially, and that too without approval from GERC, the same would lead to a skewed application of the REC mechanism to the detriment of the generating company, leading to under- H recovery and unviability of the RE Generator. GUJARAT URJA VIKAS NIGAM LIMITED v. RENEW WIND 693 ENERGY (RAJKOT) PVT. LTD. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 33. It was submitted that the tariff in the PPA was in violation of A the principal regulation, which does not contemplate a fixed long-term price/ tariff. It is, therefore, illegal and had to be aligned with the regulation. The APTEL correctly aligned the tariff to the regulation. The regulation has not been challenged and it has the force of statute and it mandates that PPAs should be aligned to the regulations. Reliance is B placed on PTC India Ltd. v. CERC (hereafter “PTC India”)26. 34. Counsel for the third respondent argued that there could not be a tariff between a generating company and a distribution licensee in a PPA which was not in line with the CERC Regulations and tariff s issued by the State Commission. It was further contended that C the court cannot enforce a contract where unequal bargaining power exists amongst the parties. It was further submitted that State Commission has rightly observed that the fixed tariff of 2.64/unit for a period of 25 years by the parties violates not only the provisions of the Act but also the National Electricity Policy and tariff policy as notified under Section 3 of the Act which promotes renewable energy sources through D preferential pricing. 35. Counsel for Wish Wind submitted that it cannot be bound by the onerous terms of the PPA as it was never approved by the State Commission and thus not in consonance with the statutory procedure prescribed under the Act. Learned counsel also submitted that present E proceedings are not a case where a contract has been interdicted by the State Commission but rather where a contract has been aligned with the relevant regulatory regime in the exercise of the regulatory power vested by the Act. In response to Gujarat Urja’s argument that State Commission has no jurisdiction to reopen the PPA, it was submitted that Section F 86(1)(b) of the Act places an obligation upon distribution licensees to get PPAs (executed by them) approved by the State Commission and in the present case, state commission never had the opportunity to verify/ regulate such PPAs in accordance with the law. 36. It was also submitted that Section 86(1)(b) of the Act empowers G the state commission to modify, alter or vary the terms of the agreement of PPAs, to ensure their compliance in accordance with the regulatory framework established under the Act. It was further submitted that taking into consideration the definition of APPC, it is evident that floor price 26 (2010) 3 S.C.R.