]” 32. Existing law has been defined in Article 366. It reads as D follows:- “Article 366. (10) “existing law” means any law, Ordinance, , bye-law, rule or regulation passed or made before the commencement of this Constitution by any Legislature, authority or person having power to make such a law, Ordinance, , E bye-law, rule or regulation;” 33. Law in force is an expression found in Article 372 of the Constitution. It reads as follows: - “Article 372. — The expression “law in force” in this article shall F include a law passed or made by a Legislature or other competent authority in the territory of India before the commencement of this Constitution and not previously repealed, notwithstanding that it or parts of it may not be then in operation either at all or in particular areas.” G 34. Section 3(29) of the General Clauses Act, 1897 defines Indian Law as: (29) “Indian law” shall mean any Act, Ordinance, Regulation, rule, , bye-law or other instrument which before the commencement of the Constitution, had the force of law in any Province of India or part thereof, or thereafter has the force of H ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1059 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] law in any Part A State or Part C State or Part thereof, but does A not include any Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom or any in Council, rule or other instrument made under such Act; 35. In Salmond on Jurisprudence 12th Edition, it is profitable to notice the following discussion: B Law as the dictate of reason: natural law The idea that in reality law consist of rules in accordance with reason and nature has formed the basis of a variety of natural law theories ranging from classical times to present day(q). The central notion is that there exist objective moral principles which depend C on the essential nature of the universe and which can be discovered by natural reason, and that ordinary human law is only truly law in so far as it conforms to these principles. These principles of justice and morality constitute the natural law, which is valid of necessity, because the rules for human conduct are logically connected with truths concerning human nature. D Law as the command of the sovereign: imperative law Diametrically opposed to the theory of natural law is the positivist, or imperative, theory of law (j). This theory distinguishes the question whether a rule is a legal rule from the question whether it is a just rule (k), and seeks to define law, not by reference to its E content but according to the formal criteria which differentiate legal rules from other rules such as those of morals, etiquette, and so on. Xxx xxx xxx F According to Austin, whose version of the theory will be considered here, positive law has three characteristic features. It is a type of command, it is laid down by a political sovereign and it is enforceable by sanction.