28. The bid which was submitted by the appellant was lower than the bid submitted by the fi rst respondent in the vicinity of Rs 58 crores. During the course of the hearing, it has been submitted on behalf of the fi rst respondent that the fi rst respondent would be willing to match the bid which was submitted by the appellant and if the contract is awarded to it in pursuance of the impugned of the Division Bench of the High BTL EPC LTD. v. MACAWBER BEEKAY PVT LTD AND 167 OTHERS [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Court, it would take over the contract from the stage where it was left by the appellant. However, BHEL and Telangana State Power Generation Company have stated that since the ongoing work is design intensive, substituting a new entity would require redesigning of the whole project at a signifi cant cost to the exchequer. 29. In assessing the validity of the rival submissions, it needs to be noted that the Procurement issued by the Union Ministry of Finance on 23 July 2020 imposes a requirement of registration where a bidder shares a land b with India. The specifi es that such a bidder would be eligible to bid in any procurement of goods, services (including consultancy and non-consultancy services), or works, including turnkey projects if the bidder is registered with the competent authority as set out in Annexure I. The expression ‘bidder’ is defi ned in clause (6) in broad terms so as to encompass any member of a consortium or joint venture. Similarly, clause (8) also incorporates a consortium or joint venture. 30. Clause 11 of the contains the following provision in relation to the sub-contracting of works contracts in the following terms: “In works contracts, including turnkey contracts, contractors shall not be allowed to sub-contract works to any contractor from a country which shares a land b with India unless such contractor is registered with the Competent Authority. The defi nition of “contractor from a country which shares a land b with India” shall be as in paragraph 8 above. This shall not apply to sub-contracts already awarded on or before the date of this .” 31. The above requirement in clause 11 was subsequently clarifi ed in the OM of the Union Ministry of Finance dated 8 February 2021 so as to exclude from its ambit the procurement of goods and services. According to the appellant, the relaxation which was granted on 8 February 2021 would enure to its benefi t. At this stage, it would be material to note that clause 01.01.02 of the pre-qualifi cation requirements enables bidders who otherwise do not fulfi ll the requirements of clause 01.01.01 to submit a bid so long as they fulfi ll the requirements of having experience in the commissioning of projects as spelt out in the paragraph and in addition, they would have to have a collaborator or an associate who meets the requirements of clause 01.01.01. In such a case, the bidder is required to furnish a consortium agreement 168 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R.