issue of certificate by Ministry of Power, Government of India extending the benefits to power generation projects under Mega Power Policy upto the Scheduled COD of the Power Station by Government of India at least thrity (30) days prior to Bid Deadline; It may be noted that noe of the Procurers, Authorised E Representative and PfC, nor their directors, employees or advisors/ consultants make any representation or warranty, express or implied, or accept any responsibility or liability, whatsoever, in respect of any statements or omissions made in the water intake study report and Project Report, or the accuracy, completeness or reliablility of information contained therein, and shal incur no F liability under any law, statute, rules or regualtions as to the accuracy, reliability or completeness of such water intake study report and Project Report, even if any loss or damage is caused to the Selected Bidder by any act or omission on their part. The Ministry of Power and the State Government of Madhya Pradesh G have expressed their support to the Seller, on best endeavour basis, in enabling the Seller to develop the Project. 2.7.2.1 The Bidder shall make independent enquiry and satisfy itself with respect to all the required information, inputs, conditions and cirumstances and factors that may have any effect on his H 10 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Bid. In assessing the Bid, it is deemed that the Bidder has inspected and examined the site conditions and its surroundings, examined the laws and regulations in force in India, the transportation facilities available in India, the grid conditions, the conditions of roads, bridges, ports, etc. For unloading and/or transporting heavy pieces of material and has based its design, equipment size and fixed its B price taking into account all such relevant conditions and also the risks, contingencies and other circumstances which mayh influence or affect the supply of power. 2.7.2.2 In their own interest, the Bidders are requested to familiarize themselves with the Electricity Act, 2003, the Income C Tax Act 1961, the Companies Act, 1956, the Customs Act, the Foreign Exchange Management Act, IEGC, the regulations framed by regulatory commissions and all other related acts, laws, rules and regulations prevalent in India. The procuers shall not entertain any request for clarifications from the Bidders regarding D the same. Non-awareness of these laws or such information shall not be a reason for the Bidder to request for extension of the Bid Deadline. The Bidder undertakes and agrees that before submission of its Bid all such factors, as generally brought out above, have been fully investigated and considered while submitting the Bid. E ANNEXURE 5 SITE DETAILS ALONG WITH SITE MAP The Site is located near Sasan village in Singrauli Tehsil in District Sidhi of Madhya Pradesh. The nearest Railway Station is Shakti F Nagar (18km) and nearest Airport is Varanasi (250 km). The site is situated at 23°58’30"N latitude and 82°37’03"E longtitue. About 3500 acres of land has been identified for the project covering villages of Sidhikala, Harhawa, Tiara, Jhanjitola and Sidhikhud.