The powers of this Court under Article 136 are very wide but as clause (1) of that article itself states the grant of special leave to appeal is in the discretion of the court. Article 136 is, therefore, not H M/S UNIVERSAL SOMPO GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD. v. 1165 SURESH CHAND JAIN AND ANR. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] designed to permit direct access to this Court where other A equally efficacious remedy is available and where the question is not of public importance….” (Emphasis supplied) 23. This Court in Jyotendrasinhji v. S.I. Tripathi and Others, B reported in 1993 Supp (3) SCC 389 observed in para 16 as under; “16. It is true that the finality clause contained in Section 245-I does not and cannot bar the jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 or the jurisdiction of this Court under Article 32 or under Article 136, as the case may be. But that does not mean that the jurisdiction of this Court in the appeal C preferred directly in this Court is any different than what it would be if the assessee had first approached the High Court under Article 226 and then come up in appeal to this Court under Article 136. A party does not and cannot gain any advantage by approaching this Court directly under Article D 136, instead of approaching the High Court under Article 226. This is not a limitation inherent in Article 136; it is a limitation which this Court imposes on itself having regard to the nature of the function performed by the Commission and keeping in view the principles of judicial review….” E (Emphasis supplied) 24. Thus, what is discernible from the aforesaid decisions of this Court is that the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court to grant special leave to appeal can be invoked in very exceptional circumstances. The question of law of general public importance or a decision which shocks the F conscience of the Court are some of the prime requisites for the grant of special leave. The provisions of Article 136 of the Constitution as such are not circumscribed by any limitation. But when the party aggrieved has alternative remedy to go before the High Court, invoking its writ jurisdiction or supervisory jurisdiction as the case may be, this Court G should not entertain petition seeking special leave thereby short-circuit the legal procedure prescribed. The limitation, whatever, they be are implicit in the nature and character of the power itself. It being an exceptional and overriding power, naturally it hasto be exercised sparingly and with caution and only in very exceptional situations. The power will only be used to advance the cause of justice and its exercise will be H 1166 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A governed by well-established principles which govern the exercise of overriding constitutional powers. 25. Almost six decades back, this Court speaking through M. Hidayatullah, J. in the case of the State ofBombay v. M/s Ratilal Vadilal and Bros., reported in (1961) 2 SCR 367 observed as under: B “3.