The State of Assam proceeded to enact the impugned Legislation, i.e., the ‘2015 Act’, instead of assailing the of the Gauhati High Court which has struck down the Assam Act thereby, resulting in adverse consequence on the petitioners in these F transferred cases. That by enactment of the ‘2015 Act’, the petitioners in these cases are redesignated as Community Health Officers and thereby their status and position has been downgraded to that of Paramedics, whereas, under the Assam Act, they were registered as Rural Health Practitioners in the State Medical Register. In these G circumstances, the petitioners in these cases have sought for continuation of their rights, privileges, status and conditions of service as were provided or granted to them under the Assam Act as Rural Health Practitioners. Learned counsel submitted that the case of the petitioners in Transferred Cases would be resurrected in the event this Court is to set H 944 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A aside the of the High Court and restore the Assam Act by allowing the Special Leave Petition filed by the similarly situated Rural Health Practitioners in the case of Baharul Islam and others, which is being considered. He further submitted that in the event this Court is to affirm the of the High Court, the vires of ‘2015 Act’ is to be considered and the relief sought for by the petitioners in these Transferred B Cases may be granted. Learned Senior Counsel also placed reliance on the of this Court in the case of Association of Medical Superspeciality Aspirants and Residents and Others v. Union of India and Others. (2019) 8 SCC 607; paragraphs 25 and 26, to emphasise the importance of rural health which has to be protected by C the State. Points for consideration: Having heard the learned counsel for the respective parties and on perusal of the material on record, the following points would arise for our consideration: D i) Whether the Assam Act is invalid and null and void on the ground that the Assam State Legislature did not possess legislative competence to enact the said Act? ii) Whether the ‘2015 Act’ is ultra vires the Constitution? E iii) What ? Constitutional Scheme 11. Before proceeding, it would be useful to refer to the constitutional scheme relevant to the issues which arise in these cases. F 11.1. For easy and immediate reference, the relevant provisions of the Constitution of India are extracted as under: “246. Subject matter of laws made by Parliament and by the Legislatures of States - (1) Notwithstanding anything in clauses (2) and (3), Parliament has exclusive power to make G laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List I in the Seventh Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as the “Union List”). (2) Notwithstanding anything in clause (3), Parliament, and, subject to clause (1), the Legislature of any State also, have power to make laws with respect to any of the matters H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 945 ASSOCIATION AND ORS.