The Central Government and State Government are defined by the General Clauses Act, 1897. The H 1228 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A former is defined by Section 3(8), 32 and latter by Section 3 (60). [Para 44][1258-D-G] Shrikant v. Vasantrao & Ors. [2006] 1 SCR 496 – referred to. 1.5 The specific mention of other class of creditors whose B dues are statutory, such as dues payable to workmen or employees, “the provident fund, the pension fund, the gratuity fund” under Section 36(4), which excludes these enumerated amounts from the liquidation, especially clarifies that not all dues owed under statute are treated as ‘government’ dues. In other words, dues payable to statutory corporations which do not fall C within the description “amounts due to the central or state government” such as for instance amounts payable to corporations created by statutes which have distinct juristic entity but whose dues do not constitute government dues payable or those payable into the respective Consolidated Funds stand on a different D footing. Such corporations may be operational creditors or financial creditors or secured creditors depending on the nature of the transactions entered into by them with the corporate debtor. On the other hand, dues payable or requiring to be credited to the Treasury, such as tax, tariffs, etc. which broadly fall within the ambit of Article 265 of the Constitution are ‘government dues’ E and therefore covered by Section 53(1)(f) of the IBC. PVVNL undoubtedly has government participation. However, that does not render it a government or a part of the ‘State Government’. Its functions can be replicated by other entities, both private and public. The supply of electricity, the generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity has been liberalized in terms of the F 2003 Act barring certain segments. Private entities are entitled to hold licenses. In this context, it has to be emphasized that private participation as distribution licensees is fairly widespread. For these reasons, it is held that in the present case, dues or amounts payable to PVVNL do not fall within the description of G Section 53(1)(f) of the IBC. [Paras 46, 47][1261-B-G] Municipal Commissioner of Dum Dum Municipality & Ors. v. Indian Tourism Development Corporation & Ors. 1995 (5) SCC 251 : [1995] 2 Suppl. SCR 433 – relied on. H PASCHIMANCHAL VIDYUT VITRAN NIGAM LTD. v. RAMAN 1229 ISPAT PRIVATE LIMITED & ORS. 1.6 Section 53 enacts the waterfall mechanism providing for A the hierarchy or priority of claims of various classes of creditors. The careful design of Section 53 locates amounts payable to secured creditors and workmen at the second place, after the costs and expenses of the liquidator payable during the liquidation proceedings. However, the dues payable to the government are B placed much below those of secured creditors and even unsecured and operational creditors. This design was either not brought to the notice of the court in Rainbow Papers or was missed altogether. In any event, the has not taken note of the provisions of the IBC which treat the dues payable to secured creditors at a higher footing than dues payable to Central or State Government.