Thus, by any standards this claim was beyond D any reasonable time period. Even if the wife had not claimed and the Appellant insurance company were of the view, that the case was covered by the policy, then it was the bounden duty of Respondent No. 1 to have lodged that claim. It cannot countenance the submission that while on one hand the claim made by the wife E was initially rejected, subsequently, it is re-examined, almost as if making it a pre-condition to fasten the liability on the Appellant insurance company. The conditions of the MoU required the claim to be made immediately on the occurrence. It appears that in their own wisdom Respondent No.1 never thought that it was a case for which claim should be lodged with the Appellant F insurance company. Thus, whether the claim was admissible under the insurance policy or not, the conduct of Respondent No.1 would not entitle them to fasten the liability on the Appellant and would have to be borne by them if they are of the view that such an amount ought to have been made. It would be negligence of G Respondent No.1 in lodging the claim. If it was not admissible then there is no reason to forward the claim to the Appellant. Respondent No.1 has been actually playing ducks and drakes with this issue for reasons best know to them. [Para 21-24][321- D-H; 322-B-D] H 314 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 1.2 Now turning to the specific clause in the MoU, which would govern the insurance policy providing for payment of compensation in the event of death (only) resulting “solely and directly” from the accident caused by external violent and any other visible means. On a plain reading itself, leave aside the question of strict interpretation of the clauses, it is quite apparent B that the admissibility of the claim is in the event of death. The second part of the same sentence begins with “only”. Thus, even in the event of a death, it is only in the scenario where the consequent situation arises, i.e., it has to be solely and directly from an accident caused by external violence. Here the death is C by sun stroke. There was no semblance of any violence being the cause of death. The last aspect which reads as “any other visible means” would be an expression to be read in the context of ejusdem generis with the external violent death and cannot be read in isolation itself. [Para 31][323-E-G; 324-A] D 1.3 The cause arising from a sun stroke cannot be included within the parameters of the ‘Scope of Cover’ in the insurance policy defining when such insurance amount would become payable. Thus, on the second account also, the Appellant insurance company is not liable. [Paras 34 and 35][324-F-G] E Alka Shukla v. Life Insurance Corporation of India (2019) 6 SCC 64 : [2019] 6 SCR 762 – relied on. 1.4 The impugned of the Division Bench of the High Court is clearly unsustainable and is set aside.