Before delving into those aspects, we think it only appropriate to refer to the necessity of speedy trial which is a facet of fair trial, taking into account the fact that in the case on hand by now the appellant had already undergone incarceration for more than 8 years whereas the Court before which his matter is now facing trial is not competent to impose a corporeal sentence of imprisonment beyond 7 years. The requirement of a speedy trial assumes a AMANDEEP SINGH SARAN v. STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 441 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] new gloss with the verdict in Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India1. Thereafter, this Court issued guidelines in Abdul Rehman Antulay v. R.S. Nayak2 for the speedy trial of cases. It was held therein that fair, just and reasonable procedure implicit in Article 21 of the Constitution of India creates a right in the accused to be tried speedily. The concern underlying the right to speedy trial from the point of view of the accused was also highlighted therein and one of the aspects of concern is as under:- “The period of remand and pre-conviction detention should be as short as possible. The accused should not be subjected to unnecessary or unduly long incarceration prior to his conviction.” 6. The factual narration made hereinbefore regarding the period of incarceration underwent by the appellant and the punitive jurisdictional limit of the Court where the case of the appellant is under trial at present, would reveal the non-adherence, rather, the failure to follow the guidelines issued by this Court for the speedy trial of an accused. In view of certain relevant provisions under the Cr.PC and IPC, to be referred to hereafter, and the factual scenario of the case on hand, a formative analysis capable of formulating clues/guidelines to avoid recurrence of similar situations, is required. 7. A reference to Section 300 (1) Cr. PC, which lays down that a person once convicted or acquitted cannot be tried for the same off ence, will not be inappropriate in the matter of such a formative analysis, as mentioned above. This law based on the maxim ‘Nemo Debet Bis Vexari’ is founded on the condition that the initial trial must be by a Court of competent jurisdiction for the off ences concerned. We are afraid, in the scenario now obtained if this Court is not passing appropriate directions, the appellant accused may have to face fresh trial or prolonged proceedings even after the conclusion of proceedings before the Court where the matter is presently pending. To know the raison d’etre for our remark, one may have to refer to various provisions of law, including the provisions referred infra: 8. Chapter III, Cr. PC deals with 3 topics idest., 1 AIR 1978 SC 597 2 AIR 1992 SC 1701 442 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. (i) Courts by which off ences are triable; (ii) The sentences which these courts can pass including passing of sentence in case of conviction of several off ences at one trial; and (iii) Modes of conferring of powers on and withdrawal of powers from the persons or offi cials by the High Court and the State Government.