v. DISTRICT MAGISTRATE MAU & 401 ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] (c) the damage, if any, sustained by the person A interested at the time of taking possession of the land, by reason of the acquisition injuriously affecting his other immovable property in any manner, or his earnings; (d) if, in consequences of the acquisition of the land, B the person interested is compelled to change his residence or place of business, the reasonable expenses, if any, incidental to such change.” (Emphasis supplied) C 22. Section 3H is with respect to deposit and payment of amount. What is relevant for our purpose is sub-clause (4) of Section 3H. Sub-clause (4) reads thus:- “3H. Deposit and payment of amount.— (4) If any dispute arises as to the apportionment of the amount D or any part thereof or to any person to whom the same or any part thereof is payable, the competent authority shall refer the dispute to the decision of the principal civil court of original jurisdiction within the limits of whose jurisdiction the land is situated.” E 23. The scheme of the Act 1956 and the statutory provisions referred to above makes it very clear that once any land is acquired under the Act 1956, the competent authority is obliged to pay an amount by way of compensation. There is a procedure which has been prescribed under Section 3G of the Act 1956. Sub-clause (5) of Section 3G makes it abundantly clear that if the amount determined by the competent F authority under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of Section 3G is not acceptable to either of the parties, the amount will have to be determined by the arbitrator who may be appointed by the Central Government on the strength of an application by either of the parties. Section 3H provides that the amount determined towards compensation under Section 3G G will have to be deposited by the Central Government in accordance with the rules. It is only after such amount is deposited by the competent authority that the possession of the land can be taken. Sub-clause (4) of Section 3H talks about apportionment of the amount. The language of sub-clause (4) of Section 3H is plain and simple. It provides that if any disputes arises as to the apportionment of the amount or any part thereof, H 402 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A the competent authority is obliged to refer the dispute to the decision of the Principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction within the limits of whose jurisdiction the land is situated. 24. In the case on hand, the High Court seems to have completely misread the provisions of the Act 1956. It fell into error as it failed to B apply the well settled principle of law that for construing a legal provision, the first and foremost rule of construction is the literal construction. All that the Court has to see at the very outset is what does the provision state. If the provision is unambiguous and from the provision the legislative intent is clear, the Court need not call into aid the other rules of construction of statute.