In exercise of the power under Article 356, the President, inter alia: a. assumed to himself all the functions of the Government of the State and all the powers exercisable by the Governor of Jammu and Kashmir; b. declared that the powers of the Legislature shall be exercisable by or under the authority of Parliament; and c. suspended the fi rst and second proviso to Article 3. 506. In the present case, the proviso to Article 3 was suspended by the Proclamation dated 19 December 2018 and the act of Parliament expressed its views in support of the Reorganisation Act. The Union of India has argued that as the views expressed by States under the proviso to Article 3 are non-binding, there is no substantial constitutional violation that can result in the invalidation of the Reorganisation Act even if the proviso was not strictly complied with. 507. The fi rst proviso to Article 3 stipulates that where the proposal contained in the Bill aff ects the area, boundaries or name of any of the States, the President must refer the Bill to the Legislature of that State for expressing their views. The President referred the Reorganisation Bill to the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha for their views since Parliament exercised the “powers of the Legislature” of the State of Jammu and Kashmir in view of the Proclamation issued under Article 356. On 5 August 2019, the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha expressed the view in favour of the acceptance of the proposal in the Reorganisation Bill. The resolution reads thus: “That the President of India has referred the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill, 2019 to this House under the proviso to article 3 of the Constitution of India for its views as this House is vested with the powers of the State Legislature of Jammu and Kashmir, as per proclamation of the President of India dated 19th December, 2018. This House resolves to express the view to accept the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill, 2019.” 508. The issue that arises for consideration is whether the procedure which was followed in passing the Reorganisation Bill 2019 is valid. That is, could 288 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Parliament have substituted its own views for the views of the State legislature as required under the proviso to Article 3 in view of the power conferred upon it by the Proclamation issued under Article 356? 509. Applying the standard laid above to test the exercise of power after a Proclamation under Article 356 is issued, the petitioners must fi rst prove that the exercise of power was mala fi de. We have in the preceding section of this held that the scope of the powers of Parliament under Article 356(1) (b) cannot be restricted to only law-making powers of the Legislature of the State. Thus, the exercise of power cannot be held mala fi de merely because it is a non-law making power or that it furthers an important federal principle.