22.3. Similarly, in Jalan Trading Co., this Court while considering the issue as to classifi cation of periodic payments of 75% profi t share, as consideration under a deed of assignment, for the right to carry on business, held that the same would be capital expenditure. It was observed that the assessee therein was a new company and it had acquired under the contract the right to carry on a business on long- term basis subject to the renewal of the agreement on payment of 75% of its annual net profi ts. That since the assessee had acquired a capital asset (right to carry out the business of the assignor), any payment made towards securing such a right would be capital in nature. This dictum would clearly demonstrate that when an expenditure is in its core capital in nature, neither the fact that the same was paid in instalments, nor the fact that the quantum of expenditure was dependent on the revenue or profi t of the assessee, would warrant a change in the classifi cation of the transaction. 23. Before proceeding to consider the facts of the present case in light of the precedents discussed hereinabove, it is necessary to preface our views by stating that it is perhaps one of the most familiar arguments in Courts (particularly in matters involving an issue as to classifi cation of expenditure or receipts), that the case at hand bears close resemblance to another case falling on one or the other side of the line, and must therefore be decided in the same manner. This thought was conveyed by Lord Radcliff e in Nchanga Copper Mines wherein it was pointed out that “in considering allocation of expenditure between capital and income accounts, it is almost unavoidable to argue from analogy.” In that context, we must highlight the diffi culty of relying on any single precedent in search for the true classifi cation, and attempting to draw similarities between the facts of the said case and the facts of the case at hand. We think that the propositions made in earlier cases, if sought to be applied to a diff erent case which the authors of those propositions did not have in mind, could lead to absurd results. C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 463 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Further, it is trite that the words in a must not be construed in the same manner as those in a legislation. Hence, it is neither wise nor suitable to extend the dictum of one case, premised on the facts of the said case, to another fact-situation which is seemingly similar but not really so. This is particularly so when there is no precedent which has been rendered in an identical fact situation, as is the case in the instant matters. 23.1. In such situations, the solution may not be found in any one precedent. It has to be derived from many aspects of the whole set of circumstances some of which may point in one direction, while some to the other.