However, the DNA examination was not carried out. In the meantime, the accused filed MCRC No.43998 of 2022 seeking bail before the High Court. 6. During the proceedings, the High Court called for the case- diary, but the FSL Report was not included therewith. This led the High C Court to seek the personal appearance of the Superintendent of Police, Katni and the In-charge of the Regional Forensic Science Laboratory, Jabalpur. On 21.09.2022, the duo mentioned supra appeared before the High Court, and informed that the FSL Report was sent to the office of Superintendent of Police, Katni on 25.10.2021. The Superintendent of D Police, Katni stated that the FSL report was forwarded to the appellant along with communication dated 27.10.2021, with a note that DNA examination as per guidelines be carried out. However, the same was not done, as the appellant took the stand that the concerned Woman Sub-Inspector had not brought the FSL Report to his knowledge. E 7. The learned Government Advocate for the State stated before the High Court that the case-diary had been received in the Office of the learned Advocate General on 13.09.2022, but the FSL Report was not included therewith. This prompted the High Court to pass the Impugned , as discussed above. F SUBMISSIONS BY THE APPELLANT: 8. Learned senior counsel for the appellant submitted that the accused had filed MCRC No.43998 of 2022 under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as the “Code”), which only relates to grant of bail to an accused in custody. G Thus, the direction to take action and hold a departmental enquiry as also the recording of finding against the appellant cannot be sustained. In support of his contention, learned counsel referred to and relied upon the decisions of this Court in Sangitaben Shaileshbhai Datanta v State of Gujarat, (2019) 14 SCC 522 and State Represented by Inspector of Police v M Murugesan, (2020) 15 SCC 251. It was contended H SANJAY DUBEY v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH AND 943 ANOTHER [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] that no matter how laudable the object, while deciding an application for A bail, the Court cannot enter into any other realm. SUBMISSIONS OF THE RESPONDENT-STATE: 9. Per contra, learned counsel for the State submitted that the appellant had, clearly, exhibited insubordination, incompetence and, B dereliction of duty in an important matter and thus, in any way, was liable to be proceeded against. It was submitted that the Departmental Committee concerned had also conducted an enquiry where the appellant and some other officials were found negligent in performing their duties in providing the FSL Report along with the case-diary besides suppressing material documents. Learned counsel added that due to an interim stay C apropos the departmental proceedings against the appellant, granted vide dated 23.11.2022, the matter could not be taken to its logical end. ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 10. Having given the matter our anxious and thoughtful consideration, though the appellant may have a point that, stricto sensu, D in a petition under Section 439 of the Code, the concerned Court ought not to travel beyond considering the specific issue viz.