The committee on Subordinate Legislation (11th Lok Sabha) recommended that it should be made obligatory to record reasons for adjournment of cases as well as award of actual or higher cost and not merely notional cost against the parties seeking adjournment in favour of the opposite party. Further limit up to three adjournments has also been fi xed in a case. 19. The amended Sub-rule (1) of Rule 1 provides that at any stage of the suit, if suffi cient cause is shown, the Court may adjourn the hearing of the suit for the reasons to be recorded in writing. Therefore, an adjournment cannot be granted for a mere asking. There should be suffi cient cause for such an adjournment. Before granting adjournment, the Court has to record in writing the reasons, which constituted suffi cient cause for it to adjourn the case. The proviso to sub-rule (1) of Rule 1 puts an embargo on the Court’s power to grant adjournments, in as much as, it restricts the said power to grant adjournments to three times to a party during the hearing of the suit. Therefore, the Court cannot exercise its power of granting adjournments arbitrarily, whimsically and it should know its limitations. The amendment to sub-rule (2) of Rule 1 makes it obligatory on the part of the Court to make an as to costs occasioned by the adjournments. This rule is intended to see that the imposition of costs may act as a deterrent to the party seeking adjournment when there being no suffi cient cause. By such costs, the cost of litigation would increase and it may dissuade the party from seeking adjournment on fl imsy grounds. 20. In spite of the legislative mandate refl ected in the aforesaid provision, the Courts and the Lawyers continue to ignore the said statutory provisions and the requirement of holding a continuous trial day to day. The Courts, in practice, have buried the rule fathoms deep and have been granting adjournments on the fl imsiest grounds. In every case these provisions are honoured more in breach than in compliance with the spirit of providing justice expeditiously. It is rare YASHPAL JAIN v. SUSHILA DEVI & OTHERS 971 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] indeed when a court holds a trial continuously in terms of this rule. If only the provisions of the Code are followed in letter and spirit, the grievance of delay in disposal of cases would have been reduced considerably. The rule of law requires respect for the law by all the citizens of this country. The Judges and Lawyers who are the offi cers of the Court are No. exception. First, they should respect the rule of law, i.e., these statutory provisions. Without any exception they cannot plead any diffi culty in implementing these provisions in letter and spirit. They are duty bound to act according to these statutory provisions. Without doing what we are legally expected to do, we are barking up at the wrong tree and by this process we are deceiving ourselves.