G But the Court shall also have regard to such facts as the following, in considering whether such maxims do or do not apply to the particular case before it:— As to illustration (a)—A shop-keeper has in his bill a marked rupee soon after it was stolen, and cannot account for its possession H APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 731 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] specifically, but is continually receiving rupees in the course of his A business; As to illustration (b)—A, a person of the highest character, is tried for causing a man’s death by an act of negligence in arranging certain machinery. B, a person of equally good character, who also took part in the arrangement, describes precisely what B was done, and admits and explains the common carelessness of A and himself; As to illustration (b)—A crime is committed by several persons. A, B and C, three of the criminals, are captured on the spot and kept apart from each other. Each gives an account of C the crime implicating D, and the accounts corroborate each other in such a manner as to render previous concert highly improbable; As to illustration (c)—A, the drawer of a bill of exchange, was a man of business. B, the acceptor, was young and ignorant person, completely under A’s influence; D As to illustration (d)—It is proved that a river ran in a certain course five years ago, but it is known that there have been floods since that time which might change its course; As to illustration (e)—A judicial act, the regularity of which is in question, was performed under exceptional circumstances; E As to illustration (f)—The question is, whether a letter was received. It is shown to have been posted, but the usual course of the post was interrupted by disturbances; As to illustration (g)—A man refuses to produce a document F which would bear on a contract of small importance on which he is sued, but which might also injure the feelings and reputation of his family; As to illustration (h)—A man refuses to answer a question which he is not compelled by law to answer, but the answer to it G might cause loss to him in matters unconnected with the matter in relation to which it is asked; As to illustration (i)—A bond is in possession of the obligor, but the circumstances of the case are such that he may have stolen it.” H 732 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 14. As may be seen from the exposition to the Illustrations, the Court, while taking a decision to presume or not, the existence of any fact, should have regard to some additional facts, in considering whether such maxims do or do not apply to the particular case. 15. It is relevant to note that there are nine Illustrations under B Section 114, from (a) to (i). Immediately after those Illustrations, the exposition of those Illustrations begins with the words: “But the Court shall also have regard to such facts as the following, in considering whether such maxims do or do not apply to the particular case before it”.