THE STATE OF TRIPURA & ANR. v. CHANDAN DEB & ORS. 1147 [M. R. SHAH, J.] (2) Every person responsible for making payment to any person A for discharge of any liability on account of valuable consideration payable for any transfer of the right to use any goods for any purpose (whether or not for a specified period) for cash or in any manner, shall at the time of making such payment, deduct an amount equal to four percentum of such towards part or as the B case may be, full satisfaction of the tax payable under the Act, on account of such transfer of right: Provided no such deduction shall be made from the bill(s) or invoice(s) of the transferrer - (a) on account of such transfer where the transfer of right to use C goods was agreed to before first day of January, 1989; (b) The amounts received as penalty for defaults in payment or as damages for any loss or damage caused to the goods by the person to whom such transfer was made; and (c) The amount representing the valuable consideration received D for such transfer in respect of goods exempt from tax under Sub- section (2) and (3) of Section 3 of the Act.” 8.2 In exercise of the powers under Section 44 of the TST Act the State Government had enacted the TST Rules which were placed before the Legislative Assembly. On fair reading of Section 44 of the E Act which is a rule making power it can be seen that the rule making power under Section 44 is inclusive and wide enough to cover the procedure for recovery including tax deduction at source. 8.3 Section 3 of the TST Act can be said to be the charging Section and the liability to pay the tax shall be as per Section 3 of the TST Act. F As per Section 3(1) of the TST Act every dealer in taxable goods shall pay a tax on his turnover at the rate specified in column (3) of the Schedule. As per the proviso to Section 3(1) as inserted by Tripura Sales Tax (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1987 w.e.f. 12.05.1987 the rate of tax on any transfer of the right to use any goods for any purpose (whether or G not for a specified period) shall be 4%. The ‘Sale’ is defined under Section 2(g) and it means any transfer of property, in goods for cash or deferred payment or other valuable considerations, and includes any transfer of the right to use any goods for any purpose for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration, and such delivery or transfer of any goods shall be deemed to be a sale of those goods by the person H 1148 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A making the delivery or transfer and purchase of those goods by the person to whom such delivery or transfer is made. Thus, any transfer of right to use any goods including the vehicles shall be deemed to be a ‘sale’ as defined under Section 2(g)(ii).