More importantly this (the dated 12.02.2013), was never challenged by the tenants/ debtors before any forum. The multiple stages a civil suit invariably has to go through before it reaches fi nality, is to ensure that any error in law is cured by the higher court. The appellate court, the second appellate court and the revisional court do not have the same powers, as the powers of the executing court, which are extremely limited. This was explained by this Court in Dhurandhar Prasad Singh v. Jai Prakash University and Others (2001) 6 SCC 534, in para 24, it had stated thus: 128 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. “24. ………. The exercise of powers under Section 47 of the Code is microscopic and lies in a very narrow inspection hole. Thus, it is plain that executing court can allow objection under Section 47 of the Code to the executability of the decree if it is found that the same is void ab initio and a nullity, apart from the ground that the decree is not capable of execution under law either because the same was passed in ignorance of such a provision of law or the law was promulgated making a decree inexecutable after its passing.” This Court noted further: “………. The validity or otherwise of a decree may be challenged by fi ling a properly constituted suit or taking any other remedy available under law on the ground that the original defendant absented himself from the proceeding of the suit after appearance as he had no longer any interest in the subject of dispute or did not purposely take interest in the proceeding or colluded with the adversary or any other ground permissible under law. 6. The reality is that pure civil matters take a long time to be decided, and regretfully it does not end with a decision, as execution of a decree is an entirely new phase in the long life of a civil litigation. The inordinate delay, which is universally caused throughout India in the execution of a decree, has been a cause of concern with this Court for several years. In Rahul S. Shah v. Jinendra Kumar Gandhi and Others (2021) 6 SCC 418, this Court had observed that a remedy which is provided for preventing injustice (in the Civil Procedure Code) is in fact being misused to cause injustice by preventing timely implementation of s and execution of decrees. Then, it had observed as under: “23. ……………. The execution proceedings which are supposed to be a handmaid of justice and subserve the cause of justice are, in eff ect, becoming tools which are being easily misused to obstruct justice.” The above is an important in respect of Section 47 as well as XXI, CPC as the three Judge Bench decision of this Court not only condemned the abuse of process done in the garb of exercise of powers under Section 47 read with XXI, CPC, but also gave certain directions to be followed by all Civil Courts in their exercise of powers in PRADEEP MEHRA v. HARIJIVAN J. JETHWA (SINCE 129 DECEASED THR.