In other words, cases pending before other fora (including cases pending before the High Court of the relevant state but excluding those pending before the Supreme Court) stand transferred D to the SAT upon its establishment. Following the enactment of the Administrative Tribunals Act, various states including Andhra Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, and Maharashtra requested the Central Government to establish an SAT, and the Central Government issued notifications E establishing them. Odisha was one amongst these states. Upon receiving a request from the State of Odisha, the Central Government established the OAT on 4 July 1986 by issuing Notification No. GSR 934(E), which was published in the Gazette of India. The OAT commenced functioning soon thereafter. 7. At this time, Section 28 of the Administrative Tribunals Act F was still in force. Section 28 excluded the jurisdiction of all courts except the Supreme Court or the Industrial Tribunal or Labour Court in relation to matters over which the CAT and the SAT exercised jurisdiction. Section 28 was enacted pursuant to the enabling provision in Article 323-A of the Constitution, namely clause 2(d) of Article 323-A. Clause 2(d) G provided that Parliament may exclude the jurisdiction of all courts, except of the Supreme Court under Article 136 of the Constitution with respect to disputes which administrative tribunals were empowered to adjudicate 7 Section 15 read with Section 3(q), Administrative Tribunals Act 8 Section 3(q), Administrative Tribunals Act H 9 Section 15(4), Administrative Tribunals Act ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 753 UNION OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] under clause 1 of Article 323-A. The effect of Section 28 of the A Administrative Tribunals Act, therefore, was that appeals from the OAT lay directly to the Supreme Court under Article 136 of the Constitution. However, this changed with the decision of this Court in L. Chandra Kumar v. Union of India (1997) 3 SCC 261. In its decision in that case, this Court inter alia ruled that: B a. Clause 2(d) of Article 323-A and clause 3(d) of Article 323- B were unconstitutional to the extent that they excluded the jurisdiction of the High Courts under Articles 226 and 227 and of the Supreme Court under Article 32 of the Constitution; b. Section 28 of the Administrative Tribunals Act was C unconstitutional as were ‘exclusion of jurisdiction’ clauses in all other legislation enacted under Articles 323-A and 323- B;c. The jurisdiction conferred upon the High Courts under Articles 226 and 227 and upon the Supreme Court under Article 32 of the Constitution form a part of the basic structure D of the Constitution; and d. Other courts and Tribunals may perform a supplemental role in discharging the powers conferred by Articles 226/227 and 32 of the Constitution. As a consequence of this decision, challenges under Article 226 E of the Constitution to the decisions rendered by the SATs lay to Division Benches of the respective High Courts within whose jurisdiction the SATs operated. The Supreme Court’s jurisdiction could be invoked under Article 136 against the decisions of the High Courts.