[2023] 14 S.C.R. 796 : 2023 INSC 1009 CASE DETAILS P. KISHORE KUMAR v. VITTAL K. PATKAR (Civil Appeal No. 7210 of 2011) NOVEMBER 20, 2023 [BELA M. TRIVEDI AND DIPANKAR DATTA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: The plaintiff ’s vendor applied u/s. 9A of the Mysore (Personal & Miscellaneous) Inam Abolition Act, 1954 and sought occupancy rights in respect of 15 acres of Sy. No. 3. According to the plaintiff , the claim of the plaintiff ’s vendor succeeded before the Special Deputy Commissioner of Inams. However, the appellant-defendant alleged that the Commissioner’s granted occupancy rights u/s. 9 in favour of his predecessor-in-interest. Trial Court after examining revenue records adduced by the plaintiff and the Commissioner’s , held that the ownership of the suit property vested in the plaintiff ’s vendor. Whether the High Court was justifi ed in upholding the decision of the Trial Court. Mysore (Personal & Miscellaneous) Inam Abolition Act, 1954 – Portions of Sy. No.3 was sold to two diff erent parties, a dispute between the two parties arose and, in fact, triggered the suit instituted by the plaintiff , inter alia, praying for declaration of title and permanent injunction with respect to Schedules ‘A’ and ‘B’ property, against the defendant – The Trial Court held that the ownership of the suit property vested in the plaintiff ’s vendor – However, the fi rst Appellate Court overturned the fi ndings of the Trial Court – The High Court upheld the of the Trial Court – Propriety: Held: A bare perusal of the s.9 and s.9A reveals that while s.9 allows an Inamdar to make an application for occupancy rights, a tenant is aff orded an opportunity for the same u/s. 9A of the Act subject to the 796 P. KISHORE KUMAR v. VITTAL K. PATKAR 797 condition that he was a tenant in respect of the subject land immediately prior to the date of vesting – Therefore, it is only a tenant or an Inamdar, who could have made such an application – In the instant case, before the Commissioner, the plaintiff ’s vendor was one of the applicants while the defendant’s predecessor-in-interest was one of the respondent Inamdars – The Commissioner lucidly stated that the claimants were not tenants at the time of vesting and, therefore, the claims of, inter alia, the plaintiff ’s vendor, were ed to be rejected – It was further said that their respective survey numbers were to be registered in favour of the Inamdars u/s. 9 – This can have only one possible meaning, that the claim of the plaintiff ’s vendor for occupancy right as a tenant was rejected, and that of the defendant’s predecessor-in-interest was acknowledged – The Commissioner’s distinctly denying the rights of occupancy to the plaintiff ’s vendor is evidence that renders the revenue entries unworthy of acceptance – Also, an examination of the sale deed executed in favour of the plaintiff , also tilts the balance against him – The deed simply states that the plaintiff ’s vendor traces her title not to a grant in her favour by the government, but through a sale deed executed in her favour – Further, there is a categorical recital in the deed that the property is neither Inam land nor tenanted land, and that there is no legal impediment to the sale of such property – Some element of mischief being present is clear inasmuch as a relevant fact was concealed, i.e., the plaintiff ’s vendor had indeed applied for occupancy rights under the Act but had failed to secure them – Such an application would never have been necessary, had the property not been Inam or tenanted land, thus laying bare the defi ciency in the plaintiff ’s title – The High Court, while observing that there existed a lawfully registered sale deed in favour of the plaintiff , failed to identify this inherent defect in the title claimed by the plaintiff – The fi rst Appellate Court rightly overturned the fi ndings of the Trial Court and dismissed the suit – The Commissioner’s was correctly interpreted to determine as to in whom occupancy rights vested in respect of the ‘B’ schedule property – As a result, the plaintiff ’s suit shall stand dismissed.