A compensation to the landowners the Board is entitled to demand additional price from the allottees.” (emphasis supplied) 14.The issue was also considered by this Court in Preeta Singh (Km) and others v. Haryana Urban Development Authority and B Others4. The challenge in the aforesaid case was also regarding the demand of additional price on account of enhanced compensation for the land. Referring to the Section 2(aa) of the Punjab Urban Estate (Sale of Sites) Rules, 1965 which defines “additional price”, as the allotment was in terms of the aforesaid rules, demand of additional price C on account of enhanced compensation for the acquisition of land which was utilized for carving of the plots was upheld by this Court. 15.In Tamil Nadu Housing Board’s case (supra), Clause 18 of the Agreement therein clearly provided that after the finalization of the total cost of construction of flats in case the value of the land is increased in terms of the enhancement of compensation by the Court, the allottee D shall be liable to pay the difference. The relevant clause as referred to in the aforesaid is extracted below: “19. Clause 18 of the agreement entered into between the parties and signed by all allottees is extremely important and reads thus: E “18. It is expressly agreed between both the parties that after the finalisation of the total cost of construction of flats and the value of the land in accordance with the award of compensation declared by the Tribunals and courts, the purchaser shall pay to the vendor on demand before the F registration of the sale deed the difference between the amount already paid by the purchaser as per Clause 2 above and the price amount finally fixed by the Chairman, the vendor.” 16. There is no such clause in the allotment letter or the lease- cum-sale agreement signed between the parties. G 17. Coming to the cited by learned counsel for the Appellant. In Shimla Development Authority’s case (supra), allotment of flat was made under the ‘Self Finance Scheme’. The price informed was tentative. The first demand was raised on account of increase in H 4 (1996) 8 SCC 756 THE BELGAUM URBAN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY V. 869 DHRUVA & ANR. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] the cost of construction and the second demand was raised on account A of increase of compensation for the acquired land utilized for construction of flats. This Court held that the land of a private owner was acquired for construction of flats under the Self Finance Scheme, hence, the allottees are bound to pay the increased cost on account of acquisition of land. In addition, the allottees are also bound to bear the burden of B escalation in the cost of construction. 18.The relevant clause of the allotment letter for the hire- purchase tenancy agreement entered into between allottee and Shimla Development Authority as such has not been extracted in the aforesaid passed by this Court. However, we have perused the paper book C in that case.