To make the company viable, the concerned persons including the unsecured creditors have to sacrifice to some extent otherwise the revival efforts shall fail. At this stage, it is required to be noted that if a sick company is ed to be wind up, in F that case, the unsecured creditors otherwise may not get anything. However, on the other hand on sanctioning the rehabilitation scheme under Section 18, the unsecured creditors may get part of their dues /debts, which otherwise, they may not get. At this stage, it is required to be noted that as per Section 18(8) of SICA, G 1985, which has been substituted by Act 12 of 1994, on and from the date of the coming into operation of the sanctioned scheme or any provision thereof, the scheme or such provision shall be binding on the sick industrial company and the transferee company or, as the case may be, the other company and also on H MODI RUBBER LIMITED v. CONTINENTAL CARBON INDIA 1029 LTD. the shareholders, creditors and guarantors and even the A employees of the said companies. [Paras 11.14, 11.14.1, 11.14.2][1064-B-H; 1065-A-B] 1.3 The intention of the legislature is very clear. Creditors includes unsecured creditors. The submission on behalf of the unsecured creditors that the word “creditors” is not defined like B IBC, 2016 and therefore, the scheme shall not bind the unsecured creditors, cannot be accepted. Looking to the object and purpose of the SICA, 1985 and the provisions of Sections 18 and 19 of the SICA, 1985, the word “creditors” shall have to be construed in a broad manner and is not required to be construed narrowly, C otherwise, the object and purpose of rehabilitation scheme shall be frustrated. If the scheme binds the creditors, including other creditors like financial institutions etc., who may have a better claim than the unsecured creditors, there is no reason to treat the unsecured creditors separately and not to treat them as creditors. Therefore, even as per Section 18(8), the scheme shall D bind all the creditors and guarantors and even the employees of the sick company, for whose revival the scheme is sanctioned. If the submission on behalf of the unsecured creditors, which has been accepted by the High Court in the case of Continental Carbon India Ltd. that an unsecured creditor can opt out of the scheme E sanctioned by the BIFR under the SICA, 1985 and is allowed not to accept the scaled down value of its dues and may wait till the scheme for rehabilitation of the sick company has worked itself out, with an option to recover the debt post such rehabilitation is accepted / allowed, in that case, the minority creditors may frustrate the rehabilitation scheme, which may frustrate the object F and purpose of enactment of SICA, 1985. Thus, minority creditors and that too some unsecured creditors cannot be permitted to stall the rehabilitation of the sick company by not 51 accepting the scaled down value of its dues.