4.1. Besides a similar argument advanced by learned counsel for Balwinder Singh3 that the statement of confession made by Satnam Singh5 before the NCB offi cials is not admissible in law and could not be read in evidence against him in view of the recent decision of this Court in Tofan Singh36 (supra), Mr. Akshay Nagarajan, learned counsel for the said appellant has assailed the impugned judgement primarily on fi ve counts. Firstly, that an off ence committed under the NDPS Act being a grave one, all the procedural safeguards provided under the Statute to the accused require strict compliance and strict scrutiny and in the instant case, as the prosecution failed to establish a prima facie case, the burden did not shift to the accused. To buttress the said submission, learned counsel has cited Ritesh Chakarvarti v. State of M.P.37; Noor Aga v. State of Punjab and 36 (2021) 4 SCC 1 37 (2006) 12 SCC 321 BALWINDER SINGH (BINDA) v. THE NARCOTICS 111 CONTROL BUREAU [HIMA KOHLI, J.] Another38; Bhola Singh v. State of Punjab39; State of Delhi v. Ram Avatar alias Rama40; and Gorak Nath Prasad v. State of Bihar41 . 4.2 The second plea taken is that the entire story setup by the prosecution is shaky inasmuch as the independent witnesses who were joined in, have a murky background and their testimonies ought to be disbelieved. The testimony of Sonu8 has been questioned as untrustworthy and it is stated that he could not be treated as an independent witness in terms of Section 100(4) of the Cr.P.C. It was contended that the High Court has erred in failing to re-evaluate the credibility of the said witness and satisfy itself as to whether he was in fact an independent witness. Thirdly, it was argued that the other independent witness, Mukesh Kumar was arrayed in the list of witnesses but not examined by the prosecution for the reason that he was a stock witness, as would emerge from the deposition of DW-331 and DW-432. Next, it was argued that the case property17, mainly the contraband that was allegedly recovered, was not handled properly which is apparent from the fact that in the panchnama12 the contraband was described as a substance that was white in colour but in his testimony, the Chemical Examiner19, described the contraband to be of light brown colour with lumps. This discrepancy in the contraband pointed out by the defence goes to the root of the matter. 4.3 Lastly, it was argued on behalf of Satnam Singh5 that the High Court ought not to have discarded outright the defence version that it was Sonu8 [PW-1] who was found to be in possession of the contraband and on his bribing the NCB offi cers, he was let off whereas Satnam Singh5, who was innocent, was framed. Learned counsel submitted that the deposition of DW-230 proved that the landline number on which a phone call was made by the NCB offi cers from the mobile phone of Satnam Singh5 at 09.45 pm on 11th December, 2005, was the offi cial number belonging to the Zonal Director, NCB, Chandigarh and the said evidence once brought on record, was suffi cient for the High Court to have discounted the version of the NCB that they had met Satnam Singh5 for the fi rst time at the naka on 12th December, 2005, at 03.00 am.