What Section 11(6-A) contemplates is a contract and it is not an agreement which cannot be treated as a contract. This is despite the use of the words “arbitration agreement” in Section 11(6-A). In other words, contract must conform to Section 7 of the Act. It must also, needless to say, fulfi l the requirements of the Contract Act.” (emphasis supplied) IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1123 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] 55. Section 11(6-A)50 of the Arbitration Act is extracted below: “(6-A) The Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court, while considering any application under sub-section (4) or sub-section (5) or sub-section (6), shall, notwithstanding any , decree or of any court, confi ne to the examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement.” (emphasis supplied) 56. A plain reading of Section 11(6A) makes it evident that it is referring to an arbitration agreement. Section 11(6A) provides that courts must confi ne themselves to an examination of the existence of the arbitration agreement. The word “confi ne” indicates the intention of the legislature to limit the jurisdiction of the courts at the stage of the appointment of an arbitrator. 57. In Vidya Drolia (supra), this Court held: “21. The term “agreement” is not defi ned in the Arbitration Act, albeit it is defi ned in Section 10 of the Contract Act, 1872 (for short “the Contract Act”), … as contracts made by free consent of parties competent to contract, for a lawful consideration and with a lawful object, and are not thereby expressly declared to be void. Section 10 of the Contract Act also stipulates that aforesaid requirements shall not aff ect any law in force in India (and not expressly repealed) by which a contract is required to be made in writing, in presence of witnesses or any law relating to registration of documents. Thus, an arbitration agreement should satisfy the mandate of Section 10 of the Contract Act, in addition to satisfying other requirements stipulated in Section 7 of the Arbitration Act.” 58. The above observations are correct insofar as the arbitration agreement must satisfy the requirements of the Contract Act. However, the authority empowered to adjudicate whether the requirements of the Contract Act are satisfi ed is the arbitral tribunal, under Section 16 of the Arbitration Act. This is addressed in greater detail in the following segments. 50 Omitted by Act 33 of 2019. The omission is yet to be notifi ed / take eff ect. 112 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. iii. The purpose of the Stamp Act 59. The Stamp Act is a fi scal legislation which is intended to raise revenue for the government. It is a mandatory statute. In Hindustan Steel Ltd. v. Dilip Construction Co.,51 this Court dealt with the import of Sections 35, 36 and 42 of the Stamp Act. One of the parties relied on the diff erence in the phraseology between Sections 35 and 36 to argue that an instrument which was insuffi ciently stamped or not stamped could be admitted in evidence upon the payment of duty and a penalty (if any) but that it could not be acted upon, once admitted.