[Paras 58, 65, 66] Kannur University Act, 1996 – s. 10(9) and s.10(10) – Did the Chancellor abdicate or surrender his statutory power of reappointment of the Vice-Chancellor. Held: The facts make it abundantly clear that there was no independent application of mind or satisfaction or on the part of the Chancellor 380 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. and the respondent No. 4 came to be reappointed only at the behest of the State Government – Although the notifi cation reappointing the respondent No. 4 to the post of Vice-Chancellor was issued by the Chancellor yet the decision stood vitiated by the infl uence of extraneous considerations or to put it in other words by the unwarranted intervention of the State Government – It is the Chancellor who has been conferred with the competence under the Act 1996 to appoint or reappoint a Vice-Chancellor – No other person even the Pro-Chancellor or any superior authority can interfere with the functioning of the statutory authority and if any decision is taken by a statutory authority at the behest or on a suggestion of a person who has no statutory role to play, the same would be patently illegal – Thus, it is the decision-making process, which vitiated the entire process of reappointment of the respondent No. 4 as the Vice-Chancellor – The decision making process because in such a case the exercise of power is amenable to judicial review – As a consequence, the notifi cation dated 23.11.2021, reappointing the respondent no.4 as the Vice-Chancellor of the Kannur University is quashed. [Paras 81,84, 85,86,87,90] Words and Phrases – ‘Tenure’ and ‘Tenure post’ – Discussed. Interpretation of Statutes – Doctrine/Principle – Doctrine of Purposive construction: Held: The doctrine of purposive construction may be taken recourse to for the purpose of giving full eff ect to the statutory provisions, and the courts must state what meaning the statute should bear, rather than rendering the statute a nullity, as statutes are meant to be operative and not inept. The courts must refrain from declaring a statute to be unworkable – The rules of interpretation require that construction which carries forward the objectives of the statute, protects interest of the parties and keeps the remedy alive, should be preferred looking into the text and context of the statute – Construction given by the court must promote the object of the statute and serve the purpose for which it has been enacted and not eff ace its very purpose – The courts strongly lean against any construction which tends to reduce a statute to futility – The provision of the statute must be so construed as to make it eff ective and operative – The court must take a pragmatic view and must keep in mind the purpose for which the statute was enacted as the purpose of law itself provides good guidance to courts as they interpret the true meaning of the Act and thus legislative futility must be ruled out. [Para 56] DR. PREMACHANDRAN KEEZHOTH & ANR.