The that notice should issue may be taken as an approvalby the Court of the security furnished, in the circumstances disclosed by the applicant inhis application G and affidavit (if any). We may also take it that, the Court, by implication,gave the applicant a direction that he should furnish security of the kind actuallyfurnished by him. This is not a more attempt to get over what may be believed to berather hard directions of the law. If the Court instead of issuing a notice in the case justmentioned, rejects this H ARTI DIXIT & ANR v. SUSHIL KUMAR MISHRA & ORS 745 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] application because its direction has not been obtained, and A iflimitation has not already expired, it would be open to the applicant to make a freshapplication and to furnish such security as the Court may direct. A party cannot sufferby the act of a Court, and therefore we must accept the position that the Court hasgiven the direction, according to law to B the furnishing of the security actually furnished,where the Court instead of rejecting the application of the defendant directs that anotice should issue. 23. The conclusion that I arrive at; therefore is that the proper course is for a party to make an application to the C Court to obtain its direction as to the nature of the security, and then to apply with the security of the nature directed by the Court for setting aside the ex parte decree. The security furnished must comply with the directions of the Court, and the Court will see that the security is to its satisfaction, i. e., sufficient. Butwhere the Court adopts a D security without question and directs a notice to issue, it, bynecessary implication, gives a direction that the security should be of the naturedirected by it ‘and that the security furnished is sufficient to its mind.” (Emphasis supplied) E The view taken by Boys J., insofar as it is relevant, is contained in the following paragraph: “37. The conclusion from this, then, is that no initial defects in the making of theapplication must be allowed to stand in the way of the applicant getting a notice issuedto the decree- F holder, provided that an application has been filed, and further that cashhas been deposited, or, if the Court has so permitted, security has been given, allbefore the expiry of 30 days. A reasonable and practical interpretation of the section is therefore as follows: (1) the applicant must within G 30 days file his application either with cash or with a [statement that he is prepared to give security (and in the latter case, he may, of course, tender the security he proposes and ask for the direction of the Court (2) In the case where he wants to give security, if the Court refuses H 746 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A to direct (security, he must deposit cash within [the 30 days, or his application will be [rejected. (3) If the Court agrees to direct security, then (a) it will consider (the security already offered, if it has been so offered; or (b) name security to its satisfaction which must be filed within the 30 days.