He has identifi ed his signature on the certifi cate Ex. P-L (furnished as required under Section 65-B of the Evidence Act) which certifi cate was prepared by police offi cial Mr. Aman and he has not been examined. The CD(Ex.P.3) was played in the trial court and observation recorded by Sessions Judge which is to the following eff ect would acquire great signifi cance. “COURT OBSERVATION:- from the video clips the faces of assailants and complainants are not decipherable.” (Emphasis supplied by us) 9.5 He (PW-8) admits in his cross-examination that certifi cate Ex. PL was prepared by a police offi cial, and he (PW-8) had affi xed his signature to Ex.PL. He also admits that faces of the assailants are not visible and identifi able and the registration numbers of the motorcycles are also not visible. It is pertinent to note at this juncture itself that Investigating Offi cer (PW-15) also admits in his cross-examination that faces of the accused are not identifi able from the video. The said video according to PW-8 was taken from the CCTV camera located in the house of Dharmendra and he (Dharmendra) was never cited as a witness by the prosecution. This is the third stage of the defi cient investigation and blame has to be necessarily laid at their door and the benefi t of the doubt has to be extended to the accused persons. 9.6 The confessional statement of the accused and co-accused came to be recorded when they were in police custody. This court in Mehboob Ali & Another Vs. State of Rajasthan (2016) 14 SCC 640 has held: 782 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. “12. Section 25 of the Evidence Act provides that no confession made to a police offi cer shall be proved as against a person accused of any off ence. Section 26 provides that no confession made by any person while he is in the custody of a police offi cer, unless it be made in the immediate presence of a Magistrate, shall be proved as against such person. Section 27 is in the form of a proviso, it lays down how much of an information received from accused may be proved. 13. For application of Section 27 of the Evidence Act, admissible portion of confessional statement has to be found as to a fact which were the immediate cause of the discovery, only that would be part of legal evidence and not the rest. In a statement if something new is discovered or recovered from the accused which was not in the knowledge of the police before disclosure statement of the accused is recorded, is admissible in the evidence. 14. Section 27 of the Evidence Act refers when any “fact” is deposed. Fact has been defi ned in Section 3 of the Act. Same is quoted below: “‘Fact’.— ‘Fact’ means and includes— (1) any thing, state of things, or relation of things, capable of being perceived by the senses; (2) any mental condition of which any person is conscious.