meters is G completely beyond jurisdiction and such directions, in our view, being contrary to law deserve to be set aside. 20. The submission made by the respondent that the tender floated by the appellants on 13th March, 1997 was called upon to the bidders to submit their bid for 27887.50 sq. meters and which could not have been H 506 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A segregated, more so after the bid has been finalized @Rs.725/- per sq. meter and that alone has been taken care of by the High Court by directing to execute the lease deed for the remainder of the land, in our considered view, is bereft of merit for the reason that so far as the tender floated by the Authority on 13th March, 1997 is concerned, the transaction was concluded on execution of the lease deed executed without demur for B 18262.89 sq. meters on 29th March, 2006 and after the transaction is concluded and the instrument being registered under the law, it was not open to either party to question at least in the writ jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution and the mandamus issued by the High Court to execute the lease deed for the remainder of the area C without any consideration is completely contrary to the settled principles of law and deserves to be set aside. 21. Learned counsel for the respondent further submits that although at one point of time they have not been able to consider the remainder of the land in reference to which the High Court has directed D for execution of the lease deed viable as per the circle rate fixed by the State Government, but later on, they revisited and took a decision to take the remainder of the land independently on the circle rate fixed by the State Government as it was on 16th March, 2023, but in our considered view, once the negotiations have failed and the respondent has shown his inability for taking the remainder of the land on the circle rate notified E by the State Government not considered to be viable, it is always open for the parties to negotiate afresh and settle, if advised, but it may not be available to the respondent on the prevalent circle rate notified by the government/competent authority. 22. Before we conclude, we would like to observe that the litigation F is pending for sufficiently long time and keeping in view the escalation in the value of the property in question based on commercial principles, we consider it appropriate to observe that the respondent being originally the bidder for the remainder of the land as well, let one opportunity be made available to the respondent for the remainder of the area on priority G basis on the prevalent circle rate notified by the Government. 23. It is informed that the remaining area at the relevant time was 9625.50 sq. meters, but certain developments have taken place and part of the land has been used for public purpose and as on today the remaining area of the land is less than what is being reflected in the impugned .