10.2. The main plank of the submissions on behalf of the appellant had been with reference to his alleged addiction to liquor and his admission to the rehabilitation centre. Learned counsel for the appellant would H PREM SINGH v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 837 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] argue, particularly with reference to the statements of PW-2 Puran Singh, A cousin of the appellant, and PW-3 Jagbir, manager of rehabilitation centre,that the appellant was undoubtedly undergoing treatment for his addiction to liquor and was discharged against advice prematurely; and, the evidence on record, read as a whole, lead to the position that the appellant could not have been treated as a person capable of B understanding the nature of his act. According to the learned counsel, even if the evidence of PW-2 and PW-3 may not be sufficient to give the benefit of Section 84 IPC, it definitely gives rise to a doubt with regard to the mental capacity of the appellant. In this regard, the learned counsel has also referred to the additional documents placed on record to the effect that even post-conviction, the appellant has been treated C for his mental condition; he was distinguished as a psychiatric case; and was admitted to the Central Jail Hospital for treatment. 10.3. With reference to the aforesaid factors concerning the mental capacity of the appellant, learned counsel would submit that the entire trial in the present case stands vitiated, for the Trial Court having omitted D to examine the capacity of the accused-appellant in terms of Section 329 CrPC. Learned counsel has also referred to the decision of Gujarat High Court in the case of State of Gujarat v.Manjuben: 2019 SCC OnLine Guj 6937 and has submitted that, in the present case, looking to the background factors concerning mental capacity of the appellant E appearing in evidence, it was the duty of the Trial Court to examine if he was of unsound mind and consequently incapable of making his defence. 10.3.1. Learned counsel has further argued that when the prosecution and the investigating agency came across the evidence in relation to the mental condition of the appellant, it was their duty to have F him medically examined and to place the evidence before the Trial Court. This having not been done, the infirmity, according to the learned counsel, ought to result in acquittal of the appellant. In this regard, the learned counsel has also referred to a decision of Bombay High Court in the case of Ajay Ram Pandit v. State of Maharashtra: 2022 SCC OnLine Bom 3920. G 10.3.2. Learned counsel for the appellant has further submitted that although in the present case neither the public prosecutor nor the defence counsel raised the issue of mental capacity of the appellant, the Trial Court was under an obligation to ascertain his mental capacity, particularly in view of the prima facie evidence available before it. H 838 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A According to the learned counsel, it was the duty of the Trial Court to have made such an assessment and for that purpose, conclusive evidence was not required and presence of some doubt itself was sufficient.