The nature of the contractual relationship can either be formally encrusted in the underlying contract, or it can also be inferred from the conduct of the signatory and non-signatory parties with respect to such contract. However, we clarify that mere presence of a commercial relationship between the signatory and non-signatory parties is not suffi cient to infer “legal relationship” between and among the parties. If this factor is applied solely, any related entity or company may be impleaded even when it does not have any rights or obligations under the underlying contract and did not take part in the performance of the contract. The group of companies doctrine cannot be applied to abrogate party consent and autonomy. The doctrine, properly conceptualised and applied, gives eff ect to mutual intent and autonomy. 113. In Canara Bank (supra), this Court observed that the group of companies doctrine can also be invoked in cases where a “tight group structure with strong organisational and fi nancial links, so as to constitute a single economic unit, or a single economic reality.” In Cox and Kings (supra), Justice Surya Kant observed that applying this approach has the tendency to overlook the principle of corporate separateness and dispense with the consent of the parties. There is weight in the caution expressed by Justice Surya Kant. The presence of commercial relationships between a party and a non-signatory cannot be the sole criteria to bind non-signatory parties to the arbitration agreement. Adopting such an approach would bind all the non-signatories within a corporate group, even though they are not COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 693 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] related to the contractual obligations under consideration, to the arbitration agreement. Consequently, such an approach will lead to the violation of the basic legal tenet of arbitration – the necessity of consent, either express or implied, to be bound by an arbitration agreement. Moreover, the imposition of liability on a non-signatory company within a group for the acts of other members of the group merely on the basis of the fact that they belong to a “single economic unit” will ride roughshod over the principle of distinct corporate personality. The objective of the group of companies doctrine is to identify the mutual intentions of the parties without disregarding the legal personality of the entities. 114. In Dow Chemicals (supra), it was held that a group of companies constitutes the same economic reality, which has to be considered by the arbitral tribunal while deciding on its jurisdiction. According to the tribunal, the presence of the group of companies is merely an additional factor that the tribunal may consider to determine the mutual intention of the parties. In Canara Bank (supra), this Court did not apply the group of companies doctrine solely on the basis that the companies belonged to a single economic unit. Rather, it was held that there was an implied or tacit consent by the non-signatory party (CANFINA) to being impleaded in the arbitral proceedings.