37. In Shri Krishnan v. Kurukshetra University, (1976) 1SCC311, the Supreme Court while considering the claim of a law student to take an examination which the respondent university had refused, observed in paragraph 7 that: “*** It is well settled that where a person on whom fraud is committed is in a position to discover the truth by due diligence, fraud is not proved. It was neither a case of suggestio falsi, or suppressio veri. ***” (italics in original) 38. In my view, because of ignorance or otherwise, the Registrar did not act within the parameters of the jurisdiction laid down by the Hon’ble Division Bench in its dated January 14, 2016, which is apparent on the face of the record. He proceeded to exercise a power of substantive review, which was not available to him in terms of such and that too without reference to the application for registration of the appellants that succeeded. The vital diff erence between a power of substantive review and a power of procedural review, evidently, was not present in the mind of the Registrar. If at all there was suppression on the part of the appellants, it had to be shown that such suppression was akin to a fraud that had resulted in an granting registration in violation of a statutory provision. That has not been shown. It is for this reason that, on facts and in the circumstances, I answer the fi rst point of diff erence noted above in the negative. 39. In view of such answer, question of answering the second point does not arise. 40. Thus, though I agree with the learned Judge who proposed that the of the learned Judge dated May 18, 2017 should be set aside CHEN KHOI KUI v. LIANG MIAO SHENG & ORS. 315 [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] and the appeal allowed, I am also of the view that leaving the parties to battle it out before the civil court may not be appropriate in the circumstances. There being an allegation of fraud levelled by one party against the other and bearing in mind the law relating to fraud noticed above, coupled with observance of the of the Hon’ble Division Bench dated January 14, 2016 in the breach by the Registrar, much to the detriment and prejudice of both the parties, it would only be fi t and proper to set aside the impugned in the writ petition and the and under appeal, and to a further remand of the matter to the Registrar for taking an appropriate decision not only by adhering to the said of January 14, 2016 but also in the light of the observations made hereinabove. It is ed accordingly. To support such course of action, which is diff erent from those directed by the diff ering Judges of the Hon’ble Division Bench, I may refer to the decisions of referee Judges of this Court in the decisions reported in 2014 (4) CHN (CAL) 242 (Shivani Properties Private Limited vs. Bank of India) and 2015 (2) CLJ (CAL) 141 (Tapas Paul vs. State of West Bengal & Ors.