I, 14th Edn., 2016.] However, acquiescence will not apply if lapse of time is of no importance or consequence. 40. Laches unlike limitation is fl exible. However, both limitation and laches destroy the remedy but not the right. Laches like acquiescence is based upon equitable considerations, but laches unlike acquiescence imports even simple passivity. On the other hand, acquiescence implies active assent and is based upon the rule of estoppel in pais. As a form of estoppel, it bars a party afterwards from complaining of the violation of the right. Even indirect acquiescence implies almost active consent, which is not to be inferred by mere silence or inaction which is involved in laches. Acquiescence in this manner is quite distinct from delay. Acquiescence virtually destroys the right of the person. [See Vidyavathi Kapoor Trust v. CIT, 1991 SCC OnLine Kar 331 : (1992) 194 ITR 584] Given the aforesaid legal position, inactive acquiescence on the part of the respondent can be inferred till the fi ling of the appeal, and not for the period post fi ling of the appeal. Nevertheless, this acquiescence being in the nature of estoppel bars the respondent from claiming violation of the right of fair representation.” (emphasis supplied) 22. For reasons aforesaid, the s of the High Court as also the Tribunal deserve to be, and are accordingly, set aside. 23. The appellant is held entitled to continuance on the post of PET in the School, with service counted from 14.05.1994. As a sequel thereto, all consequential benefi ts, to be determined as per records, shall fl ow. 24. The appeal stands allowed in the afore-mentioned terms. No as to costs. 25. However, for complete justice, we cannot leave Respondent No.5 in the lurch, given the time taken by the adjudicatory process. As such, in exercise of power under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, we direct 420 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. the State of Odisha to grant a lump-sum of INR 3 lakhs to Respondent No.5. Further, if any monies were paid to Respondent No.5, the same shall also not be recovered. This paragraph shall not constitute precedent. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal allowed. Divya Pandey