We are, however, not unmindful of the fact that a statute of E town planning ex facie is not a statute for acquisition of a property. An owner of a plot is asked to part therewith only for providing for better facilities of which he would also be a beneficiary. Every step taken by the State does not involve application of the doctrine of eminent domain. F 34. In this case, the appellant did not oppose the draft scheme. It accepted that the State had a right to do so. Existence of a public purpose and increase in the valuation of the property was admitted. There exists a distinction in the action of the planning authority as regards vesting of a property in it and one so as to enable it to create a third-party interest vis-à-vis for the purpose of reallotment G thereof. In the former case, the vesting of the land may be held to be an act of acquisition, whereas in the latter, it would be distribution of certain benefits having regard to the purpose sought to be 53 (1973) 4 SCC 225 54 (2008) 12 SCC 401 H 1114 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A achieved by a statute involving town planning. It was on that legal principle, this Court in State of Gujarat v. Shantilal Mangaldas [(1969) 1 SCC 509 : (1969) 3 SCR 341] opined that when a development is made, the owner of the property gets much more than what he would have got, if the same remained undeveloped in the process as by reason thereof he gets the benefit B of living in a developed town having good town planning.” (Emphasis supplied) 102. In the recent , again, a Bench of three learned Judges of this Court, followed the in Chairman, Indore Vikas Pradhikaran (supra). C NARAYANRAO JAGOBAJI GOWANDE PUBLIC TRUST V. STATE OF MAHARASHTRA AND OTHERS55 103. The dispute revolved around a condition in a development agreement executed between the appellant-Trust and the Nagpur Improvement Trust (for short, ‘NIT’). Under such condition, the appellant D was to transfer the land and/or primary school open land in the layout free-of-cost and the NIT was free to dispose of such land as per its Rules and Regulations. We notice that the predecessor-in-interest of the appellant was given permission by the NIT, under which, an area was reserved for a primary school which was a public utility land. The NIT E allotted the land in the layout approved in favour of the appellant’s predecessor to a third party for construction of a college. Several contentions were arrayed against the allotment, including that the NIT did not have any power to insert such a condition and that there was no power to acquire land de hors the Act, under which, it was created. This Court dismissed the appeal and upheld the view of the High Court. F In doing so, this Court held as follows: “34. We have carefully heard both the parties at length and have also given our conscious thought to the materials on record and the relevant provisions of law.