It is also observed that the sanctuaries like Sanjay Gandhi National Park and H 626 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Guindy National Park in Mumbai shall form special cases. The said paragraph 54 is reproduced hereinunder: “54. In our opinion, the Guidelines framed on 9-2-2011 appear to be reasonable and we accept the view of the Standing Committee that uniform guidelines may not be possible in respect of each B sanctuary or national park for maintaining ESZ. We are of the opinion, however, that a minimum width of 1 km ESZ ought to be maintained in respect of the protected forests, which forms part of the recommendations of CEC in relation to Category B protected forests. This would be the standard formula, subject to changes in special circumstances. We have considered CEC’s C recommendation that the ESZ should be relatable to the area covered by a protected forest but the Standing Committee’s view that the area of a protected forest may not always be a reasonable criteria also merits consideration. It was argued before us that the 1 km wide “no-development-zone” may not be feasible in all D cases and specific instances were given for Sanjay Gandhi National Park and Guindy National Park in Mumbai and Chennai metropolis respectively which have urban activities in very close proximity. These sanctuaries shall form special cases.” 42. It is to be noted that an elaborate and exhaustive list has been E prepared by MoEF & CC of the activities which shall be prohibited, the activities which shall be regulated and the activities which shall be permitted. 43. In the application, it is stated that after the proposals are received from the State Governments/Union Territory Administrations, they are scrutinized in consultation with the Wildlife Institute of India, F Dehradun, and in case of tiger reserves, with the National Tiger Conservation Authority. They are thereafter published in the Official Gazette of the Central Government in both Hindi and English. They are also placed in the public domain for 60 days for seeking comments of concerned stakeholders. The comments so received are compiled and G scrutinized and observation of the concerned State Government/Union Territory Administration is sought on the same. The aforesaid requirements are in tune with the provisions of Rule 5 of 1986 Rules. 44. The application further states that the proposal is thereafter placed before an Expert Committee constituted for ESZ within the MoEF H & CC. The said Committee comprises of the following: IN RE: T.N. GODAVARMAN THIRUMULPAD v. UNION OF 627 INDIA AND OTHERS [B. R. GAVAI, J.] (i) Indian Institute of Remote Sensing/Indian Space Research A Organization, (ii) Ministry of Jal Shakti, (iii) Ministry of Rural Development, (iv) Forest Survey of India, B (v) Town & Country Planning Organization, Government of India, (vi) National Tiger Conservation Authority, (vii) Wildlife Institute of India, C (viii) GB Pant Institute of Himalayan Environment & Development, (ix) Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education, (x) World Wildlife Fund, D (xi) Zoological Survey of India, (xii) Botanical Survey of India, (xiii) Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History (SACON).