Sub- section 2 of Section 8, IBC in so far as it is relevant, reads thus: - H 204 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A “8. (1) …. (2) The corporate debtor shall, within a period of ten days of the receipt of the demand notice or copy of the invoice mentioned in sub-section (1) bring to the notice of the operational creditor— B (a) existence of a dispute, if any, or record of the pendency of the suit or arbitration proceedings filed before the receipt of such notice or invoice in relation to such dispute; (b) the payment of unpaid operational debt— (Underline supplied) C 19. So also, the said position is evident from Rule 5 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Application to Adjudicating Authority) Rules, 2016 (for short ‘the Rules’). Going by the instruction in Form 3, in which a Demand Notice is to be delivered to the corporate debtor under ‘the Rules’, the said from has to be served on the corporate debtor, ten days in advance D of filing an application under Section 9 of the Code. This instruction can only be construed that it shall be served on the corporate debtor not less than ten days in advance of filing an application under Section 9 of the Code for the simple reason that the period of limitation for filing an application under Section 9, IBC is governed by Section 238 A, IBC and therefore, it could not be construed that Section 9 application should E invariably be filed on the eleventh day of service of advance demand notice in Form 3. Section 238 A, IBC, dealing with period of limitation, has come into force w.e.f. 06.06.2018 and it reads thus: - “238A. Limitation. – The provisions of the Limitation Act, 1963 (36 of 1963) shall, as far as may be, apply to the proceedings F or appeals before the Adjudicating Authority, the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal, the Debt Recovery Tribunal or the Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be.” 20. Obviously, Section 238A, IBC makes the provisions of the Limitation Act, 1963 applicable to computation of the period of limitation G in regard to proceedings before the Adjudicating Authority and the other forums. This position is made explicitly clear in the decision of this Court in B.K. Educational Services Private Limited v. Parag Gupta and Associates4 at paragraphs 43 and 48 and they read thus: - H 4 (2019) 11 SCC 633 SABARMATI GAS LIMITED v. SHAH ALLOYS LIMITED 205 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] “43. It will be seen from a reading of Section 8 (2) (a) that the A corporate debtor shall, within a period of 10 days of the receipt of the demand notice, bring to the notice of the operational creditor the existence of a “dispute”. We have seen that “dispute” as defined in Section 5 (6) includes a suit or arbitration proceeding relating to certain matters. Again, B under Section 8 (2) (a), the corporate debtor may, in the alternative, disclose the pendency of a suit or arbitration proceedings filed before the receipt of the demand notice.