In Canara Bank (supra) this Court indirectly adopted the principle of estoppel to bind the non-signatory on the basis that it had already participated in the judicial proceedings before the High Court, and cannot subsequently deny being a party to the proceedings before the arbitral tribunal. In Discovery Enterprises (supra), this Court remanded the matter back to the arbitral tribunal to decide afresh the application for discovery and inspection by applying the group of companies doctrine. Therefore, we can conclude that the observations pertaining to the group of companies doctrine were rendered in the facts and circumstances of each case. We have harmonized the divergent strands of law emanating from these s in the preceding paragraphs. 151. In Law’s Empire, Ronald Dworkin proposed a hypothetical where a group of novelists write a novel seriatim, each novelist interpreting the chapters given to them to write a new chapter.120 The novelists are expected to “take their responsibilities of continuity more seriously” to create “a single unifi ed novel that is the best it can be.”121 Chloro Controls (supra) was the fi rst chapter in the group of companies doctrine in Indian arbitration jurisprudence. The series of subsequent s starting from Cheran Properties (supra) and ending with Cox and Kings (supra) were the incremental chapters – each adding further dimensions to the theory already propounded in the previous chapters. In this case, we have added another chapter to the theory of group of companies doctrine. Our aim was to make further progress in the course of evolution of arbitration law. In the process, we have tweaked the plotline to make the novel a more coherent read, instead of rewriting or discarding the previous chapters. 120 Ronald Dworkin, Law’s Empire (Belknap Press, Harvard University Press 1986) 229. 121 Ibid. COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 709 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] iii. Power of the Courts to issue directions under Section 9 152. In Cox and Kings (supra), Chief Justice Ramana observed that establishing the group of companies doctrine in the phrase “claiming through or under” creates an anomalous situation where a party “claiming through or under” could be referred to an arbitration agreement, but would not have a right to seek relief under Section 9 of the Arbitration Act. Section 9 allows a “party” to approach the court to seek interim measures such as appointment of a guardian for a minor or person of unsound mind, custody or sale of any goods which are the subject matter of the arbitration agreement, and appointment of receiver. 153. The group of companies doctrine is based on determining the mutual intention to join the non-signatory as a “veritable” party to the arbitration agreement. Once a tribunal comes to the determination that a non-signatory is a party to the arbitration agreement, such non-signatory party can apply for interim measures under Section 9 of the Arbitration Act. Establishing the legal basis for the application of the group of companies doctrine in the defi nition of “party” under Section 2(1)(h) read with Section 7 of the Arbitration Act resolves the anomality pointed out by Chief Justice Ramana.