In Siddamsetty Infra C Projects (P) Ltd. (supra), this Court was dealing with a similar question with respect to a sale agreement for an immovable property, while referring to an earlier in Chand Rani v. Kamal Rani,12 it was reiterated that in sale of immovable property there is no presumption that time is the essence of the contract, however, the court may infer D performance in a reasonable time if the conditions are evident from the express terms of the contract, from the nature of the property, and from the surrounding circumstances. 33. However, the set of facts and circumstances in Siddamsetty (supra) were substantially different from the case at hand. The relevant E portion of the said is reproduced as under: “33. At the outset, this Court has perused Clause 3 of the agreements, which is in two parts. The first part provides for the purchaser’s obligation, while the second part details the obligation of the vendors to provide the requisite certificates. Although both the obligations were required to be completed F within the stipulated period of three months, there is a substantive difference between these two sets of obligations. The obligation upon the vendors concerned was production of certain certificates, such as income tax exemption certificate and agriculture certificate. No consequences were spelt out G for non-performance of such obligations. Whereas the obligation on the purchaser, was to make the complete payment of the sale consideration within three months. The clause further mandates forfeiture of the advance amount if the 12 (1993) 1 SCC 519 H 818 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A payment obligation is not met within the time period stipulated therein. 34. In this context, this Court in Chand Rani v. Kamal Rani [Chand Rani v. Kamal Rani, (1993) 1 SCC 519] , held as under : (SCC p. 528, para 25) B “25. From an analysis of the above case law it is clear that in the case of sale of immovable property there is no presumption as to time being the essence of the contract. Even if it is not of the essence of the contract the court may infer that it is to be performed in a reasonable time if C the conditions are evident: 1. From the express terms of the contract; 2. From the nature of the property; and 3. From the surrounding circumstances, for example : the object of making the contract.” D ….. 73. From the above, we can safely conclude that the purchaser was not ready or willing to perform his part of the contract within the time stipulated and accordingly, specific E performance cannot be granted for the entire contract. “ 34. From a perusal of the above extracted portion of Siddamsetty (supra), it is clear that in the said case, the agreement stipulated that both the purchaser as well as the vendor were to fulfil their obligation within three months. But, in case of non-compliance of the vendor’s F obligations (of producing certain documents) within three months, no consequences were mentioned; whereas, on the other hand, in case of non-compliance of the purchaser’s obligations (of paying the balance sale consideration) within three months, the advance amount would be forfeited.