It is a matter of record that the Second SCN pertains to alleged violation of assignment conditions by transferring the ownership rights through sale deeds executed in the year 1992. However, the period till 2006, in our considered opinion, could not be counted because the parties were engaged in litigation pursuant to the First SCN and it was only after the liberty was accorded by the High Court in its dated 21.04.2006 that the Second SCN could be issued. We have already discussed in great detail the reasons behind the grant of said liberty and the same need not be reiterated. In the facts and circumstances of this case and taking note of the chronological events, we are satisfi ed that the exercise of suo motu revisionary power while issuing the Second SCN was not vitiated on account of inordinate delay as claimed by the Appellants. YADAIAH AND ANR. v. STATE OF TELANGANA AND 639 OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] C.3 THE APPLICABLE LAW ON ASSIGNED LANDS 51. Once we have determined the validity of the Second SCN in affi rmative, the next question that falls for our consideration is whether the subject land was assigned in the year 1953 as claimed by the Appellants or in 1961 when the Temporary Pattas were issued. However, before examining the said point, we express our inability to accept the contention made by Mr. Venugopal, learned senior counsel in respect of the nature of occupancy rights granted to the Assignees. On a plain reading of the recitals contained in the relevant documents, particularly the Temporary Pattas, First and Second SCNs and also the stand taken by Mr. Giri, we have no reason to doubt that the grant of Subject Land was in the nature of an assignment and not in any form of limited occupancy right. 52. Coming now to the issue of the date of assignment, we agree entirely with the Respondent’s stance that the actual assignment took place only at the time of issuance of Temporary Pattas and not at any point prior thereto. On perusal of the documents brought on record, which are merely collection of inter-departmental correspondence before the issuance of Temporary Pattas, we fi nd that the assignment process was still underway. The Appellant’s reliance on the document dated 28.10.1953 is unfounded as the same only communicated the sanction by the executive and nothing else. In fact, the letter dated 04.06.1960 brings out the fact that the area of the sanctioned land was to be reduced to 142 Acres and 39 Guntas and then only was to be assigned. In this regard, this Court has repeatedly held and recently reiterated again in Mahadeo v. Sovan Devi19that:– “14. It is well settled that inter-departmental communications are in the process of consideration for appropriate decision and cannot be relied upon as a basis to claim any right. This Court examined the said question in a reported as Omkar Sinha v. Sahadat Khan3. Reliance was placed on Bachhittar Singh v. State of Punjab4 to hold that merely writing something on the fi le does not amount to an .