D Demonetisation – Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 – s.26 – Held [per B.R. Gavai, J. (for himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ. )]: The Policy of s.26 of RBI Act is to enable the Central Government on the recommendation of the Central Board, to effect demonetization – The legislative policy is with regard to management and regulation of currency – E Demonetization of notes would certainly be a part of management and regulation of currency – Such demonetization can be done in respect of any series of bank notes of any denomination. Reserve Bank of India – Pivotal Role/Primary Status of RBI – Held [per B.R. Gavai, J. (for himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. F Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ. )]: RBI, which is a bankers’ bank, is a creature of statute – RBI plays an important role in the economy and financial affairs of India and one of its important functions is to regulate the banking system in the country – It is the duty of the RBI to safeguard the economy and financial stability of G the country – RBI is the sole repository of power for the management of currency – It has the sole right to issue bank notes and to issue currency notes supplied to it by the Government of India – RBI has an important role to play in evolving the monetary policy of the country. H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 5 Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 – s.26 – Held [per B.R. Gavai, A J. (for himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ. )]: The word “any” would mean “all” under sub-section (2) of s.26 of the RBI Act taking into consideration the overall scheme, purpose and the object of the RBI Act and also the context in which the power is to be exercised. B Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 – s.26 – Held [per B.R. Gavai, J. (for himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ. )]: Decision u/s.26(2) has to be taken on the recommendation of the Central Board – There is an inbuilt safeguard in sub-section (2) of s.26 of the RBI Act inasmuch as the Central C Government is required to take a decision on the recommendation of the RBI. Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 – s.26 – Power to be exercised by the Central Government under sub-section (2) of s.26 of the RBI Act is for effecting demonetization – The power has to be D exercised on the recommendation of the Central Board – Word “recommendation” – Meaning of – Held [per B.R. Gavai, J. (for himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ. )]: The word “recommendation” will have to be construed in the context in which it is used – The word “recommendation” would mean a consultative process between the E Central Board of RBI and the Central Government – RBI has a pivotal role in matters of monetary policy and issuance of currency – The scheme mandates that before the Central Government takes a decision with regard to demonetization, it would be required to consider the recommendation of the Central Board – Consultation F with the RBI is an inbuilt safeguard – Insofar as s.26(2) is concerned, the Parliament has provided an inbuilt safeguard i.e.