[2023] 15 S.C.R. 141 : 2023 INSC 942 CASE DETAILS THE STATE OF TELANGANA & ORS. v. M/S TIRUMALA CONSTRUCTIONS (Civil Appeal No(s). 1628 of 2023) OCTOBER 20, 2023 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT AND ARAVIND KUMAR, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: The Constitution (101st Amendment) Act, 2016, introduces a fundamental re-ing of the constitutional premise of taxation by the Union and State Governments in India. It is the framework to enable the introduction of the Goods and Services Tax (GST). These batch of appeals arise from s delivered by the Telangana, Gujarat and Bombay High Court. The concerned States (Telangana and Gujarat) have appealed aggrieved by the s. The assessee petitioners are appellants, and are aggrieved by the s of Bombay High Court. Constitution of India – Constitution (101st Amendment) Act, 2016 – Eff ect of: Held: The coming into force of the GST regime, and the passage of the amendment demonstrates a rare unanimity, a resolve across the political spectrum, to ensure that there is a single indirect taxation regime – The eff ect of the Amendment is to subsume all state and union taxes, on goods and services – Both the Union and the States will ostensibly have the power to tax the supply of goods and services – The 101st Amendment Act takes away neither the Union’s nor the States’ taxing power but instead gives them the power to impose taxes on supply of goods and supply of services respectively – Through Article 246-A the Amendment creates: (a) a new legislative fi eld, conferring; (b) legislative authority outside the three Lists of the Seventh Schedule; (c) concurrent powers to both Parliament and the State Legislatures to enact legislations on the same subject-matter and at the same time. [Para 8] 141 142 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Constitution of India – Constitution (101st Amendment) Act, 2016 – s.19 – Interpretation of: Held: S.19 seeks to achieve three aims – The fi rst is to preserve the existing status quo with regard to the state and central indirect tax regime, for a period of one year from the date of commencement of the Amendment or till a new law is enacted whichever is earlier – The second is authorizing the competent legislatures i.e. the State Legislatures and Parliament to amend existing laws which were in force in states and other parts of the country (both Central and State laws) – The third was the repeal of such laws – S.19 was meant to be transitional – In its absence, the several hundreds of state enactments and central laws which were in force, would have been jeopardized – Other than s.19 there is no saving provision which is part of the Amendment – So, s.19 of the Constitution (101st Amendment) Act, 2016 and Article 246A enacted in exercise of constituent power, formed part of the transitional arrangement for the limited duration of its operation, and had the eff ect of continuing the operation of inconsistent laws for the period(s) specifi ed by it and, by virtue of its operation, allowed state legislatures and Parliament to amend or repeal such existing laws.