9.12 Learned senior counsel for the Bank placed reliance on E Jayantilal Ratanchand Shah vs. Reserve Bank of India (1996) 9 SCC 650 to contend that a similar provision providing for a specified time for exchange of notes was found to be valid by a Constitution Bench of this Court, while adjudicating on the legality of the 1978 demonetisation. He submitted that the time provided in the present case is F similar to the time provided under the 1978 Act and the time period provided in the said act was found to be reasonable, having regard to the purpose sought to be achieved by the said Act. The learned senior counsel further submitted that everybody had sufficient opportunity either G to deposit the notes in their banks or to exchange the same. 9.13 Learned senior counsel for the Bank submitted that demonetisation was carried out in furtherance of national economic interest and the same ought to be given deference. That the inconvenience caused to the public cannot be a ground to challenge the validity of such actions, particularly H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 167 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] when prompt and adequate measures were taken by the A Bank to mitigate the temporary hardships expected to be caused. 9.14 Learned senior counsel for the Bank submitted that the Specified Bank Notes (Cessation of Liabilities) Act, 2017, has given relief to certain categories of persons subject to B verification. It was thus contended that individual cases of hardship that have not been provided for in the Specified Bank Notes (Cessation of Liabilities) Act, 2017, cannot be gone into. 9.15 It was further submitted that Section 8 of the RBI Act, C 1934, provides for the composition of the Central Board and sub-section 1 of Section 4 stipulates that the Central Board shall consist of the following Directors, namely: i) A Governor and not more than four Deputy Governors to be appointed by the Central Government; D ii) Four Directors to be nominated by the Central Government, one from each of the four Local Boards as constituted under Section 9; iii) Ten Directors to be nominated by the Central Government; and E iv) Two Government officials to be nominated by the Central Government. It was submitted that the 561st meeting of the Central Board of the Bank was held on 08.11.2016 at New Delhi and business was F transacted therein with the requisite quorum. That during the said meeting, apart from the then Governor and two Deputy Governors, one Director nominated under Section 8(1)(b) of the Act, two Directors nominated under Section 8(1)(c) of the Act and two Directors nominated under Section 8(1)(d) of the Act were present. Thus, the requisite quorum of four directors of whom not less than three directors nominated under G Section 8(1)(b) or 8(1)(c) were present for the meeting. Thus, the requisite procedure was duly followed by the Bank in the conduct of the 561st meeting of the Central Board. Other learned senior counsel as well as learned counsel and parties- in-person have also addressed the Court.