S CITED D 84. Having considered these documents, we will now consider the s which are relied on by both the parties. 85. In the case of Energy Watchdog (supra), after several rounds of litigation, the learned APTEL held that generation and sale of power by Adani Power to GUVNL and Haryana Utilities was a composite E scheme within the meaning of Section 79(1)(b) of the Electricity Act and, therefore, the CERC would have jurisdiction to proceed further in the matter. It further held that force majeure was made out on the facts of the said cases and reversed the CERC’s/Commission’s on that score. It also held that the Change in Law provisions do not apply to foreign law and, therefore, changes in Indonesian law did not come within F the scope of the provisions. Insofar as changes in Indian law were concerned, it held that the government policies that were relied upon did not constitute “law”. The said decision of the learned APTEL was assailed before this Court. This Court while rejecting the argument on the ground of force majeure observed thus: G “42. It is clear from the above that the doctrine of frustration cannot apply to these cases as the fundamental basis of the PPAs remains unaltered. Nowhere do the PPAs state that coal is to be procured only from Indonesia at a particular price. In fact, it is clear on a reading of the PPA as a whole that the price payable H 126 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A for the supply of coal is entirely for the person who sets up the power plant to bear. The fact that the fuel supply agreement has to be appended to the PPA is only to indicate that the raw material for the working of the plant is there and is in . It is clear that an unexpected rise in the price of coal will not absolve the generating companies from performing their part of the contract B for the very good reason that when they submitted their bids, this was a risk they knowingly took. We are of the view that the mere fact that the bid may be non-escalable does not mean that the respondents are precluded from raising the plea of frustration, if otherwise it is available in law and can be pleaded by them. But C the fact that a non-escalable tariff has been paid for, for example, in the Adani case, is a factor which may be taken into account only to show that the risk of supplying electricity at the tariff indicated was upon the generating company.” 86. This Court, thereafter, considered as to whether any Change D in Law could be stretched to mean “all laws”. This Court held that Clause 4.7 read with Clause 5.17 of the Guidelines would reveal that it would not include changes in Indonesian law, being foreign and not Indian law. 87. In Energy Watchdog (supra), this Court also had an occasion to consider the MoP communication dated 31st July 2013, the relevant E part of which has already been reproduced by us herein above.