6. Shri Batura, on the contrary, submitted that the Single Judge, having held that the suit, being for specific performance of the terms of D the settlement filed in the eviction suit, was maintainable, could not have vacated the interim relief granted earlier. 7. Undisputedly, the property in question in respect of which the suit is filed, has been mortgaged with the appellant-Bank. As observed by the Single Judge, the suit as well as the application for interim relief E has been cleverly drafted. Though various interim reliefs have been sought, it will be relevant to refer to Clause (d) of the prayer, which reads thus: “(d) injunction restraining the respondent from in any manner dealing with and/or disposing of and/or encumbering any part or F portion of the said premises No. 8, Old Court House Street, Kolkata – 700001.” 8. It could thus be seen that a blanket injunction restraining the respondent, i.e. the appellant herein in any manner dealing with and/or disposing of and/or encumbering any part or portion of the suit property G has been sought. 9. By an ad-interim dated 15th July 2013, the Single Judge, though permitted the steps to be taken for selling the premises in question, directed that the final s of sale could not be passed for a period of 6 weeks. The said ad-interim came to be continued from time to H PUNJAB AND SIND BANK v. FRONTLINE CORPORATION 865 LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] time. As such, the appellant was constrained to file G.A. No. 2352 of A 2014 for vacating the said interim . The same was ultimately vacated by the Single Judge vide dated 2nd November 2016. 10. It would be relevant to note that the Single Judge has specifically referred to Section 34 of the SARFAESI Act while vacating the interim relief granted to the respondent. B 11. The Division Bench, vide the impugned observed that, since the Bank has taken steps in terms of the purported settlement, it could not repudiate its obligations under the settlement. The Division Bench relied on the Doctrine of Promissory Estoppel for finding it necessary to restrain the Bank from selling the suit property until C determination of the rights of the parties. 12. The issue as to the exclusion of the jurisdiction of a civil court is no more res integra. The provisions of Section 34 of the SARFAESI Act have been considered by a Bench of three Judges of this Court in the case of Mardia Chemicals Limited and Others v. Union of India D and Others1. It will be relevant to refer to the following observations of this Court in the said case: “50. It has also been submitted that an appeal is entertainable before the Debts Recovery Tribunal only after such measures as provided in sub-section (4) of Section 13 are taken and Section 34 E bars to entertain any proceeding in respect of a matter which the Debts Recovery Tribunal or the Appellate Tribunal is empowered to determine.