Thus, B the rescission of the main contract would not result in the death of the Arbitration Clause. We agree that the Arbitration Clause may be a collateral term [See Heyman v. Darwins Limited35]. The Arbitration Agreement, it is found in N.N. Global (supra), ‘exists and can be acted upon, C irrespective of whether the main substantive contract is valid or not’ [See paragraph-4.10 of N.N. Global (supra)]. It may be true that, ordinarily, the invalidity of the main agreement may not affect the Arbitration Clause [See paragraph-4.12 of N.N. Global (supra)]. However, proceeding on the basis that an Arbitration Agreement contained as a clause in the D main contract, is a separate agreement and it can exist independently, the fallacy behind such a line of argument in the context of Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act, can be demonstrated as follows: The learned Amicus would urge that in N.N. Global E (supra) the Court erred in finding that the Arbitration Agreement is not required to be stamped. If so, the Arbitration Clause, being the Arbitration Agreement, would require to be stamped. Is it conceivable that a contract, containing an Arbitration Clause, would be stamped only to F cover the liability in regard to the Arbitration Agreement and leave the main agreement unstamped, when it is required to be stamped? Will not acceptance of such a view require the Court to adopt an interpretation that will plainly encourage parties to contravene the mandate of the Stamp Act. We are afraid that, therefore, even proceeding on the G basis that an Arbitration Agreement is a separate agreement, would be of no avail in a case where the Arbitration Clause and the main Agreement are both exigible to stamp duty. 35 (1942) AC 356 HL H 374 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 108. As found in SMS Tea Estates (supra), in view of the fact that there is a bar to the use of an instrument, which is not stamped or insufficiently stamped for any purpose (unlike Section 49 of the Registration Act, which allows an unregistered document to be used to prove a collateral transaction), an unstamped instrument, in which, an Arbitration Clause is part of, cannot be allowed to be used, as it would B be allowing the instrument to be used to establish a collateral transaction. This is proceeding on the basis that an Arbitration Agreement is a collateral term and may have a distinct existence, separate from the main agreement. Q. CONCLUSIONS C 109. The view taken in SMS Tea Estates (supra) as followed in Garware (supra) and by the Bench in Dharmaratnakara Rai Bahadur Arcot Narainswamy Mudaliar Chattram and other Charities v. Bhaskar Raju and Brothers and others36 as to the effect of an unstamped contract containing an Arbitration Agreement and the steps D to be taken by the Court, represent the correct position in law as explained by us hereinbefore. N.N. Global (supra) was wrongly decided, when it held to the contrary and overruled SMS Tea Estates (supra) and Garware (supra).