G vi. Disqualification under the Tenth Schedule relates back to the date on which the MLA engaged in the act incurring disqualification. Thus, the outcome of the proceedings on the floor of the House which took place during the pendency of the disqualification H 888 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A proceedings would depend on the decision of the Speaker on the disqualification petitions. In the same vein, the outcome of the trust vote would depend on the decision in the disqualification proceedings. Additionally, this Court by its dated 29 June 2022 while dismissing the writ petition filed by the B petitioners seeking a stay on the direction of the Governor to hold a trust vote, observed that the proceedings of the trust vote shall be subject to the final outcome of the writ petition; vii. The faction of legislators led by Mr. Shinde have C asserted that they are the “real” Shiv Sena. They have also initiated proceedings under Paragraph 15 of the Symbols . The defence of the respondents in effect is that of a split. The defence of split having been deleted from the Tenth Schedule D by the Constitution(Ninety-first Amendment) Act 2003 cannot be used by the respondents as a defence for actions that incur disqualification; b. The purported resolution dated 21 June 2022 passed by the respondents appointing Mr. Gogawale as the Chief Whip, and the communication of the Speaker dated 3 July 2022 E recognising Mr. Gogawale as the Chief Whip are illegal and must be set aside. The Chief Whip and the Leader of the legislature party must be appointed by the political party and not the legislature party because: i. Paragraph 2(1)(b) of the Tenth Schedule stipulates F that the whip must be issued by the political party (and not the legislature party) or by an authority authorised by the political party. Thus, the whip cannot be issued or altered by a majority of the legislature party. Paragraphs 1(b) and 1(c) differentiate between G a legislature party and a political party for the purposes of the Tenth Schedule. This reading of the Tenth Schedule has been affirmed by Srinivasan, J. in his separate opinion in Mayawati v. Markandeya Chand;12 H 12 (1998) 7 SCC 517 SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 889 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] ii. A majority faction of the legislature party cannot be A construed as the political party for the purposes of the Tenth Schedule; iii. The explanation to Section 23 of the Maharashtra Legislature Members (Removal of Disqualification) Act 195613 provides that the Chief Whip inrelation to B the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly means a member of the House who has been declared as the Whip by the party forming the government; iv. The Constitution (Fifty-second Amendment) Act 1985, by introducing disqualification of legislators on C the ground of defection, recognised the role of political parties in parliamentary democracy; v. The decision of the Speaker ought to be set aside on the ground of procedural irregularity.