In Ganga Sugar Corporation Ltd. v. State of Uttar Pradesh,20 Justice V R Krishna Iyer speaking for the Constitution Bench observed that the “legislative policy in the country must accept as fi nal the pronouncements of this Court by a Constitution Bench unless the subject be of such fundamental importance to national life or the reasoning is so plainly erroneous in light of the later thought that it is wiser to be ultimately right than to be consistently wrong.” We are of the opinion that the reference by the fi ve-Judge Bench raises question of seminal importance with regard to the interpretation and application of the arbitration law in India, which in turn has implications for business and commerce in the country. Accordingly, we will answer the reference without delving into the facts of the individual cases. The issue of maintainability of the curative petition is left open and could be raised by the respondent before an appropriate Bench. D*. The Indian Stamp Act 1899 i. Overview 29. As the title suggests, the Stamp Act is a legislation which consolidates the laws relating to the payment of stamp-duty on the execution of certain instruments in the manner specifi ed in the statute. Section 2(14) defi nes “instrument” as follows: “(14) “instrument” includes— (a) every document, by which any right or liability is, or purports to be, created, transferred, limited, extended, extinguished or recorded; * Ed. Note: PART D 20 (1980) 1 SCC 223 111 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. (b) a document, electronic or otherwise, created for a transaction in a stock exchange or depository by which any right or liability is, or purports to be, created, transferred, limited, extended, extinguished or recorded; and (c) any other document mentioned in Schedule I, but does not include such instruments as may be specifi ed by the Government, by notifi cation in the Offi cial Gazette” 30. The term “instrument” is defi ned broadly, in an inclusive sense. It includes electronic documents. Schedule I to the Stamp Act contains descriptions of various instruments along with the stamp duty payable on each of them. Stamp-duty is liable to be paid under Section 3, which provides as follows: “3. Instrument chargeable with duty.—Subject to the provisions of this Act and the exemptions contained in Schedule I, the following instruments shall be chargeable with duty of the amount indicated in that Schedule as the proper duty therefore, respectively, that is to say— (a) every instrument mentioned in that Schedule which, not having been previously executed by any person, is executed in India on or after the fi rst day of July, 1899; (b) every bill of exchange payable otherwise than on demand, or promissory note drawn or made out of India on or after that day and accepted or paid, or presented for acceptance or payment, or endorsed, transferred or otherwise negotiated, in India; and (c) every instrument (other than a bill of exchange or promissory note) mentioned in that Schedule, which, not having been previously executed by any person, is executed out of India on or after that day, relates to any property situate, or to any matter or thing done or to be done, in India and is received in India: Provided that no duty shall be chargeable in respect of— (1) any instrument executed by, or on behalf of, or in favour of, the Government in cases where, but for this exemption, the Government would be liable to pay the duty chargeable in respect of such instrument; IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1111 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] (2) any instrument for the sale, transfer or other disposition, either absolutely or by way of mortgage or otherwise, of any ship or vessel, or any part, interest, share or property of or in any ship or vessel registered under the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894, or under Act, 19 of 1838, or the India Registration of Ships Act, 1841, as amended by subsequent Acts.