(1A) Where the Court grants an interim under sub-section (1), it shall forthwith cause a notice being not less than seven days notice, together with a copy of such to be served on the Public Prosecutor and the Superintendent of Police, with a view to give the PRIYA INDORIA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA AND ORS. 545 ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Public Prosecutor a reasonable opportunity of being heard when the application shall be fi nally heard by the Court. (1B) The presence of the applicant seeking anticipatory bail shall be obligatory at the time of fi nal hearing of the application and passing of fi nal by the Court, if on an application made to it by the Public Prosecutor, the Court considers such presence necessary in the interest of justice. (2) When the High Court or the Court of Session makes a direction under sub-section (1), it may include such conditions in such directions in the light of the facts of the particular case, as it may thinks fi t, including— (i) a condition that the person shall make himself available for interrogation by a police offi cer as and when required; (ii) a condition that the person shall not, directly or indirectly, make any inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case so as to dissuade him from disclosing such facts to the Court or to any police offi cer; (iii) a condition that the person shall not leave India without the previous permission of the Court; (iv) such other condition as may be imposed under sub-section (3) of section 437, as if the bail were granted under that section. (3) If such person is thereafter arrested without warrant by an offi cer in charge of a police station on such accusation, and is prepared either at the time of arrest or at any time while in the custody of such offi cer to give bail, he shall be released on bail, and if a Magistrate taking cognizance of such off ence decides that a warrant should issue in the fi rst instance against that person, he shall issue a bailable warrant in conformity with the direction of the Court under Sub-Section (1). (4) Nothing in this section shall apply to any case involving the arrest of any person on accusation of having committed an off ence under sub-section (3) of section 376 or section 376AB or section 376DA or section 376DB of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).” 546 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 9.6 The salient features of Section 438 of CrPC can be culled out as under: i. It confers a statutory right upon any person who has a reason to believe that he may be arrested in relation to the commission of a non-bailable off ence. ii. The statutory right consists of the right to apply before the High Court or the Court of Session for a direction that in the event of such arrest, he shall be released on bail.