G 31. This Court in a number of cases dealing with similar provisions has upheld the same. It has withheld that tax charged for non-fulfilment of any obligation would also be compensatory and regulatory in nature. Distinction was carved out between a penalty imposed for breach of statutory duty and penalty imposed being a H subject matter of a complaint that would require adjudication. The THE STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH v. GOEL BUS SERVICE 907 KULLU ETC. ETC. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] view expressed consistently is that it would be compensatory or A regulatory where it is imposed for breach of a statutory duty. 32. In the case of the State of U.P and others vs. Sukhpal Singh Bal, (2005) 7 SCC 615, Justice Kapadia speaking for the Bench held that section 10(3) of U.P. Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1997, which provided for charging of such tax or additional tax along B with penalty where transport vehicles were found plying in Uttar Pradesh without payment of tax or additional tax under the said Act to be valid as being regulatory and compensatory. 33. The High Court had struck down the said provision. This Court allowed the appeal of the State. After referring to the s C in the case of Bhavesh D. Parish and R.K. Garg, this Court went on to hold that section 10(3) was enacted to protect public revenue and as a deterrent for tax evasion. Deterrence was the main theme and object behind the imposition of penalty under Section 10(3) as such would be regulatory in nature. Paragraphs 15 and 16 of the D report in the case of Sukhpal Singh Bal (supra) are reproduced below: “15. In the light of the above s as applicable to the provisions of the said 1997 Act, we are of the view that the High Court had erred in striking down section 10(3) as ultra vires articles 14 and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. “Penalty” is E a slippery word and it has to be understood in the context in which it is used in a given statute. A penalty may be the subject- matter of a breach of statutory duty or it may be the subject- matter of a complaint. In ordinary parlance, the proceedings may cover penalties for avoidance of civil liabilities which do F not constitute offences against the State. This distinction is responsible for any enactment intended to protect public revenue. Thus, all penalties do not flow from an offence as is commonly understood but all offences lead to a penalty. Whereas the former is a penalty which flows from a disregard of statutory provisions, the latter is entailed where there is mens G rea and is made the subject-matter of adjudication. In our view, penalty under section 10(3) of the Act is compensatory. It is levied for breach of a statutory duty for non-payment of tax under the Act. Section 10(3) is enacted to protect public revenue. It is enacted as a deterrent for tax evasion. If the H 908 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R.