However, as observed and held by this Court in the case of Assam Urban (Supra), Limitation Act, 1963 shall be applicable to the matters of arbitration covered by 1996 Act save and except to the extent its C applicability has been excluded by virtue of express provision contained in Section 34(3) of the Arbitration Act. 8.1 In the case of Popular Construction Co. (Supra), when section 5 of the Limitation Act was pressed into service to proceedings under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act for setting aside the arbitral D award, this Court has observed that the Arbitration Act being a special law and provides a period of limitation different from that prescribed under the Limitation Act, the period of limitation prescribed under the Arbitration Act shall prevail and shall be applicable and to that extent the Limitation Act shall be excluded. That, thereafter, it is observed and held E that application challenging an award filed beyond period mentioned in Section 34(3) of the Arbitration Act would not be an application “in accordance with” sub-section (3) as required under Section 34(1) of the Arbitration Act. 8.2 In the case of Hindustan Construction Company Ltd. (Supra), in fact this Court has emphasized the mandatory nature of limit F to the extension of period provided in proviso to Section 34(3) and has held that an application for setting aside an arbitral award under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act has to be made within time prescribed under sub-section (3) of Section 34 i.e. within three months and a further period of 30 days on sufficient cause being shown and not thereafter. G 9. Now, so far as reliance placed upon Section 10 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 on behalf of the appellant is concerned, at the outset it is required to be noted that such a contention is untenable in light of the proviso to Section 10 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, which specifically excludes the application of Section 10 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 H BHIMASHANKAR SAHAKARI SAKKARE KARKHANE NIYAMITA v. 381 WALCHANDNAGAR INDUSTRIES LTD. (WIL) [M. R. SHAH, J.] to any act or proceeding to which the Indian Limitation Act, 1877 applies. A Reference to 1877 Act will now have to be read as reference to Limitation Act, 1963 in view of Section 8 of the General Clauses Act, 1897. Therefore, in light of the application of Limitation Act, 1963 to the proceedings under the Arbitration Act and when Section 10 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 specifically excludes the applicability of Section 10 to B any act or proceeding to which Indian Limitation Act, 1963 applies and in light of the definition of “period of limitation” as defined under Section 2(j) read with Section 4 of the Limitation Act and as observed and held by this Court in the case of Assam Urban (Supra), benefit of exclusion of period during which the Court is closed shall be available when the application for setting aside award is filed within “prescribed period of C limitation” and shall not be available in respect of period extendable by Court in exercise of its discretion.