v. 355 UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Provided further that in the case of a minor or a person of A unsound mind, such declaration may be made by his guardian. Explanation: No person shall ·be deemed to have his domicile in the territory of Sikkim unless ... B (1) he is a person who has made Sikkim his permanent home and has severed his connections with the country of his origin such as by parting with his property in that country or acquiring immovable property in Sikkim. Provided that a person shall not be deemed to have a permanent home in Sikkim if he indicates an intention of C returning to his country of origin, by keeping a live interest therein even though he might have parted with his property in his country of origin and the mere parting of such property will not be regarded as proof of a person’s having acquired a permanent home in Sikkim. D (2) The wife and minor children of a person having his domicile in Sikkim shall be deemed to have domicile in Sikkim for the purpose of this Section. (3) In any case of doubt as to whether a person has domicile within the territory of Sikkim under this Section, E the matter shall be decided by The Chogyal with the assistance of a Board consisting of persons to be appointed in accordance with the rules made under this Regulation.” 68.2. What is pertinent in the said Regulation is that, the following F three categories of persons are stated to have domicile in the territory of Sikkim immediately before the commencement of the 1961 Regulation: - (a) a person born in the territory of Sikkim and is resident therein, or G (b) has been ordinarily resident in the territory of Sikkim for a period of not less than fifteen years immediately preceding such commencement, or (c) is the wife or the minor child of a person mentioned in clause (a) or clause (b) above. H 356 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 68.3. The proviso to Regulation (3) states that a person shall not be a Sikkim Subject under Regulation (3) “unless he makes a declaration to the effect that he is not a citizen of any other country at the time of inclusion of his name in the Register of Sikkim Subjects to be maintained under the said Regulation.” The said proviso, must now be B interpreted in light of the fact that the Kingdom of Sikkim has merged with India with effect from 26th April, 1975 and is an Indian State. When considered in the context of the aforesaid significant fact, the proviso to Regulation (3) would have to be interpreted to mean that an individual who C had not made a declaration to the effect that he was not a citizen of any other country at the time of inclusion of his name in the Register of Sikkim Subjects, as he was originally a subject of British India or any of the princely states of India or any other A, B or C state as understood under the Constitution of India, had ordinarily been resident in the D territory of Sikkim for business, employment or any such other purposes, is now entitled to be registered in the Register of Sikkim Subjects.