The Nizam stated in III, Para 2 that at the time of Sir Khurshid Jah’s death, his two sons Imam Jung and Zafar Jung were his G only heirs, who, if alive then, would have been entitled to one half share each of third part of the gross income, and that since both are dead and the number of their survivors were large and regarding some of them (especially among Zafar Jung’s heirs) there was difference of opinion as to the legality of certain marriages and the legitimacy of some children, a Committee had to be appointed for the distribution of the third part of H M/s TRINITY INFRAVENTURES LTD. & ORS. ETC. v. M. S. 295 MURTHY & ORS. ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] the gross income of the Khurshid Jahi Paigah among the heirs of A Khurshid Jah’s two sons. 29. This Committee was presided over by Nawab Mirza Yar Jung, the then Chief Justice of Hyderabad and they submitted their report on 17thJanuary, 1929. This Committee, known as the Paigah Committee, gave a definite finding that Nawab Khurshid Jah left no property which B was not acquired or purchased out of the Paigah income within the meaning of Para 2 of the preliminary portion of the Farman. Thus, what was left by Sir Khurshid Jah were (1) the properties or articles purchased or buildings constructed out of the income of the Paigahs and (2) precious stones, jewellery and rare articles which, in accordance with the principles C laid down in the Farman are the property of the Paigahs from olden times, or have been purchased with money belonging to the Paigahs which are held by the Paigah Amir in trust as heirlooms of the Paigah family. Distribution of these two classes of properties, including their accretions, could not be made, in view of the Farman, amongst the heirs of Nawab Sir Khurshid Jah, as they were held indivisible, impartible and D inalienable. The Amir Paigah was only a supervisor and trustee for these properties. 30. Twenty years after this report, the political atmosphere changed and the Jagirs and the Paigahs were abolished by means of the Jagir Abolition Regulations (Hyderabad Regulation No. 69 of 1358 F) with E effect from 15.08.1949. The Jagirs and the properties connected with the Jagirs were taken over by the Jagir Administrator and the Jagirdars were declared entitled only to the commutation amount. The other properties and estates unconnected with the Jagirs, however, were allowed to remain with the Jagirdars. F 31. In the year 1955-56, a lady by name Dildar-Un-Nissa Begum, who was one of the lineal descendants of Khurshid Jah filed a suit in O.S.No.41 of 1955-56 on the file of the City Civil Court, Hyderabad, claiming (i) that the Estate left behind by Nawab Khurshid Jah was a Mathruka Estate; and (ii) that she is entitled to 29/2944 share. It must G be mentioned at this stage that the fight in O.S. No. 41 of 1955 as it was originally instituted, was actually between the surviving heirs of Nawab Zafar Jung on the one hand and the surviving heirs of Nawab Imam Jung on the other hand.