The price so fixed and received was a consolidated price for the car and the parts that may have been supplied by F way of replacement in pursuance of the warranty. Accordingly, it was observed that the Financial Commissioner was right in holding that the price for the replaced part was already charged and paid, on which sales tax was already levied and collected and hence, there was no liability to the imposition of further sales tax. G II. Prem Motors, Gwalior vs. Commissioner of Sales Tax, Gwalior, 1986 (61) STC 244 MP: (Prem Motors) (i) The question considered in the said case under Section 44 (1) of the M.P. General Sales Tax Act, 1958 is extracted as under: H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1295 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] “Whether in the facts and circumstances of the case, A the Tribunal was justified in holding that the reimbursement of Rs.33,263/- received from the principals will not form part of the sale price as defined under section 2 (o) of the M. P. General Sales Tax Act, 1958?” B (Underlining by us) In the said case, the revenue contended that when the spare parts are replaced by the assessee (dealer) to the customer free of charge, being the condition of warranty, he recovers the price from the manufacturer and in C substance it is the sale of the spare parts to the customer and therefore, it is liable to tax payable by the dealer. (ii) The Division Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court, however, held that the aforesaid contention of the revenue suffered from a basic policy issue. That the warranty for a D sale of car is from the manufacturer and therefore, if during the warranty period any part is found to be defective and is to be replaced, the responsibility of replacement is that of the manufacturer. Therefore, when the assessee (dealer) replaces parts to the customers and either gets those parts E from the manufacturer or gets it reimbursed, it is neither a sale of those parts by the dealer to the customer nor to the manufacturer, what it does only is to pass on the part from the manufacturer to the customer but in to avoid delay and inconvenience to the customer, he replaces the parts first and gets them from the manufacturer later and thus, it F does not fall within the ambit of the definition of sale as provided under the Act. III. Geo Motors vs. State of Kerala, (2001) 122 STC 285: (Geo Motors) (i) The facts in the said case were that the petitioner (Geo G Motors) was an agent for automobile manufacturers like Hindustan Motors Ltd. in the State of Kerala. The new vehicles were covered by a warranty for a specified period. During the warranty period if spare parts had to be replaced, the petitioner therein as the agent of the manufacture, made H 1296 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R.