The framers of the C IPC designedly used the two words ‘intention’ and ‘knowledge’, and it must be taken that the framers intended to draw a distinction between these two expressions. The knowledge of the consequences which may result in the doing of an act is not the same thing as the intention that such consequences should ensue. Except in cases where mens rea is D not required in to prove that a person had certain knowledge, he “must have been aware that certain specified harmful consequences would or could follow.” (Russell on Crime, Twelfth Edition, Volume 1 at page 40). 28. This awareness is termed as knowledge. But the knowledge E that specified consequences would result or could result by doing an act is not the same thing as the intention that such consequences should ensue. If an act is done by a man with the knowledge that certain consequences may follow or will follow, it does not necessarily mean that he intended such consequences and acted with such intention. Intention requires something more than a mere foresight of the F consequences. It requires a purposeful doing of a thing to achieve a particular end. This we may make it clear by referring to two passages from leading text-books on the subject. Kenny in his Outlines of Criminal Law, Seventeenth Edition at page 31 has observed:- “To intend is to have in mind a fixed purpose to reach a desired G objective; the noun ‘intention’ in the present connexion is used to denote the state of mind of a man who not only foresees but also desires the possible consequences of his conduct…….. It will be noted that there cannot be intention unless there is also foresight, since a man must decide to his own satisfaction, and accordingly must foresee, that to which his express H ANBAZHAGAN v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY THE 1109 INSPECTOR OF POLICE [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] purpose is directed……… Again, a man cannot intend to do a A thing unless he desires to do it.” (Emphasis supplied) 29. Russell on Crime, Twelfth Edition, 1st Volume at page 41 has observed:- B “In the present analysis of the mental element in crime the word “intention” is used to denote the mental attitude of a man who has resolved to bring about a certain result if he can possibly do so. He shapes his line of conduct so as to achieve a particular end at which he aims………… Differing C from intention, yet closely resembling it, there are two other attitudes of mind, either of which is sufficient to attract legal sanctions for harm resulting from action taken in obedience to its stimulus, but both of which can be denoted by the word “recklessness”. In each of these the man adopts a line of conduct with the intention of thereby attaining an end which D he does desire, but at the same time realises that this conduct may also produce another result which he does not desire.