Devasagayam also stated in his petition seeking de novo investigation that Baskar and Kesavan against whom he made a specific complaint, are not shown as accused. In fact, the allegation made by Gopi in his petition before the High Court that H 1052 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Devasagayam had been won over by the accused, was not without substance, as can be seen from a few averments made by Devasagayam in his petition Criminal O.P. No.15122 of 2021. For instance, in paragraph 7 of his petition seeking de novo investigation, he stated as follows: “It is crystal clear that the Petitioner and his son has made a B specific complaint against one Baskar and Kesavan. The fictitious persons namely Baskar and Kesavan was arrayed as Accused No.1 and 2. …” 15. It is not known whether Devasagayam was referring to the persons against whom he made a specific complaint as fictitious persons or whether he was calling the Minister and the person alleged to be his C Secretary, named as accused in the Final Report as fictitious persons. 16. In paragraph 9 of his petition seeking de novo investigation, Devasagayam even relied upon a judicial precedent and contended in paragraph 10 that the Final Report under Section 173(8) had been filed without issuing notice to him and that the charges contained in the Report D against the other accused are irrelevant to the facts of his own case. Paragraphs 28 to 30 of Devasagayam’s petition seeking de novo investigation show that he had gone to the extent of pleading the case of the main culprits. These paragraphs read as follows: “28. The gross violation and the irregularity in concluding the final E report, with all the above it is pertinent to state that the final report did not warrant any commission of offence against anybody and the crime registered is motivated. A Court proceeding ought not to be permitted to degenerate into a weapon of harassment of prosecution. F 29. The allegations made in the Final report are so absurd and inherently Improbable on the basis of which no prudent person can ever reach a just conclusion that there is sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused, but may escape from the clutches of law. G 30. The present criminal proceeding is manifestly attended with mala fide and/or the proceeding is maliciously instituted with an ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance on the accused and with a view to spite him due to private and personal grudge.” 17. It appears that Devasagayam, originally seems to have had a genuine grievance against the culprits at the bottom of the H Y. BALAJI v. KARTHIK DESARI & ANR. ETC. 1053 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] layer, but he later turned out to be a Trojan horse, willing to sabotage A the investigation against influential persons. This fact is borne out more by his pleadings in paragraph 31 of the petition in Criminal O.P. No.15122 of 2021. The relevant portion of paragraph 31 reads as follows: “31.