Thus, the word “any” will mean a specified series or a particular series of bank notes. Similarly, “any” denomination will mean any particular or specified denomination of bank notes. (iv) If the word “any” is not given a plain grammatical meaning G and interpreted to mean “all series of bank notes” of “all denominations”, it would vest with the Central Board of the Bank unguided and unlimited powers which would be ex-facie arbitrary and suffer from the vice of unconstitutionality as this wouldamount to excessive vesting H 228 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A of powers with the Bank. In to save the provision from being declared unconstitutional, the meaning of the provision is read downto the context of the Central Board of the Bank initiating a proposal for demonetisation by making a recommendation to the Central Government under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act of a particular series B of bank note of any denomination. (v) On receipt of the said recommendation made by the Central Board of the bank under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act, the Central Government may accept the said recommendation or may not do so. If the Central C Government accepts the recommendation, it may issue a notification in the Gazette of India specifying the date w.e.f. which any specified series of bank notes of any specified denomination shall cease to be legal tender and shall cease to have the guarantee of the Central Government. D (vi) The provisions of the Act do not bar the Central Government from proposing or initiating demonetisation. It could do so having regard to its plenary powers under Entry 36 of List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India. However, it has to be done only by an Ordinance being issued by the President of India followed by an Act of E Parliament or by plenary legislation through the Parliament. The Central Government cannot demonetise bank notesby issuance of a gazette notification as if it is exercising power under sub-section(2) of Section 26 of the Act. In such circumstances when the Central Government is initiating F the process of demonetisation, it would not be acting under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act but notwithstanding the said provision through a legislative process. (vii) When such power is exercised by the Central Government by means of a legislation, it is by virtue of Entry 36, List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India G which deals with currency, coinage and legal tender; foreign exchange which is a field of legislation.Hence, the power of the Central Government to demonetise any currency is notwithstanding anything contained in Section 26 of the Act. H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 229 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] (viii) When the Central Government proposes demonetisation of A any bank note, it must seek the opinion of the Central Board of the Bank having regard to the fact that theBank is the sole authority to regulate circulation of bank notes and secure monetary stability and generally to operate the currency and credit system of the country and to maintain B price stability.