The scope of clause thirdly of Section 300 of the IPC has been the subject matter of various decisions of this Court. The decision C in Virsa Singh (supra) has throughout been followed in a number of cases by this Court. In all these cases the approach has been to find out whether the ingredient namely the intention to cause the particular injury was present or not? If such an intention to cause that particular injury is made out and if the injury is found to be sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death, then clause thirdly of Section 300 of the IPC D is attracted. Analysing clause thirdly and as to what the prosecution must prove, it was held in Virsa Singh (supra) as under:- “15. First, it must establish, quite objectively, that a bodily injury is present; E 16. Secondly, the nature of the injury must be proved; These are purely objective investigations. 17. Thirdly, it must be proved that there was an intention to inflict that particular bodily injury, that is to say, that it was not accidental or unintentional, or that some other F kind of injury was intended… 18. Once these three elements are proved to be present, the enquiry proceeds further and, 19. Fourthly, it must be proved that the injury of the type G just described made up of the three elements set out above is sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature. This part of the enquiry is purely objective and inferential and has nothing to do with the intention of the offender.” (Emphasis supplied) H ANBAZHAGAN v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY THE 1115 INSPECTOR OF POLICE [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] It was further observed as under:- A “20. … If they inflict injuries of that kind, they must face the consequences; and they can only escape if it can be shown, or reasonably deduced that the injury was accidental or otherwise unintentional.” B (Emphasis supplied) 42. Thus, it is clear that the ingredient of clause thirdly is not the intention to cause death but on the other hand the ingredient to be proved is the intention to cause the particular injury that was present. It is fallacious to contend that wherever there is a single injury only a case of C culpable homicide is made out irrespective of other circumstances. In Emperor v. Sardarkhan Jaridkhan, AIR 1916 Bom 191, it was observed as under:- “Where death is caused by a single blow, it is always much more difficult to be absolutely certain what degree of bodily injury the offender intended.” D (Emphasis supplied) 43. Commenting upon the aforesaid observation of the Bombay High Court, Justice Bose, in Virsa Singh (supra), held thus:- “23. … With due respect to the learned Judge he has linked E up the intent required with the seriousness of the injury, and that, as we have shown, is not what the section requires. The two matters are quite separate and distinct, though the evidence about them may sometimes overlap.” 44.