11. It has been argued on behalf of appellants that, in effect, a D reinvestigation has been conducted, 12. This Court in Vinay Tyagi (supra) gave detailed consideration to the powers under Section 173 and Section 482 of CrPC. “43. At this stage, we may also state another well- settled canon of the criminal jurisprudence that the superior courts have the E jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code or even Article 226 of the Constitution of India to direct “further investigation”, “fresh” or “de novo” and even “reinvestigation”. “Fresh”, “de novo” and “reinvestigation” are synonymous expressions and their result in law would be the same. The superior courts are even vested with F the power of transferring investigation from one agency to another, provided the ends of justice so demand such action. Of course, it is also a settled principle that this power has to be exercised by the superior courts very sparingly and with great circumspection. *** *** *** *** G 45. The power to /direct “reinvestigation” or “de novo” investigation falls in the domain of higher courts, that too in exceptional cases. If one examines the provisions of the Code, there is no specific provision for cancellation of the reports, except that the investigating agency can file a closure report (where H according to the investigating agency, no offence is made out). PEETHAMBARAN v. STATE OF KERALA & ANR. 1149 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] Even such a report is subject to acceptance by the learned A Magistrate who, in his wisdom, may or may not accept such a report. For valid reasons, the court may, by declining to accept such a report, direct “further investigation”, or even on the basis of the record of the case and the documents annexed thereto, summon the accused.” B 13. Per contra, the State would contend that only further investigation upon the of the District Police Chief was conducted. In respect of further investigation, in Vinay Tyagi (supra) this Court has observed: 22. “Further investigation” is where the investigating officer obtains C further oral or documentary evidence after the final report has been filed before the court in terms of Section 173(8). This power is vested with the executive. It is the continuation of previous investigation and, therefore, is understood and described as “further investigation”. The scope of such investigation is restricted to the D discovery of further oral and documentary evidence. Its purpose is to bring the true facts before the court even if they are discovered at a subsequent stage to the primary investigation. It is commonly described as “supplementary report”. “Supplementary report” would be the correct expression as the subsequent investigation is meant and intended to supplement the primary investigation E conducted by the empowered police officer. Another significant feature of further investigation is that it does not have the effect of wiping out directly or impliedly the initial investigation conducted by the investigating agency. This is a kind of continuation of the previous investigation. The basis is discovery of fresh evidence F and in continuation of the same offence and chain of events relating to the same occurrence incidental thereto.