…………..” (Emphasis supplied) 26. The above decision has been followed in Sanjay K. Dixit (supra). Thus, the law is settled that if the extant Rules provide for the power to relax the eligibility criteria, the same could be exercised only if such power is reserved in the advertisement. And when this power is exercised, there must be wide publicity of its exercise so that persons who are likely to benefi t by exercise of such power may get opportunity to apply and compete. 27. In the instant case, it is not shown that the advertisement reserved the power to relax the essential eligibility qualifi cations specifi ed in the advertisement at any later stage. Rather, the advertisement is specifi c that eligibility criteria must be fulfi lled by an aspiring candidate by the last date fi xed for receipt of the application. It is not demonstrated that after the decision to relax the eligibility criteria was taken, the same was widely publicised, and the last date to apply under the advertisement was extended to enable persons benefi ted by such relaxation to apply and compete. In these circumstances, in our view, the power to relax the eligibility criteria, even if it existed, was not exercised in consonance with the settled legal principles and it violated the constitutional mandate enshrined in Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution. Issue No. (i) is decided in the terms above. Issue Nos. (ii), (iii) and (iv): 28. As issue nos. (ii), (iii) and (iv) are interrelated we propose to deal with them simultaneously. First, we shall consider whether there is any ambiguity in the essential eligibility qualifi cations specifi ed in the 2014 Rules. 29. As per Rule 7 of the 2014 Rules, “one year diploma in Computer Science / Computer Application / Information Technology from a recognized University / Institution” was one of the essential qualifi cations which an aspiring candidate was required to possess to be eligible for the post. According to the High Court, it was ambiguous because “recognized Institution” was not defi ned. Therefore, to provide clarity as to what was ANKITA THAKUR & ORS. v. THE H.P. STAFF SELECTION 851 COMMISSION & ORS. [MANOJ MISRA, J.] a recognized Institution, under s of the Tribunal, the relaxation / clarifi cation dated 21.08.2017 was issued. According to the appellants, this exercise was not acceptable because there existed a statutory regime in the 2010 Act and the Regulations framed thereunder empowering a Takniki Board to accord recognition / affi liation to institutes awarding diploma / certifi cate on successful completion of such courses. It is their case that the State did not place the statutory regime before the High Court and, therefore, the High Court overlooked the same while accepting the plea of ambiguity in the 2014 Rules. 30. On perusal of the record we could not fi nd that the clarifi catory / relaxation providing equivalence to certain courses was founded on empirical data that courses identical, or by and large identical, to the one specifi ed in the extant Rules were being conducted by various recognized institutions or Universities under diff erent nomenclatures.