It reads as follows: “13.4.2 The payment for Changes in Law shall be through Supplementary Bill as mentioned in Article 11.8. However, in case of any change in Tariff by reason of Change in Law, as determined E in accordance with this Agreement, the Monthly Invoice to be raised by the Seller after such change in Tariff shall appropriately reflect the changed Tariff.” (45) We may notice the other foundational articles relied upon by the first respondent. Article 17 relates to Governing law and Dispute F resolution. Article 17.2.1 reads as follows: “17.2.1 Either Party is entitled to raise any claim, dispute or difference of whatever nature arising under, out of or in connection with this Agreement including its existence or validity or termination (collectively “Dispute”) by giving a written notice to the other G Party, which shall contain: (i) a description of the Dispute; (ii) the grounds for such Dispute; and (iii) all written material in support of its claim.” H HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 43 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] (46) The further articles which we need not capture contemplate A that the claim may be met even with a counter claim and an attempt should be made to settle the dispute amicably (see Article 17.2.3). Failure to arrive at a settlement opens the doors of Article 17.3. It is justifiable as the caption is ‘Dispute Resolution’. (47) Article 17.3.1 is the crucial article. It reads: - B “Where any Dispute arises from a claim made by any Party for any change in or determination of the Tariff or any matter related to Tariff or claims made by any Partywhich partly or wholly relateto any change in the Tariff or determination of any of such claims could result in change in the Tariff or (ii) relates to any C matter agreed to be referred to the Appropriate Commission under Articles 4.7.1, 13.2, 18.1 or clause 10.1.3 of Schedule l 7 hereof, such Dispute shall be submitted to adjudication by the Appropriate Commission. Appeal against the decisions of the Appropriate Commission shall be made only as per the provisions of the D Electricity Act, 2003, as amended from time to time. The obligations of the Procurers under this Agreement towards theSeller shall not be affected in any manner by reason of inter- se disputes amongst the Procurers.” (48) It is thereafter that as we have noticed, Article 17.3.2 appears E which we are not setting out, deals with the settlement of disputes which are outside the ambit of Article 17.3.1. (49) We may at the very beginning notice the change that is brought about in the guideline. True it is that as we have noticed that the earlier guidelines which were formulated on 19.01.2005 contemplated a different F regime both as regards change in law and also dispute resolution. The question would however be the extent to which the first respondent can derive benefit out of the same. As far as Article 13.1.1 is concerned, clauses 1 and 2 are clearly an inapplicable in regard to the claim based on the change brought about in the water intake system.