NCL Dudhichuwa Project, Sonbhadra Recommendations of the Committee xxx F 2. NCL Bina Project, Bina, Sonbhadra Recommendations of the Committee xxx 3. NCL Krishna Shila Project G Recommendations of the Committee xxx 4. M/s NCL Kakri Project, Sonbhadra Recommendations of the Committee H SINGRAULI SUPER THERMAL POWER STATION v. 451 ASHWANI KUMAR DUBEY & ORS. [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] xxx A 5. NCL Khadia Project Sonbhadra Recommendations of the Committee xxx Aluminum Smelter: M/s HINDALCO Industries Ltd., B Renukoot, Sonbhadra Recommendations of the Committee xxx C M/s Grasim Industries Limited Chemical Division, Renukoot, Sonbhadra Recommendations of the Committee xxx D M/s Birla Carbon India Pvt. Ltd., Renukoot, Sonbhadra Recommendations of the Committee xxx Stone Crusher E Recommendations of the Committee xxx A.Thermal Power Plants (TPPs) and Industries B. Coal Mines of M/s Northern Coalfields Limited (NCL) F C. Stone Crushers Recommendations” 16. From the above, it is seen that there is a long way to go for protecting environment and public health. The failures of the TPPs G are alarming. We find no reason not to accept all the recommendations and to direct remed1al action. Thus, all recommendations are accepted and further remedial action is directed to be taken by the statutory regulators which also be overseen by the joint Committees of CPCB, State PCB and the jurisdictional District Magistrates, with CPCB and State PCBs H 452 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A being nodal agencies. Quarterly reports may now be filed with the MoEF&CC to be considered by the Coordinating Committee being hereby constituted.” 11. In other words, the NGT has simply accepted the recommendations as remedial action suggested by the Committee but B the same is in the absence of there being objections filed by the appellants herein who were the respondents before the NGT and without giving any hearing to them and against whom directions impugned in these cases have been passed by the NGT. We find that the procedure adopted by the NGT is an instance of violation of the principles of natural justice. Section 19(1) of the NGT Act, 2010 reads as under: C “19. (1) The Tribunal shall not be bound by the procedure laid down by the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) but shall be guided by the principles of natural justice.” At this stage, we may also observe that the recommendations made by an expert Committee are not binding on the NGT, they are only D by way of assistance to enable the NGT to arrive at a correct decision in the matter. 12. In this regard reliance may be placed on paragraph 7 and 8 of the of this Court in Sanghar Zuber Ismail (supra) wherein it has been stated as under: E “7. Having regard to the nature of its appellate power, the NGT has to apply its mind to the substantive grounds of challenge. The NGT has merely based its conclusion on the statement which has been made by the project proponent and has not conducted an independent appraisal of the grounds of challenge.