The National Medical Commission and the Medical Assessment and Rating Board were granted liberty to carry out a fresh inspection within a period of two months for the purpose of determining as to whether any deficiencies in complying with the required norms continue to exist. 6. In pursuance of the directions of this Court, an inspection of C the Medical College was carried out on 28/29 April 2022 for 2021-22. In view of the inspection report, the appellants have permitted the Medical College to admit 100 students. 7. The position as it has emerged before this Court is that despite the of stay granted by this Court, the Medical College continued to D admit students for 2021-22. No application was moved before this Court for variation of its or for seeking permission to admit 100 students. 8. We have heard Mr Gaurav Sharma, counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants and Mr Nidhesh Gupta, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the Medical College. E 9. The material which has been placed on the record indicates that serious deficiencies were noted during the course of the inspection which was carried out initially, resulting in the withdrawal of permission by the appellants for the academic year 2021-22. 10. At this stage, it may not be necessary to recapitulate in detail the specific deficiencies which were found, save and except from F paragraph 34 of the of the High Court, which is extracted below: “I. Out-patients are only about 22 by 2 PM and in-patients are only about 39% (bed occupancy rate), even the patients admitted appear healthy and without any significant clinical symptoms, most of the patients were sent out of hospital by G 5 PM. There are no surgeries and no deliveries conducted. There were only three X-rays and two ultrasounds done in the hospital on the day of assessment. II. The nurses’ charts had pre-recorded vitals of the patients and also treatment instructions as administered in advance H till 16.01.2022 (recorded on 14.01.2022). NATIONAL MEDICAL COMMISSION v. ACPM MEDICAL 525 COLLEGE [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI.] III. The patients admitted on 14.01.2022 were not genuine. They A were looking healthy and gave evasive replies. Case records of many patients were not available. In the available records case history and treatment in many patients were not signed by any doctor or consultant. Nature of symptoms did not seem to merit admission. Orthopaedic wards had B ‘admissions’ for physiotherapy for knee pain. Basic and essential parameters were not recorded in the case files and the assessors suspected the genuineness of the records. Patients were aferbrile and no record of fever was found in the files. In some files the temperature was recorded in advance till 16th January; so also the treatment given to C have been administered in advance till 16th January. IV. The doctor on duty in the surgical ward, Dr. Swati Patil was having BHMS degree, and she was not a regular employee of the hospital. V. In the pediatric ward there were 13 admitted patients of whom 10 were admitted on the day of inspection D 14.01.2022.