[Para 14][295-G] E 1.6 The trial court took note of the factual position that despite raising the specific contention that he had affected the construction of his residential house along with varandah in the year 1986, the appellant had not produced the completion certificate of building including the construction on the land in F question from the local body to establish the asserted fact. [Para 16][296-F-G] 1.7 When the First Appellate Court also took note of the issuance of Ext. PW- 18/A dated 22.09.1987 and also the submission of Ext. PW-12/A dated 10.12.1987 it should have taken G into account the following facts which are explicit from the records and duly considered by the trial court. Firstly, being the party propounding the application of the principle of acquiescence it was the burden of the original appellant to establish the fact that H BAINI PRASAD (D) THR. LRS. v. DURGA DEVI 285 the respondent herein had acquiesced in the infringement of his A legal right and still stood by and allowed the construction. In that regard, it should have taken into account the fact that despite asserting that the construction on the land in question was carried out while carrying out the construction of the residential building on his own land in the year 1986 as per the approved plan he had B failed to establish the same by producing the completion certificate from the local authority. Secondly, if that contention is taken as true, he could not have taken up the contention of acquiescence on the respondent as it was also his case that the respondent had purchased the land in question only in the year 1987. Thirdly, the oral evidence and the documentary evidence on behalf of the C respondent would reveal the factum of raising objection on “carrying out the construction, in the absence of any title over the same, at least a defective title, the original appellant could not have claimed bona fides on his action in carrying on the construction. In the said circumstances, the mere delay in D instituting the suit, especially when it was filed well within the period of limitation prescribed, should not have been held as amounting to acquiescence. The respondent after sending telegraphic message on 22.09.1987 approached the Deputy Commissioner and ultimately obtained report revealing encroachment on the part of the original appellant on 10.12.1987 E and then, brought the suit on 11.05.1988. How can it be said, in the circumstances, that the respondent has not immediately taken proceedings against the original appellant and therefore, she should ever be debarred from asserting her right for recovery of possession of her land from the encroacher even after F establishing her title over the encroached land in a suit instituted well within the prescribed period of limitation. [Para 17][296-G- H; 297-A-F] 1.8 Estoppel is a principle founded on equity and its object is only to prevent and secure justice between the parties. In the G proven circumstances that the original appellant was not having title over the property, that the respondent is the owner of the land in question, that the concurrent finding is that the original appellant was the encroacher and further that objection was raised by the respondent against the construction she should not have shut out by the rule of acquiescence or by the rule of estoppel for H 286 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R.