Insofar as the appellant is concerned, the NCDRC took note of the survey report dated 01.09.1995 procured by the insurance company from M/s. Frank & Fair Investigators, Rajahmundry, wherein it was confi rmed that it was a case of severe loss due to disease. The NCDRC also took note of the Death Certifi cate dated 01.05.1995 issued by the Regional Deputy Director of Fisheries, Andhra Pradesh, Visakhapatnam, and the Inspector of the Fisheries Branch, Visakhapatnam, which certifi ed that the total weight of dead prawns was 50,585 kgs. ; that the average body weight of the dead prawns was 17.78 grams each; and that the total value of the prawns at the time of death, in terms of incurred expenses, was `94,97,952/-. The cause of death of the prawns was noted in this certifi cate as ‘White Spot Disease’. As regards the second survey report dated 22.09.1995 procured by the insurance company from the team comprising A.R. Rao, P.S. Ramnathan and B. Nageswara Rao, the NCDRC noted that several conclusions/remarks made therein were in the nature of value s/surmises, which were not supported by the evidence on record or even the contents of the report itself. The observation of these surveyors to the eff ect that the records were not submitted by all or any of the farmers, including the appellant, was dismissed by the NCDRC as a ‘sweeping’ remark. Having stated so, the NCDRC surprisingly accepted the estimation of the average body weight of each prawn by these surveyors at 9.086 grams and their valuation of the total loss, based thereon, as M/S. ISNAR AQUA FARMS v. 81 UNITED INDIA INSURANCE CO. LTD. [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] `30,69,486.80. The NCDRC however rejected the deductions from this amount proposed by these surveyors and assessed the appellant’s total loss as 30,69,486.80. Simple interest was awarded thereon @ 10% per annum from the date of the complaint. Dissatisfi ed with the quantum of the amount and the interest awarded thereon, the appellant is again before this Court. 7. Signifi cantly, the insurance policy itself provided the method of computation of the admissible loss. It stated as follows: “In the event of loss, all loss adjustment will be made on declared value/unit cost basis or input cost (production cost) basis, whichever is less. For a loss to be admissible the agreed mortality rate will be on the residual stock as on date anterior to loss. The residual quantity being as per the cumulative mortality percentage for the applicable fortnight as per the valuation table or actual as per pond record, whichever is less.” 8. Therefore, the three ways of computing the admissible loss are: - (i) Input Cost Method: 80% of the value of inputs on the date of the loss. (ii) Unit Cost Method: The actual survival number is calculated on the date anterior to the loss. The prevailing average body weight is applied to that number and then multiplied by the unit cost of 150 per kilogram. (iii) Fortnightly Valuation Method: As the crop period was up to ten fortnights, the maximum claim admissible in the fi rst fortnight is 25% of the sum assured and scales up through the fortnights proportionately.