E Arbitration – Arbitrator is a creature of the parties and the contract – As Arbitrator he cannot stray outside the contours of the contract – He is bound to act within its confines – A disregard of the specific provisions of the contract would incur the wrath of the Award being imperiled. F Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 The clauses which have been relied upon by the appellants are clear and unambiguous. What they interdict is the submission of a new claim after the submission of the final bill. If there are any claims left after the submission of the final G bill, the parties have agreed that they shall stand waived. These are the clauses which are binding not only on the parties but also on the Arbitrator. Going against the terms of clauses 65 and 65A would indeed render the Award vulnerable on the basis that it is illegal being contrary to the contract and, therefore, without H jurisdiction. There may be cases where a final bill may be submitted UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. M/S. BHARAT ENTERPRISE 805 and the contention is taken that the final bill was submitted under A duress. In such a case, it may be open to the claimants to urge and the Arbitrator to find that the final bill was itself vitiated on account of the fact that it was brought about by duress or any other vitiating factors under law. If such an event had taken place then that may have been sufficient to non-suit the appellants. In B other words, if under the terms of the agreement, there is an embargo against the Arbitrator embarking upon and attempting to find merit in any claim which is not part of the final bill, an award so countenancing a claim would be illegal. However, on the other hand, if the case is that the final bill itself should not be given life as it was born out of coercion or any other vitiating C factor and the Arbitrator renders a finding on material as is sufficient in law then the Award of the Arbitrator may not be attacked on the ground that he travels beyond the contractual provisions. [Paras 17, 18][822-G-H; 823-A-D] 1.2 On 13.02.2002, the respondent has indeed submitted a D final bill. It is a year thereafter on 25.02.2003, that the respondent sent a letter inter alia urging that the final bill dated 13.02.2002 was not paid and is signed under protest. Subsequently, it would appear that the respondent has filed an affidavit on 24.05.2003. It is ignoring all this that notice was sent for referring the matter E to arbitration. By dated 12.11.2007, the High Court proceeding under Section 11 of the Act appointed an Arbitrator. During the course of the arbitration, on 03.08.2008, the appellants filed an application under Section 16 of the Act invoking clauses 65 and 65A of the Contract. The said application came to be rejected on 04.03.2009. The Arbitrator has proceeded to reject F the application filed by the appellants under Section 16 on the basis of the dated 12.11.2007 passed by the High Court.