Section 50 could be said to be violated where a third option is also off ered, be it that of being searched by the superintendent of police or by the police offi cer himself. 55. Although a superintendent of police is a Gazetted Offi cer, yet the reason why this court in Parmanand (supra) held the third option to be bad in law is because, fi rst, in that case the Superintendent of Police was a part of the raiding party and as such was not an independent witness and secondly, as discussed, Section 50 provides for only two options, either a Magistrate or Gazetted Offi cer. 56. Thus, the person intended to be searched under Section 50 must be told in clear and unambiguous words that he has a right to have the search conducted in presence of either a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate. The person concerned must be made aware of his right and must be given only two options that have been provided under the section. RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 329 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 57. This Court in Parmanand (supra) has also held that a joint communication of the right under Section 50 would be bad in law. The right under Section 50 could be said to be violated where in a case of multiple persons intended to be searched, only a joint communication has been given or where the right has been exercised or declined by one of them on behalf of the other. While, a written communication of the right is not required, the right has to be communicated in clear words to each person individually whose search is intended to be conducted, and no person can either waive or exercise this right at the behest of another. Thus, in case of multiple persons, each of them must be individually communicated of their right and must exercise or waive the same in their own individual capacity. 58. We also looked into the decision of this Court in Arif Khan alias Agha Khan v. State of Uttarakhand reported in (2018) 18 SCC 380, wherein it was held that even where the accused after being informed of his right under Section 50, chooses to decline the same, his search by the police must be conducted in presence of either a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate. The relevant observations are as under:- “4. … On apprehending the accused, he was informed by the police personnel that he has a legal right to be searched in the presence of a gazetted offi cer or a Magistrate to which the accused replied that he has faith in the raiding police party and consented to be searched by them. 5. The raiding police party accordingly obtained his consent in writing to be searched by the raiding police party. The raiding police party then searched the accused which resulted in seizure of “charas” weighing around 2.5 kg in quantity from his body. x x x x 24.