If B after such careful examination of the evidence, the court is of the opinion that there does exist evidence to proceed against the person so discharged, it may take steps but only in accordance with Section 398 Cr.P.C. without resorting to the provision of Section 319 Cr.P.C. directly. Section 398 Cr.P.C. is in the nature of a revisional power which can be exercised only by the High Court or the Sessions Judge, as the case may be. C However, a person discharged can also be arraigned again as an accused but only after an inquiry as contemplated by Sections 300(5) and 398 Cr.P.C. If during or after such inquiry, there appears to be an evidence against such person, power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. can be exercised. 23. From the aforesaid observations of the Constitution Bench of D this Court in Hardeep Singh, it is noted that an inquiry is contemplated as against a person who has been discharged prior to the commencement of the trial in terms of Section 227 Cr.P.C. as extracted above but on an inquiry, if it appears that there is evidence against such a discharged person, then power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. can be exercised against E such a discharged person. This clearly would mean that when a person who is not discharged but is to be summoned as per Section 319 Cr.P.C. on the basis of satisfaction derived by the court on the evidence on record, no inquiry or hearing is contemplated. This would clearly indicate that principle of natural justice and an opportunity of hearing a person summoned under 319 Cr.P.C. are not at all contemplated. Such a right F of inquiry would accrue only to a person who is already discharged in the very same proceeding prior to the commencement of the trial. This is different from holding that a person who has been summoned as per Section 319 Cr.P.C. has a right of being heard in accordance with the principles of natural justice before being added as an accused to be tried G along with other accused. 24. Further, when a person is summoned as an accused under Section 319 Cr.P.C. which is based on the satisfaction recorded by the Trial Court on the evidence that has emerged during the course of trial so as to try the person summoned as an accused along with the other accused, the summoned accused cannot seek discharge. It is necessary H YASHODHAN SINGH & ORS. v. THE STATE OF UTTAR 1213 PRADESH & ANR. to state that discharge as contemplated under Section 227 Cr.P.C. is at a A stage prior to the commencement of the trial and immediately after framing of charge but when power is exercised theunder Section 319 Cr.P.C. to summon a person to be added as an accused in the trial to be tried along with other accused, such a person cannot seek discharge as the court would have exercised the power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. based on a B satisfaction derived from the evidence that has emerged during the evidence recorded in the course of trial and such satisfaction is of a higher degree than the satisfaction which is derived by the court at the time of framing of charge.