It was further argued that Entry 21.06 of the CET Act has no relevance for the present purpose when notifications under the Act are E being considered. Firstly, there is no entry as “pan masala containing tobacco”, and secondly, there is no entry like 21.06 of the CET Act in the notification which provides the rate of tax and therefore the classification is under the residuary clause according to the revenue. The revenue’s contentions F 39. Mr. N. Venkatraman, the Additional Solicitor General (ASG) appeared on behalf of the Govt. of NCT of Delhi; Mr. Raizada, learned Additional Advocate General (AAG) appeared on behalf of the State of UP, and Mr. Radhakrishna, learned senior counsel appeared on behalf of the State of Tamil Nadu. G 40. The revenue submitted that in Kothari ProductsLtd. (supra) what was dealt with was Gudaku, a tobacco product falling under sub- heading 2404.11 of the CET Act as well as the ADE Act and that is not the case of the petitioners herein; and that it was a decision rendered on an issue of fact which may not bind this court. H M/S TRIMURTHI FRAGRANCES (P) LTD. THR. ITS DIRECTOR SHRI 1069 PRADEEP KUMAR AGRAWAL v. GOVT. OF N.C.T. OF DELHI THR. ITS PRINCIPAL SECRETARY (FINANCE) [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 41. It was next argued that the use of the construction of the term A ‘including’ in sub-heading 2404.41 in the present case, is followed by the words “preparations commonly known as” and therefore, the said word has to be understood and read as “and” in the conjunctive sense. As a result, the preparations mentioned therein should be treated as exhaustive and cannot be expanded beyond that. B 42. It was argued that pan masala and gutkha in these cases are separate and distinct entries from tobacco and therefore the State Legislatures are competent to tax pan masala and gutkha. There is no dispute regarding distinction between the independent existence of entries, i.e., tobacco and pan masala gutkha, respectively. It was argued that C the State Legislatures are competent to levy taxes on sale or purchase of the commodities subjected to ADE Act. All that the levy of any such sales tax would mean is that the additional excise duty levied and collected on such commodities by the Central government will not be distributed among the states which had chosen to levy a tax on the sale thereof. This issue has been well settled by this court in Mahalakshmi Oil Mills D (supra). 43. It was further submitted that the argument with respect to definition of “tobacco” remaining unchanged, as was incorporated at the time of enactment of the state laws, without reflecting later changes, is incorrect. Counsel submitted that the definition had to be in terms of E the changing definitions of tobacco under the Central enactments; reliance was placed on decisions reported as State of Madhya Pradesh v. M.V. Narsimhan26; Nagpur Improvement Trust v. Vasantrao27, and U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad v. Jainul Islam & Anr.28 for the proposition that in the present case, the definition of tobacco cannot be said to be an F instance of legislation by incorporation, but rather, that it is a case of legislation by reference.