the number ending with XXX847, belongs to PW1; H SUNDAR @ SUNDARRAJAN v. STATE BY INSPECTOR OF 1031 POLICE [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] e. PW1 has not stated that calls were made to her on 28 July A 2009 and the testimony of PW16, the operator of the phone booth through which the call was made, cannot be relied upon; and f. The certificate under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act 18726 for the call detail records was not furnished. B 19. The counsel for the State of Tamil Nadu strongly resisted the submissions which were urged by the Petitioner. The counsel submitted that the above grounds do not amount to errors apparent on the face of the record and do not meet the standard for re-appreciating evidence by this Court in review jurisdiction in the face of concurrent findings of the C Trial Court, the High Court and this Court. The counsel also took us through the relevant exhibits and statements of prosecution witnesses to counter the grounds raised by the petitioner on merits. D.2. Analysis 20. We are in agreement with the counsel for the State of Tamil D Nadu. The grounds which have been raised by the petitioner have already been dealt with by the courts which have arrived at concurrent findings recording the guilt of the petitioner. Further, the case of the prosecution is not founded only on the alleged calls for ransom but on consistent interlinked evidence as both the High Court and Supreme Court found in E their s. 21. Regardless, we consider it appropriate to deal with the contentions of the petitioner. 22. The petitioner has alleged that the number through which the ransom call was allegedly made did not belong to him. However, on the F basis of his statement of 30 July 2009, the cell phone with the SIM for the mobile number ending with XXX5961 was seized from the petitioner along with 2 other cell phones, the motorbike on which he had kidnapped the victim as well as the victim’s school bag. 23. Similarly, the contention based on the difference in the IMEI G number recorded in the seizure memo and the call detail records does not affect the prosecution’s case for the following reason. The difference in the IMEI number recorded in the seizure memo and the call detail 6 “IEA” H 1032 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A record pertains to the last digit of the 15-digit IMEI number. Every device has a unique IMEI number identifying the brand owner in the model. The first 8 digits are the Type Allocation Code (TAC) digits of which the initial 2 digits identify the reporting body and the next 6 identify the brand owner and device model allocated by the reporting body. The next 6 digits are the unique serial number assigned to individual devices by the B manufacturer.7 24. These 14 digits in the petitioner’s case match in both the seizure memo and the call detail record.