The provisions of the Act which have been noted earlier, indicate that the statutory function of the Delimitation Commission includes specifying reserved seats in the Legislative Assemblies for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. 45. The Election Commission has a broad mandate in terms of Article 324 in regard to the superintendence, direction and control of elections. Article 324(1) provides for the superintendence, direction and control of the preparation of the electoral rolls and stipulates that the conduct of all elections to Parliament and to the State Legislature shall be vested in the Election Commission. The Constitution has drawn a careful balance between the broader powers of the Election Commission over the superintendence, direction and control of electoral rolls and the conduct of elections on the one hand, and the legislative power of Parliament under Article 245 and Article 246 on the other hand read with Entry 72 of the Union List in the Seventh Schedule. The power of Parliament in its legislative domain is coupled with its constitutional function under Article 327. The Election Commission has categorically stated before this Court that the powers which it exercises for the purposes of delimitation are governed by the statute which has been framed by Parliament under Article 327, namely, the Delimitation Act 2002. 46. Following upon the in Virendra Pratap (supra), three Ordinances were promulgated in to create enabling provisions for the 109 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Election Commission to undertake an exercise of updating the Delimitation s in accordance with the additions/changes made to the Scheduled Tribes subsequent to the 2001 census. 47. The statutory framework for the enactment of the 2006 Notifi cation and the 2008 is as follows: 1. Under Section 4(2), the Delimitation Commission is required to readjust the division of each state in territorial constituencies for elections on the basis of the statutorily prescribed census; 2. Under Section 8, the Delimitation Commission has to determine, having regard to the provisions of Articles 81, 170, 330 and 332, the total number of seats to be assigned to the legislative assembly of each state and determine on the basis of the prescribed census fi gures, the number of seats to be reserved for SCs and STs of the States; 3. Under Section 9, the Delimitation Commission has to distribute the seats in the House of the People allocated to each state and seats assigned to the Legislative Assemblies of the States based on the 1971 census fi gures and delimit them in accordance with, Articles 81, 170, 330 and 332 of the Constitution, as referred to in Section 8; For this, the Delimitation Commission is required to publish its delimitation proposals in the Gazette of India and of the States, specifying the date for its further consideration. It is then required to consider objections and suggestions by way of public sittings in the States as it thinks fi t and then fi nally determine the delimitation of parliamentary constituencies and assembly constituencies of each state.