We need not note the cornucopia F of case law available on the subject because aforesaid legal position clearly emerges from the various decisions and this legal position was conceded by the counsel for the parties. In any case, we shall refer to few s containing this dicta, a little later.” This proposition was again explained and applied in Union of G India v. Indusind Bank Ltd 35. 66. In view of the above discussion, it is held that agreements, such as the PPAs in the present case, entered into, voluntarily by the 35 (2016) 11 S.C.R. 700 H 716 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A parties, before the Second Amendment, were not affected, by its terms. The findings to the contrary in the impugned , are set aside. Were the respondents coerced into entering into PPAs 67. The State Commission had concluded that the PPAs were also unenforceable, to the extent of being in non-conformity with the B pre-amended Rule 5, of the REC Regulations, as the contracts were entered into by parties with unequal bargaining power. This aspect was noted by APTEL, which held as follows: “9.19 [..] The State Commission after careful consideration of the submissions made by both the parties and after due analysis of the available material on record has recorded its C findings in the impugned that the conditions envisaged in the PPA relating to the tariff and other associated conditions appeared to be one sided in favour of the Appellant and accordingly concluded the case of coercion or duress and unequal bargaining power between the parties being D responsible for executing an Agreement full of unjustness and perversity. In view of these facts, we hold that the State Commission has analysed this issue rightly in accordance with law and passed the assigning cogent reasoning. Thus, we do not find any material case or ground for our interference in the matter. E 10. SUMMARY OF OUR FINDINGS: Having regard to the careful consideration and critical analysis of the facts and submissions of the learned counsel for the Appellants as well as the Respondents, we hold that the findings of the State Commission are just and right in F accordance with law.” 68. In Transmission Corporation of Andhra Pradesh Ltd (supra), this court observed, in the context of a contention of coercion, as follows: “42. [..] To frustrate a contract on the ground of duress or G coercion, there have to be definite pleadings which have to be substantiated normally by leading cogent and proper evidence. However, in the case where summary procedure is adopted like the present one, at least some documentary evidence or affidavit ought to have been filed raising this H plea of duress specifically.[.. ]” GUJARAT URJA VIKAS NIGAM LIMITED v. RENEW WIND 717 ENERGY (RAJKOT) PVT. LTD. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 69. In Shanti Budhiya Vesta Patel & Ors. v. Nirmala Jayprakash A Tiwari& Ors.36 , this court held that to establish fraud or coercion, there should be”(a) an express allegation of coercion or fraud, and (b) all the material facts in support of such allegations must be laid out in full and with a high degree of precision.