Why would a Speaker who is confident of his majority, fear a floor test? After his position as the Speaker is affirmed, he would assuredly and with conviction, H 902 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A deal with the disqualification petitions, under the Tenth Schedule. And, why should a Speaker who is not confident of facing a motion, for his removal, have the right to adjudicate upon disqualification petitions, under the Tenth Schedule? The manner in which the matter has been examined hereinabove, is on ethical considerations. A constitutional issue, however, must have a B constitutional answer. We shall endeavour to deal with the constitutional connotation of the instant issue, in the following paragraphs.” 53. Khehar, J. referred to the Constituent Assembly Debates to elucidate the meaning of the phrase “all the then members of the C Assembly” as it appears in Article 179(c) (draft Article 158). In the course of the debates in the Constituent Assembly, Mr. Mohd. Tahir proposed to substitute the phrase “all the then members of the Assembly” with the phrase “the members of the Assembly present and voting”. However, the proposed amendment was negatived. Justice Khehar D observed that the Constituent Assembly Debates do not appear to have recorded any discussion on this proposed amendment. Khehar, J. noted that this meant that the members of the Constituent Assembly used the phrase to indicate definiteness and that any change in the composition of the Assembly when the notice of intention to move a resolution for the removal of the Speaker was pending would conflict with the express E mandate of Article 179(c): “191. […] We are satisfied that the words “passed by a majority of all the then Members of the Assembly”, would prohibit the Speaker from going ahead with the disqualification proceedings under the Tenth Schedule, as the same would negate the effect of F the words “all the then Members”, after the disqualification of one or more MLAs from the House. The words “all the then Members”, demonstrate an expression of definiteness. Any change in the strength and composition of the Assembly, by disqualifying sitting MLAs, for the period during which the notice of resolution G for the removal of the Speaker (or the Deputy Speaker) is pending, would conflict with the express mandate of Article 179(c), requiring all “the then Members” to determine the right of the Speaker to continue.” 54. The opinion of the majority further noted that the purpose sought to be achieved through the Tenth Schedule is clear and H SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 903 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] unambiguous, and that it is distinct from the purpose sought to be achieved A by Article 179(c): “192. The purpose sought to be achieved through the Tenth Schedule, is clear and unambiguous. The same is unrelated to, and distinct from, the purpose sought to be achieved through Article 179(c). Neither of the above provisions, can be seen as conflicting B with the other. Both, must, therefore, freely operate within their individual constitutional space.