7. Similar notices were issued by the Tribunal on two contempt B petitions filed by the appellant against the respondents for non-compliance of the s dated 30th May, 2017 and 6th March, 2019. In the meantime, the respondents initiated disciplinary proceedings against the appellant by issuing him a chargesheet on 17th June, 2019. In July 2019, a Departmental Promotion Committee7 was convened by the Union Public Service Commission8 to consider promoting the appellant to the post of C Principal Commissioner but the decision taken qua him, was placed in the sealed cover due to the pending disciplinary proceedings. The appellant had filed a writ petition before the High Court against the charge memorandum issued to him whereinthe High Court granted stay s in his favour. While the said proceedings were still pending, the D respondents proceeded to compulsorily retire the appellant on 27th September, 2019, which was about three months short of the date of his superannuation in January 2020. The list of promotions made to the post of Principal Commissioner was declared on 11.11.2019, by which date the appellant was no longer in the reckoning. E 8. It may be noted here that the mechanism in place within the department for arriving at a conclusion as to who amongst the Group-A Officers in the CBDT deserve to be prematurely retired, starts with an assessment to be conducted by the Internal Committee that identifies and recommends the names of the officers and places it before the Review Committee. The next stage is before the Review Committee F that includes the Chairman, CBDT and the Revenue Secretary as Members. If satisfied by the records and comments forwarded by the Internal Committee that the pre-mature retirement of a Group-A Officer is desirable in public interest, the Review Committee makes a recommendation to the Appointing Authority in this regard. The G Appointing Authority is then required to examine the recommendations of the Review Committee and if satisfied, pass an of pre-mature retirement of the concerned Officer. Once the Competent Authority 6 For short ‘CBDT’ 7 For short ‘DPC’ H 8 For short ‘UPSC’ CAPTAIN PRAMOD KUMAR BAJAJ v. UNION OF INDIA 39 AND ANOTHER [HIMA KOHLI, J.] passes an of pre-mature retirement under FR 56(j), the aggrieved A Officer is entitled to submit a representation to the Representation Committee. As per the records, the appellant had submitted a representation to the Representation Committee, which was turned down on 2nd January 2020. 9. The appellant challenged the final of compulsory B retirement issued against the appellant on 27th September, 2019 and the subsequent dated 2nd January, 2020, passed by the Representation Committee declining to interfere in the of compulsory retirement, before the Tribunal. The said petition was dismissed, vide dated 9th December, 2020 and upheld by the High Court by the impugned C dated 31st May, 2022. THREEFOLD CHALLENGE 10. A threefold challenge has been laid by the appellant to the impugned . Firstly, on the ground of serious prejudice caused to him due to the active participation of the Additional Director General D (Vigilance) as a Member of the Internal Committee when he had a bias against the appellant and the participation of the then Chairman of the CBDT in the meeting of the Review Committee, convened to examine the recommendations of the Internal Committee for pre- maturely retiring him, when he ought to have recused himself knowing that he was facing E three contempt notices, one issued by the High Court on 13th August, 2019 [Contempt Petition No.2681/2017] and two notices issued by the Tribunal [CCP No.15/2019 and CCP No.25/2019] for failing to forward the appellant’s vigilance clearance required for processing his case for appointment as Member, ITAT, to the Selection Committee.