Reference is made to the provisions of the new LA Act which require the appropriate Government to consult the local authorities in the affected area and to F carry out a Social Impact Assessment Study in consultation with them. It is pointed out that a Social Impact Assessment Study Report would lapse, under Section 14 of the new LA Act, if the Preliminary Notification under Section 11 is not issued within 12 months from the date that such report is submitted, and in such an event, a fresh Social Impact Assessment Study has to be undertaken before acquisition proceedings G are initiated. It is pointed out that the First Schedule to the new LA Act states that the market value of the land is to be determined as per Section 26 thereof. The proviso to Section 26(1) of the new LA Act, in turn, links the market value to the date on which the Preliminary Notification is issued under Section 11. The Notification under Section 11 of the new H 956 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A LA Act is equivalent to the Public Notice issued under Section 15(2) of the Highways Act. The Declaration under Section 19 of the new LA Act is on par with the Notice published under Section 15(1) of the Highways Act. 28.In the context thereof, it is pointed out that Section 19(7) of B the new LA Act prescribes the time limit of one year between the Notification under Section 11 and the publication of the Declaration under Section 19 and in the event of failure to abide by this time stipulation, the Preliminary Notification is deemed to lapse, subject to exceptions in terms of the second proviso to Section 19(7) of the new LA Act. Similarly, Section 25 of the new LA Act provides that the Award must be passed C within 12 months of the Declaration under Section 19 and if not, the entire proceedings would lapse, subject to the proviso to Section 25, which entitles the Government to extend the time. However, as all these provisions do not find reflection in the First Schedule to the new LA Act, which has been extended to the Highways Act, the timelines put in place D to safeguard the interests of the land owners would not be applicable to an acquisition thereunder. In consequence, there would be no restriction upon the State of Tamil Nadu to complete the exercise in a time-bound manner and compensation would be determined by taking into consideration a market value from the distant past, which would not be the case had the acquisition been under the new LA Act. In the light of E the flexibility afforded to the State Government, it is argued that the market value of the acquired land would change to the detriment of the land owner. 29.It is further pointed out that the procedure prescribed in Section 28 of the new LA Act for determining the amount of compensation is F not followed by the State of Tamil Nadu under the Highways Act and more particularly, the power given to the Collector under Section 28(7) of the new LA Act to take into consideration any other ground which may be in the interest of equity, justice and beneficial to the affected families.