It seems to have posed a wrong question for being answered. 31. The circumstances of the case make it imperative to consider the question: when does an enrichment or unjust enrichment occur? D 32. Mahabir Kishore vs. State of Madhya Pradesh6 is a decision of this Court which traced various English decisions and ultimately laid down the requirements of unjust enrichment as follows: “11. The principle of unjust enrichment requires: first, that the defendants has been ‘enriched’ by the receipt of a ‘benefit’; E secondly, that this enrichment is ‘at the expense of the plaintiffs’; and thirdly, that the retention of the enrichment be unjust. This justifies restitution. Enrichment may take the form of direct advantage to the recipient wealth such as by the receipt of money or indirect one for instance where inevitable F expense has been saved.” 33. In Sahakari Khand Udyog Mandal Ltd. vs. CCE & Customs7, this Court had the occasion to reiterate that unjust enrichment means retention of a benefit by a person that is unjust or inequitable. Unjust enrichment occurs when a person retains G money or benefit which in justice, equity and good conscience, belongs to someone else. The doctrine of unjust enrichment, therefore, is that no person can be allowed to enrich inequitably at the expense of another. A right of recovery under the doctrine of 6 (1989) 4 SCC 1 7 (2005) 3 SCC 738 H 1090 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A unjust enrichment arises where retention of a benefit is considered contrary to justice or against equity. 34. Yet again, in Indian Council for Enviro- Legal Action vs. Union of India8, this Court held that a person is enriched if he has received a benefit, and he is unjustly enriched if retention of the benefit B would be unjust. 35. In the light of guidance provided by the above decisions, what needs to be ascertained first is whether the Bank received or derived any benefit or advantage by forfeiture of 25% of the sale price. We do not think that the Bank has been enriched, much less unjustly enriched, by reason of the impugned forfeiture. Receipt of 25% of the sale price C by the Bank from the contesting respondent was not the outcome of any private negotiation or arrangement between them. It was pursuant to a public auction, involving a process of offer and acceptance, and it was in terms of statutory provisions contained in the Rules, particularly rule 9(3), that money changed hands for a definite purpose. Receipt of 25% D of the sale price does not constitute a benefit, a fortiori, retention thereof by forfeiture cannot be termed unjust or inequitable, so as to attract the doctrine of unjust enrichment. The Bank, as a secured creditor, is entitled in law to enforce the security interest and in the process to initiate all such steps and take all such measures for protection of public interest by recovering the public money, lent to a borrower and who has E squandered it, in a manner authorized by law.