The High Court extracted the said comparative chart in paragraph 5 of the impugned . But unfortunately, the said chart is of no assistance to find out whether both B these categories of doctors are performing the same or similar duties and responsibilities, to be entitled to claim equal pay. The comparative chart extracted in paragraph 5 of the impugned merely shows what these two categories of doctors “can do” and the different approaches that the different systems of medicine have towards persons C suffering from various illnesses. But an appreciation of these characteristics will not empower the Court to direct the Government to treat both categories of doctors on par. Taking into consideration a comparative chart relating to the characteristics of both these types of medicine and not taking into consideration the comparative chart which we have extracted in paragraph 41 above, was the first mistake D committed by the High Court in the impugned . 43. As seen from paragraph 41 above, Allopathy doctors are required to perform emergency duties and to provide trauma care. By the very nature of the science that they practice and with the advancement of science and modern medical technology, the emergency duty that E Allopathy doctors are capable of performing and the trauma care that they are capable of providing, cannot be performed by Ayurved doctors. 44. It is also not possible for Ayurved doctors to assist surgeons performing complicated surgeries, while MBBS doctors can assist. We shall not be understood to mean as though one system of medicine is F superior to the other. It is not our mandate nor within our competence to assess the relative merits of these two systems of medical sciences. As a matter of fact, we are conscious that the history of Ayurveda dates back to several centuries. The Encyclopaedia Britannica states that the golden age of Indian medicine from 800 B.C., till 1000 A.D., was marked G by the production of two medical treatises known as “caraka-samhita” and “susruta-samhita”. The Britannica records in page 776 of Volume- 23 (15th Edition) as follows:- “In surgery, ancient Hindu medicine reached its zenith. Operations performed by Hindu surgeons included excision of tumours, incision and draining of abscesses, punctures to release fluid in the H STATE OF GUJARAT & ORS. ETC. v. DR. P. A. BHATT & ORS. 317 ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] abdomen, extraction of foreign bodies, repair of anal fistulas, A splinting of fractures, amputations, cesarean sections, and stitching of wounds. A broad array of surgical instruments were used. According to Susruta the surgeon should be equipped with 20 sharp and 101 blunt instruments of various descriptions. The instruments were B largely of steel. Alcohol seems to have been used as a narcotic during operations, and bleeding was stopped by hot oils and tar. Hindu surgeons also operated on cataracts by couching or displacing the lens to improve vision.” C 45. In a Book titled “Man and Medicine - A History” authored by Farokh Erach Udwadia, an Emeritus Professor of Medicine (Allopathy) and published by Oxford University Press (2001 Edition), an interesting event is reported at page No.43.