CESTAT referred to and relied upon the decision of this Court in Commissioner of Customs, Calcutta Vs. South India Television (P) Ltd., (2007) 6 SCC 373 wherein this court held that the burden lies upon the department to prove under valuation by evidence or information about comparable imports and if the charge of under valuation is not supported by such evidence or information, the benefi t of doubt has to be given to the importer. On the basis of the aforesaid decision, CESTAT recorded that there was not only no contrary evidence of contemporaneous import but even the foreign supplier had satisfactorily explained that the price initially shown in the export declarations was incorrect which was subsequently amended and accepted by the Hong Kong customs authority. 7.4. As regards the statements of Mr. Yashpal Sharma and Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma, the Tribunal observed that these statements were retracted at the earliest available opportunity. Decisions relied upon by the appellant, viz., Surjit Singh Chhabra Vs. Union of India, 1997 (89) ELT-646 and in K.I. Pavunny Vs. Assistant Collector, (1997) 3 SCC 721 did not advance the case of the department. Tribunal observed that in the said decisions, this court has held that the inculpatory portion of confessional statement of accused, even if retracted, could be relied upon to base conviction if it is found to be voluntary and truthful; however, this Court sounded a note of caution that prudence and practice would require that such confessional statement should be corroborated by other evidence adduced by the prosecution. Statement of Mr. Yashpal Sharma that the actual market value of the tuners was in the range of Rs.200.00 and Rs.325.00 per piece which would make the market price thereof in excess of Rs.700.00 after adding normal profi t could not be taken to be voluntary and true for the reason that tuners were supplied to the respondents at negotiated price of four diff erent rates i.e. HK$ 4.00, 4.50, 5.50 and 6.00. In that view of the matter, Tribunal was of the view that the loaded value proposed by the department would not be correct since the COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS (IMPORTS), MUMBAI v. M/S GANPATI 185 OVERSEAS THR. ITS PROP. SHRI YASHPAL SHARMA [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] proposed Free on Board (FoB) price would be about Rs.372.00 per piece and CIF (Cost, Insurance and Freight) value would be Rs. 454.00 per piece and the landing cost would be Rs.660.00 per piece after adding customs duty. 7.5. CESTAT also noted that the importers i.e. respondents had produced invoices of contemporaneous imports by M/s Bharat Electronics and M/s K.S. International to show price comparable with the price declared by them in respect of the goods in question. 7.6. In the above backdrop, CESTAT vide the and dated 27.06.2008 held that enhancement of the value of the imported goods as well as the penalties imposed could not be sustained. Accordingly, those were set aside and appeals fi led by the respondents were allowed. 8. It is this of CESTAT which has been impugned in the two appeals before us.