In C their statement, under section 313 of the Code, the accused denied the incriminating circumstances appearing against them and claimed that they have been falsely implicated and made scapegoat. Nature of the Prosecution Evidence 7. The prosecution sought to bring home the charge against the D aforesaid three accused by leading evidence to the following effect: - (i) On the date, time and place of the incident, the three accused were on a picket duty as reflected by the GD Entries made at the police station concerned; (ii) The GD Entries reflected that they had departed from the E police station with a rifle and 50 cartridges each; (iii) The ballistic expert report confirmed that some of the empty rifle cartridges recovered from the spot were fired from the service rifles of the accused thereby confirming their presence at the spot; F (iv) PW-3 and PW-6 narrated that the shots were fired by policemen who flashed torch light at the scooter riders; (v) PW-15 (Shyam Singh) confirmed participation of the three accused in the crime and proved that on exhortation by the G other two accused, Anil Kumar took out a country made pistol and had fired a shot at the deceased; (vi) The villagers who had arrived at the spot after the incident had noticed that the three accused along with others were present at the spot; H CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. SHYAM BIHARI 471 & OTHERS [MANOJ MISRA, J.] (vii) Police set up a false cross version of the incident, namely, A Case Crime No. 48A/87, which indicated that there was a deliberate attempt on the part of the police to save themselves from the clutches of law. Trial Court Findings B 8. The trial court found the testimony of PW-3 and PW-6 inconsequential because the two witnesses did not state that the policemen involved in the crime were the ones facing trial. Rather, they admitted that they had not seen the accused before and that the accused were not put for identification. C 9. As regards eye-witness Shyam Singh (PW15), the trial court found him unreliable for the following reasons: (a) PW15 made no prompt disclosure of his knowledge about the incident and the culprits either to the police or to the villagers, rather, after a lapse of several days, chose to swear an affidavit and dispatch it by post to a higher official of the police; (b) three affidavits, including that of PW15, making the same D disclosure in identical language, sworn on the same day, at more or less the same time, and prepared by the same lawyer, were received by the police after a few days; and (c) PW15 lied that he was alone when he went to swear the affidavit. 10. Having discarded the eye witness account of PW-15 and E finding the eye witness accounts of PW-3 and PW-6 inconsequential to inculpate the accused, the trial court proceeded to address other circumstances on which the prosecution relied. These were: (a) few empty cartridge shells lifted from the spot were found to have been fired from the rifles issued to the accused; and (b) there was an attempt to set up a false narration of the incident vide Case Crime No.48A of 1987.