[2023] 6 S.C.R. 565 565 M/S. JERMYN CAPITAL LLC DUBAI A v. CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION & ORS. (Criminal Appeal No. 1434 of 2023) MAY 09, 2023 B [KRISHNA MURARI AND SANJAY KUMAR, JJ.] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.102 – Freeze s and bank guarantee in furtherance there of were imposed against the appellant company on grounds of necessity of investigation of an alleged crime initiated against one ‘D’ allegedly connected to C the appellant company – Held: Accused-‘D’ was never an employee/ share holder/director or a key managerial person in the appellant company – Since ‘D’ was in no way connected to the appellant company, the trial faced by him, was in his individual capacity, and not vicariously on behalf of the appellant company – No criminal D proceedings whatsoever are pending against the appellant company pertaining to the dispute at hand – Furthermore, ‘D’ has been discharged of the alleged offences by the Trial Court – Even assuming that his discharge is subsequently reversed, and he is convicted, such a conviction would still have no bearing on the properties of the appellant company, since it is not alleged to be a E part of the crime – The purpose of the freeze and the bank guarantee in extension of the freeze , can only be in operation to aid in the investigation against the alleged crime – Since the appellant company is in no way connected to the alleged crime, the freeze against its properties is redundant qua the investigation F – As the investigation against the appellant company is redundant, hence, the freeze of the appellant company’s assets and the bank guarantee imposed in furtherance thereof also becomes redundant – Therefore, the condition imposed upon the appellant to furnish a bank guarantee by the Courts below is not sustainable and is set aside – s impugned modified – Appellant permitted to withdraw G the amount along with 4% simple interest. CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Criminal Appeal No.1434 of 2023. From the and dated 16.08.2018 of the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad in CRLMA No.602 of 2013. H 565 566 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Mukul Rohatgi, Sr. Adv., Sunil Fernandes, Ms. Nupur Kumar, Divyansh Tiwari, M. Thangathurai, Ms. Priyansha Sharma, Ms. Diksha Dadu, Advs. for the Appellant. Shailesh Madiyal, Rajesh Ranjan, Mukul Singh, Pratyush Shrivastava, Arvind Kumar Sharma, Rajat Nair, Ms. Swati Ghildiyal, B Ms. Devyani Bhat, M/s K J John and Co., Advs. for the Respondents. The of the Court was delivered by KRISHNA MURARI, J. Leave Granted. C 2. The present Appeal is directed against the and final dated 16.08.2018 passed by the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad, (hereinafter referred to as “High Court”) in Criminal Application No. 602 of 2013. FACTS D 3. The brief facts relevant for the purpose of the present appeal are that the appellant company is a Foreign Institutional Investor and was permitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (for short ‘SEBI’) to buy and sell shares and securities in the Indian Stock Market.