H YUVRAJ @ MUNNA PRALHAD JAGDALE & ORS. v. 1139 JANARDAN SUBAJIRAO WIDE [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] The I.A.s are allowed. The documents are taken on record and exemption, A as prayed for, is granted. 7. The tenant filed a Written Statement denying the suit claims. Thereupon, the Trial Court settled three issues for consideration. The plaintiffs examined three witnesses, including plaintiff No. 2, while the defendant examined himself as DW1. B 8. Plaintiff No. 2, speaking as PW1, stated that the suit premises was leased out to the tenant in the year 1975 for running his hotel business. He asserted that the tenant constructed a toilet in the leased premises in January, 1985, without obtaining his consent and 2-4 days later, he sold his rights in the hotel to Krishna B Shetty for a sum of ` 2,00,000/- and C accepted ` 50,000/- as earnest money. He claimed that Krishna B Shetty was running the hotel in the leased premises thereafter for about eleven months. He further stated that in November, 1985, there was a dispute between the tenant and Krishna B Shetty, which led to the sealing of the premises, and finally the key thereof was handed over by the Sub- D Divisional Magistrate to the tenant and, thereafter, Krishna B Shetty did not operate the hotel. 9. PW2, the Advocate-Commissioner, stated in her first report (Exh.8) that Krishna B Shetty was in occupation of the leased hotel premises when she visited the same. In her subsequent report (Exh.23), E she stated that she found no trace of a toilet constructed in the leased premises. 10. Krishna B Shetty was examined as PW3. He stated that he intended to purchase the hotel from the tenant and had taken possession in January, 1985. He stated that the price was settled at ` 2,00,000/- and he paid ` 50,000/- by way of earnest money at the time of execution of F the agreement. He asserted that the tenant illegally evicted him from the hotel premises, constraining him to file a complaint and also a suit for specific performance. 11. The tenant examined himself as DW1. In his examination-in- chief, he claimed that he had not given the hotel business to Krishna B G Shetty or anyone else and that Krishna B Shetty was not given possession of the leased premises at any time. However, during his cross- examination, he admitted that he was carrying on hotel business in the leased premises with the name ‘Hotel Ambika’ and in the year 1984, he thought of admitting a partner to run the hotel. As Krishna B Shetty was H 1140 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A also in the same business, he stated that he had talks with him about joining the business. He denied that Krishna B Shetty was allowed by him to join as a partner in January, 1985. He, however, admitted his signatures in the partnership agreement executed in that regard (Exh.48) and conceded that his own Advocate had purchased the stamp paper and drafted the said agreement.