It is also sought to be urged that, as per the scheme of sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act, it is incumbent that the procedure should H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 109 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] emanate from the Central Board and not from the Central Government. A According to the petitioners, in the present case, the procedure has emanated from the Central Government vide its letter dated 7th November 2016 advising the Board to convene a meeting and make a recommendation, which was hurriedly convened on the next day, i.e., 8th November 2016, in which the Board decided to recommend B demonetization and, within hours, the decision was announced by the Hon’ble Prime Minister. 213. It is submitted that, taking into consideration the hasty manner in which the recommendation was sought by the Central Government, and was then made by the Central Board and the decision was taken C thereupon by the Cabinet, there was no scope for the Central Board or the Cabinet to take into consideration the relevant factors and eschew the irrelevant factors. It is, therefore, submitted that the decision was taken in a patently arbitrary manner and as such, the impugned Notification is liable to be set aside on the ground of patent arbitrariness. It is also the contention of the petitioners that, in the meeting of the Central Board, D there was no quorum as required in the 1949 Regulations. 214. On the contrary, it is the submission of the respondents that there are twin requirements in sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act, viz., (i) recommendation of the Central Board; and (ii) the decision of the Central Government. It is submitted that both these requirements E are satisfied in the present case. It is submitted that, in an action like the present one, confidentiality and speed are of utmost importance. Scope of Judicial Review 215. The law with regard to scope of judicial review has been very well crystalized in the case of Tata Cellular (supra). In the said F case, it has been held by this Court that the duty of the court is to confine itself to the question of legality.Its concern should be whether a decision- making authority exceeded its powers, committed an error of law, committed a breach of the rules of natural justice, reached a decision which no reasonable tribunal would have reached or abused its powers. The Court held that it is not for the court to determine whether a particular G policy or particular decision taken in the fulfillment of that policy is fair. It is only concerned with the manner in which those decisions have been taken. 216. After referring to various pronouncements on the scope of judicial review, the Court has summed-up thus: H 110 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A “94. The principles deducible from the above are: (1) The modern trend points to judicial restraint in administrative action. (2) The court does not sit as a court of appeal but merely reviews the manner in which the decision was made.