the appellant is either fraudulent or that its claim is so absurd or untenable which may not require any probe whatsoever – Single Judge had passed the said on the basis C of a statutory bar – Division Bench has grossly erred in interfering with the discretion exercised by the Single Judge – Thus, the and passed by the Single Judge upheld. Allowing the appeal, the Court D Held : 1. The Supreme Court has held in Mardia Chemicals Limited and Others v. Union of India and Others that the jurisdiction of the civil court is barred in respect of matters which a DRT or an Appellate Tribunal is empowered to 11 determine in respect of any action taken “or to be taken in pursuance of any power conferred under this Act”. The Court has held that the E prohibition covers even matters which may be taken cognizance of by the DRT though no measure in that direction has so far been taken under subsection (4) of Section 13 of the SARFAESI Act. It has been held that the bar of jurisdiction is in respect of a proceeding which matter may be taken to the Tribunal. It has F categorically been held that any matter in respect of which an action may be taken even later on, the civil court shall have no jurisdiction to entertain any proceeding thereof. The Court held that the bar of civil court thus applies to all such matters which may be taken cognizance of by the DRT, apart from those matters in which measures have already been taken under sub-section G (4) of Section 13 of the SARFAESI Act. [Para 13][867-A-C] 2. This Court has further held that, to a very limited extent jurisdiction of the civil court can also be invoked, where for example, the action of the secured creditor is alleged to be fraudulent or his claim may be so absurd and untenable which H 860 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A may not require any probe whatsoever or to say precisely to the extent the scope is permissible to bring an action in the civil court in the cases of English mortgages. [Para 14][867-D] 3. In the present case, it cannot be said that the action of the secured creditor, i.e. the appellant is either fraudulent or that B its claim is so absurd or untenable which may not require any probe whatsoever. It is further to be noted that the SARFAESI Act itself provides remedies to an aggrieved party in view of the provisions of Sections 17 and 18. [Para 15][867-E-F] 4. It has been held by this Court in the case of Wander Ltd. C and Another v. Antox India P. Ltd that the Appellate Court would not interfere with the exercise of discretion of the court of first instance and substitute its own discretion except where the discretion has been shown to have been exercised arbitrarily, or capriciously or perversely or where the court had ignored the settled principles of law regulating grant or refusal of interlocutory D injunctions.