The parties were settled at Amritsar and lived there for 21 years where children and parents of the appellant were also living. Case of the wife is that the husband got himself transferred of his own volition. At this stage of life when there were three grown up children and the wife had been living with the husband for 21 years, if unilateral decision was taken by the husband and the wife expressed her opposition, could it be held that the wife deserted the husband or treated him with cruelty. We have already referred to the settled principles on the subject. If the wife did not agree to have herself transferred to Madras, in the given situation, it could not be held that the wife wanted to bring cohabitation permanently to an end without reasonable cause. This did not show any animus deserendi nor it could be held that the wife was cruel to the husband. Taking an overall view of the matter, it cannot be held that the view taken by the learned Single Judge is not a possible view so as to call for interference in an appeal under Letters Patent. The fact remains that the wife continued to look after the children and arrange their marriages. There is nothing to show that the husband made any eff ort to join the wife, who was living in the matrimonial home or to DR. NIRMAL SINGH PANESAR v. MRS. PARAMJIT KAUR PANESAR @ 841 AJINDER KAUR PANESAR [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] look after any of the children. The burden of proof is on the appellant to prove desertion and cruelty.” “17. Learned counsel for the appellant refers to Exh.A-8, which is a letter addressed to the wife, in response to her representation for maintenance. The contents of the letter are as under: - “2. lt is informed that we have tried our best to help you both to reconcile in the long-term interest of the welfare of the family and children. Accordingly, it is learnt that Wg Cdr. N.S. Panesar, in good faith and on our counsel signed for reconciliation. But it seems that you are not ready to reconcile even in the interest of children. Under the circumstances, there is no other alternative for this HQ except to advice you to redress your grievance, if any, in the Court of law. However, on moral and humanitarian grounds we have counselled your husband to continue remitting Rs.800/- p.m. till the matter is settled to mutual satisfaction.” He also refers to Exh.A-17, which is letter written by the son of the appellant, asking the appellant to send money to the Court.” “18. Next contention raised is that the jewellery should not be given to the wife. Learned counsel for the appellant suggested that a grand- daughter of the appellant should visit the appellant, in which case, the appellant will have no objection to the jewellery being given to the grand daughter. Learned counsel for the wife states that the grand-daughters will visit the appellant as often as possible and also depending on desire and attitude of the appellant but not as a condition for fi nding of learned Single Judge to be upheld.