6. After making enquiry into their respective interests, claims A to compensation and objections to the area, which the interested persons have stated pursuant to the notices u/s. 9, the Collector u/s. 11 has passed Award on the true area of the land, the compensation allowed and the apportionment of compensation. B 7. In addition to compensation under the LA Act, 1894, ex- gratia amount of Rs. 1 lakh per acre subject to a minimum compensation of Rs. 2 lakh acre was to be paid as approved by the RPDAC (formed as per the State R&R Policy). This is in addition to various other benefits to be C provided, which have been enumerated at (I).B of this Note at Page 3 above. 8. Collector has given notice of his Award to such interested persons u/s. 12(2) of the LA Act 1894, as evident in the LA records.” D 4.18 It is further submitted by the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants that in fact the project does not fall in any prohibited area. It is beyond the coastal regulatory zone. The distance of the sea from the proposed Vedanta University is more than 2000 meters. The Balukhand Wildlife Sanctuary is separated from the proposed site by a highway / Puri-Konark Marine Drive. It is submitted that the E Sanctuary is on the seaward side, whereas the proposed site is on the landward side. 4.19 It is submitted that there are a number of private institutions and organizations which are on the same side of the highway as the proposed university, along with the entire village of Beldala with a large F population. It is submitted that Nuanai which flows through the proposed site is not a river as alleged. It is submitted that it comprises of two man- made channels (Gabakund Cut and Siar Cut). It is submitted that the land was acquired by the State Government for constructing these channels. The ownership of these two channels continues to lie with the G Water resources Department of the Government of Orissa. It is submitted that in any event, all environmental requirements would be scrutinized and looked into by the MOEF while granting environmental clearance. 4.20 Learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respective appellants have taken us to the findings by the High Court and their response, which by and large have been refereed to hereinabove. H 988 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 4.21 Making above submissions, it is prayed to allow the present appeals. 5. Present appeals are vehemently opposed by Shri Prashant Bhushan, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective respondents – original writ petitioners. B 5.1 It is submitted that the instant case involves acquisition of about 6000 acres of land belonging to about 6000 families, and thus, involving displacement of approximately 30,000 people. It is submitted that the Government of Orissa has showered huge largesse on the appellant company by acting in a manifestly arbitrary manner and flouting C all the mandatory provisions of the Act, 1894 and the Rules, 1963 by pre-determining the acquisition of the concerned land in favour of the appellant company.