We have already adverted to Article 13.2. Article F 13.2, no doubt, indicates that while determining the consequence of change in law, the parties shall have due regard to the principle that the purpose of compensating the party affected by any change in law is to restore through monthly tariff payments the affected party to the same economic position as if such change has not occurred. We have tested the hypothesis by deliberately omitting a crucial part in Article 13.2 which are the words G ‘to the extent contemplated in this Article 13’. When we read the words ‘to the extent contemplated in this Article 13’ as part of the Article 13.2, it necessarily brings in clause (a) and (b) of Article 13.2. In other words, what the parties have contemplated is that consequence of change in law would result in it being addressed through the mechanism of monthly H 56 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A tariff payments through supplementary bills (see Article 13.4.2). But it is to the extent as contemplated in Article 13. The question would arise as to whether the parties contemplated that it gave authority to the competent body viz., the Commission to discard the formula which is provided in Article 13.2(a) and (b). We are of the view that what the parties contemplated under Article 13.2 was that change in law must be viewed B through the specific provisions of clauses (a) and (b). In other words, a change in law may occur during the period of construction. Then it is to be treated as falling under Article 13.2(a). A change in law may occur during the period of its operation. It would then appear to be dealt with under clause (b). If a change in law takes place during the period of C construction then its impact is to be measured with reference to the capital cost of the project. The word ‘capital cost’ understandably has been defined in PPA. A formula has been engrafted. The formula contemplates that for every increase/decrease of each Rs.50 crores in the capital cost as a result of the change in law, the increase/decrease in the non-escalable capacity charges is to be 0.267 per cent of the non- D escalable capacity charges. No doubt, this is if the seller provides to the procurers documentary proof of such increase/decrease in establishing the impact of such change. (84) In other words, the effect of change in law during the construction period is captured by 13.2(a). We must understand that this E is a meticulously thought through contract which emerged after a long rigorous process. Parties were clear about how the change in law had to be compensated and methodology has been set out clearly. Therefore, any appeal made to the general part in Article 13.2 which speaks about the affected party being restored to the same economic condition as if such change in law had not occurred cannot result in departing from the F specific formula which has been set in place.