The High Courts will have to frame a rule in this regard.” 8.2 Thereafter, this Court directed that the recruitment to the Higher F Judicial Service, i.e., the cadre of District Judges will be 50 percent by way of promotion (which has been subsequently increased to 65 percent) from amongst the Civil Judges (Senior Division) on the basis of principle of merit-cum-seniority and passing a suitability test. Thus, this Court has categorically emphasised the merit-cum-seniority and passing a suitability test for promotion in the cadre of Higher Judicial Service. That this G Court directed all the High Courts / States to amend the Rules / Regulations accordingly. Therefore, the High Court framed the Gujarat State Judicial Service Rules, 2005, in line with the directions issued by this Court in the case of All India Judges’ Association and Ors. (supra). H 430 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 8.3 In the present case and as per the case on behalf of the High Court, so stated in the counter, the High Court has considered the merit only for the purpose of achieving the benchmark and thereafter has switched to the seniority-cum-merit and has given the promotion on the basis of seniority only amongst those, who have achieved the benchmark of 50 percent. Thus, after conducting the written test, which is one of B the components to assess the suitability, the High Court has considered the merits only for the purpose of achieving benchmark and thereafter has switched to the principle of seniority-cum-merit and thereby has given a go-by to the principle of merit-cum-seniority. The method adopted by the High Court is just contrary to the observations made by this Court C in paragraph 27 in the case of All India Judges’ Association and Ors. (supra) and also contrary to the Gujarat State Judicial Service Rules, 2005 and the Recruitment Notice. 8.4 We do not find anything in the Recruitment Rules, 2005 and/ or even the Recruitment Notice to consider the merit only for the purpose D of achieving benchmark of 50 percent. The correct method would be to prepare the merit list on the basis of the four components as mentioned in paragraph 2 of the Recruitment Notice, from amongst those Senior Civil Judges (including ad-hoc Additional District Judges) having not less than two years of qualifying service in that cadre and thereafter to prepare the merit list on the basis of the aggregate marks obtained under different E components and thereby to give the promotion solely on the basis of merit, then and then only, it can be said to be following the principle of merit-cum-seniority. Therefore, in the present case, while giving the promotion in the cadre of District Judge, the High Court has given a go- by to the principle of merit-cum-seniority, which this Court has emphasised F in the case of All India Judges’ Association and Ors. (supra). Therefore, the High Court has adopted the wrong method. 8.5 Now, insofar as the submission on behalf of the contesting respondents – promotees and the High Court that this procedure is being followed since 2011 and even the same is being followed in other High G Courts and therefore, this Court may not interfere with such a method is concerned, the aforesaid cannot be accepted.