65. The provision uses the phrase “as appears to it to be necessary or expedient”. The exercise of discretion arises when the authority in question is satisfi ed of the necessity or expediency of its exercise. Justice GP Singh in his book Interpretation of Statutes writes: “Ordinarily, the words “May” and “it shall be lawful” are not words of compulsion. They are enabling words and they only confer capacity, power or authority and imply discretion. “They are both used in a statute to indicate that something may be done which prior to it could not be done”15 66. This Court has held that it is possible that a statute confers powers on authorities, which are to be exercised at their discretion, and is couched in permissive terms such as “it may be lawful” or “it may be permissible”. However, in certain cases, the power, even though discretionary, is coupled with a duty to act. 15 Justice GP Singh, Interpretation of Statutes, 15th Edition pg 365 para 5.6.11. PUBLIC INTEREST COMMITTEE FOR SCHEDULING SPECIFIC 1105 AREAS v. UOI [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 67. The present provision implies that if the Election Commission considers it necessary and expedient, it may consolidate with the 2008 “any notifi cation or relating to delimitation” of constituencies. The Election Commission has the discretion to consolidate with the 2008 any notifi cation or that relates to delimitation, and not all s and notifi cations whatsoever. It is so to speak, not a general exercise of updating the 2008 with any notifi cation or that follows the 2008 . The consolidation has to be done only with fi rst, such a notifi cation or that relates to delimitation of constituencies and second, issued under Section 8A of this Act or under any other Central Act. 68. Amending Act of 2002 which designates Limboo and Tamang Scheduled Tribes is enacted under Articles 341 (2)16 and 342 (2)17 of the Constitution. It does not relate to delimitation, but to designation of certain Castes and Tribes as Scheduled Castes and Tribes for the purpose of the Article 366 of the Constitution. 69. Even if the discretion, as apparently vested in the Election Commission to act is taken to be coupled with a duty to act, the duty arises only when the conditions for its exercise are fulfi lled18. For the Election Commission to act, there must be an that relates to delimitation and such an must have been issued under Section 8-A of this Act or under a Central Act. Neither of these conditions is present as far as the Amending Act of 2002 is concerned, to warrant the exercise of power under Section 9(1)(aa) of the RP Act. 70. Thus, the RP Act does not envisage a duty vested in the Election Commission to amend the 2008 to include the 2002 Amending Act. 16 (2) Parliament may by law include in or exclude from the list of Scheduled Castes specifi ed in a notifi cation issued under clause of any caste, race or tribe or part of or group within_ any caste, race or tribe, but save as aforesaid a notifi cation issued under the said clause shall not be varied by any subsequent notifi cation.