Ltd., (2007) 5 SCC 304] that arbitration agreements in government contracts 996 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. which provide for arbitration by a serving employee of the department, are valid and enforceable. While the Supreme Court, in Indian Oil Corpn. Ltd. v. Raja Transport (P) Ltd. [Indian Oil Corpn. Ltd. v. Raja Transport (P) Ltd., (2009) 8 SCC 520 : (2009) 3 SCC (Civ) 460] , carved out a minor exception in situations when the arbitrator‘was the controlling or dealing authority in regard to the subject contract or if he is a direct subordinate (as contrasted from an offi cer of an inferior rank in some other department) to the offi cer whose decision is the subject-matter of the dispute’ (SCC p. 533, para 34) and this exception was used by the Supreme Court in Denel (Proprietary) Ltd. v. Ministry of Defence [Denel (Proprietary) Ltd. v. Ministry of Defence, (2012) 2 SCC 759 : (2012) 2 SCC (Civ) 37 : AIR 2012 SC 817] and Bipromasz Bipron Trading Sa v. Bharat Electronics Ltd. [Bipromasz Bipron Trading Sa v. Bharat Electronics Ltd., (2012) 6 SCC 384 : (2012) 3 SCC (Civ) 702] , to appoint an independent arbitrator under Section 11, this is not enough. 57. The balance between procedural fairness and binding nature of these contracts, appears to have been tilted in favour of the latter by the Supreme Court, and the Commission believes the present position of law is far from satisfactory. Since the principles of impartiality and independence cannot be discarded at any stage of the proceedings, specifi cally at the stage of constitution of the Arbitral Tribunal, it would be incongruous to say that party autonomy can be exercised in complete disregard of these principles — even if the same has been agreed prior to the disputes having arisen between the parties. There are certain minimum levels of independence and impartiality that should be required of the arbitral process regardless of the parties’ apparent agreement. A sensible law cannot, for instance, permit appointment of an arbitrator who is himself a party to the dispute, or who is employed by (or similarly dependent on) one party, even if this is what the parties agreed. The Commission hastens to add that Mr P.K. Malhotra, the ex offi cio member of the Law Commission suggested having an exception for the State, and allow State parties to appoint employee arbitrators. The Commission is of the opinion that, on this issue, there cannot be any distinction between State and non-State parties. The concept of party autonomy cannot be stretched LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 997 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] to a point where it negates the very basis of having impartial and independent adjudicators for resolution of disputes. In fact, when the party appointing an adjudicator is the State, the duty to appoint an impartial and independent adjudicator is that much more onerous — and the right to natural justice cannot be said to have been waived only on the basis of a “prior” agreement between the parties at the time of the contract and before arising of the disputes.