Having said so, this court observed how this limited legislative authority could be exercised: “the eff ect of the provision of the Constitution would be to enable the continuance of the power to levy the taxbut this does not alter the fact that the provision by its implication confers a limited legislative power to desire or not to desire the continuance of the levy subject to the overriding power of the Central Legislature to put an end to its continuance and it is on the basis of the existence of this limited legislative power that the right of the Provincial Legislature to repeal the taxation provision under the Act of 1920 could be rested. Suppose for instance, a Provincial Legislature desires the continuance of the tax by considers the rate too High and wishes it to be reduced and passes an enactment for that purpose, it cannot be that the legislation is incompetent and that the State Government must permit the local authority to levy tax at the same rate as prevailed on April 1, 1937 if the latter desired the continuance of the tax. If such a legislation were enacted to achieve a reduction of the rate of the duty, its legislative competence must obviously be traceable to the power contained in words “may continue to be levied” in s. 143(2) of the Government of India Act. If we are right so far it would follow that in the exercise of this limited legislative power the Provincial Legislature would also have a right to legislate for the continuance of the tax provided, if of course, the other conditions of s. 143(2) are satisfi ed, viz., (1) that the tax was one which was lawfully levied by a local authority for the purposes of a local area at the commencement of Part III of the Government THE STATE OF TELANGANA & ORS. v. M/S TIRUMALA 187 CONSTRUCTIONS [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] of India Act., (2) that the identity of the body that collects the tax, the area for whose benefi t the tax is to be utilised and the purposes for which the utilisation is to take place continue to be the same and (3) the rate of the tax is not enhanced nor its incidence in any manner altered, so that it continues to be same tax. If as we have held earlier there is a limited legislative power in the Province to enact a law with reference to the tax levy so as to continue it, the validity of the Act of 1949 which manifested the legislative intent of Continue the tax without any break, the legal continuity being established by the retrospective operation of the provision, has to be upheld.” 86. It would be worthwhile to recollect that in Synthetics and Chemicals Ltd. and Ors. v. State of U.P. & Ors.33 this court observed that: “[..] The power to legislate is given by Article 246 and other Articles of the Constitution. The three lists of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution are legislative heads or fi elds of legislation.