B P Jeevan Reddy, J held that loss of confidence by a Government is an objective fact which has to be B ascertained only on the floor of the House: “391. [...] The Constitution does not create an obligation that the political party forming the ministry should necessarily have a majority in the Legislature. Minority Governments are not unknown. What is necessary is that that Government should enjoy C the confidence of the House. This aspect does not appear to have been kept in mind by the Governor. Secondly and more importantly, whether the Council of Ministers has lost the confidence of the House is not a matter to be determined by the Governor or for that matter anywhere else except the floor of the House. The D principle of democracy underlying our Constitution necessarily means that any such question should be decided on the floor of the House. The House is the place where the democracy is in action. It is not for the Governor to determine the said question on his own or on his own verification. This is not a matter within his subjective satisfaction. It is an objective fact capable of being E established on the floor of the House. [...]” 176. In Shivraj Singh Chouhan (supra), the government in the State of Madhya Pradesh was formed by the INC. During the term of the Assembly, MLAs of the BJP submitted resignation letters of twenty- two MLAs from the INC to the Speaker. The Speaker accepted six of F the twenty-two resignations. The party in the opposition in the Assembly wrote a letter to the Governor adverting to these resignations. The Governor directed a trust vote to be carried out. The action of the Governor was assailed before this Court. This Court held that the constitutional scheme vested the Governor with the power and discretion G to call for a trust vote in a “running Assembly” and that such a decision is subject to judicial review. This Court ruled that the decision to call for a floor test should be based on objective material and reasons which are relevant and germane to the exercise of discretion, and not extraneous to it. The Court emphasised that the Governor should not use their discretionary power to destabilise or displace democratically elected H governments: SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 957 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] “71. The powers which are entrusted to constitutional functionaries A are not beyond the pale of judicial review. Where the exercise of the discretion by the Governor to call a floor test is challenged before the court, it is not immune from judicial review. The court is entitled to determine whether in calling for the floor test, the Governor did so on the basis of objective material and reasons B which were relevant and germane to the exercise of the power. The exercise of such a power is not intended to destabilise or displace a democratically elected Government accountable to the Legislative Assembly and collectively responsible to it.