The respondent was also called upon to D pay the interest leviable under Section 75 and penalty under Section 76 and 78 of the Finance Act. For the subsequent period , i.e., October, 2010 to September, 2011, another show cause notice was issued on 20.04.2012 demanding service tax of Rs.3,36,28,515/- on the value of “design service” from M/s SEG and M/s Suzlon Blade Technology, E Netherlands. 2.5 Vide -in-original dated 25.03.2012, the Commissioner – appellant herein confirmed the demands made in the show cause notices as provider of “design services” taxable under Section 65(105)(zzzzd) and in accordance with the definition of the services in Section 65(35b) of the Finance Act, 1994. The Commissioner also levied interest as well F as the penalty. 2.6 Aggrieved by the -in-original passed by the Commissioner confirming the demands of service tax and also levying the interest and penalty, the respondent filed appeals before the CESTAT. By the impugned common , the CESTAT has allowed the said appeals, relying upon G its earlier decision in the case of Sojitz Corporation v. Commissioner of Service Tax, New Delhi, reported in 2009 (14) STR 642 (Tri. Delhi) and has held that the said design and drawings are ‘goods’ and not ‘service’. The CESTAT has also observed and held that the taxation of goods and that of services are mutually and explicitly conceived levies, H and therefore the same activity cannot be taxed as goods and as services. COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE & SERVICE 329 TAX v. M/S SUZLON ENERGY LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] Consequently, the CESTAT has set aside the -in-original on the A ground that “drawing and design” are to be treated as goods and therefore it cannot be treated as service. 2.7 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned common passed by the CESTAT, the Revenue has preferred the present appeals. B 3. Shri N. Venkataraman, learned Additional Solicitor General of India appearing on behalf of the Revenue has submitted that the substantial question of law arises for the consideration of this Court is, “whether “Engineering Design & Drawings” of various models imported by the respondent for the purpose of manufacturing of WTG are leviable to C service tax under the category of “Design Services” as defined under section 65(35b) r/w section 65(105)(zzzzd) of the Finance Act, 1994 during the period June, 2007 to September, 2010? 3.1 Shri N. Venkataraman, learned ASG has submitted that the contentions of the respondent that any intellectual property put in a media D at all times would only get classified as ‘goods’ and never as ‘services’ may not be the correct statement of law. It is submitted that merely because the intellectual property put in a media, it would not per se make them goods. It would depend on whether the contracting parties have understood it as a transfer or a sale of goods. It is submitted that E importation of a set of tailor made or readymade drawings will constitute a sale of goods, whereas if a person engages a painter to draw a picture of his choice and to his specifications and the delivery of the painting, even though on a canvas duly framed, may only constitute to a service, since the painter has engaged his entire intellectual effort in drawing the painting for a particular customer and to his specifications and as he F progresses with the painting, the same is for a specific customer.