(2) An immunity granted to a person under sub-section (1) may, at any time, be withdrawn by the Settlement Commission, if it is satisfi ed that such person had, in the course of the settlement proceedings, concealed any particular material to the settlement or had given false evidence, and thereupon such person may be tried for the off ence with respect to which the immunity was granted or for any other off ence of which he appears to have been guilty in connection with the settlement and shall also become liable to the imposition of any penalty under this Act to which such person would have been liable, had not such immunity been granted. (3) On and from 1st day of February, 2021, the power of the Settlement Commission under this section shall be exercised by the Interim Board and the provisions of this section shall mutatis mutandis apply to the Interim Board as they apply to the Settlement Commission.” Analysis: 6. On a close reading of the provisions extracted hereinabove, it emerges that under Section 245H(1) if the Settlement Commission is satisfi ed that any assessee who makes the application for settlement under Section 245C, has co-operated with the Settlement Commission in the proceedings before it and has made a full and true disclosure of its income and the manner in which such income has been derived, may grant immunity from prosecution or from the imposition of penalty, either wholly or in part with respect to the case covered by the settlement. The necessary ingredients for 20 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. granting immunity from prosecution would be: (a) the assessee should have co-operated with the Settlement Commission in the proceedings before it; and (b) the assessee should have made a full and true disclosure of its income and the manner in which such income has been derived, to the satisfaction of the Commission. Therefore, what is of essence is that the assessee ought to have: (a) made full and true disclosure before the Commission, and (b) co-operated with the Commission in the proceedings before it. 6.1. Upon being satisfi ed as to the said ingredients, the Commission may grant immunity from prosecution or from the imposition of penalty, either wholly or in part with respect to the case covered by the settlement. 7. While Section 245C provides that the disclosures as to income “not disclosed before the Assessing Offi cer” must accompany the application fi led before the Settlement Commission, Section 245H provides that if the assessee has co-operated with the Settlement Commission and has made “full and true disclosure of his income”, the Settlement Commission may grant immunity from prosecution and penalty. It is the case of the Revenue that Section 245H (1) cannot be read in isolation as Section 245C is embedded in 245H (1), and hence, both the Sections must be read harmoniously. That when so read, the requirement under Section 245H would be that disclosure of income “not disclosed before the Assessing Offi cer” must be made before the Commission.