E 67. The communication further records that the CCEA has also considered the situation arising out of the inadequate availability of coal leading to the non-fulfilment of its LOA commitments on the part of the CIL. The CCEA, therefore, in its meeting held on 6th February 2013 has decided the following guidelines in respect of generating plants F commissioned/to be commissioned during the period 1st April 2009 to 31st March 2015: ii) That CIL will provide imported coal on cost plus basis to all producers willing to take such cost; iii) That the higher cost of imported coal will be allowed as a G pass-through. 68. The communication therefore requested the CERC to advise the Government on the manner in which the issue of fuel availability risk, arising out of CIL’s inability to meet its LOA commitments, could be addressed. The CERC was also requested to suggest appropriate H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 119 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] ways for issuing advisories to SERCs/State Governments by the MoP, A which may be necessitated for the implementation of the above. 69. In pursuance of the aforesaid Communication dated 9th May 2013, the CERC issued Statutory Advice on 20th May 2013 under Section 79(2) of the Electricity Act regarding impact on tariff of the concluded PPAs due to domestic coal availability. It will be relevant to refer to the B following part of the said statutory advice. “2. The matter was considered in the Commission. The Commission appreciates the need for securing fuel supply for various projects in to ensure optimum generation from the power plants in the country. Non-availability of adequate quantum C of coal has posed serious challenge to power generation as reflected in the data compiled by the Central Electricity Authority (CEA): the Plant Load Factor (PLF) of the generating stations across the country has been severely affected for want of adequate coal supply by CIL/Coal Companies. D 3. The proposal to make CIL supply imported coal on cost plus basis to all power projects commissioned or to be commissioned during the period 1.4.2009 to 31.3.2015 and willing to take such coal would require appropriate change in the NCDP, as at present it is the full responsibility of CIL to meet full requirement of coal E under FSAs even by resorting to import; if necessary. As a follow up, the FSAs between the CIL/its subsidiaries and the power producers will have to be modified through Supplementary Agreements.” 70. It can thus clearly be seen that the CERC has noted that the non-availability of adequate quantum of coal has posed serious challenge F to power generation as reflected in the data compiled by the Central Electricity Authority (CEA). It further noted that the PLF of the generating stations across the country has been severely affected for want of adequate coal supply by CIL/Coal Companies. It further records that to give effect to the proposal to make CIL supply imported coal on cost G plus basis to all power projects commissioned or to be commissioned during the period from 1st April 2009 to 31st March 2015 and willing to take such coal, would require appropriate change in the NCDP, as at present it is the full responsibility of CIL to meet full requirement of coal under FSAs even by resorting to import, if necessary.