It was held that the appellants will be entitled to regular pay after successful completion of probation, retrospectively from the date G of appointment, after deducting the amounts of ‘stipend’ already paid to them. More significantly, it was declared that the appellants will be entitled for appointment as ACF from the commencement of their training on 01.02.2014. H 906 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 7. The review application filed by respondent no.1 before the Tribunal was dismissed on 16.09.2016 observing that whether the 1965 Rules were ‘draft’ or not had no bearing upon the outcome of the application, as the same were superseded by the 1998 Rules and all issues raised in the review application had already been decided in the original application. B 8. The Government apparently accepted the aforesaid and thus passed a Resolution dated 14.08.2018, resolving that successful completion of training period would be considered as regular service from the date of inception of training for all service purposes. The Resolution also provided that the ACF appointed by nomination shall be C considered from the initial date of their training and the seniority will be considered accordingly. Respondent nos. 4 to 9 herein were not party before the Tribunal but filed the writ petition before the High Court, both against the appellants as well as against the Government of Maharashtra (who had accepted the Tribunal’s ). These private respondents D claimed that they were appointed as Range Forest Officers in 1987 to 1990 and were promoted to the post of ACF in 2014-2015. Their grievance was that though they were promoted as ACF before the appellants herein, they were shown junior to the appellants in the seniority list of ACF. 9. The case of respondent nos. 4 to 9 was based on the 1998 Rules; more specifically Rule 6 read with Rule 3(b) of the said Rules E and Proviso to Rule 2(B) of the Divisional Forest Officer (in Maharashtra Forest Service, Class I) (Recruitment) Rules, 1984 (hereinafter referred to as the “1984 Rules”). The said Rules are reproduced hereinbelow: Rule 6 of the 1998 Rules F “A person appointed to the post by nomination shall be on probation for a period of three years including two years of Assistant Conservator of Forests training course and 1 year field training as decided by Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Maharashtra state, Nagpur” (sic.) .... .... .... .... .... G Rule 3 (b) of the 1998 Rules “3. Appointment to the post of Assistant Conservator of Forests in the Maharashtra Forest Service, Group A (Junior Scale) shall be made either – H xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx ASHOK RAM PARHAD & ORS. v. THE STATE OF 907 MAHARASHTRA & ORS. [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] (b) by nomination from amongst candidates who are selected for A the Assistant Conservator of Forests training course, on the basis of result of the competitive examination held by the commission in accordance with the rules made in this behalf from time to time and have successfully completed the training course.” .... .... .... .... .... B Proviso to Rule 2 of 1984 Rules “Provided that, in the case of persons directly appointed as Assistant Conservator of Forests, the period spent on training at the Government Forest Colleges and the period of probation, C including the extended period of probation, if any, shall not be counted towards the requisite period of service.” 10.