been permanently incapacitated or dependents of those who have died while in service; 5% (vii) Rajasthan State Government servants who have been permanently disabled while on duty or the dependents of those who have died while in service; 5% (viii) Persons with disabilities (disabled persons) other than those covered in Categories (vi) & (vii) above; 5% (ix) Societies of Unemployed youth of Rajasthan; and 25% (x) Other persons: 10% Provided that mining leases for mineral bajri shall only be granted by way of tender or auction.” 8. We have been informed at the Bar by Dr. Singhvi, that even these Rules underwent further amendments creating a new procedure by way of e-auction. While taking note of the said submission, we do not wish to say anything on that count. 9. In conclusion, the impugned Rules undertake two exercises; the process of auction as existed earlier, and creation of a level playing fi eld by declaring all the pending applications, meant to be considered on a fi rst-come fi rst-serve basis, as rejected. BACKGROUND FACTS: 10. Applications were invited for leasing out minor minerals by the Appellants vide Notifi cation dated 23.05.2003. Scores of persons made their applications. The Notifi cation dated 23.05.2003 was followed by Notifi cation dated 24.04.2007 declaring the applications made for four villages qua sandstone as rejected in exercise of the power conferred under Rule 65A of the Rules. An exercise of delineation was expected to be undertaken followed by fresh applications. Thus, this Notifi cation, and the subsequent Notifi cation, are area centric, restricted to four villages and that too for sandstone and also masonry stone which is nothing but a by-product of the former. Writ petitions were fi led by some of the applicants before the High Court of Rajasthan. They were accordingly allowed, inter-alia holding that such a restriction applied only for four districts alone and cannot be sustained in the eye of law as there is no material available to invoke Rule 65A of the Rules in the purported interest THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ORS. v. 9 SHARWAN KUMAR KUMAWAT ETC. ETC [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] of mineral development. While quashing the Notifi cation dated 24.04.2007, the High Court specifi cally directed the Appellants to revive the applications of the writ petitioners therein and to consider them in accordance with law. 11. After the s passed by the High Court on 21.05.2009, amendments were made to the Rules vide Notifi cation dated 28.01.2011, as noted by us earlier. Thereafter, in compliance with the of the High Court, a Government was passed on 16.11.2011 facilitating the relief to such of those applicants who approached the High Court. A consequential Government was also passed on 28.11.2011 for payment of royalty by masonry stone applicants before grant of any lease. These two s were put into challenge by certain other applicants other than the writ petitioners in the earlier round, inter-alia contending that the same benefi ts will have to be extended to them as well.