From the reasoning given by the High Court, it appears that according to the High Court the E and passed in Writ Petition No.8606 of 2010 was erroneous. While passing the impugned and the High Court has observed and considered the Survey Report dated 12.12.2007 which was already dealt with by the High Court while deciding the main writ petition and the High Court discarded and/or not considered the F Survey Report dated 12.12.2007. Once the Survey Report dated 12.12.2007 fell for consideration before the High Court while deciding the main writ petition thereafter the same could not have been considered again by the High Court while deciding the review application. 5.4 From the impugned and passed by the High G Court it appears that the High Court has decided the review application as if the High Court was exercising the appellate jurisdiction against the and dated 03.03.2017 passed in Writ Petition (MD) No.8606 of 2010 which is wholly impermissible while considering the review application under 47 Rule 1 read with Section 114 CPC. H 54 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 5.5 From the impugned and passed by the High Court allowing the review application it is observed in paragraph 33 as under: “33. The above legal principals were born in mind by this Court while considering the review application. Brushing aside a survey B report, which was available on record and which brought out tampering of official records, ought to have been taken note of by the Learned Writ Court, while considering the prayer sought for in the Writ Petition. This has led to an error, which is manifest on the face of the . Furthermore, the Court proceeded on the basis that S.M. Gajendran had executed a gift deed without nothing C the fact that the gift deed was a document, which was unilaterally executed by him, not accepted by the respondent Corporation and could not have been treated to be a valid gift. These facts have emerged on the fact of the passed in the Writ Petition without any requirement for a long-drawn reasoning. Therefore, D we are fully satisfied that we are justified in exercising our review jurisdiction. For the above reasons, we are of the clear view that the passed in the Writ petition suffers from error apparent on the fact of the records warranting exercise of review jurisdiction.” 5.6 From the aforesaid it appears that the High Court has E considered the review application as if it was an appeal against the passed by the High Court in Writ Petition No.8606 of 2010. As observed hereinabove the same is wholly impermissible while deciding the review application. Even if the sought to be reviewed is erroneous the same cannot be a ground to review the same in exercise of powers F under 47 Rule 1 CPC. An erroneous may be subjected to appeal before the higher forum but cannot be a subject matter of review under 47 Rule 1 CPC. 6. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above and applying the law laid down by this Court on 47 Rule 1 read with G Section 114 CPC, we are of the opinion that in the present case while allowing the review application the High Court has exceeded in its jurisdiction and has exercised the jurisdiction not vested in it under 47 Rule 1 read with Section 114 CPC and therefore the impugned and passed by the High Court allowing the review application and setting aside the dated 03.03.2007 passed in Writ H S. MURALI SUNDARAM v. JOTHIBAI KANNAN & ORS.