15. It is paras 13 and 14 of this , which according to the respondent, gave cause to the respondent to move a petition before the Commission, which has resulted in passing the impugned . Paras 13 and 14 read as under: “13. The last aspect which arises for consideration is a plea which was sought to be advanced on behalf of the respondents that in their perspective, there is some problem arising from the records maintained for the GCV unwashed coal and the washed coal as according to them the reject worked out more and their apprehension is that unrealistically the GCV is being varied to cause larger fi nancial commitments from the respondents. What they seek to contend as per the note is that the discrepancy in terms of yield loss and quality of washed coal usually happens when good quality of coal is diverted under the garb of rejects in the washing process which should have been used for generation of power and this in turn raises the issue of mismatch of GCV. On perusal and calling for certain datas, it is a view of the respondents that their apprehension is not without merit. It is thus their submission that having found this aspect, the respondents cannot be left remedy less as it is a dispute which needs adjudication for which the relevant authority is the SERC and they seek to invoke the jurisdiction of the forum for the said purpose for which notice has been issued. 14. We have examined the aforesaid plea and it is our view that insofar as the liabilities of the respondents to the appellants arising from the are concerned, the matter stands closed in terms of our dated 05.10.2017 and s passed on the applications from time to time. What is said to be raised is really in the nature of a fresh dispute. If that be the position, we have not precluded the respondents from raising all future disputes as we were concerned with 720 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. adjudication of certain aspects where we accepted part of the claims of the appellants and rejected part of the claims of the appellants. In our view, it will be for the authority to consider whether any of the claims sought to be preferred by the respondents can really be open to any fresh adjudication in view of the rendered by us and the s passed by us referred to aforesaid. We make it clear that the liberty to approach the SERC arises from the contract itself but that certainly cannot open the chapters which have been closed and that would be taken care of by the SERC while adjudicating the claim now sought to be raised by the respondents.” 16. The aforesaid records the plea of the respondents that there was some problem arising from the record maintained for the GCV (Gross Calorifi c Value) unwashed coal and the washed coal as according to them the reject works out more and their apprehension was that unrealistically the GCV is being varied to cause larger fi nancial commitments from the respondents.