Therefore, properly read, the power to seek information or, for that matter, to seek an explanation is related to the nature of the application which has been submitted under Section 94 or Section 95. We are of the view that the right to fi le such representation is suffi cient compliance of audi alterum partem requirements. 76. Hence, the petitioners’ assertion that the statutory framework, as interpreted and applied by the adjudicating authority, results in a violation of natural justice lacks merit. The reliance on State Bank of India v Rajesh Agarwal26 does not help the case of the petitioners, as the court in that case established that exceptions to natural justice must be confi ned to the ‘narrowest possible limits.’ The court underscored that the waiver of prior hearing is permissible only in situations where its inclusion would obstruct the entire process. In that case, the court specifi cally addressed the duties of banking authorities, emphasizing the obligation to adopt fair procedures and aff ord borrowers a hearing before classifying their accounts as fraud accounts, given the serious penal and civil consequences. The court further held that reasoned s must be passed when categorizing an account as a fraud account. It then clarifi ed that no hearing is required before lodging an FIR. In other words, it held that the principles of audi alteram partem must be read into the Circular issued by the Reserve Bank of India on the classifi cation of bank accounts as fraud accounts. However, a crucial 26 (2023) SCC OnLine SC 342. DILIP B JIWRAJKA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS 607 distinction is made here, signifying that the circumstances of this case are distinct from those considered in Rajesh Agarwal (supra). The classifi cation of the borrowers account as fraud without giving any opportunity of being head entailed signifi cant material consequences, including the disability on accessing institutional fi nance. That may be contra-distinguished with the procedure under Section 95 to Section 99. In this, a person is not deemed a debtor but a resolution professional is appointed to ascertain whether the facts substantiate the application for an IRP. An interim-moratorium is placed on legal proceedings concerning the debt to safeguard the debtor from further legal action. However, the interim-moratorium does not act to freeze the assets and legal rights and title of the debtor. Once a recommendation is made, it is not binding on the adjudicating authority. The authority would only decide after looking at the recommendation of the resolution professional and aff ording full opportunity of hearing to the debtor or the personal guarantor, as the case may be. Consequently, the petitioners’ argument lacks merit when assessed against these established legal principles. 77. Rules have been framed in 2019 in pursuance of the provisions of Section 239(2). The Rules, inter alia, provide for the Form (Form A) in which an application under Section 94 has to be submitted; the Form (Form B) in which a demand notice has to be served under Section 95(4) on the guarantor demanding payments; and the Form (Form C) in which an application has to be submitted under Section 95(1).