Merely because Section 5A has not been mentioned in the said , the entire acquisition proceedings including notifications under Sections 4 & 6 of the Act, 1894 and more particularly the declaration which was issued after considering the report/ D objections under section 5A cannot be declared illegal. 12.1 Further, a declaration under Section 6 of the Act, 1894 could be issued only after the report submitted under Section 5A has been considered by the appropriate government. Under Section 5A of the Act, the objections are required to be considered by the Collector, i.e., E the Collector of a District including a Deputy Commissioner and any other officer especially appointed by the appropriate government to perform the functions of a Collector under the Land Acquisition Act. In the present case, apart from being specially appointed by the appropriate government to perform the functions of a Collector, the authority who has considered the objections under Section 5A is the Collector of a F District. Even the State Government vide its circular dated 6.03.1987 conferred power on the Deputy Collectors for exercising the functions of the Collector for acquisition of the land in their respective areas. 12.2 An identical question came to be considered by the Madhya Pradesh High Court in the case of Adarsh Nagar Grih Nirman Sahkari G Sansthan Maryadit, Bhopal v. State of M.P. and Others, reported in 2004 (1) M.P.L.J. 539 : 2003 SCC OnLine MP 329, in paragraphs 24 to 26, it was observed and held as under: “24. The submission raised by the learned counsel that this notification (R-6) is bad in law and based on the provisions of H INDORE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY v. BURHANI GRIH NIRMAN 115 SAHAKARI SANSTHA MARYADIT SNEH NAGAR [M. R. SHAH, J.] sections 4, 5-A and 6 of the Act cannot be accepted. Division A Bench of this Court in case of Gajancm v. State of M.P., AIR 2000 MP 2, repelled similar submission that such satisfaction was arrived at by Collector/Commissioner, not by State Government the acquisition cannot be challenged on the ground of satisfaction was not arrived at by ‘appropriate government’. The business of B the Government is required to be transacted in the name of Governor, it is not possible or practicable that all such business was dealt with by him or by Council of Ministers. In Gajanan (supra), it has been held:— “33. In State of M.P., Governor had made Rules of Business C and Rules of allocation of Business and had also issued instructions thereunder. Under Rule 4 of BAR he had put Revenue Department under the charge of a Minister. He had further allotted business of land acquisition to the Revenue Department. The Revenue Minister was authorised to delegate the power for disposal of any item of business to the Secretary D of the Department under Rule 2-A of the Supplementary Instructions issued Rule 13 of Business Rules. Similarly, the government had declared in terms of Entry 49 of Business Allocation Rules that General Administrative Department would be entitled to designate ex-officio of ficers and in exercise E whereof it had notified the Revenue Commissioners and Collectors as ex-officio Secretaries/Deputy Secretaries to take decisions in land acquisition matters on behalf of the Government.