[2023] 1 S.C.R. 1111 1111 M/S. SHEKHAR RESORTS LIMITED (UNIT OF ORIENT TAJ) A v. UNION OF INDIA (Civil Appeal No.8957 of 2022) JANUARY 05, 2023 B [M. R. SHAH AND B.V. NAGARATHNA, JJ.] Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 : Deposit of settlement amount under the 2019 Scheme, during moratorium – When impossible in view of the bar under the IBC – Appellant-corporate C debtor, if can be made to suffer for no fault of its own and rendered rememediless – On facts, applicationby financial creditor of the appellant u/s. 7 – Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process against the appellant – Appellant subjected to moratorium – Thereafter, Resolution plan approved and the appellant applied for “Sabka Vishwas (Legacy Dispute Resolution) Scheme 2019 – Appellant D could not pay Rs 1,24,28,500/- as tax dues on the last day due to moratorium imposed under IBC – Appellant sought extension of time but the same was rejected – Writ petition by the appellant – Dismissed by the High Court holding that it cannot issue direction to the authority to accept the amount due and payable under the Scheme, 2019; and that the Designated Committee under the scheme E is not existing – On appeal, held: Under the provisions of the IBC, no payment could have been made during the period of moratorium – Thus, the appellant was statutorily restrained/debarred from making any payment – It was impossible for the appellant to make any payment during the period of moratorium – In view thereof, the F appellant cannot be punished for not doing something which was impossible for it to do – There was a legal impediment in the way of the appellant to make any payment during the moratorium – Appellant was otherwise entitled to the benefit under the Scheme – Thus, the High Court erred in refusing to grant any relief to the appellant , and the passed by the High Court quashed and G set aside – Sabka Vishwas (Legacy Dispute Resolution) Scheme, 2019. Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 It would not be fair on the part of the Court to give a direction to do something which is impossible and if a H 1111 1112 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A person has been directed to do something which is impossible, and if he fails to do so, he cannot be held guilty, the appellant cannot be punished for not doing something which was impossible for it to do. There was a legal impediment in the way of the appellant to make any payment during the moratorium. Even if the appellant wanted to deposit settlement amount within the B stipulated period, it could not do so in view of the bar under the IBC as, during the moratorium, no payment could have been made. In that view of the matter, the appellant cannot be rendered remediless and should not be made to suffer due to a legal impediment which was the reason for it and/or not doing the act C within the prescribed time.