Thakur, Tavleen Singh, Bimlesh Kumar Singh, Advs. for the appearing parties. / OF THE SUPREME COURT DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI 1. An application has been fi led by the State of Haryana in the proceedings in Malik Mazhar Sultan v U P Public Service Commission1 seeking two directions: (i) The recruitment of judicial offi cers in the Judicial Branch of the Haryana Civil Service be conducted in accordance with the provisions of Part C of the Punjab Civil Service (Judicial Branch) Rules 19512 (as applicable to State of Haryana); and (ii) The of this Court dated 12 February 2009 in IA 60 of 2008 fi led by the High Court of Punjab and Haryana be modifi ed. 1 Civil Appeal No 1867 of 2006 2 “Rules” 686 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 2. The issue bears upon the fi lling up of 175 posts of Junior Civil Judges. 3. By its dated 4 January 2007, this Court underscored that an independent and effi cient judicial system is part of the basic structure of the Constitution and that if a suffi cient number of Judges is not appointed, the dispensation of justice to citizens would be seriously aff ected. The Court noted that the judicial system faces problems arising out of delays in the dispensation of justice for which one of the major causes is an insuffi cient number of judges when compared to the large number of cases pending or in relation to the judge-population ratio. In this backdrop, the Court issued directions, noting that it had become necessary to take steps to ensure that vacancies in judicial institutions are fi lled on a timely basis. 4. The relevant part of the of this Court is extracted below: “Before we issue general directions and the time schedule to be adhered to for fi lling vacancies that may arise in subordinate courts and district courts, it is necessary to note that selections are required to be conducted by the concerned authorities as per the existing Judicial Service Rules in the respective States/Union Territories. We may, however, note that, progressively, the concerned authorities would consider, discuss and eventually may arrive at a consensus that the selection process be conducted by the High Court itself or by Public Service Commission under the control and supervision of the High Court. In this regard, considerable progress has already been made. Reference can be made to the decision taken in a Conference held between the Chief Justices and Chief Ministers, minutes whereof show that in some of the States, selection of subordinate judicial offi cers at all levels of civil judges is already being made by the High Courts. Some States, where selection is still being made by the Public Service Commission, were agreeable to entrust the selection to the High Courts whereas Chief Ministers/Ministers of Himachal Pradesh, West Bengal, Punjab and Kerala were of the view that the present system may continue but the decision taken jointly was that in the said States [Himachal Pradesh, West Bengal, Punjab and Kerala] setting up of question papers and evaluation of answer sheets be entrusted to the High Court.