The Respondent-Writ Petitioners were well aware that they had to furnish Income and Asset Certifi cates issued by the Competent Authority for the fi nancial year prior to the year of application. If the applications were made pursuant to a notifi cation published on 24thApril 2019 with 20thMay 2019 notifi ed as the last date for submission of the applications, the fi nancial year prior to the year of submission of application could not possibly be the fi nancial year 2019-2020, to which the Certifi cates related. The observation in the impugned and of the High Court of the expediency of specifying the fi nancial year in the notifi cation for recruitment is in the nature of an advisory, which may be kept in mind when recruitment notifi cations are issued by the Appellant in future. The Respondent writ petitioner Nos. 2 and 4, in whose Income and Asset certifi cates were not in , did not have any legal right to be considered EWS candidates. DIVYA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 71 [K. V. VISWANATHAN, J.] The Respondent-Writ Petitioners were required to submit Certifi cates for the relevant fi nancial year. The negligence of the Respondent-Writ Petitioners in not checking if the Certifi cate related to the correct fi nancial year, cannot be lightly brushed aside as inadvertent lapses of the certifying authority. A candidate applying for a post pursuant to an advertisement, can not aff ord to be negligent. Documents required to be submitted have to be carefully checked by the candidate concerned before submission. An appointing authority proceeds on the basis of what is stated in a certifi cate. When a certifi cate pertains to a diff erent fi nancial year, the same is liable to be outright rejected. No candidate can, in such case, claim any legal right to reconsideration of his/her candidature by submission of a fresh certifi cate and/or rectifi ed certifi cate. …. … …. In the case of Respondent-Writ Petitioner No.3, the Income and Asset certifi cate, which had initially been questioned as having been issued by an authority not competent, was later accepted as it was found that the authority issuing the certifi cate was in fact competent. The certifi cate of the Respondent-Writ Petitioner No.1 was also accepted as there was no discrepancy in either the date of issuance or the year. It was just that the seal had been stamped without the full name of the offi cer concerned and that was accepted as an error not attributable to the candidate concerned.” (Emphasis is ours) 59. The attempt by Ms. Preetika Dwivedi and Shri K. Parameshwar, learned counsels for the petitioners to get over Gaurav Singh’s case (supra) by relying on the case of Deepak Yadav (supra) does not also impress us. Deepak Yadav case (supra) pertained to the Civil Services Examination for 2020. It was during the middle of the peak pandemic in 2020. In that scenario, the Court observed as follows:- “7.Indeed, the last part of Note I of clause 7 clearly provides that proof of passing the requisite examination should be dated earlier than the due date (closing date) of Detailed Application Form-I of the Civil Services (Main) Examination.