The provisions of the Tenth Schedule stipulate in unequivocal E terms that the direction must come from the political party and not the legislature party. The distinction between political party and legislature party is made in the definition clause in Paragraph 1. There are no two ways about it. The Tenth Schedule would become unworkable if the term ‘political party’ is read as the ‘legislature party.’ A clear demarcation F is made between political party and legislature party for the purpose of a merger under Paragraph 4, which stipulates that two-thirds of the members of the legislature party must have agreed to a merger of the original political party before such a merger can be deemed to have taken G place. To read the term ‘political party’ as ‘legislature party’ would be contrary to the plain language of the Tenth Schedule; b. It is an accepted position that the Whip communicates the directions of the party to its members. The phrase ‘Whip’ is neither used in the Tenth Schedule nor in the 1986 Rules. H SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 931 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] The phrase finds a mention in the Act of 1956 as one of the A offices that would not be covered within the meaning of ‘office of profit.’ The explanation to Clause 23 of Schedule I in the Act of 1956 states that the Chief Whip is declared by the party forming the Government. The reference to ‘party’ in the explanation clause means political party and B not legislature party because the term ‘party’ is used to depict political party in common parlance; and c. The respondents urge that the Whip is chosen by the legislature party because Rule 3(1)(a) of the 1986 Rules provides that the Leader shall inform the Speaker of the names and designations of the members who have been C authorised by it for communicating with the Speaker for the purposes of these rules. This argument is erroneous. The phrase ‘any other member who has been authorised to communicate with the Speaker’ in Rule 3(1)(a) must be read with the definition of ‘Leader’ under Rule 2(f), which D includes such other member authorised to act in the absence of the Leader or discharge the functions of the Leader for the purpose of the Rules. When read together, it is evident that Rule 3(1)(a) refers to the furnishing of information about members who have been authorised to act as the Leader in the absence of the Leader themselves. The Whip E interacts with the members of the legislature party to communicate the direction(s) of the political party. Rule 3(5) which prescribes that the Leader has to inform the Speaker if the political party has condoned the prohibitory actions of the members of the legislature party clearly F establishes that it is only the Leader who communicates with the Speaker for the purposes of the 1986 Rules. This is all the more evident since Rule 3(5) requires the Leader to inform the Speaker in a situation where the Leader votes or abstains from voting contrary to the direction of the political party.