The original reference question in Para 58 of N.N. Global B (supra) was set out as under: “Whether the statutory bar contained in Section 35 of the Stamp Act, 1899 applicable to instruments chargeable to stamp duty under Section 3 read with Schedule to the Act, would also render the arbitration agreement contained in such an instrument, which is C not chargeable to payment of stamp duty as being non-existent, unenforceable in law, or invalid/void, pending payment of stamp duty on the substantive contract/instrument?” [emphasis supplied] Mr. Gourab Banerjee, learned Senior Counsel assisting this Court D as Amicus Curiaehowever proposed to reframe the question of reference, as under: “Whether the statutory bar contained in Section 35 of the Stamp Act, 1899 applicable to instruments chargeable to stamp duty under Section 3 read with Schedule to the Act, would also render the E arbitration agreement contained in such an instrument, which is not chargeable to payment of stamp duty as being non-existent, unenforceable in law, or invalid/void, pending payment of stamp duty on the substantive contract/instrument?” [Emphasis in original] F 14. It is seen that an erroneous observation pertaining to the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958 not subjecting an arbitration agreement to stamp duty was made in para 20, 24 and 58 in NN Global (supra). In each of our four opinions, Justice KM Joseph, Justice C.T. Ravikumar, Justice Ajay Rastogi (& self), we find that this is not the correct position G on the applicability of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958. The Indian Stamp Act, 1899 is a fiscal enactment that levies a charge on the execution of instruments. Section 2(14) of the Stamp Act, 1899 defines “instrument” as “every document by which any right or liability is, or purports to be, created, transferred, limited, extended, extinguished or H 430 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A recorded”. Section 3 titled “Instruments chargeable with duty” provides inter alia that the instrument must be mentioned in the Schedule to the Act. It is essential to note that arbitration agreements are not specifically mentioned in Schedule I of the Stamp Act, 1899 as “instruments” which are required to be stamped. However, under the residuary entry in Article 5(c) of Schedule I of the Stamp Act, 1899 titled as “if not otherwise B provided for”, stamp duty becomes payable. This residuary entry is contained in amendments to Schedule I of the Stamp Act, 1899, as well as various State Stamp Acts. I would therefore proceed on the basis that an arbitral agreement falls within the definition of “instrument” as stipulated under the Stamp Act, 1899 and would be subject to stamp C duty. E. Submissions of the Counsel: 15. We have heard the elaborate submissions from Mr. Gourab Banerjee, Learned Senior Counsel assisting this Court as Amicus Curiae; Mr. Gagan Sanghi, Learned Counsel for the appellant; Ms. Malavika D Trivedi, Learned Senior Counsel for the Intervenor in IA 18516 of 2022; Mr. Ramakanth Reddy, Learned Senior Counsel for Respondent No. 1 and Mr. Debesh Panda, Learned Counsel for the Intervenor in IA 199969 of 2022.