of the voting power of such company in aggregate. (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2), if the condition specifi ed in clause (f) of the said sub-section is not complied with in any previous year after the completion of strategic disinvestment, the provisions of sub-section (1) shall apply for such previous year and subsequent previous years.’ RAMKRISHNA FORGINGS LTD v. RAVINDRA LOONKAR, 679 R. P. OF ACIL LTD.[AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] directed to provide exact fi gures/value of assets. The same was carried in appeal under Section 617 of the Code by the present appellant before the NCLAT which passed the Impugned on 19.01.2022, dismissing the appeal, thereby upholding the of the NCLT, which is impugned herein. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT: 7. Mr. Shyam Divan, learned senior counsel for the appellant submitted that the Resolution Plan initially submitted by the appellant was negotiated further on various dates and, ultimately the fi nal outcome was the Resolution Plan submitted on 05.08.2019. This was fi nally approved by the CoC through a majority of 88.56% votes on 14.08.2019, after extensive consideration. It was submitted that there were 11 revisions in respect of the Resolution Plan made by the appellant before the fi nal version was approved by the CoC. It was indicated that the fi nal Resolution Plan was approximately 7 ‘61. Appeals and Appellate Authority.—(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained under the Companies Act, 2013, any person aggrieved by the of the Adjudicating Authority under this part may prefer an appeal to the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal. (2) Every appeal under sub-section (1) shall be fi led within thirty days before the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal: Provided that the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal may allow an appeal to be fi led after the expiry of the said period of thirty days if it is satisfi ed that there was suffi cient cause for not fi ling the appeal but such period shall not exceed fi fteen days. (3) An appeal against an approving a resolution plan under Section 31 may be fi led on the following grounds, namely— (i) the approved resolution plan is in contravention of the provisions of any law for the time being in force; (ii) there has been material irregularity in exercise of the powers by the resolution professional during the corporate insolvency resolution period; (iii) the debts owed to operational creditors of the corporate debtor have not been provided for in the resolution plan in the manner specifi ed by the Board; (iv) the insolvency resolution process costs have not been provided for repayment in priority to all other debts; or (v) the resolution plan does not comply with any other criteria specifi ed by the Board. 4) An appeal against a liquidation passed under Section 33, or sub-section (4) of Section 54-L, or sub-section (4) of Section 54-N, may be fi led on grounds of material irregularity or fraud committed in relation to such a liquidation . (5) An appeal against an for initiation of corporate insolvency resolution process passed under sub-section (2) of Section 54-O, may be fi led on grounds of material irregularity or fraud committed in relation to such an .’ 680 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.