9A. Other Tenants of Inamdar: Every tenant of the Inamdar, other than the tenants entitled to be registered as occupants under Sections 4, 5 and 6, shall, with eff ect on and from the date of vesting and subject to the provisions of Chapter III-A, be entitled to continue as a tenant of the land in respect of which he was a tenant immediately before the date of vesting.” (emphasis supplied by us) 8. A bare perusal of the aforesaid provisions reveals that while section 9 allows an Inamdar to make an application for occupancy rights, a tenant is aff orded an opportunity for the same under section 9A of the Act subject to the condition that he was a tenant in respect of the subject land immediately prior to the date of vesting. Therefore, it is only a tenant or an Inamdar, who could have made such an application. 9. Let us now examine the Commissioner’s . In the case before the Commissioner, the plaintiff ’s vendor was one of the applicants while the defendant’s predecessor-in-interest was one of the respondent Inamdars. The Commissioner lucidly stated that the claimants were not tenants at the time of vesting and, therefore, the claims of, inter alia, the plaintiff ’s vendor, were ed to be rejected. It was further said that their respective survey numbers were to be registered in favour of the Inamdars under section 9. This, in our view, can have only one possible meaning, that the claim of the plaintiff ’s vendor for occupancy right as a tenant was rejected, and that of the defendant’s predecessor-in-interest was acknowledged. The plaintiff ’s vendor having failed to satisfy the condition of being vested with tenancy rights as on the date stipulated by section 9A and such having remained unchallenged for all times, we are unable to agree with the argument advanced on behalf of the plaintiff . 10. Mr. S.N. Bhat for the plaintiff sought to rely on Ext. P8 and the other revenue entries containing the name of the plaintiff and the plaintiff ’s vendor to argue that the Commissioner’s vested the plaintiff ’s vendor with occupancy rights, and it is only in accordance with such did the revenue authorities enter the plaintiff ’s vendor’s name in the records. However, we are also unable to agree with such an argument. 11. It is trite law that revenue records are not documents of title. 808 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 12. This Court in Sawarni vs. Inder Kaur and Ors.2 held that mutation in revenue records neither creates nor extinguishes title, nor does it have any presumptive value on title. All it does is entitle the person in whose favour mutation is done to pay the land revenue in question. 13. This was further affi rmed in Balwant Singh & Ors vs. Daulat Singh (Dead) by LRs and Ors.3 wherein this Court held that mere mutation of records would not divest the owners of a land of their right, title and interest in the land.