Thus, not much can be read into the dated 05.02.1988 passed in the case of Cawnpore Club so as to hold that the same was law declared by this Court within the meaning of Article 141 of the Constitution and hence, is a binding precedent which ought to have been followed by a subsequent Coordinate Bench of this Court in Bangalore Club and the same not having been done, renders the in Bangalore Club vulnerable or vitiated. In the circumstances, we do not fi nd it necessary and justifi ed to refer the of this Court in Bangalore Club to a Larger Bench on this ground. Further, we also think that the dated 05.02.1998 passed by this Court in the Civil Appeals concerning Cawnpore Club is not a binding precedent which had to be followed in subsequent cases, as the said did not declare any law. 28. As far as the of the Karnataka High Court in Canara Bank is concerned, although the Special Leave Petition challenging the same was dismissed by this Court, we fi nd merit in the observations of the Bombay High Court and the Madras High Court to the eff ect that the said must be restricted to its own facts and the same cannot be considered as a precedent. In this regard, what is of signifi cance to note is that the of Karnataka High Court in Bangalore Club was not brought to the notice of the Division Bench of the said Court which decided Canara Bank. Had the Division Bench known about the passed by a Coordinate Bench of that Court in Bangalore Club holding that interest earned on fi xed 1024 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. deposits in banks is liable to be taxed and that the principle of mutuality would not apply, possibly, the in Canara Bank may have been diff erent. Therefore, we hold that the in Canara Bank is restricted to the facts of that case and cannot be construed to be a precedent as such. 29. It would be useful to refer to certain other s of this Court having relevance to the points under consideration. (a) In a three-Judge Bench decision in State of West Bengal vs. Calcutta Club Ltd., (2019) 19 SCC 107, this Court considered the following questions: 30.1. (i) Whether the doctrine of mutuality is still applicable to incorporated clubs or any club after the 46th Amendment to Article 366(29-A) of the Constitution of India? 30.2. (ii) Whether the of this Court in Young Men’s Indian Assn. still holds the fi eld even after the 46th Amendment of the Constitution of India; and whether the decisions in Cosmopolitan Club and Fateh Maidan Club which remitted the matter applying the doctrine of mutuality after the constitutional amendment can be treated to be stating the correct principle of law? 30.3. (iii) Whether the 46th Amendment to the Constitution, by deeming fi ction provides that provision of food and beverages by the incorporated clubs to its permanent members constitute sale thereby holding the same to be liable to sales tax?” The aforesaid questions arose in the context of Article 366(29-A) which is a provision inserted to the Constitution of India by virtue of the 46th Amendment to the Constitution and in the context of the West Bengal Sales Tax Act, regarding tax on sale or purchase of goods.