30. In any event, it is now a settled principle of law that a candidate has a right to be considered in the light of existing Rules, which implies Rules in force as on the date of consideration. This principle is affirmed by this Court in Deepak Agarwal and Anr. v. State of U.P. and Ors.16, B as below: “26. It is by now a settled proposition of law that a candidate has the right to be considered in the light of the existing rules, which implies the “rule in force” on the date the consideration took place. There is no rule of universal or absolute C application that vacancies are to be filled invariably by the law existing on the date when the vacancy arises. The requirement of filling up old vacancies under the old rules is interlinked with the candidate having acquired a right to be considered for promotion. The right to be considered for D promotion accrues on the date of consideration of the eligible candidates. Unless, of course, the applicable rule, as in Y.V.Rangaiah case lays down any particular time-frame, within which the selection process is to be completed. In the present case, consideration for promotion took place after the amendment came into operation. Thus, it cannot be E accepted that any accrued or vested right of the appellants has been taken away by the amendment.” 31. While reaffirming the above referred principle, in a subsequent case of Rajasthan State Sports Council and Anr. v. Uma Dadhich and Anr.17, (in which one of us was a member Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, F J., as he then was). This Court noted: “5. There is merit in the submission which has been urged on behalf of the appellants that the respondent had no vested right to promotion but only a right to be considered in accordance with the rules as they existed on the date when G the case for promotion was taken up. This principle has been reiterated in several decisions of this Court. (See H.S. Grewal v. Union of India, Deepak Agarwal v. State of U.P., State of 16 (2011) 6 SCC 725. 17 (2019) 4 SCC 316. H 984 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Tripura v. Nikhil Ranjan Chakraborty and Union of India v. Krishna Kumar.” (emphasis supplied) 32. In a recent decision, in State of Himachal Pradesh and Ors. v. Raj Kumar and Ors.18, after reviewing a number of decisions on the B same subject, this Court formulated the following principles: “70. A review of the fifteen cases that have distinguished Rangaiah would demonstrate that this Court has been consistently carving out exceptions to the broad proposition formulated in Rangaiah. The findings in these s, that C have a direct bearing on the proposition formulated by Rangaiah are as under: 1. There is no rule of universal application that vacancies must be necessarily filled on the basis of the law which existed on the date when they arose, Rangaiah’s case must D be understood in the context of the rules involved therein.