It was argued that the Election Commission cannot do so once it had finally decided the dispute. There is no difficulty in agreeing with the proposition that once the dispute had been finally decided by ECI, E the question of invoking powers under Para 18 by it (ECI) would not arise. However, if the dispute is pending enquiry before ECI or the final decision of ECI is sub judice in the proceedings before the constitutional court, providing for an equitable arrangement in the interests of free and fair elections and to provide equal level playing field to all concerned, would be a just and fair F arrangement.” 180. The above observations indicate the width of the powers available to the Election Commission. 181. In Public Interest Foundation and others v. Union of India G and others65, a Constitution Bench was invited but refused to add or prescribe disqualifications for contesting the elections other than what was prescribed by the Constitution and the Parliament. In this regard, an appeal made to the existence of plenary power under Article 324 did not pass muster. The attempt was to persuade the Court to direct the Election H 65(2019) 3 SCC 224 ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 147 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Commission to disallow a candidate from contesting on the ground that A charges have been framed for heinous and/or grievous offences. It was found that the Parliament had the exclusive legislative power to lay down the disqualifications for the membership of the Legislative Body. It is apposite that we, however, notice the following: “28. An essential component of a constitutional democracy is its B ability to give and secure for its citizenry a representative form of government, elected freely and fairly, and comprising of a polity whose members are men and women of high integrity and morality. This could be said to be the hallmark of any free and fair democracy.” C 182. This Court, thereafter, quoted from the Goswami Committee on Electoral Reforms, wherein the Committee bemoaned the role of money and muscle power at elections and rapid criminalisation of politics, greatly encouraging evils of booth capturing, rigging and violence. It is important that we notice paragraph-30: D “30. Criminalisation of politics was never an unknown phenomenon in the Indian political system, but its presence was seemingly felt in its strongest form during the 1993 Mumbai bomb blasts which was the result of a collaboration of a diffused network of criminal gangs, police and customs officials and their political patrons. The E tremors of the said attacks shook the entire nation and as a result of the outcry, a commission was constituted to study the problem of criminalisation of politics and the nexus among criminals, politicians and bureaucrats in India. The report of the Committee, Vohra Committee Report, submitted by Union Home Secretary, N.N. Vohra, in October 1993, referred to several observations F made by official agencies, including Central Bureau of Investigation, Intelligence Bureau, Research and Analysis Wing, who unanimously expressed their opinion on the criminal network which was virtually running a parallel government.