118. As noticed in the impugned : C “48. … after the decision of the Government of Odisha to abolish the OAT became public, it ceased to make appointments to fill up the vacancies in the OAT. This led to the OAT Bar Association, Cuttack filing W.P. (C) No. 15693 of 2017 in this Court seeking a mandamus to the Government of Odisha to fill up the vacancies D in the OAT.” (emphasis supplied) Therefore, the State Government discontinued appointments to the OAT as a result of its decision to abolish the OAT and not vice versa. The appellants’ averment confuses the sequence of events on E which their argument is based. The State Government based its decision on an evaluation of the OAT’s functioning in the year 2014, which was prior to its decision to abolish the OAT. Hence, there is no “wrong” which the State Government took advantage of. Similarly, we do not agree with the argument of the appellants that the Union of India had systematically made the OAT non-functional. F 119. A related argument put forth by the appellants is that the State Government’s failure to fill the vacancies in the OAT is a breach of Article 256 of the Constitution. Article 256 inter alia stipulates that the executive power of every State shall be so exercised as to ensure compliance with the laws made by Parliament. It is not necessary for us G to address ourselves to this argument because the prayers in the Writ Petitions which resulted in the impugned did not seek an adjudication as to the violation of Article 256. The lis before the Orissa High Court was limited to the validity of the decision to abolish the OAT. We therefore confine our on appeal to the same issue. H 802 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A x. The failure of the Union Government to conduct a judi- cial impact assessment before abolishing the OAT does not vitiate its decision to abolish the OAT 120. The appellants contend that the Union Government ought to have mandatorily complied with the directions of a Constitution Bench of this Court (of which one of us, Dr, DY Chandrachud, J was a part) in B Rojer Mathew v. South Indian Bank Ltd.41 prior to abolishing the OAT. The intervenor in this matter has also advanced the argument that the Union Government ought to have taken the permission of this Court before abolishing the OAT. 121. In Rojer Mathew (supra), this Court directed the Union C Government to conduct a judicial impact assessment of certain tribu- nals. The operative part of this (from the majority opinion of Ranjan Gogoi, CJI) in relation to judicial impact assessments is extracted below: “223.7. There is a need-based requirement to conduct “judicial D impact assessment” of all the Tribunals referable to the Finance Act, 2017 so as to analyse the ramifications of the changes in the framework of tribunals as provided under the Finance Act, 2017. Thus, we find it appropriate to issue a writ of mandamus to the Ministry of Law and Justice to carry out such “judicial impact assessment” and submit the result of the findings before the E competent legislative authority.” 122.