2. It is relevant to mention here that Rule 15 of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965, more particularly sub-rule 1 and 2 of Rule 15 imposed a categorical restriction on holding of a 2nd and further statutory inquiry. But in the instant case, in spite of the fact that the sole respondent was exonerated from the alleged complaint by three successive enquiries i.e. i) the Fact Finding enquiry, ii) fi rst the statutory enquiry conducted by the duly constituted Frontier Level Committee and iii) a second statutory enquiry (in fact it was 4th enquiry in the series which includes inquiry on the basis of another anonymous complaint) by the Central Complaint Committee was instituted. Subject matter of all the facts were on the same set of allegations.” 3. That, this Hon’ble Court in Vijay Shankar Pandey-Vs-U.O.I. and another, reported in (2014) 10 SCC 589, held as follows:- “26. It can be seen from the above that the normal rule is that there can be only one enquiry. This court has also recognized the possibility of a further enquiry in certain circumstances enumerated therein. The decision however makes it clear that the fact that the report submitted by the enquiring authority is not acceptable to the disciplinary authority, is not a ground for completely setting aside the enquiry report and ing a second enquiry.” UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 509 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 4. Further, in K.R. Deb-Vs-The Controller, Central Excise, Shillong reported in [1971 (2) SCC 102], this Hon’ble Court has laid down that a 2nd enquiry is not permissible under the statutory provision of the Rule 15(1) of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965. The above decision was reiterated by this Hon’ble Court in U.O.I –V- Shri K.D. Pandey & Ors, reported in [2002 (10) SCC 471]. 5. The above quoted decisions of the Apex Court conclusively mandate that – (1) A second enquiry is not permissible, and (2) It is the correctness of the conclusion recorded in the enquiry report which determines the legality of the conclusions and not the mere technical fl aws. These principles are fi t to be extrapolated in the instant case. 6. That, the complaint dated 30.08.2011 contained only 2 (two) allegations, but the Central Complaint Committee extrapolated the allegations to as many as 10 nos. incorporating therein the newly added exaggerated versions of the complainant and delved into those, thus travelling beyond the allegations in the complaint dated 30.08.2011 and overstepping its jurisdiction in violation of procedure laid down in CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965. 7. The Hon’ble High Court in para 41 of its impugned (Page 54 of the SLP) rightly observed that a complaint dated 18.09.2012 along with fi ve Annexures was submitted by Smt. X (Complainant) to the Chairperson of the Central Complaint Committee (CCC) and copy of such complaint was also made available to the sole respondent. In the inquiry report the above fact is not mentioned. It also does not appear that the said complaint was brought to the notice of the disciplinary authority.