48B, 134A, 134B and 134C.” E 59. We have already noticed the purport of Article 134B of the Limitation Act, 1908 and the change brought about in the successor provision, namely, Article 96 of the Limitation Act, 1963. 60. In Anisur Rahman and others v. Sheikh Abul Hayat24, a Division Bench of the High Court had occasion to deal with the very F question which we are confronted with. The Court went on to hold as follows: “7. In Mukherjea’s well known book on Hindu Law of Religious and Charitable Trust, 2nd edition, at page 274, the said Calcutta decision was referred to and it was further pointed out at page G 282 that limitation in case of an unauthorised alienation would start as soon as possession vested with regard to any property. To quote his own words at page 282: H 24 AIR 1965 Patna 390 SABIR ALI KHAN v. SYED MOHD. AHMAD ALI KHAN AND 985 OTHERS [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] “The correct principle deducible from these cases is that the A possession of the alienee would become adverse as soon as he is without any title to the property. If the transfer is void ab initio, the possession of the transferee is adverse from the date of the transfer. If, on the other hand, it is not void, but voidable merely at the instance of the succeeding manager, the B possession cannot be adverse until the office of the transferring manager ceases.” 8. In other words, the applicability of either Article 144 or Article 134B of the Limitation Act would depend on whether the transfer was void ab initio or only voidable at the instance of the succeeding C manager. 9. A transfer which is void ab initio is in the eye of law no transfer at all and hence will not come within the scope of Article 134B. Moreover, that Article refers to transfer made by a manager of an endowment. If a person transfers property treating it as his D own private property, it is difficult to hold that merely because he happens to be the manager of the endowment on the date of the transfer and the property is the properly of the endowment such transfer should come within the scope of that Article. Mr. Hussain for the appellants could not cite any decision after AIR 1946 Cal 473 in support of his extreme contention to the effect that the E principle laid down in that decision his no application in respect of void transfers made after the coming into force of the amendment of 1929. On the other hand, a Division Bench of the Orissa High Court in Govinda Jiew Thakur v. Surendra Jena, AIR 1961 Orissa 102 applied the principle; of that decision and held that F transfers void ab initio are outside the scope of Article 134B; a transferee in such a case is a mere trespasser and his title will be perfected by the twelve years adverse possession. With respect I am inclined to agree with this view.