F 100. In Air India Cabin Crew Assn. v. Yeshaswinee Merchant36, a two-judge Bench of this Court held that the exercise of statutory power is not rendered invalid if it is not expressed to have been taken in the name of the President: G “72. In our opinion, reference to Article 77 is wholly inappropriate. The exercise of statutory power under Section 34 by the Central Government, even though not expressed to have been taken in the name of President, does not render it invalid. Clause (2) of Article 77 insulates an executive action of the Government formally H 36 (2003) 6 SCC 277 ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 795 UNION OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] taken in the name of President from challenge on the ground that A it is not an or instrument made or executed by President. Even if an executive action of the Central Government is not formally expressed to have been taken in the name of President, Article 77 does not provide that it would, therefore, be rendered void or invalid. … In Major E.G. Barsay v. State of Bombay B (1962) 2 SCR 195, a two-judge bench of this Court held: “25. … Shortly stated, the legal position is this: Article 166(1) is only directory. Though an impugned was not issued in strict compliance with the provisions of Article 166(1), it can be established by evidence aliunde that the was made by the C appropriate authority. If an is issued in the name of the Governor and is duly authenticated in the manner prescribed in Rule (2) of the said Article, there is an irrebuttable presumption that the or instrument is made or executed by the Governor. Any non-compliance with the provisions of the said rule does not invalidate the , but it precludes the D drawing of any such irrebuttable presumption. This does not prevent any party from proving by other evidence that as a matter of fact the has been made by the appropriate authority. Article 77 which relates to conduct of business of the Government of India is couched in terms similar E to those in Article 166 and the same principles must govern the interpretation of that provision.” (emphasis supplied) 101. Similar principles govern the interpretation of Article 166 and Article 77. A notification which is not in compliance with clause (1) F of Article 77 is not invalid, unconstitutional or non-est for that reason alone. Rather, the irrebuttable presumption that the notification was issued by the President of India (acting for the Union Government) is no longer available to the Union Government. The notification continues to be valid and it is open to the Union Government to prove that the was G indeed issued by the appropriate authority. 102. In the present case, the notification dated 2 August 2019 was not issued in the name of the President. However, this does not render the notification invalid. The effect of not complying with Article 77 is that the Union Government cannot claim the benefit of the H 796 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R.