This Court in foregoing F paragraphs has extensively quoted the FIR, which clearly demonstrates that the FIR is based on probabilities with regard to disproportionate income. The FIR is silent with regard to quantum of the disproportionate income, which is the paramount factors for involving any person in implicating any person for commission G of offence under Section 13(1)(b), 13(2) of the Act, 1988. These basic ingredients are not reflected from the bare perusal of the FIR. *** 56. The FIR further states that there is possibility of having various H properties in the name of the petitioner and his wife. The FIR THE STATE OF CHATTISGARH & ANR. v. AMAN KUMAR 151 SINGH & ORS. ETC. ETC [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] further states that there is reasonable possibility that the petitioner A has invested himself for his wife and other dependent family members and it was also stated that there is a possibility that a huge amount of money is being deposited in the bank account of his wife. The FIR nowhere discloses commission of any offence with definite facts and figures. The FIR is based upon probabilities. B As per the Act, 1988, it is for the prosecution to establish prima facie offence under Section 13(1)(b) read with Section 13 (2) of the Act, 1988 against Government servant by reflecting in the FIR, which is initiation of prosecution, then only, prosecution can be started to investigate the offence as mentioned in the FIR. In absence of any specific allegation made in the FIR, merely on C probability, the petitioner cannot be prosecuted. The FIR has been registered on the basis of complaint made by one Uchit Sharma. The allegation in the FIR that the petitioner has not filed a single APR while being employed with the Government of Chhattisgarh due to fear that his disproportionate assets will get exposed. It D may seriously violate all the conduct rules of Government of India and Chhattisgarh Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, 1965, but the petitioner cannot be prosecuted for commission of offence under Section 13(1)(b) read with Section 13(2) of the Act, 1988 for non- submission of APR with the department. The FIR is not disclosing the fact that even not disclosing the APR with the Government E what disproportionate income, the petitioner has earned during the period from 2004 to 2018.” 47. Confined to what the High Court has held in the impugned and , the short question that emerges for a decision is whether the High Court was justified in its interference with the FIR. F 48. The additional question that we are called upon to answer in view of the plea of mala fide raised by Mr. Jethmalani and the contents of the application for directions filed on behalf of AS and YS is, whether and to what extent would a court exercising power under Article 226 of the Constitution or section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedures G (hereafter ‘Cr. P.C.’, for short) be justified to quash a first information report registered under section 13 of the P.C.