The relevant observations are extracted below: 17. At the outset, we may indicate that in the matter of entering into a contract, the State does not stand on the same footing as C a private person who is free to enter into a contract with any person he likes. The State, in exercise of its various functions, is governed by the mandate of Article 14 of the Constitution which excludes arbitrariness in State action and requires the State to act fairly and reasonably. The action of the State in the matter of award of a contract D has to satisfy this criterion. Moreover a contract would either involve expenditure from the State exchequer or augmentation of public revenue and consequently the discretion in the matter of selection of the person for award of the contract has to be exercised keeping in E view the public interest involved in such selection. The decisions of this Court, therefore, insist that while dealing with the public, whether by way of giving jobs or entering into contracts or issuing quotas or licences or granting other forms of largesse, the Government cannot act arbitrarily at its sweet will and like a private individual, deal with any person it pleases, F but its action must be in conformity with the standards or norms which are not arbitrary, irrational or irrelevant. It is, however, recognised that certain measure of “free play in the joints” is necessary for an administrative body functioning in an administrative sphere.” G (emphasis supplied) 15. In Food Corporation of India v. M/s Kamdhenu Cattle Feed Industries8, this Courtheld that ‘in the contractual sphere […] 7 (1995) 1 SCC 478 8 (1993) 1 SCC 71 H 488 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A the State and all its instrumentalities have to conform to Article 14 of the Constitution.’ The respondent filed a writ petition before the High Court challenging the appellant’s refusal to accept the highest tender submitted by it for a stock of damaged rice. This Court held: “7. In contractual sphere as in all other State actions, the State B and all its instrumentalities have to conform to Article 14 of the Constitution of which non-arbitrariness is a significant facet. There is no unfettered discretion in public law: A public authority possesses powers only to use them for public good. This imposes the duty to act fairly and to adopt a procedure which is ‘fairplay in action’. Due observance of this obligation as a part of good C administration raises a reasonable or legitimate expectation in every citizen to be treated fairly in his interaction with the State and its instrumentalities, with this element forming a necessary component of the decision-making process in all State actions. To satisfy this requirement of non-arbitrariness in a State action, it is, therefore, D necessary to consider and give due weight to the reasonable or legitimate expectations of the persons likely to be affected by the decision or else that unfairness in the exercise of the power may amount to an abuse or excess of power apart from affecting the bona fides of the decision in a given case.