4.6 Relying upon above two decisions, it is contended that the object and purpose of the amendment to remove the mischief and defect for which the amendment was necessitated is required to be considered F and borne in mind. That as observed and held that once the Parliament’s intention is ascertained and the object and purpose of the legislation is known, it then becomes the duty of the Court to give the statute a purposeful or a functional interpretation. 4.7 It is further contended by Shri Nataraj, learned ASG that G Section 153C of the Act, 1961 is a machinery provision. He submitted that the High Court in the impugned and has also observed that Section 153C is a machinery provisions. While interpreting a machinery provision of a taxing statute, it is the duty of the Court to give effect to its manifest purpose. The interpretation that defeats the purpose of the statute should be avoided. That despite the observation by the H INCOME TAX OFFICER v. VIKRAM SUJITKUMAR BHATIA 769 [M. R. SHAH, J.] High Court that Section 153C of the Act, 1961 is a machinery provision, A the High Court has failed to give effect to the object behind it. Reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in the case of Commissioner of Income Tax - III Vs. Calcutta Knitwears, Ludhiana (2014) 6 SCC 444 (paras 32 and 34). 4.8 It is next submitted by Shri Nataraj, learned ASG that as per B the settled position of law, the statute must be read as a whole and any interpretation which makes the statute or a part of it a “dead letter” has to be avoided. That the construction adopted shall be in consonance with other provisions of the statute. That as per the settled law, the courts should endeavour to harmonise statutes in conflict. One provision C cannot be used to defeat the object and purpose of another. It is submitted that in this background, a perusal of Section 153C would show that if the contention of the respondents that the amended Section 153C would not be applicable to searches conducted before the amendment is accepted, then the purpose behind the words “if that Assessing Officer is satisfied that the books of account or documents or assets seized or requisitioned D have a bearing on the determination of the total income of such other person for six assessment years immediately preceding the assessment year relevant to the previous year in which search is conducted or requisition is made and for the relevant assessment year or years referred to in sub-section (1) of section 153A” would be defeated. That it is always presumed that the legislature would not take away with one E hand what it gives with the other. In support of the above, reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in the case of Commissioner of Income Tax Vs. Hindustan Bulk Carriers, (2003) 3 SCC 57 (paras 17 to 21). 4.9 It is submitted that even otherwise the power to legislate F includes the power to legislate retrospectively.