The intent behind the exclusion of the eligibility criteria of net worth and managerial experience for the purpose of a renewal application is because the freedom of press cannot be restricted on grounds other than stipulations under Article 19(2) of the Constitution. Thus, Paragraph E 10. 4 of the Uplinking Guidelines as modified by the ‘permission letter’ indicates that MHA could deny security clearance on the grounds of national security and public . Thus, according to the Uplinking and Downlinking guidelines, security clearance from MHA is one of the conditions that is required to be fulfilled for renewal of permission for F Uplinking and Downlinking of news channels. E. Judicial Review on procedural grounds 31. Article 13 of the Constitution states that all laws that are inconsistent with fundamental rights enumerated in Part III of the Constitution shall be void. Article 13(3)(a) states that for the purpose of G this provision, law includes ‘any ordinance, , bye-law, rule, regulation, notification, custom or usage having in the territory of India the force of law.’ It is, thus, a settled position of law that an administrative action can be challenged on the ground of a violation of fundamental rights. Following the expansion of the content of the right to equality under Article 14 to include the guarantee against arbitrariness, the grounds for H MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 631 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] judicial review of administrative action have expanded. Administrative A action is judicially reviewable on the grounds of (i) unreasonableness or irrationality; (ii) illegality; and (iii) procedural impropriety.15 This Court has also held that in addition to the above grounds, administrative action can be reviewed on the ground of proportionality if it affects freedoms that are guaranteed under Articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution.16 B 32. The principle of natural justice that is derived from common law has two primary facets- Audi Alterum Partem and Nemo Judex In Causa Sua. Audi Alterum Partem encapsulates the rule of fair hearing. Nemo Judex In Causa Sua encapsulates the rule against bias, that is, no person should be a judge of their own case. It is the case of MBL that C MIB did not comply with the principle of Audi Alterum Partem because the reasons for the denial of security clearance and the material relevant to the decision of revocation were not disclosed. This, it is argued, infringes upon the right of MBL to a fair hearing. On the other hand, MIB contends that it was not required to comply with the principles of natural justice since the denial of security clearance is on a matter involving national D security, which is an established exception to the application of the principles of natural justice. 33. There are three important considerations that have to be answered in the context: E (i) Whether the non-disclosure of reasons and relevant material for the decision to deny security clearance infringes upon the right to a fair hearing, that is protected under Articles 14 and 21; (ii) Whether the infringement of the right to a fair hearing would render the decision void; and F (iii) If considerations of national security are an established exception to principles of natural justice, how should the court resolve the competing interests represented by the principles of natural justice and national security.