If within the period of three months, the Advisory Board opines that there was no suffi cient cause for such detention then, the State Government would have to release the detenu forthwith. 42. Hence, Article 22(4)(a) in substance deals with the of detention and has nothing to do with the delegation of the power of detention by the State Government to an Offi cer as stipulated under Section 3(2) of the Act. In fact, under Section 9 of the Act, the State Government has to refer the matter to the Advisory Board within three weeks from the date of detention, irrespective of whether the detention is passed under Section 3(1) or Section 3(2) of the Act and the Advisory Board has to give its opinion within seven weeks from the date of detention. That would totally make it ten weeks. As stipulated in Article 22(4)(a) of the Constitution, if in a given case, once the Advisory Board gives its opinion within the stipulated period of three months, then in our view, Article 22(4)(a) would no longer be applicable. Thus, Article 22(4)(a) applies at the initial stage of passing of the of detention by the State Government or by an offi cer who has been delegated by the State Government and whose has been approved by the State Government within a period of twelve days from the date of detention and not at the stage subsequent to the report of the Advisory Board. Depending upon the opinion of the Advisory Board, under Section 12 of the Act, the State Government can revoke the of detention and release the detenu forthwith or may confi rm the detention and continue the detention of the person concerned for any period not exceeding the maximum period of twelve months, which is stipulated in Section 13 of the Act. Therefore, when the State Government passes a confi rmatory under Section 12 of the Act after receipt of the report from the Advisory Board then, such a confi rmatory need not be restricted to a period of three months only. It can be beyond a period of three months from the date of initial of detention, but up to a maximum period of twelve months from the date of detention. 570 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 43. We reiterate that the period of three months stipulated in Article 22(4)(a) of the Constitution is relatable to the initial period of detention up to the stage of receipt of report of the Advisory Board and does not have any bearing on the period of detention, which is continued subsequent to the confi rmatory being passed by the State Government on receipt of the report of the Advisory Board. The continuation of the detention pursuant to the confi rmatory passed by the State Government need not also specify the period of detention; neither is it restricted to a period of three months only. If any period is specifi ed in the confi rmatory , then the period of detention would be upto such period, if no period is specifi ed, then it would be for a maximum period of twelve months from the date of detention.