Simply stated, the High Court was of C the opinion that promotees had to be treated as occupying posts in excess of the quota allocated to them, on an application of the 1986 OM. Now, as a matter of fact the materials on record establish that there were promote vacancies at a time when the ban on direct recruitment was in D force (during 1984-1990). To the query dated 11-06-2007, the Commissionerate concerned, at Hyderabad stated, in its reply dated 30-08.2007, as follows: “In this Commissionerate whatever vacancies occurred in a year, the same were divided in the ratio 3:1 during E the period 1986 to 1990 and the share of vacancy which comes for direct recruit were reported to SSC and the promotee quota vacancies were filled up by holding DPC.” 11. We agree with the argument of the appellant that birth in the cadre first would automatically accord the seniority over and above those F who are appointed at a later date. It has been held so in the case of Ashok Kumar Srivastava (supra). This principle, however, is to apply in absence of any contrary provision in the applicable service rule. In the present case this aspect has been addressed by the Division Bench in the delivered on 12th September 2012. We have quoted G paragraphs 11 and 12 of this above. The opinion of the High Court in this was that since there was a common requisition, the appointments should have been made only after preparing the combined select list and seniority ought to have been determined in accordance with Rule 22. This part of the has remained unaltered. Admitted H SUSHIL PANDEY v. STATE OF U.P. THR. PRINCIPAL 221 SECRETARY (HOME) [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] position is that a review petition in relation to this was filed but A the review did not upset this finding of the Division Bench. In the decision under appeal, the Division Bench has relied on these two paragraphs of the earlier and come to its finding. Thus, so far as the appellants and other parties to this appeal are concerned, the said finding has attained finality and we cannot reopen this question in an B appeal arising out of a subsequent proceeding on near identical factual background. 12. The appellants, however, point out that in determining seniority in the 2013 list, Rule 22 has not been complied with as dates of appointment have not been adhered to for such determination. This Rule C contemplates conferment of seniority as per original appointment . We find from the delivered in the year 2012 that while the Division Bench found issue of appointment s to the two categories of candidates before preparation of selection list to be contrary to law, the appointment s themselves were not quashed. Neither was any specific date notionally directed to be taken as the date of appointment. D 13. The High Court, in the earlier found that compliance of Rule 17 was not made in preparing the seniority list of 1999.