3.2 It is contended that the High Court has failed to appreciate that there was a huge delay in completion of the work under the contract G and therefore, merely because of mentioning of the penalty being imposed under a different provision, the contractor shall not be entitled to claim any equitable right of removal the imposition of penalty. 3.3 Making the above submissions and relying upon the relevant clause of the contract and relevant clauses of OPWD Code, it is prayed H that the present appeals be allowed. 656 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 4. All these appeals are vehemently opposed by Shri Shubhranshu Padhi, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective respondents – original writ petitioners. 4.1 It is vehemently submitted by Shri Padhi, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective respondents – original writ B petitioners that in the facts and circumstances of the case, the High Court has not committed any error in setting aside the penalty levied while granting extension of time. 4.2 It is further submitted that in the communication/ granting extension of time but with penalty, the State Government has relied upon C Clause 3.5.5(v) of OPWD Code. That as rightly observed by the High Court, the said clause shall not be applicable while imposing penalty while granting extension of time. It is contended that Clause 3.5.5(v) shall be applicable in a case where the contract is terminated due to the failure on the part of the contractor to carry out the work. That in the present case, it was not a case of termination of the contract, but of D extension of time. That therefore, the High Court has rightly observed that the levy of penalty while granting extension of time was bad in law. 4.3 It is further contended that during the course of the submissions learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State has relied upon Clause 3.5.30 of the OPWD Code. That however, even the said Clause 3.5.30 E of the OPWD Code does not permit the State to levy penalty while granting extension of time. 4.4 It is averred that even otherwise, once the time is extended on the application submitted by the contractor that there was a genuine reason for which the contractor could not complete the work within the F stipulated time, thereafter, it was not open for the State to levy/impose the penalty while extending the time that too, without giving any opportunity of being heard to the contractor on the quantum of penalty. 4.5 Making the above submissions, it is prayed that the present appeals be dismissed. G 5. Having heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective parties and having gone through the impugned (s) and (s) passed by the High Court, the short question which is posed for consideration of this Court is whether the State Government is justified in levying the penalty while granting extension of time in favour of the H THE STATE OF ODISHA & ORS.