Section 24(2) of the 2013 Act does not give rise to new cause of action to question the legality of concluded proceedings of land acquisition. Section 24 applies to a proceeding pending on the date of enforcement of the 2013 Act i.e. 1-1-2014. It does not revive stale and time-barred claims C and does not reopen concluded proceedings nor allow landowners to question the legality of mode of taking possession to reopen proceedings or mode of deposit of compensation in the treasury instead of court to invalidate acquisition.” 2.4 Thus, as per the decision of this Court in the case of Indore D Development Authority (supra) forattractingSection 24(2) of the Act, 2013, twin conditions of not taking possession and not tendering compensation have to be satisfied. It is observed and held that if one of the conditions is not satisfied, there shall not be any lapse under Section 24(2) of the Act, 2013. E 2.5 Even otherwise, the High Court has not properly appreciated the fact that the grievance with respect to not tendering the full compensation was made for the first time in the year 2014 i.e., after a period of 24 years from the date of passing of the Award and it was the specific case on behalf of the department that payment of compensation with respect to the lands could not be ascertained due to torn condition F of Naksha Muntzamin. Nothing is on record to demonstrate that at any point of time till the writ petition was filed before the High Court, any grievance was made with respect to non-tendering of the full compensation. Be that as it may, fact remains that possession of the lands in question was taken over and handed over to the beneficiary department on 23.09.1981. Under the circumstances, applying the law G laid down by this Court in the case of Indore Development Authority (supra), the impugned and passed by the High Court is unsustainable. 3. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the impugned and passed by the High Court in Writ Petition H 782 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A (C) No. 5664/2014 declaring that the acquisition with respect to the lands in question is deemed to have lapsed, is hereby quashed and set aside. Civil Appeal preferred by the Land and Building Department, Govt. of NCT of Delhi accordingly stands allowed. No costs. 4. In view of the passed in Civil Appeal preferred by the B Land and Building Department, Govt. of NCT of Delhi, allowing the said appeal and quashing and setting aside the and passed by the High Court in Writ Petition (C) No. 5664/2014 as above, no further is required to be passed in Civil Appeal preferred by the Delhi Development Authority which stands disposed of in terms of the present . C Pending application, if any, also stands disposed of. Nidhi Jain Appeals disposed of. (Assisted by : Abhishek Pratap Singh, LCRA) D E F G H