In his examination under Section 313 CrPC, the circumstances appearing from the evidence led by the prosecution were put to the B appellant. It is noticed that the appellant either denied the circumstances and allegations put to him or stated his want of knowledge as regards statements of the witnesses who supported the prosecution case. As regards his admission to the rehabilitation centreand discharge, the appellant stated that such facts were a matter of record. Finally, his assertion had been that he was innocent and the witnesses had deposed C falsely against him. However, he declined to lead any evidence in defence. Trial Court found the appellant guilty and awarded life imprisonment 8. After having heard the parties and having examined the record in its totality, the Trial Court found the prosecution case amply established D by cogent and convincing chain of circumstances, pointing only to the guilt of the appellant, who caused the death of victim children by strangulation and also caused the evidence to disappear by throwing the dead bodies into the canal. The appellant was, therefore, convicted of the offences under Section 302 and 201 IPC and was sentenced E accordingly. 8.1. The Trial Court summarised the chain of circumstances bringing home the guilt of the appellant and held as under: - “37. In the present case, admittedly, there cannot be any eye witness to the occurance and the prosecution has put forward the F circumstances and circumstantial evidence to bring home the guilt of the accused which certainly cannot be ignored. The prosecution has placed on record certain circumstances to bring home guilt of the accused regarding murdering of his sons which are as follows: (a) Accused Prem Singh and his deceased sons namely G Jitesh and Sunny were lastly admittedly together with him till they were alive (b) Motive and opportunity for the accused Prem Singh to commit murder of his sons. (c) Conduct of the accused H PREM SINGH v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 829 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] (d) Medical Evidence A 38. (a) Accused Prem Singh and his deceased sons Jitesh and Sunny were lastly admittedly together with him till they were alive: As already discussed at length, it is established and proved on the record that the accused Prem Singh who admittedly, was the father of the deceased Jitesh and Sunny were lastly B together in their house after his wife Sunita had gone to her maternal uncle’s house leaving the custody of both the said children with the accused Prem Singh and the accused himself has admitted that thereafter, he took both the children Jitesh and Sunny to Haiderpur Canal for a walk and to enjoy and the accused has C stated that while both the children were playing, they fell down in the Canal and got drowned and though he tried to save them by jumping into the canal but he did not succeed, hance as such it is nowhere in dispute that the accused and the deceased children were admittedly together lastly till they died.