Given all these circumstances, this court is of the opinion that the result of the ossification or bone test was the most authentic evidence, corroborated by the examining doctor, PW-9. 20. In this case, the appellant was charged,inter alia, for the E offence under Section 6 of the POCSO Act. The offence under Section 6 depends on the proof that a “sexual assault” took place. That term is defined by Section 7, which reads as follows: “Whoever, with sexual intent touches the vagina, penis, anus or breast of the child or makes the child touch the vagina, F penis, anus or breast of such person or any other person, or does any other act with sexual intent which involves physical contact without penetration is said to commit sexual assault.” The offence under Section 6, at the relevant time, was defined as follows: G “Whoever, commits aggravated penetrative sexual assault, shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than ten years but which may extend to imprisonment for life and shall also be liable to fine.” Section 3 defines penetrative sexual assault, as follows: H 490 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A “3. Penetrative Sexual Assault. - A person is said to commit “penetrative sexual assault” if - (a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina, mouth, urethra or anus of a child or makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or B (b)........................ (c)........................ (d)........................” Section 2(a) of the POCSO Act provides that ‘aggravated C penetrative sexual assault’ has the same meaning as assigned to it in Section 5. Therefore, Section 5, which defines ‘aggravated penetrative sexual assault’ is relevant. Section 5 (l) reads as follows: “5. Aggravated Penetrative Sexual Assault. - (a) D (l)whoever commits penetrative sexual assaulton the child more than once or repeatedly; or” Section 4, at the relevant time, read as follows: “(1) Whoever commits penetrative sexual assault shall be E punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which shall not be less than seven years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.” The expression “assault” is defined in Section 351 IPC as “Whoever makes any gesture, or any preparation intending F or knowing it to be likely that such gesture or prepa-ration will cause any person present to apprehend that he who makes that gesture or preparation is about to use criminal force to that person, is said to commit an assault.” The expression “criminal force” is defined by Section 350 IPC as G follows: “Whoever intentionally uses force to any person, without that person’s consent, in to the committing of any offence, or intending by the use of such force to cause, or knowing it to be likely that by the use of such force he will cause injury, H P. YUVAPRAKASH v. STATE REP. BY INSPECTOR OF POLICE 491 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] fear or annoyance to the person to whom the force is used, is A said to use criminal force to that other.” 21.