If ultimately, for any reason it is found that the trial was not before a Court of competent jurisdiction the appellant may again have to face fresh trial in view of the position obtained under Section 300(1), Cr.P.C. It is taking into account all the aforesaid circumstances that we made the initial remark. At this juncture, we may have to make a mention about the decision of this Court in Hussainara Khatoon and Ors. v. Home Secretary, State of Bihar3 where this Court, not only held that an accused got a right to fair trial but also that he got a fundamental right for speedy trial of his case because a speedy trial is an integral and essential part of fundamental right to life and liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. It is equally relevant to refer to the decision of this Court in Nirmal Singh Kahlon v. State of Punjab and Ors.4. In the said decision this Court held that both the accused and victim of a crime have right to fair trial and that fair investigation and fair trial are concomitant to preservation of the fundamental right of an accused under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. In short, in the case on hand, in to have a fair trial, fair to both sides, 3 (1980) 1 SCC 81 4 (2009) 1 SCC 441 444 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. and to do complete justice between the parties, we think it only appropriate to proceed with consideration of the joint submission of the parties that the case pending before the Court of the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Raipur is liable to be committed to the Court of Session having jurisdiction over the area in question. 11. Now, we will proceed to consider how to resolve these peculiar and puzzling circumstances so as to make a fair trial possible. We have already referred to Section 26, Cr.PC. Sub- clause (ii) of clause (a) thereof would reveal that a Court of Session has the power to try any off ence under the IPC subject to the rider specifi ed and sub-clause (iii) thereof would reveal that any other Court inferior in rank to a Court of Session can try only off ences shown in the First schedule to the Cr.PC as triable by it. True that going by the First Schedule to Cr.PC an off ence under Section 409, IPC is triable by a ‘Court of the Magistrate of the First Class’. Nonetheless, it is the indubitable position revealed from the very text of Section 26 itself that the said Section and the First Schedule to Cr. PC enumerating the Courts by which diff erent off ences could be tried, are controlled by the other provisions of Cr.PC. We say so because the very Section itself opens with the phrase, “subject to the other provisions of this Code.” Our view will get support from the decision of a Seven Judge Bench of this Court in Budhan Choudhry v. State of Bihar5, where taking note of the fact that Section 28 under the old Code, 1898 (corresponding to Section 26, Cr.PC) begins with the clause ‘subject to the other provisions of the code’ it was held that it would mean that the Section and the Second Schedule of the Code (old Code, 1898) are controlled by the other provisions of the Code.