As per Section 163, in the absence of any contract to the contrary, the bailee is bound to deliver to the bailor, or in accordance with his directions, any increase or profit that may G accrue from the goods bailed. 20. Section 172 of the Contract Act is reproduced as under: “172. ”Pledge”, “pawnor” and “pawnee” defined.—The bailment of goods as security for payment of a debt or the performance of H 824 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A the promise, is called a “pledge”. The bailor is in this case called the “pawnor”. The bailee is called the “pawnee”.” As per Section 172, creating a valid pledge requires delivery of the possession of goods by the pawnor to the pawnee by way of security upon the promise of repayment of a debt or the performance B of a promise, thereby, creating an estate that vests with the pawnee. 22. As per Section 176, when a pawnor makes a default in payment of debt or performance of a promise, the pawnee may bring a suit against the pawnor upon such debt or promise and retain the goods pledged as collateral security, or he may sell the goods pledged C upon giving the pawnor reasonable notice of the sale. If the pledged goods are sold, and the proceeds of such sale are less than the amount due in respect of the debt or promise, the pawnor is still liable to pay the balance amount to the pawnee. If the proceeds of such sale exceed the amount due, the pawnee will be liable to pay the surplus to the pawnor. D 23. Section 177 gives statutory right to the pawnor, who is at default in payment of the debt or performance of the promise, to redeem the pledged goods at any time before “actual sale” by the pawnee. However, in such cases, the pawnor must pay in addition the expenses that have arisen from his default. Section 179 states that E the limited interest that a pawnor has in the goods can be validly pledged.” 7.2 The law of pledge contemplates special rights for the pawnee in the goods pledged, i.e., the right to possession of the security, and in case of default, the right to bring a suit against the pawnor, as well as the F right to sell the goods after giving reasonable notice to the pawnor. The general rights or ownership rights in the property remain with the pawnor, and wholly reverts to him on discharge of the debt or performance of the promise. In other words, the right to property vests in the pawnee only as far as it is necessary to secure the debt. We need not refer to other portions of the said which relate to right of redemption till ‘actual G sale’, etc. 8. In light of the aforesaid exposition, the second issue which arises for consideration is whether the resolution plan can dilute, negate, or override the pledge agreement because a resolution plan to this effect has been approved by the CoC.