The Constitution Bench of this Court, in PTC India (supra) had indicated that state commissions possess the power to vary existing contracts, especially PPAs: G “40. [..] To regulate is an exercise which is different from making of the regulations. However, making of a regulation under Section 178 is not a precondition to the Central Commission taking any steps/measures under Section 79(1). As stated, if there is a regulation, then the measure under H 712 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Section 79(1) has to be in conformity with such regulation under Section 178. This principle flows from various s of this Court, which we have discussed hereinafter. For example, under Section 79(1)(g), the Central Commission is required to levy fees for the purpose of the 2003 Act. An imposing regulatory fees could be passed even in the absence B of a regulation under Section 178. If the levy is unreasonable, it could be the subject-matter of challenge before the appellate authority under Section 111 as the levy is imposed by an / decision-making process. Making of a regulation under Section 178 is not a precondition to passing of an C levying a regulatory fee under Section 79(1)(g). However, if there is a regulation under Section 178 in that regard then the levying fees under Section 79(1)(g) has to be in consonance with such regulation. ********* D 40. [..] One must keep in mind the dichotomy between the power to make a regulation under Section 178 on the one hand and the various enumerated areas in Section 79(1) in which the Central Commission is mandated to take such measures as it deems fit to fulfil the objects of the 2003 Act. E Applying this test to the present controversy, it becomes clear that one such area enumerated in Section 79(1) refers to fixation of trading margin. Making of a regulation in that regard is not a precondition to the Central Commission exercising its powers to fix a trading margin under Section 79(1)(j), however, if the Central Commission in an appropriate F case, as is the case herein, makes a regulation fixing a cap on the trading margin under Section 178 then whatever measures the Central Commission takes under Section 79(1)(j) have to be in conformity with Section 178. One must understand the reason why a regulation has been made in G the matter of capping the trading margin under Section 178 of the Act. Instead of fixing a trading margin (including capping) on a case-to-case basis, the Central Commission thought it fit to make a regulation which has a general application to the entire trading activity which has been recognised, for the first time, under the 2003 Act. Further, it H GUJARAT URJA VIKAS NIGAM LIMITED v. RENEW WIND 713 ENERGY (RAJKOT) PVT. LTD. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] is important to bear in mind that making of a regulation under A Section 178 became necessary because a regulation made under Section 178 has the effect of interfering and overriding the existing contractual relationship between the regulated entities.