But for reasons best known to itself, FCI did not choose to reject the conditional offer, but unconditionally accepted the conditional offer. There lies the catch. 12. When an offer is conditional, the offeree has the choice of either accepting the conditional offer, or rejecting the conditional offer, or making a counter offer. But what the offeree cannot do, when an offer is conditional, is to accept a part of the offer which results in performance by the offeror and then reject the condition subject to which the offer is made. 14. When FCI accepted the offer unconditionally and retired the second respondent from service by office dated 29.7.2000, it was implied that it accepted the conditional offer in entirety, that is the offer made (voluntary retirement) as also the condition subject to which the offer was made (appointment of his dependant son on compassionate grounds). In his application, the second respondent made it clear that he desired to retire voluntarily on medical grounds only if his son (first respondent herein) was provided with employment. If FCI felt that such a conditional application was contrary to the Scheme or not warranted, it ought to have rejected the application. Alternatively, it ought have informed the employee that the compassionate appointment could not be given to his son because he (the employee) had already completed 55 years of age and that it will consider his request for retirement on medical grounds delinking the said issue of retirement, from the request for compassionate appointment. In that event, the employee would have had the option to withdraw his offer itself. Having denied him the opportunity to withdraw the offer, and having retired him by accepting the conditional offer, FCI cannot refuse to comply with the condition subject to which the offer was made.” ASHOK KUMAR MEWARI v. UNION OF 1545 INDIA & OTHERS In the case at hand the appellant applied for voluntary retirement subject to the condition that his son Mukesh Mewari may be appointed in his place, in terms of the Circular dated 14.6.2006. Thus, the prayer of voluntary retirement and to grant compassionate appointment were composite. The respondents by segregating the same, only accepted the prayer for voluntary retirement, without accepting the prayer of compassionate appointment to the appellant’s son. In view of the ratio of the in Ram Kesh Yadav (supra) such action is not justified. It is not the case of the Respondent’s Board that it had informed the appellant that the request of conditional voluntary retirement (as made) was contrary to the Circular, and that the Board was not willing to consider the same. It is also not the case of the Respondent’s Board that it had informed the Appellant that on account of the existing norms, compassionate appointment to his son cannot be granted, and that therefore he has to apply unconditionally for voluntary retirement. In our view, when a request for voluntary retirement has been made subject to the condition stipulated in the letter to grant the compassionate appointment to his son, it ought to be accepted by the Board compositely, i.e., accepting both the requests, or rejected in toto.