Analysis and Findings C 10. From the factual discussion, it is clear that the testator had extensive properties. The appellant is a purchaser of part of the properties. Those properties were sold by Upendra, the testator’s son. In the will, Upendra had not been bequeathed any portion of the properties by the testator; instead Shibu, his son, was an heir and one of the legatees. The D respondent herein filed a suit claiming one-third share; the appellant claimed to be in possession. Though in those proceedings, both courts held that he was not in possession, yet, the plaintiff’s (the present respondent) title was held not proved as he had not sought probate or administration of the testator’s properties. Therefore, the respondent, in E subsequent proceedings, claimed letters of administration. Both courts have held the will to be genuine and upheld the claim for administration by the respondent. 11. The main argument of the appellant is that the application for letters of administration was made after a considerable delay, and that the courts below should not have relied on Section 90 of the Evidence F Act, 1872, which reads as follows: “Section 90 - Presumption as to documents thirty years old Where any document, purporting or proved to be thirty years old, is produced from any custody which the Court in the G particular case considers proper, the Court may presume that the signature and every other part of such document, which purports to be in the handwriting of any particular person, is in that person’s handwriting, and, in the case of a document executed or attested, that it was duly executed and attested H 242 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A by the persons by whom it purports to be executed and attested. Explanation-Documents are said to be in proper custody if they are in the place in which, and under the care of the person with whom, they would naturally be; but no custody is B improper if it is proved to have had a legitimate origin, or the circumstances of the particular case are such as to render such an origin probable. This explanation applies also to section 81.” 12. This court, in M.B. Ramesh (D) by L.Rs. v K.M. Veeraje C Urs (D) by L.Rs. & Ors.,8while dealing with a similar argument regarding applicability of Section 90 in the case of proof of will, held as follows: “At the same time we cannot accept the submission on behalf of the Respondents as well that merely because the will was more than 30 years old, a presumption under Section 90 of D the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (‘Evidence Act’ for short) ought to be drawn that the document has been duly executed and attested by the persons by whom it purports to have been executed and attested. As held by this Court in Bharpur Singh v. Shamsher Singh reported in 2009 (3) SCC 687, a presumption regarding documents 30 years old does not apply E to a will.