The Court took 1128 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. note of the following observations of this Court in L.D. Jaikwal v. State of U.P. [(1984) 3 SCC 405 : 1984 SCC (Cri) 421] : (Ashok Khot case [(2006) 5 SCC 1] , SCC p. 17, para 32) “32. … We are sorry to say we cannot subscribe to the ‘slap— say sorry—and forget’ school of thought in administration of contempt jurisprudence. Saying ‘sorry’ does not make the slapper taken the slap smart less upon the said hypocritical word being uttered. Apology shall not be paper apology and expression of sorrow should come from the heart and not from the pen. For it is one thing to ‘say’ sorry—it is another to ‘feel’ sorry.” The Court, therefore, rejected the prayer and stated: (SCC p. 17, para 31) “31. Apology is an act of contrition. Unless apology is off ered at the earliest opportunity and in good grace, the apology is shorn of penitence and hence it is liable to be rejected. If the apology is off ered at the time when the contemnor fi nds that the court is going to impose punishment it ceases to be an apology and becomes an act of a cringing coward.” Similar view was taken in other cases also by this Court. 77. We are also satisfi ed that the so-called apology is not an act of penitence, contrition or regret. It has been tendered as a “tactful move” when the contemnors are in the tight corner and with a view to ward off the Court. Acceptance of such apology in the case on hand would be allowing the contemnors to go away with impunity after committing gross contempt of Court. In our considered opinion, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, imposition of fi ne in lieu of imprisonment will not meet the ends of justice.” (Emphasis supplied) 108. This Court in Priya Gupta and Another v. Additional Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and Others reported in (2013) 11 SCC 404, held that: “7. Tendering an apology is not a satisfactory way of resolving contempt proceedings. An apology tendered at the very initial stage of BALWANTBHAI SOMABHAI BHANDARI v. HIRALAL 1129 SOMABHAI CONTRACTOR (DECEASED) REP. BY LRS. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] the proceedings being bona fi de and preferably unconditional would normally persuade the court to accept such apology, if this would not leave a serious scar on the dignity/authority of the court and interfere with the administration of justice under the s of the Court. 8. “Bona fi de” is an expression which has to be examined in the context of a given case. It cannot be understood in the abstract. The attendant circumstances, behaviour of the contemnor and the remorse or regret on his part are some of the relevant considerations which would weigh with the Court in deciding such an issue. Where, persistently, a person has attempted to overreach the process of Court and has persisted with the illegal act done in wilful violation to the s of the Court, it will be diffi cult for the Court to accept unconditional apology even if it is made at the threshold of the proceedings.