The Medical Board constituted by the Collector shall visit the hospital for physical examination of the patient and, after studying the medical papers, may concur with the opinion of the Hospital Medical Board. In that event, intimation shall be given by the Chairman of the Collector nominated Medical Board to the JMFC and the family members of the patient. E 199.3. The JMFC shall visit the patient at the earliest and verify the medical reports, examine the condition of the patient, discuss with the family members of the patient and, if satisfied in all respects, may endorse the decision of the Collector nominated Medical Board to withdraw or refuse further medical treatment to the terminally-ill patient. F 199.4. There may be cases where the Board may not take a decision to the effect of withdrawing medical treatment of the patient or the Collector nominated Medical Board may not concur with the opinion of the hospital Medical Board. In such a situation, the nominee of the patient or the family member or the treating doctor or the hospital staff can seek permission from the High G Court to withdraw life support by way of writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution in which case the Chief Justice of the said High Court shall constitute a Division Bench which shall decide to grant approval or not. The High Court may constitute an independent committee to depute three doctors from the fields of general medicine, cardiology, neurology, nephrology, psychiatry H 1144 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A or oncology with experience in critical care and with overall standing in the medical profession of at least twenty years after consulting the competent medical practitioners. It shall also afford an opportunity to the State counsel. The High Court in such cases shall render its decision at the earliest since such matters cannot brook any delay. Needless to say, the High Court shall ascribe B reasons specifically keeping in mind the principle of “best interests of the patient”. 200. Having said this, we think it appropriate to cover a vital aspect to the effect the life support is withdrawn, the same shall also be intimated by the Magistrate to the High Court. It shall be kept in a digital format by the Registry of the High Court apart from keeping C the hard copy which shall be destroyed after the expiry of three years from the death of the patient. 201. Our directions with regard to the Advance Directives and the safeguards as mentioned hereinabove shall remain in force till Parliament makes legislation on this subject.” (3) The applicant has approached this Court within a short period. D The reason for approaching this Court all over again appears to be that in the actual working of the directions, insurmountable obstacles are being posed. For instance, it is pointed out that this Court has provided in paragraph 198.3 that in the case of an Advance Directive which is devised by a person, it should not only be in the presence of two attesting E witnesses who are preferably independent witnesses, but also it should have countersigned by a Judicial First Class Magistrate.