151. But within a couple of years, another opportunity arose in Rudul Sah (supra), which related to the unlawful detention of a prisoner for fourteen years even after his acquittal. This shook the conscience of this Court. Therefore, this Court awarded compensation in an arbitrary G sum of money, even while reserving the right of the petitioner to bring a suit for recovery of appropriate damages. This Court said that the of compensation passed by this Court was in the nature of palliative. When it is suggested by the State that the appropriate remedy would be only to file a suit for damages, this Court said that by refusing to H 114 (1981) 1 SCC 627 KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 713 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] anything (towards compensation), this Court would be doing mere lip- A service to the fundamental right to liberty and that one of the telling ways in which the violation of the right by the State can be reasonably prevented, is to mulct its violators with monetary compensation. 152. After Rudul Sah, there was no looking back. Instead of providing elaborate details, we think it is sufficient to provide in a tabular B form, details of the cases where this Court awarded compensation in public law, invoking the principle of constitutional tort, either expressly or impliedly. C D E F G H 714 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A B C D E F G H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 715 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] A B C D E 153. It will be clear from the decisions listed in the Table above that this Court and the High Courts have been consistent in invoking Constitutional tort whenever an act of omission and commission on the part of a public functionary, including a Minister, caused harm or loss. F But as rightly pointed out by the learned Attorney General in his note, the matter pre-eminently deserves a proper legal framework so that the principles and procedure are coherently set out without leaving the matter open ended or vague. In fact, the First Report of the Law Commission submitted a draft bill way back in 1956. This Court recommended a G legislative measure in Kasturi Lal in 1965 and a bill called Government (Liability in Torts) Bill was introduced in 1967. But nothing happened in the past 55 years. In such circumstances, courts cannot turn a blind eye but may have to imaginatively fashion the remedy to be provided to persons who suffer injury or loss, without turning them away on the ground that there is no proper legal frame work. H 716 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 154. Therefore, our answer to Question No. 5 is as follows: “A mere statement made by a Minister, inconsistent with the rights of a citizen under Part-III of the Constitution, may not constitute a violation of the constitutional rights and become actionable as Constitutional tort. But if as a consequence of such a B statement, any act of omission or commission is done by the officers resulting in harm or loss to a person/citizen, then the same may be actionable as a constitutional tort”.