No. 1 and in the event of failure by the Court the document mortgage deed dated 12.02.57 in below para 9(c) of plaint may be discharged and possession of portion of the G disputed tenanted room may be given to the Plaintiffs and the original possessory mortgage deed dated 12.02.57 may be deposited in the Court and Def. No. 1 may be authorized to take the said deposited amount a decree may be passed. H GANESH PRASAD v. RAJESHWAR PRASAD AND ORS. 909 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] (A-1) That a decree for possession of the Plaintiffs over the A disputed tenanted room described below in the plaint and dispossession of the Defendants may be passed by the Court and Defendants may be ed to remove the tenanted room described below from their possession under inspection of the Court and give possession thereof to the Plaintiffs and in B the event of failure execution of the decree may be done through an officer of the Court/Advocate Commissioner a decree may be passed in favour of the Plaintiffs and against the Defendants. 17. That below the words “description” below the Prayer in C the plaint and above the boundary entire words may be cut and in its place the following words may be added- “One room in Block No. 2-5 A. No. 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 in City Ballia Chowk, Paragana, Ballia, whose 1/3 portion only is mortgaged in the document mortgage deed 2/3 portion is not D mortgaged and the entire room given in the boundary is disputed” 16. The aforesaid amendment as prayed for by the Plaintiffs was opposed by the Defendant by filing his reply. 17. The Civil Judge vide dated 20.05.2013, declined to allow E the amendment as prayed for by the Plaintiffs and accordingly, rejected the application. 18. The Plaintiffs challenged the aforesaid passed by the learned Civil Judge by filing a civil revision application in the Court of the Additional District Judge, Ballia. The District Court vide dated F 25.02.2015, allowed the revision application and permitted the Plaintiffs to amend the plaint, as prayed for. However, as the amendment application was filed after 3 years from the date of the institution of the suit, the revisional court thought fit to impose costs of Rs. 3,000/- upon the Plaintiffs. G 19. The Defendant being dissatisfied with the passed by the Additional District Judge allowing the revision application filed by the Plaintiffs as aforesaid, challenged the said before the High Court by filing a petition under Article 227 of the Constitution. The High Court declined to interfere with the passed by the District Court in exercise H 910 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A of its supervisory jurisdiction and accordingly, rejected the application filed by the Defendant herein vide dated 04.07.2018. 20. The relevant part of the impugned passed by the High Court reads as under: “Sri Chandra Bhan Gupta, learned counsel for the defendant B petitioner submits that the plaintiff-respondents filed the suit in question alleging that suit property was mortgaged and possession of the same may be given to them.