as against 100% of normative coal requirement assured in terms of NCDP, 2007. Insofar as the second issue is concerned, it was held that the Station Heat Rate (“SHR” for short) and Auxiliary consumption should be considered as per the Regulations or actuals, whichever is E lower. The third issue was answered holding that the Start date for the ‘Change in Law’ event for the NCDP, 2013 is 1st April 2013. 33. As such, Issue No. 4 with regard to compensation for shortfall of domestic coal on account of ‘Change in Law’ on account of amendment to the SHAKTI Policy stands covered by our dated F 3rd March 2023 in the case of MSEDCL v. APML and Others (supra). 34. Insofar as the issue with regard to SHAKTI Policy is concerned, the same is considered by us in our s of even date, in Civil Appeal Nos. 677-678 of 2021 and Civil Appeal No. 5684 of 2021, holding therein that the restitutionary principle, as has been applied by G this Court on account of ‘Change in Law’, will also be applicable on account of change occurring due to introduction of SHAKTI Policy. As such, no interference would be warranted with the findings of APTEL on Issue No. 4 in light of the view taken by us in the aforesaid three s. H 662 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 35. Insofar as Issue No. 3 is concerned, a perusal of the impugned and would reveal that MSEDCL itself had sought the carrying cost prescribed in the MYT Tariff Regulations before the State Commission. We, therefore, find that APTEL has rightly held that MSEDCL could not be permitted to raise its claim contrary to what was sought before the State Commission. As such, interference would not B be warranted with the said issue also. 36. Insofar as Issue No. 7 is concerned, in the of this Court in the case of MSEDCL v. APML and Others (supra), we have already held that ‘Change in Law’ compensation shall be calculated based on the SHR specified in the MERC MYT Regulations or the C actual SHR whichever is lower. 37. This Court, in the case of MSEDCL v. APML and Others(supra), after considering the relevant provisions under the Electricity Act, 2003 with regard to constitution of various expert bodies like the CEA, CERC and the learned APTEL, has held that these bodies D are bodies consisting of experts in the field. After considering various s on the issue, this Court observed thus: “123. Recently, the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Vivek Narayan Sharma v. Union of India has held that the Courts should be slow in interfering with the decisions taken by E the experts in the field and unless it is found that the expert bodies have failed to take into consideration the mandatory statutory provisions or the decisions taken are based on extraneous considerations or they are ex facie arbitrary and illegal, it will not be appropriate for this Court to substitute its views with that of the expert bodies.” F 38.