It appears that in an interlocutory proceeding taken out in connection with that suit, ad-interim injunction was granted in favour of the appellant. 6. From the year 2011, there have been several rounds of litigations by and between the rival parties. The of the Registrar, from which the present proceeding originates was passed in pursuance of an earlier Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court in APOT No. 498 of 2015 delivered on 14.01.2016. This records:- “The entire issue in the appeal revolves round the question whether the Registrar of Societies has power to cancel the passed by him on 25-1-2012. An application came to be presented before the Registrar complaining that the application consists of forged signature of one Chung Chis Ping. Admittedly, a criminal case is registered and investigation is pending so far as allegation of forgery is concerned. In that view of the matter the observation of the Registrar that on observation it does not appear that the signature of the other person namely Chung Shih Ping who has signed as Chung Chih Ping has not been forged is premature. On what basis he comes to such fi nding is also not spelt out in the impugned which is under challenge before the learned Single Judge. So far as the question of power of review, apparently there is no substantive power of review provided in the Act in question. So far as the procedural review, it is inherent within the authority who passes the . In that view of the matter, learned Judge was justifi ed in remanding the matter to the Registrar of Societies. Coming to the argument of learned Senior Counsel Mr. Bandopadhyay with regard to sections 25 and 26 of the Societies Registration Act, 1961, we are of the opinion, it has no application since they operate altogether under a diff erent circumstance. It is left to the wisdom of CHEN KHOI KUI v. LIANG MIAO SHENG & ORS. 311 [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] the Registrar in the above circumstances to proceed with the matter keeping in mind the pendency of the criminal investigation as regards allegation of forgery of the signature, as mentioned above. With these observations, the appeal and application are disposed of.” 7. The Registrar had passed an for cancelling the registration on 19.04.2016 and it was, inter-alia, held in this :- “Hence, the matter is taken up for compliance of the Hon’ble Court’s and to avoid further prolixity, I have decided to pass a reasoned . I have gone through the writ applications, Mandamus Appeal, the applications for stay fi le thereon, arguments put forward by the parties in dispute and their learned Advocates and the solemn s passed by the Hon’ble Court and the provisions of law which were referred by the Hon’ble Court as well as the contesting parties. It is evident from Clause- I (a) of the Memorandum of Association of the Chinese Tannery Owners’ Association, that the school in question (Pei May School) at 1 & 2, Iswar Mondal Lane, Kolkata - 700046 shall run under the auspices of the Chinese Tannery owners’ Association registered under West Bengal Societies Registration Act, 1961 having its registration umber S/8546 of 1967-68.