Findings of the Enquiry Offi cer 5) The respondent fi led his detailed reply denying the allegations. An Enquiry Offi cer was appointed. Before the Enquiry Offi cer, the Bank examined seven witnesses and marked twenty four documents. The delinquent employee did not examine any witness but had produced thirty documents. The Enquiry Offi cer, after completion of the enquiry proceedings, analyzed all the oral and documentary evidence and found the respondent guilty for some of the charges levelled and absolved the 658 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. respondent with regard to a few other charges. The presenting Offi cer did not pursue the following charges contained in the chargesheet. “(a) Recommendation of the loan by charged offi cial in respect of M/s. Fotografi ks. (b) Charge vii (b) - The unit had borrowing from Central Bank of India, Avenue Road, Bangalore. (c) Charge II - The infl uence of Shri Ramamurthy of M/s. Bindu Enterprises towards purchase and registration of 21.36 acres of lands.” The following charges were held not proved: “I. Charge No. (ii) (a) pertaining to M/s. Farooq Tanning Control forms in respect of these units were submitted. II. Non reporting of excess drawings permitted in the case of M/s Fotografi ks. III. M/s Ace Photo Reprographers The charge that the unit is not functioning is not proved.” The remaining charges were held proved. 6) With these fi ndings, the Enquiry Offi cer submitted his report dated 23.08.1993 and the records of the enquiry to the Disciplinary Authority. The Disciplinary Authority issued a second show cause notice along with the copy of the Enquiry report to which the respondent fi led a detailed reply. Thereafter, the Disciplinary Authority also issued a notice dated 04.10.1993 setting out the points of disagreement with regard to the Enquiry Offi cer’s fi ndings to which again the respondent furnished a reply. Findings of the Disciplinary Authority and Imposition of Penalty 7) The Disciplinary Authority, by his of 28.12.1994, elaborately considered the matter. He agreed with all the fi ndings of the enquiry offi cer and even on the aspects where the enquiry offi cer held that the charges were not proved, the disciplinary proceeding diff ered STATE BANK OF INDIA v. A.G.D. REDDY 659 [K. V. VISWANATHAN, J.] with the enquiry offi cer on some of those aspects and held the charges to be proved. For example, in the case of a unit - ACE Foto Reprographers not functioning in the premises, while the enquiry offi cer held the charge not proved, the Disciplinary Authority held the charge to be proved. 8) These aspects need not detain the Court any further. As it will be clear from the discussion below, ultimately the charges with regard to not conducting periodical inspections of the units mentioned in the charge and the non-completion of the formalities for creating equitable mortgage over immovable property off ered as collateral security, in the case of M/s Saraswathi Fabricators are the primary aspects that has engaged the attention of this Court.