sell and dispose acquisition of an of sand which asset or of a right was lying on the of enduring nature, surface of a river but merely to obtain bed. stock-in-trade in the form of sand. 15. Lakshmiji Sugar Expenditure R e v e n u e That the said Mills Co. Pvt. Ltd. incurred on expenditure expenditure was vs. Commissioner construction and incurred for the of Income Tax, development of purpose of providing (1972) 82 ITR 376 roads between ease of transportation (SC). diff erent sugarcane to the assessee and p r o d u c i n g facilitating the centres and sugar assessee’s business. factories. There was no evidence to show that without such roads, the assessee would be unable to carry on business. Therefore, the expenditure was incurred merely for commercial expediency. 440 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 16. Devidas Vithaldas Purchase price (as R e v e n u e That the transaction and Co. vs. C.I.T., a percentage of Expenditure did not amount to Bombay City, profits), paid on the sale of goodwill, (1972) 3 SCC 457. acquisition of a as the duration running business, of the payment as as consideration also the amount of for the right to use consideration was the goodwill of the indefinite as they business. depended on the rise and fall in the profi ts of the business. It was held that where the acquisition is not of the goodwill itself but for the rights to use it, the expenditure in the nature of royalty would be a revenue expenditure. 17. Mewar Sugar Mills i. Payment made Payment of two That payment of the Ltd. vs. CIT, (1973) by the assessee percent royalty two per cent royalty 3 SCC 143. to acquire on the sugar on the price of sugar monopoly rights manufacture manufactured by the to manufacture was held to appellant therein sugar in Udaipur; be revenue had no relationship expenditure with the payment ii. 2% royalty while the in reference to the paid to the ruler payment made monopoly conferred of Udaipur State in respect of under the grant on the price the monopoly of the sugar rights obtained manufactured. was held to be of capital nature. C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 441 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 18. Empire Jute Payment made by R e v e n u e The payment made Co. Ltd vs. the assessees for Expenditure by the assessees for Commissioner purchase of loom purchase of loom of Income Tax, hours, and for hours was held to be (1980) 124 ITR 1 allotment of hours expenditure incurred (SC). of work per week, as part of the process under a contractual of profi t earning. The a g r e e m e n t said expense was between various categorised as an mills, restricting outlay of a business the right of every in to carry it mill to work at full on and to earn profi t capacity. out of the expense.