We may notice the following reasoning: H 21 AIR 1977 Madras 79 SABIR ALI KHAN v. SYED MOHD. AHMAD ALI KHAN AND 969 OTHERS [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] “6. The argument of the learned counsel now is that only when A the Wakf Board assumes direct management of the wakf, it can be said to be a manager as contemplated by the third column in Art. 96 of the new Act and that so long as there is no assumption of direct management, the Wakf Board cannot be said to be a manager. I am unable to accept this argument, from one point of B view. Neither S. 42 nor S. 43-A of the Wakfs Act on which reliance has been placed uses the word, “Manager”. The word, “Manager” in relation to a religious or charitable endowment is not a term of art. The said word denotes the person who is in charge of the administration of the endowment or manages the property or supervises the performance of the charity and the word is one of C very wide and general import. As a matter of fact, the of Natarajan J., has referred to the provisions contained in S. 15(2) of the Wakfs Act. S. 15(1) of the Wakfs Act provides that subject to any rules that may be made under the said Act, the general superintendence of all Wakfs in a State shall vest in the D Board established for the State; and it shall be the duty of the Board so to exercise its powers under the Act as to ensure that the Wakfs under its superintendence are properly maintained, controlled and administered and the income thereof is duly applied to the objects and for the purposes for which such Wakfs were created or intended. Sub-S. (2) or S. 15, without prejudice to the E generality of the powers conferred by Sub-S (1) by way of illustration, enumerates certain specified power also. One such specified power so enumerated is contained in S. 15(2)(h), which enables the Wakf Board to take measures for the recovery of lost properties of any Wakf. S. 15(2)(i) also enables the Wakf Board F to institute and defend suits and proceedings in a court of law relating to Wakfs The combined effect of S. 15(1) and 15(2) of the Wakfs Act will certainly be sufficient to designate the Wakf Board as a manager for the purpose of recovery of possession of Wakf property and consequently it can certainly be termed as “Manager” contemplated by the third column to Art. 96 of the G new Limitation Act and if so construed, the constitution of the Wakf Board under the statute can certainly be construed to be the appointment of the Wakf Board as Manager of the Wakf in question, because even the word, “appointment” just like the word, “Manager” is not a term of art and therefore has to receive its H ordinary, natural and normal meaning.” 970 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 31.