(b) ……. (bb) ……. (c) in respect of those goods only which are manufactured in a G unit which has undertaken expansion, diversification or modernisation on or after April 1, 1990, and which in the case of diversification, are different from the goods manufactured before such diversification, and in the case of expansion or modernisation are additional production as a result of such H expansion or modernisation; and AMD INDUSTRIES LTD. v. COMMISSIONER OF TRADE TAX, 1043 LUCKNOW & ANR [M. R. SHAH, J.] (3) ……. A (4) ……. (5) “Unit which has undertaken expansion, diversification or modernisation” means an industrial undertaking— (a) ……. (b) whose first date of production of goods,— B (i) of a nature different from those manufactured earlier by such undertaking, in case of units undertaking diversification, and (ii) manufactured in excess of base production in such undertaking, in case of units undertaking expansion or C modernisation, falls at any time after March 31, 1990; (c) the production capacity whereof except as provided in the proviso to sub-section (1) has increased by atleast twenty-five percent as a result of expansion or modernisation, or wherein goods of a nature different from those manufactured earlier D are manufactured after diversification;” 8.1 Thus, on a fair reading of the aforesaid provisions, it is clear that in case of “diversification” the goods manufactured by diversification shall be different from the goods manufactured before such diversification [Section 4-A(2)(c)]. E 8.2 In the case of “expansion or modernization”, the exemption shall be available, if there is an additional production as a result of such modernization or expansion. In the present case, we are concerned with the case of “diversification”. Therefore, the goods manufactured after diversification must be different goods from the goods manufactured before such diversification. As per the settled position of law, in case of F an exemption notification/exemption provision, the same is required to be construed literally and the person claiming the exemption must satisfy all the conditions of exemption provision. 8.3 In the present case, the appellant was manufacturing / producing “Spun Line Crown Cork” used for sealing the glass bottles. With the use G of modern technologies, now the appellant is manufacturing “Double Lip Dry Blend Crowns”, which is also used for sealing the glass bottles. The earlier product being manufactured by the appellant was used for sealing glass bottles and subsequently the additional product produced with the use of modern technology is also being used for the same purpose namely, “sealing glass bottles”. Therefore, the same cannot be said to H 1044 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A be manufacturing of goods different from being manufactured before such diversification. With the passage of time, due to advancement in technology, if there is a replacement of the old machinery with the new machinery for improvement in quality and quantity of a product, at the most, it can be said to be expansion and/or modernization, but it cannot be said to be “diversification”, which is “manufacturing of goods different B from the goods manufactured before such diversification”.