In this background, the Act, 1899 merely creates a temporary infliction till the stamp duty is recovered, with or without penalty. The affliction only attaches to the instrument and not the transaction. 27. Mr. K. Ramakanth Reddy, learned senior counsel for C respondent no.1 took us through the relevant Lok Sabha debates before the enactment of the Act, 1996 and taking assistance thereof submits that the provisions of the Act 1996, Act 1899 and the Contract Act, 1872 (hereinafter being referred to as “Act, 1872”)has to be harmonized. Section 17 of Act, 1899 has to be read with Section 31 of the Act, 1899. D The plain language of Section 7 of the Act, 1996 does not require that the parties are under anobligation to stamp the agreement. The legislative intention would be defeated, if the Court insist on non-core technical requirements such as stamps, seals and originals for the purpose of acting upon the arbitration agreement at a pre-arbitration stage for appointment of an arbitrator invoking power under Section 11(6A) of the Act, 1996. E 28. Learned counsel for the respondents, further submits that in the instant facts of the case, an application was filed under Section 8 for reference of disputes to arbitration and it was not maintainable under Section 34 of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958 which is almost parimateria to the Act, 1899. The work being an unstamped F document could not be received in evidence for any purpose, or acted upon, unless it is duly stamped. In consequence thereof, the arbitration clause in the unstamped agreement also could not be acted upon or enforced since the arbitration clause would have no existence in law, unless the applicable stamp duty(and penalty, if any) is paid on the work G and placed reliance on the of this Court in Garware Wall Ropes Limited (supra). 29. Learned counsel further submits that the High Court, while relying on the application under Section 8 had enforced a non-existent H 10 (2005) 7 SCC 234 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 397 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] arbitration clause which is in violation of Section 34 of the Maharashtra A Stamp Act, 1958 and further contended that the respondent had not indicated its willingness to pay the stamp duty, even though, at later stage, an objection was raised and, therefore, no justification arises to grant any further opportunity to now pay the stamp duty under the clause of arbitration. B 30. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and with their assistance perused the material available on record and before delving into the reference, we feel apposite to discuss the statutory provisions related to the reference. III. Requirements under the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 C 31. The Act, 1899 is a fiscal statute laying down the law relating to tax levied in the form of stamps on instruments recording transactions. The stamp duties on instruments specified in Entry 91 of List I(Union List) of Schedule VII of the Constitution of India (viz.