for the Respondents. The of the Court was delivered by SURYA KANT, J. D 1. Leave granted. 2. The Appellants in the two Criminal Appeals, the Central Bureau of Investigation & Rupesh Balwantbhai Brambhatt (hereinafter, “complainant”) respectively, are aggrieved by the dated 19th E December, 2022 passed by the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad allowing the anticipatory bail application filed by Respondent No. 1 in connection with FIR registered as C.R. No. RC0292022A0011 of 2022 before CBI/ACB/Gandhinagar Police Station, District Gandhinagar for the offence under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 as amended in 2018. F BACKGROUND 3. The complainant is a businessman engaged in the construction business that goes by the name: Safal Construction Pvt. Ltd. In February 2019, Respondent No. 1, an IRS Officer, posted as Additional G Commissioner of Income Tax, Ahmedabad, conducted a survey for the financial year 2018-19 under Section 133A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 against Safal Construction Pvt. Ltd. whereunder the group disclosed an additional income of Rs. 50 crores. H CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. SANTOSH 481 KARNANI & ANR. [SURYA KANT, J.] 4. Thereafter, in September 2021, search and seizure action was A initiated by the Investigation Wing of Income Tax Department, Ahmedabad against Safal Construction Pvt. Ltd. Following these searches, some papers related to the complainant’s business were seized and the Central Circle, Range-1 Division initiated the procedure for raising a demand notice. It is the complainant’s case that he found out that B Respondent No. 1 was handling his case and would be preparing the appraisal memo. Subsequently, the complainant and Respondent No. 1 met frequently in connection with the case and it is alleged that during these interactions, Respondent No. 1 threatened to ruin the complainant’s business and demanded illegal gratification. C 5. On 29th September, 2022, Respondent No. 1 allegedly contacted the complainant and told him to meet him on 3rd October, 2022. Accordingly, the complainant met Respondent No. 1 at the Income Tax Office where Respondent No. 1 demanded illegal gratification of Rs. 30 lakhs to help the complainant with his case. This conversation was recorded by the complainant on a Digital Voice Rec which has D been handed over to the investigating authorities and a transcript of the same has also been provided to this Court. The complainant was directed to deposit the amount in the account of one Vardhman in the Dhara Angadia Firm. 6. The complainant lodged a complaint the next morning with ACB E Police Station, Ahmedabad city at 07:15 hours and a trap was then laid. The complainant’s employee was sent to the Angadia firm with the bribe money amounting to Rs. 30 lakhs along with personnel from the ACB trap team. Upon depositing Rs. 30 lakhs with Dhara Angadia firm, the complainant contacted Respondent No. 1 through WhatsApp call which F was recorded by the ACB team wherein Respondent No. 1 acknowledged payment of the amount. Immediately thereafter, one ACB team went to detain and arrest Respondent No.