2. The second petition seeks more specifically, a direction for upholding the constitutional rights of the Limboo-Tamang Scheduled Tribe to reservation of seats in the Sikkim Legislative Assembly. It seeks directions to amend/strike down the Notification of the Delimitation Commission dated 4 September 2006 and the Delimitation of Parliamentary and Assembly Constituencies 20081 to the extent that they do not provide for reservations for members of the Limboo-Tamang Scheduled Tribe. It additionally seeks directions to the eff ect that Section 7(1A) of the Representation of People’s Act2 is ultra vires the Constitution for the same reason. The petitioner seeks directions to the Delimitation Commission as 1 “2006 Notifi cation” and “2008 ” 2 “RP Act” 108 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. well as the Election Commission to eff ectuate the mandate of Article 332 of the Constitution, in respect of Limboo Tamang Scheduled Tribe, by undertaking necessary changes to the 2006 Notifi cation and the 2008 . Constitutional Framework 3. Article 342 of the Constitution empowers the President to specify the tribal communities of the country which will be designated as Scheduled Tribes. Communities so designated by the President in the Scheduled Tribes or later added by amendment are treated as Scheduled Tribes for the purpose of the Constitution, according to Article 366 (25). 4. Article 330 of the Constitution provides for reservation of seats for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the House of the People. Clause (2) of Article 330 states that the number of seats reserved in a State or Union Territory for the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes under clause (1) “shall bear, as nearly as may be, the same proportion to the total number of seats allotted to that State or Union Territory in the House of People as the population of Scheduled Castes or Schedule Tribes in that State or Union Territory bears to the total population of the State or Union Territory”. 5. Similar provisions are contained in clause (3) of Article 3323 which mandates the reservation of seats for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the Legislative Assemblies of the States. Clause (3) stipulates that the number of seats so reserved for the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes shall be in proportion to the population of the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes in the State to the total population of the State. 3 332. Reservation of seats for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the Legislative Assemblies of the States.—(1) Seats shall be reserved for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, 8 [except the Scheduled Tribes in the autonomous districts of Assam], in the Legislative Assembly of every State. … (3) The number of seats reserved for the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes in the Legislative Assembly of any State under clause (1) shall bear, as nearly as may be, the same proportion to the total number of seats in the Assembly as the population of the Scheduled Castes in the State or of the Scheduled Tribes in the State or part of the State, as the case may be, in respect of which seats are so reserved, bears to the total population of the State.