On the other hand, ‘Hazardous cleaning’ is defi ned under Section 2(d) as: “(d) “hazardous cleaning” by an employee, in relation to a sewer or septic tank, means its manual cleaning by such employee without the employer fulfi lling his obligations to provide protective gear and other cleaning devices and ensuring observance of safety precautions, as may be prescribed or provided in any other law, for the time being in force or rules made thereunder;” 45 Union of India’s affi davit dated 5.7.2023. 112 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. ‘Septic tank’ and ‘Sewer’ are in turn defi ned under Section 2(p) and 2(q) respectively: “(p) “septic tank” means a water-tight settling tank or chamber, normally located underground, which is used to receive and hold human excreta, allowing it to decompose through bacterial activity;” “(q) “sewer” means an underground conduit or pipe for carrying off human excreta, besides other waste matter and drainage wastes;” 82. A perusal of the defi nition would reveal that a person employed for hazardous cleaning has nexus to a sewer or septic tank. The defi nition of sewer and septic tank would reveal that they are concerned with human excreta and other wastes. It must also be noticed that hazardous cleaning is permitted if protective gear and cleaning devices are provided. These are prescribed under the 2013 Rules. Even though both a hazardous cleaner and a manual scavenger deal with human excreta, the statute only penalizes hazardous cleaning and does not provide for subsequent steps for rehabilitation of hazardous cleaners. Ms. Jayna Kothari, Senior Advocate, urged that the diff erence in the treatment between manual scavenging and hazardous cleaning violates Article 14 as there is no rational diff erentiation between the two. However, this court is not faced with a challenge to the statute in this case. Without a challenge to the provisions, the diff erentiation cannot be held unconstitutional. MECHANIZATION 83. While the statutory scheme does not provide for rehabilitation of hazardous workers, especially those who work in sewers, the constitutional underpinnings of the 2013 Act and the prohibition of untouchability must inure to their benefi t. Hazardous cleaning, like manual scavenging, is a manifestation of untouchability, and has been abolished by the adoption of Article 17 of the Constitution. This is also evident through the Civil Rights Act, 1955 which specifi cally proscribes scavenging under Section 7A, as being an instance of untouchability. 84. To this end, the 2013 Act and Rules provide for mechanization of hazardous cleaning through ‘cleaning devices’ and ‘protective gear’. Rule DR. BALRAM SINGH v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 1125 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 3 of the 2013 Rules beings with the words “no person shall be allowed to clean a sewer manually with the protective gear and safety devices under these rules except …” A scrutiny of the exceptions under the Rule reveals that the situations are only where mechanical equipment cannot be put into operation or when the sewer is not yet operational. In other circumstances, specifi c approval of the CEO of the local authority is required where he reasons that it is absolutely necessary to have manual sewage cleaning in writing with valid reasons.