There, the facts were that an agent delivered goods to the customer contrary to the instructions of the principal, who thereafter fi led a suit against the purchaser for price of goods and obtained a decree. Not having obtained satisfaction, the principal next fi led a suit against the agent for damages on the ground of negligence and breach of duty. It was held that such an action was barred. The ground of the decision is that when on the same facts, a person has the right to claim one of two reliefs and with full knowledge he elects to claim 994 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. one and obtains it, it is not open to him thereafter to go back on his election and claim the alternative relief. The principle was thus stated by Bankes, L.J. : (Verschures Creameries Ltd. case [(1921) 2 KB 608 (CA)] , KB p. 611) ‘… Having elected to treat the delivery to him as an authorised delivery they cannot treat the same act as a misdelivery. To do so would be to approbate and reprobate the same act.’ The observations of Scrutton, L.J. on which the appellants rely are as follows : (Verschures Creameries Ltd. case [(1921) 2 KB 608 (CA)], KB pp. 611-12) ‘… A plaintiff is not permitted to “approbate and reprobate”. The phrase is apparently borrowed from the Scotch law, where it is used to express the principle embodied in our doctrine of election — namely, that no party can accept and reject the same instrument : Ker v. Wauchope [(1819) 1 Bligh PC 1 at p. 21 : 4 ER 1 at p. 8] : Douglas-Menzies v. Umphelby [1908 AC 224 at p. 232 (PC)] . The doctrine of election is not however confi ned to instruments. A person cannot say at one time that a transaction is valid and thereby obtain some advantage, to which he could only be entitled on the footing that it is valid, and then turn round and say it is void for the purpose of securing some other advantage. That is to approbate and reprobate the transaction.’ It is clear from the above observations that the maxim that a person cannot “approbate and reprobate” is only one application of the doctrine of election, and that its operation must be confi ned to reliefs claimed in respect of the same transaction and to the persons who are parties thereto. The law is thus stated in Halsbury’s Laws of England, Vol. XIII, p. 464, para 512: ‘On the principle that a person may not approbate and reprobate, a species of estoppel has arisen which seems to be intermediate between estoppel by record and estoppel in pais, and may conveniently be referred to here. Thus a party cannot, after taking advantage under an (e.g. payment of costs), be heard to say that it is invalid and ask to set it aside, or to set up to the prejudice MUMTAZ YARUD DOWLA WAKF v. M/S BADAM 995 BALAKRISHNA HOTEL PVT.