Rule 9 deals with the selection of candidates for inclusion of their names in Register A-1. According to this Rule, the Financial Commissioner and Principal Secretary to Government (hereinafter referred as, the Commissioner) is required to prepare a list of District Revenue Offi cer/ Tehsildars not more than fi ve times the number of vacancies and submit this list to the Committee5 for its consideration. Only such names are to be forwarded to the Commission who satisfy the conditions set out in clauses (a) and (b) of Rule 9. Clause (a) of Rule 9 contains four sub clauses. In that sense, the conditions set out in clauses (a) and (b) of Rule 9 provide the eligibility criteria for selection of candidates in Register A-1. We shall advert to the relevant clauses in due course. 5. Once the names are entered in the Register, Rule 17 provides that the Government of Haryana shall make appointments to the Service from amongst the candidates whose names are entered in the various registers on a rotational basis. these rules in one or other of the registers of Accepted Candidates to be maintained under these rules: Provided that if in the opinion of the Government the exigencies of the Service so require, the Government may make special recruitment to the Service by such methods as it may by notifi cation specify, after consultation with the Commission. 4 Rule 8- The following Registers of Accepted Candidates shall be maintained by the Chief Secretary, namely:- (a) Register A-I of District Revenue Offi cers/Tahsildars accepted as candidates; (b) Register A-II of members of Group C Service accepted as candidates; (c) Register B of Persons accepted as candidates as a result of a competitive examination for the post of the Haryana Civil Services (Executive Branch) ; and (d) Register C of District Development and Panchayat Offi cer/Block Development and Panchayat Offi cers. 5 Rule 9 of 2008 Rules states that the Committee shall comprise of a Chief Sectary as the Chairman and two such other offi cers as members, as may be nominated by the Government from time to time. 105 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 6. Dinesh Singh (Respondent no. 1) was one among several candidates, who was seeking appointment to the post in the Service. He was appointed in the Department of Revenue and Disaster Management (Appellant no. 3; hereinafter, ‘the Department’) on 12.08.2008 as a Naib Tehsildar, and at the time of fi ling the original Writ Petition, was serving in the post of Tehsildar. The Department has found Dinesh Singh, among several others, to be ineligible for selection to Register A-1 on the ground that he did not satisfy the eligibility condition set out in sub clause (iii) of clause (a) of Rule 9. Rule 9 (a)(iii) reads as follows: “is not facing disciplinary proceedings and against whom action is not being contemplated”. 7. According to the Department, Dinesh Singh, though was not facing any disciplinary proceedings, there was action being contemplated against him as on date of consideration, which resulted in him being declared ineligible for selection.