Third, when the parties append their signatures to a contract containing an arbitration agreement, they are regarded in eff ect as independently appending their signatures to the arbitration agreement. The reason is that the parties intend to treat an arbitration agreement contained in an underlying contract as distinct from the other terms of the contract; and Fourth, the validity of an arbitration agreement, in the face of the invalidity of the underlying contract, allows the arbitral tribunal to assume jurisdiction and decide on its own jurisdiction by determining the existence and validity of the arbitration agreement. In the process, the separability presumption gives eff ect to the doctrine of competence-competence. 113. In view of the legal position, we now proceed to analyze the correctness of the decision in N N Global 2 (supra). The Constitution Bench acknowledged the separability presumption, but refused to apply it in the context of Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act. The relevant observation of the Court is as follows: “157. […] The evolution of the principle that an arbitration is a separate and distinct agreement from the contract, would indicate that it would have no play in the context of the duty of a Court, within the meaning of Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act, to act in consonance therewith.” 114 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 114. The above position of law is contrary to the separability presumption which treats an arbitration agreement as separate from the underlying contract. G*. The doctrine of competence-competence 115. The doctrine of kompetenz-kompetenz (also known as competence-competence), as originally developed in Germany, was traditionally understood to imply that arbitrators are empowered to make a fi nal ruling on their own jurisdiction, with no subsequent judicial review of the decision by any court.116 However, many jurisdictions allow an arbitral tribunal to render a decision on its jurisdiction, subject to substantive judicial review.117 116. It is a well-recognized principle of public international law that a legal authority possessing adjudicatory powers has the right to decide its own jurisdiction.118 Similarly, it is a general rule of international arbitration law that an arbitral tribunal has the power to determine its own jurisdiction. The ability of an arbitral tribunal to determine its own jurisdiction is an important facet of arbitration jurisprudence because it gives eff ect to the separability presumption. The separability presumption insulates the arbitration agreement from the defects of the underlying contract, and thereby ensures the sustenance of the tribunal’s jurisdiction over the substantive rights and obligations of the parties under the underlying contract even after such a contract is put to an end. The doctrine of competence-competence allows the tribunal to decide on all substantive issues arising out of the underlying contract, including the existence and validity of the arbitration agreement. i. Comparative analysis 117. The doctrine of competence-competence is now a part of all major jurisdictions. Section 30 of the UK Arbitration Act provides that the arbitral tribunal may rule on its own substantive jurisdiction with respect to: fi rst, whether there is a valid arbitration agreement; second, whether the * Ed.