He has taken us to the map showing that except the plot/land in question of the original writ petitioners and others, all other major chunk of the lands have been released from acquisition. He has vehemently submitted that out of total land approximately 46.49 acres G for which the notification under Section 4 was issued, land measuring 10.83 acres came to be excluded at the stage of inquiry under Section 5 A. The award came to be declared with respect to the land measuring 34.61 acres only and thereafter, the land measuring 26.83 acres came to be further released after the award was passed and the land measuring H 24 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 7.78 acres came to be continued under acquisition, out of which further two writ petitions are pending with respect to the land measuring 4.056 acres and 1.125 acres and it is submitted that only small plot(s) of the original writ petitioners have not been released, which has already been observed and held by the High Court that the same is discriminatory and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. B 4.1 Shri Neeraj Kumar Jain, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the original writ petitioners has further submitted that one Vipin Jindal whose lands was declared under the same notification, filed writ petition (CWP) No. 3780/2008 before the High Court challenging the acquisition and also praying for release of the land(s) from acquisition, C which came to be dismissed by the High Court vide dated 13.03.2008. It is submitted that the said Vipin Jindal filed civil appeal(s) before this Court and this Court disposed of the said civil appeal(s) by permitting the land owner(s) to file a representation before the appropriate authority of the State Government to release the land from acquisition. D It is submitted that this Court has specifically observed that somewhat inconsistent stand has been taken on the part of the State Government and if, similarly situated persons had been granted relief, the appellant therein ought to be granted similar relief. It is submitted that thereafter, land belonging to the said Vipin Jindal has been released by dated 02.08.2016 on the condition that he will return the compensation amount E received by him to the department along with interest and he will surrender the land falling in the road alignment HUDA. 4.2 Shri Neeraj Kumar Jain, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the original writ petitioners has also taken us to the and passed by the High Court in writ petition No. 5732/1988, by F which, the High Court has quashed the acquisition. Shri Neeraj Kumar Jain, learned Senior Advocate has also taken us to the and passed by the High Court in CWP No. 11377/1988, by which, the High Court quashed the acquisition by observing that the State Government withdrew from acquisition some of the area which belonged G to the then Speaker of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha and another portion belonging to the Radha Swami Satsang, Kurukshetra.