[Para 1] Evidence – Admissibility of documents – Diff erence between inadmissibility and voidness – Contract Act, 1872 – s.2(g). Held (per Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, Sanjay Kishan Kaul, B.R Gavai, Surya Kant, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ. ): The admissibility of an instrument in evidence is distinct from its validity or enforceability in law – An agreement can be void without its nature as a void agreement having an impact on whether it may be introduced in evidence – Similarly, an agreement can be valid but inadmissible in evidence – When an agreement is void, one is speaking of its enforceability in a court of law – When it is inadmissible, one is referring to whether the court may consider or rely upon it while adjudicating the case – This is the essence of the diff erence between voidness and admissibility. [Paras 44, 45 and 46] Indian Stamp Act, 1899 – Purpose of. Held (per Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, Sanjay Kishan Kaul, B.R Gavai, Surya Kant, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ. ): IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1083 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 The Stamp Act is a fi scal legislation which is intended to raise revenue for the government – It is a mandatory statute. [Para 58] Arbitration – Principle of arbitral autonomy – Doctrines / Principles. Held (per Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, Sanjay Kishan Kaul, B.R Gavai, Surya Kant, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ. ): The principle of arbitral autonomy is an integral element of the ever-evolving domain of arbitration law – Arbitral autonomy means that the parties to an arbitration agreement can exercise their contractual freedom to bestow the arbitral tribunal with the authority to decide disputes that may arise between them – The basis of arbitral autonomy is to give eff ect to the true intention of parties to distance themselves from the “risk of domestic judicial parochialism. [Para 66] Doctrines / Principles – Principle of judicial interference in arbitration proceedings – Scope of non-obstante clause contained in s.5 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 – Legislative intention. Held (per Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, Sanjay Kishan Kaul, B.R Gavai, Surya Kant, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ. ): The principle of judicial non-interference in arbitral proceedings serves to proscribe judicial interference in arbitral proceedings, which would undermine the objective of the parties in agreeing to arbitrate their disputes, their desire for less formal and more fl exible procedures, and their desire for neutral and expert arbitral procedures – The principle of judicial non-interference in arbitral proceedings respects the autonomy of the parties to determine the arbitral procedures – This principle has also been incorporated in international instruments – s.5 of the Arbitration Act is of aid in interpreting the extent of judicial interference under ss.8 and 11 of the Arbitration Act – s.5 contains a general rule of judicial non-interference – Therefore, every provision of the Arbitration Act ought to be construed in view of s.5 to give true eff ect to the legislative intention of minimal judicial intervention.