In that context it was submitted that the Appellant herein would have ties not only with Maya Motghare, his adoptive mother, but also with her deceased husband, Shridar B Chimurkar, more so because, as on the date of adoption, she had not re-married. That, as on the date of adoption of the Appellant, Maya Motghare was the widow of Shridar Chimurkar and therefore, the Appellant would be the adopted son of Shridar Chimurkar also and all enumerated consequences of such adoption would necessarily follow. C With the aforesaid averments, it was prayed that the present appeal be allowed by setting aside the impugned of the High Court and restoring the of the Tribunal. 6. Per contra, learned Additional Solicitor General Mrs. Madhvi D Goradia Divan, appearing on behalf of the Union of India submitted that the impugned is based on a faultless appreciation of the law and does not call for interference by this Court. 6.1. It was submitted that Rule 54 (14) (b) of the CCS (Pension) Rules, does not cover adoption by a widow of a government E servant, after the death of such a government servant. Therefore, the said rule could not be invoked for grant of family pension to the Appellant herein. That the definition of ‘family’ in relation to a government servant, as provided under Rule 54 (14) (b) of the CCS (Pension) Rules, is not F expansive enough to take within its sweep a child adopted by the widow of a government servant after his death. 6.2. It was contended that reliance placed by the learned Counsel for the Appellant on Section 8 and 12 of HAMA Act, 1956, was misplaced. That the said provisions merely G recognize that a female Hindu, including a widow, could adopt a child under the provisions of the said Act. However, the said provisions are irrelevant to the present case, which pertains not merely to a question as to the capacity of a Hindu widow to adopt, but involves issues of entitlement of a child so adopted by a Hindu widow, to family pension on H SHRI RAM SHRIDHAR CHIMURKAR v. UNION OF INDIA & 939 ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA J.] the death of the government servant. A 6.3. It was next contended that the adoption of the Appellant by Maya Motghare, who was the widow of deceased government servant Shridar Chimurkar, would not relate back to the date of his retirement from service. Therefore, the appellant could not claim family pension, in his capacity B as the adopted son of Shridar Chimurkar. With the aforesaid averments it was prayed on behalf of the Respondents that the present appeal be dismissed as being devoid of merit, and the impugned of the High Court be affirmed. C Points for Consideration: 7. Having regard to the submissions of the learned Senior Counsel and learned Counsel for the respective parties, the following points would arise for our consideration: i. Whether a child adopted by a widow of a government D servant, subsequent to the death of the government servant would be included within the scope of the definition of ‘family’ under Rule 54 (14) (b) of the CCS (Pension) Rules, and would therefore be entitled to receive family pension payable under the said Rules?