): The signature of a party on the agreement is the most profound expression of the consent of a person or entity to submit to the jurisdiction of an arbitral tribunal – However, the corollary that persons or entities who have not signed the agreement are not bound by it may not always be correct – The issue of who is a “party” to an arbitration agreement is primarily an issue of consent. [Para 66] Words and Phrases – Arbitration agreement – Term “non- signatories” – Meaning of: Held (per Dr. Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, Hrishikesh Roy, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ. ): The term “non- signatories”, instead of the traditional “third parties”, seems the most suitable to describe situations where consent to arbitration is expressed through means other than signature – A non-signatory is a person or entity that is implicated in a dispute which is the subject matter of an arbitration, although it has not formally entered into an arbitration agreement – Non- COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 623 signatories, by virtue of their relationship with the signatory parties and active involvement in the performance of commercial obligations which are intricately linked to the subject matter, are not actually strangers to the dispute between the signatory parties. [Paras 66, 127] Arbitration – Group of companies doctrine in Indian arbitration jurisprudence – Relevance –Doctrines / Principles: Held (per Dr. Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, Hrishikesh Roy, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ. ): The group of companies doctrine is a consent-based doctrine which has been applied, for identifying the real intention of the parties to bind a non-signatory to an arbitration agreement – The group of companies doctrine should be retained in the Indian arbitration jurisprudence considering its utility in determining the intention of the parties in the context of complex transactions involving multiple parties and multiple agreements. [Paras 81, 165] Corporate Law – Principle of corporate separateness – Separate legal personality: Held (per Dr. Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, Hrishikesh Roy, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ. ): The entities within a corporate group have separate legal personality, which cannot be ignored save in exceptional circumstances such as fraud – The distinction between a parent company and its subsidiary is fundamental, and cannot be easily abridged by taking recourse to economic convenience – Legally, the rights and liabilities of a parent company cannot be transferred to the subsidiary company, and vice versa, unless, there is a strong legal basis for doing so – The underlying basis for the application of the group of companies doctrine rests on maintaining the corporate separateness of the group companies while determining the common intention of the parties to bind the non-signatory party to the arbitration agreement. [Paras 89, 165] Arbitration – Group of companies doctrine – Adopting a pragmatic approach to consent: Held (per Dr. Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, Hrishikesh Roy, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ.