Kapur Vs. State of Punjab5 and State of Haryana Vs. Bhajan Lal and Ors.6 were next cited for highlighting the categories of cases where inherent jurisdiction can and should be exercised by the high courts to quash proceedings; however, having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case presented before the High Court by AS and YS, Mr. Hegde contended that the F court ought to have declined interference. 26. Mr. Hegde further relied on the decision of this Court in Rajesh Bajaj Vs. State (NCT of Delhi)]7for the proposition that if the factual foundation for the offence has been laid in the complaint, the court should not hasten to quash criminal proceedings during investigation stage merely G on the premise that one or two ingredients have not been stated with 4 (2021) SCC OnLine SC 923 5 (1960) 3 SCR 388 6 1992 SUPP. (1) SCC 335 7 (1999) 3 SCC 259 H 146 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A details. According to him, quashing of a first information report is a step which is permitted only in extremely rare cases such as, the information in the complaint must be so bereft of even the basic facts which are absolutely necessary for making out the offence. The FIR, in the present case, does contain definite particulars making out the offences complained of. That apart, the preliminary inquiry carried out before registration of B the FIR has revealed disproportionate assets to the tune of 20% of the income of AS; hence, it was not an appropriate case where the power to quash the FIR should have been exercised. 27. While concluding, Mr. Hegde submitted that the High Court having travelled beyond the well-settled parameters of exercise of C jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution, the impugned and merits to be set aside. 28. Mr. Mahesh Jethmalani, learned senior counsel appearing for AS and YS, opposed the appeals. Reiterating the contentions that found favour with the High Court, he contended that the High Court rightly D concluded that investigation of the FIR, which did not prima facie disclose commission of any cognizable offence by either AS or YS, would be nothing but an abuse of the process of law and compelling AS and YS to join the investigation would amount to undue and unnecessary harassment. 29. By referring to the facts preceding registration of the FIR, E Mr. Jethmalani sought to impress us that ever since the political dispensation underwent a change in the State of Chhattisgarh, AS and YS have been the target of the new dispensation. Misusing the police machinery, no stone has been left unturned to falsely implicate AS and YS. Initially a departmental inquiry was initiated against YS vide an dated 10th May, 2019 and no sooner had the High Court by an F dated 21st October, 2019 granted interim protection to YS, further action was taken to initiate a preliminary inquiry against AS and YS on 11th November, 2009. That apart, quite mischievously, the FIR was suddenly registered during the pendency of WPCR 88/2020 to render the same infructuous.