16. Section 4(2) lays down that the provisions of the CrPC shall apply to all off ences under any other law apart from the IPC. However, the application of the CrPC will be excluded only where a special law prescribes special procedures to deal with the investigation, inquiry, or the trial of the special off ence. For instance, in Mirza Iqbal Hussain v. State of Uttar Pradesh,8 this Court was called upon to determine whether the trial court had jurisdiction to pass an of confi scation under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947. This Court held that the provisions of the CrPC would apply in full force because the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 did not provide for confi scation or prescribed any mode by which an of confi scation could be made. Therefore, it was held that a court trying an off ence under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 was empowered to pass an of confi scation in view of Section 452 of the CrPC. In determining whether a special procedure will override the general procedure laid down under the CrPC, the courts have to ascertain whether the special law excludes, either specifi cally or by necessary implication, the application of the provisions of the CrPC. 17. The CrPC provides the method for conducting investigation, inquiry, and trial with the ultimate objective of determining the guilt of the accused in terms of the substantive law. The criminal proceedings kick in when the information of the commission of an off ence is provided to the police or the magistrate. Section 154 of the CrPC details the procedure for recording the fi rst information in relation to the commission of a cognizable off ence. It provides that any information relating to the commission of a cognizable off ence if given orally to an offi cer in charge of a police station shall be reduced into writing by them or under their direction. The information provided by the informant is known as the FIR.9 18. In Lalita Kumari v. Government of U P,10 a Constitution Bench of this Court held that the main object of an FIR from the point of the view of the informant is to set the criminal law in motion and from the point of 8 (1982) 3 SCC 516 9 T T Antony v. State of Kerala, (2001) 6 SCC 181 10 (2014) 2 SCC 1 306 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. view of the investigating authorities is to obtain information about the alleged criminal activity to take suitable steps to trace and punish the guilty. The criminal proceedings are initiated in the interests of the public to apprehend and punish the guilty.11 It is a well settled principle of law that absent a specifi c bar or exception contained in a statutory provision, the criminal law can be set into motion by any individual.12 19. In A R Antulay v. Ramdas Sriniwas Nayak,13 a Constitution Bench of this Court held that the concept of locus standi of the complainant is not recognized in the criminal jurisprudence, except in situations where the statute creating an off ence provides for the eligibility of the complainant.