The Court on that occasion had relied upon previous rulings in Saraswati Sugar Mills vs. Commissioner of D Central Excise, (2014) 15 SCC 625). In Saraswati Sugar Mills (supra), the Court had the occasion to deal with what constitutes the word “COMPONENT”. 7. This Court after relying upon Saraswati Sugar Mills (Supra) and taking aid from the dictionaries held that the Guide Car could not be E said to be a component of the Coke Oven Battery. It was submitted that by the same analogy, the pumping units, air compressors, pumps, pipes, wire mesh, steel angle plates and outward engine boat, all of which were granted the benefit of exemption notification, cannot be considered ‘components’. It was besides urged that the Appellate Commissioner had disregarded Note 2 to Section XVII of the Act which had clearly F excluded the articles in question; they had to be classified separately under the relevant heads. 8. The of the Tribunal in Boskalis Dredging India Pvt. Ltd. (Supra) dealt with a similar aspect; the article imported which was in question in that case was a cutter suction dredger, much like the same G one in the present case. The Tribunal had after considering the various components and the relative functions, described their utility in the overall unit in the following terms: “From the definitions of various Dredgers as extracted above, we find that Dredging, no doubt, means excavation. H But there is definitely a need for continuous lifting of the M/S DHARTI DREDGING AND INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. COMM’R OF 743 CUSTOMS AND CENTRAL EXCISE, GUNTUR [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] dredged material and dumping the same at some other place. A This can be done by a separate disposal system of discharge system can be a part of the Dredger by itself. Referring to the British Standard Specification (BS 6349, Part- 5 L 199) we find that there are various types of Dredgers like Stationary Suction Hopper Dredger, Trailing Suction Hopper Dredger, B Cutter Suction Dredger etc. The Dredger in the instant case is a Cutter Suction Dredger in contrast to the Hopper Dredger which keeps the dredged material in its hold (hopper). When the hold is filled up, the said Hopper Dredger moves to the designated area of discharging dredged materials without the assistance of any pipelines. In such type of Hopper Dredgers, C neither the Suction Pipe nor the discharge Pipe may be essential. In the case of Cutter Suction Dredger, the procedure for carrying out the dredging work is different. The Cutter- Head is fitted with the Dredger with a Suction Pipe beneath it. The said Cutter cuts the earth, rock etc. under the water D when the dredged material accumulates. As these dredged material has to be taken form the Dredger for the continuous uninterrupted dredging work, Suction Pipe sucks the dredged material. The Suction Pipes are connected with the discharge pipe with the aid of flanges/belts, nuts and bolts etc. The discharge pipes then throw these dredged material at the E designated area which may be at a distant place.