Appellant had approached the High Court of Delhi taking exception to an dated 25th March 2010 passed by the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (SE), New Delhi (“Trial Court”, hereafter) on a complaint4 lodged under section 200, Cr. PC by the respondent (“complainant”, hereafter). The Trial Court upon considering the complaint returned a prima facie fi nding in the said that Mr. M.C. Aggarwal (accused no.1), the appellant (accused no. 2) and its District Manager (Asia), Mr. Lorenzo Boninsegna (accused 1 CRL. M.C. 2845/2010 2 (2011) 1 SCC 74 3 LPA-668/2010 dt. 17th September 2010 4 CC No.465/1/09 M/S IVECO MAGIRUS BRANDSCHUTZTECHNIK GMBH v. 225 NIRMAL KISHORE BHARTIYA [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] no.3) were “jointly and severally responsible for writing, sending, publishing the above said letters containing malicious and defamatory statements and imputation against the complainant” and consequently summoned the three accused for off ences under sections 500/107/34, Indian Penal Code (“IPC”, hereafter). FACTS 3. The undisputed and relevant facts leading to the summoning impugned before the learned Judge is noticed hereunder: i. Global Tender No. EQ/Global/2007-09/01 was fl oated by the Airports Authority of India (“AAI”, hereafter) for supply of 40 (forty) Airfi eld Crash Fire Tenders at various airports across the country. The appellant, a Germany-based manufacturer of fi re safety equipment, executed a Power of Attorney in favour of Mr. M.C. Aggarwal, the respondent no. 2 (“Aggarwal”, hereafter), who happened to be the Managing Director of Brijbasi Hi-Tech Udyog Ltd. Aggarwal was appointed to be the local representative of the appellant in India and he was empowered, inter alia, to fi le suits and take all steps which were deemed expedient in furtherance of the tender process. ii. The company of the complainant, Bhartiya Vehicles & Engineering Pvt. Ltd, was the Indian associate of one Rosenbauer International AG (“Rosenbauer”, hereafter), another bidder in the aforementioned tender process. iii. On 21st July 2008, AAI rejected the bid of the appellant and eventually awarded it to Rosenbauer. In the aftermath of the rejection, on various occasions in 2008, Aggarwal issued four letters in the nature of complaints to diff erent authorities including the Minister of Civil Aviation, Government of India, the Chairman of AAI, the Chief Vigilance Offi cer, AAI, and the Central Vigilance Commissioner, Government of India, inter alia, complaining of favouritism and irregularities in the tender process. These letters allege that the complainant, through illegal and wrongful methods, persuaded AAI to award the tender to Rosenbauer. Enumeration of the contents of such letters is avoided, lest the same prejudices the rights of the parties. 226 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. iv. Dissatisfi ed with the inaction of the aforementioned authorities to look into the letters of complaint, Aggarwal, in his capacity as the local authorised representative of the appellant, invoked the writ jurisdiction of the High Court on or about 12th August 2008 by presenting a writ petition5 against the Union of India and AAI. It is pertinent to note that Bhartiya Vehicles & Engineering Pvt. Ltd., and Rosenbauer were also made parties to the proceedings.