During cross examination, she denied being a surety for C the bail of Chandan (PW-2). However, she admitted that Chandan used to visit her house. (iv) PW-4 – Smt. Mithilesh (Wife of Govind) PW-4 did not depose anything specific about the incident except that Shabbir had enmity with her husband and 8 to D 10 days before the murder of Chhotu, Ravi Bangali and Shabbir had called her husband; in consequence, her husband left, but did not return thereafter; later, she received information from the police that her husband has been killed and the culprits caught. E During cross examination, she admitted that the police had come to her house 2-3 days after the murder of Chhotu but, at that time, she had not informed the police that Govind and Chhotu had gone with the accused persons. She also admitted that the police made no enquiry from her and she F did not lodge any complaint in respect of her husband’s murder. (v) PW-5 – Mahendra Khurana He stated that, — on 31.10.2001, while he was watching a night show at the cinema hall, he had to rush out to attend G to nature’s call, then he saw Chhotu (the deceased), Ravi Bangali and Shabbir going towards the forest; 2-3 minutes later, he heard sound of a gunshot and 5-7 minutes later, Ravi Bangali and Shabbir minus Chhotu were noticed running and talking to each other that they have settled their H account with Chhotu as he had become a nuisance for them RAVI MANDAL v. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 11 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] on account of his persistent demand for money. PW-5 stated A that he did not disclose this fact to anyone in the night but in the morning, he came to know that Chhotu has been murdered. During cross examination, he admitted that though toilet facility is available in the cinema hall but, on charge; B therefore, he went out to ease himself. He stated that his statement was recorded in the morning, following the night of the incident; and for that purpose, he was called by the constable. On being confronted with his previous statement that he saw Govind, Chhotu, Ravi Bangali and Shabbir going C towards the forest, PW-5 stated that he had disclosed the name of all, except Govind. He, however, admitted that he did not disclose to the police the place where he sat that night to ease himself. (vi) PW-6 – Hanuman Prasad D He stated that, — on 31.10.2001 at about mid- night while he was returning from depot no.6, opposite to the cinema hall, he saw three persons, namely, Chhotu, Ravi Bangali and Shabbir talking to each other and going towards the forest; next day in the morning, he came to know that E Chhotu has been murdered. He denied having seen Shabbir firing at the deceased. At this stage, the prosecution declared him hostile and sought his cross examination. During cross examination by the prosecution, he denied that he gave a statement before the police about Shabbir shooting his companion and Ravi holding his leg.