DEVESH SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. 183 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] In this background, the inclusion of B.Ed. candidates for primary level classes is beyond our comprehension. We have seen so far that the need for ‘quality’ and meaningful primary education was emphasized by the legislature as well as by the academic authority all throughout. In primary education, any compromise on ‘quality’ of education would mean going against the very mandate of Article 21A and the Act. The value of Primary education can never be overstated. Myron Weiner in his important book on Child Labour in India15, links child labour problems in India to the lack of eff ective measures in the past in the fi eld of elementary education. Great care must be taken to nurture these institutions as our future takes shape in these classes. Victor Hugo had famously said ‘one who opens a school door, closes a prison.’ Children still working in hazardous environment and juveniles in confl ict with law, in some measure, do point towards the weakness in our elementary education system, both on its accessibility and its ‘quality’. The pedagogical skills of a teacher must be given a very high priority. But our priority seems to be diff erent. It is not to impart ‘quality’ education, but to provide more job avenues to B.Ed. trained candidates, as this seems to be the only reason for their inclusion, in presence of overwhelming evidence that B.Ed. course is not a suitable course for primary classes. The material which has been placed before this Court in the form of offi cial communications and meetings at the highest level makes it clear that in the present case the decision taken by NCTE is not an independent decision of an expert body which is created by the statute and mandated to take independent decisions. The aim of NCTE is to improve the standard of education and not to provide further avenues for employment to B.Ed. trained teachers. We may also mention that this is being done when teachers trained in elementary education can be employed only as teachers in elementary schools and nowhere else, when compared to B.Ed. qualifi ed teacher, who can be employed in senior elementary classes (VI to VIII), as well as secondary and higher secondary classes. It is therefore in any case not fair on the Diploma holders, who will now be seeing the only space available for them shrinking further. 15 Weiner Myron (1991) : Th e Child and the State In India in Comparative Perspective— Princeton University Press 184 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. The inclusion of B.Ed. as a ‘qualifi cation’ was done by the notifi cation dated 28.06.2018, which was impugned before the Rajasthan High Court. This notifi cation is reproduced below: - “National Council for Teacher Education Notifi cation New Delhi, the 28th of June, 2018 F. No. NCTE-Regl 012/16/2018-In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 23 of Right to Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009 (35 of 2009) and in pursuance of notifi cation number S.P.