The wife then filed a complaint under Sections 323 and 324 read with Section 34 IPC against the appellant/husband and his family members, however, C they were subsequently discharged from the case. The respondent also initiated proceedings against appellant under Section 107 read with Section 150 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. She then filed a petition, under Section 18 of Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act, 1956, for her maintenance. D 3. Left by his wife and burdened with multiple litigations slapped on him, the appellant took the decision to end the matrimonial relations. He thus moved his petition for dissolution of marriage under Section 13(1) (ia) & (ib) of Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, before the Additional District Judge, North Delhi on 20.09.2002, inter alia, on the facts, as narrated in the preceding paragraph. E 4. The respondent denies that she ever ‘deserted’ her husband or inflicted any cruelty on him. Her counsel would submit that she only took recourse to legal avenues available to her under the law. She alleges that her ornaments which were her ‘stridhan’, were taken away and were never returned, and how she was forced to file a case against her F husband under Sections 498A & 406 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). It was also her case that she had made every possible effort for reconciliation, but due to the non-cooperation of the appellant, all efforts towards mediation and settlement resulted in failure. She has denied that she had terminated her pregnancy. G 5. The Family Court on 15.10.2003 framed issues on cruelty and desertion. The Trial Court gave the findings on cruelty as well as desertion in favour of the husband and a decree for the dissolution of marriage was passed. 6. The High Court in appeal, came to the conclusion that the mere H fact that the respondent did not allow her husband to enter his house on SH. RAKESH RAMAN v. SMT. KAVITA 557 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] 29.11.1998, would not prove that it was her intention to bring cohabitation A permanently to an end and therefore the ground of dissolution of marriage on desertion were not made out. As far as filing of various complaints under Sections 323, 324 and 498A IPC are concerned, the High Court was of the view that mere filing of such complaints, or their result in acquittal would not amount to cruelty, as the wife was only exercising her B options available to her under the law. Moreover, what has to be seen are also the circumstances under which these complaints were filed. 7. We have heard Mr. S.K. Rungta, learned Senior Advocate for the appellant/husband and Mr. S.K. Bhalla learned Advocate for the respondent/wife at length and perused the material on record. C 8. This case has travelled from the Family Court to the High Court and now finally to this Court. The decision of Delhi High Court is of 08.04.2011, which goes back to twelve years. We have to take into consideration all the facts which are before us as of now.