The conduct of international commercial arbitrations in Singapore is governed by the International Arbitration Act, 1994.120 Section 3 of the IIA states that the Model Law has the force of law in Singapore. In Malini Ventura v. Knight Capital Pte Ltd,121 the issue before the Singapore High Court was whether the arbitral tribunal has primacy to determine the existence of an arbitration agreement in the context of international commercial arbitration. The Court analysed the scope and purpose of Article 16(1) of the Model Law to hold that an arbitral tribunal has fi rst priority in determining whether an arbitration agreement exists and the court’s consideration must come after the tribunal’s own examination of the issue. It was further observed that “the tribunal’s powers in relation to the issue are wide because it can consider not only validity but also the very existence of the arbitration agreement.” Thus, the Singapore High Court has given full eff ect to the doctrine of competence-competence since the arbitral tribunal gets the fi rst priority to determine issues even with respect to the very existence of the arbitration agreement, while the jurisdiction of the courts is limited to a prima facie determination. ii. India 120. Under the previous arbitration regime in India, that is the 1940 Act, the issue of determining the existence or validity of arbitration agreement was exclusively within the domain of the courts. To that eff ect, Section 33 of the 1940 Act allowed any party to the arbitration agreement to fi le an application before the courts challenging the existence or validity of an arbitration agreement. In view of this, this Court consistently held that the question as to the existence or validity of an arbitration agreement was to be decided only by application to courts and not by the arbitral tribunal.122 This position has now undergone a complete metamorphosis in the present 120 “IIA” 121 [2015] SGHC 225 122 Dhanrajamal Gobindram v. Shamji Kalidas & Co., 1961 SCC OnLine SC 28; Khardah Co. Ltd. v. Raymon & Co. (India) Private Ltd., 1962 SCC OnLine SC 28. IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1151 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] legislation. Section 16 of the Arbitration Act, which is based on Article 16 of the Model Law, recognizes the doctrine of competence-competence in Indian arbitration law. Section 16 empowers the arbitral tribunal to rule on its own jurisdiction, including ruling on any objections with respect to the existence or validity of arbitration agreement. Importantly, the parties have a right under Section 16(2) and 16(3) to challenge the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal on grounds such as the non-existence or invalidity of the arbitration agreement. The arbitral tribunal is obligated to decide on the challenge to its jurisdiction, and where it rejects the challenge, it can proceed with the arbitral proceedings and make an arbitral award. It is the principle of procedural competence-competence which recognizes the power of an arbitral tribunal to hear and decide challenges to its jurisdiction.