[2023] 5 S.C.R. 601 601 STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH A v. PHOOLCHAND RATHORE (Criminal Appeal Nos. 1315-1316 of 2023) APRIL 28, 2023 B [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, MANOJ MISRA AND ARAVIND KUMAR, JJ.] Penal Code, 1860 – ss. 302 and 201 – Acquittal under – Prosecution rested its case on the circumstances, inter-alia, (a) the accused bore a grudge against his wife for keeping jewellery with C her sister (PW8); (b) on the fateful day, during day time, accused on that count, quarrelled with PW8 and threatened to kill the deceased and set the house on fire; (c) in the evening of that fateful day, the accused quarrelled with the deceased and took her with him on a bicycle, while extending threats that he would kill her; (d) D later, that evening, the deceased was found in a seriously injured condition; (e) the deceased died on account of those injuries; and (f) blood-stained clothes etc. were recovered at the instance of the accused thereby making the chain complete – Trial Court convicted the accused and death penalty was awarded to the accused – High Court gave accused benefit of doubt to the accused and acquitted E him – On appeal, held: Reason of the quarrel that deceased had kept her jewellery with her sister (PW8) was not found proved – As prosecution evidence revealed that jewellery was returned back – Thus, prosecution failed to prove motive – There appears no reason for accused to carry stones from the spot and hide them in his hut F and leaving blood-stained stones near railway line – As far as blood stained clothes are concerned, PW4 stated that her father (accused) on return had washed those clothes and spread them to dry – How could they be recovered from hut – So, the recovery of the blood- stained clothes etc. was doubtful – Police prepared two memorandums (disclosure statement, as per the memorandum (Ex.P- G 9), at Seoni Trisection, witnessed by PW6 and the recovery memo (Ex.P-10), was prepared at accused’s hut near railway line at the same time also witnessed by PW-6) – Both memorandums were prepared at the same time and different places, meaning all papers were signed at one go rendering the entire exercise of disclosure H 601 602 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A and consequential discovery/recovery doubtful – Alleged extra judicial confession made by the accused to PW4 was neither disclosed in the FIR nor in the previous statement of PW4 made during investigation – Extra judicial confession also not proved beyond reasonable doubt – Also, accused and the deceased were noticed quarrelling with each other at about 1630 hours and soon B thereafter, the appellant took deceased on his cycle – As per prosecution deceased was found injured at around 2000 hours, there was quite a large time-gap for other intervening factors to operate – Therefore, motive, disclosure, recovery and extra judicial confession was not proved beyond reasonable doubt. C Constitution of India – Art. 136 – When it appears that the High Court has on an absolutely wrong process of reasoning and a legally erroneous and perverse approach to the facts of the case and ignoring some of the most vital facts, acquitted the respondent and the of acquittal passed by the High Court has resulted in D a grave and substantial miscarriage of justice, extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India may rightfully be exercised.