Whether there is contest or not, the applicant has to prove one of the grounds set out in Sections 34(2)(a) and (b). Even if the applicant does not rely upon the grounds under clause (b), the court, on its own initiative, may examine the award to find out whether it is liable to be set aside on either of the two grounds mentioned in G Section 34(2)(b). It is perhaps in this sense, the High Court has stated that the proceedings may not be adversarial. Be that as it may. XXXXXXXX H 1004 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 31. Applications under Section 34 of the Act are summary proceedings with provision for objections by the respondent- defendant, followed by an opportunity to the applicant to “prove” the existence of any ground under Section 34(2). The applicant is permitted to file affidavits of his witnesses in proof. A corresponding opportunity is given to the respondent- B defendant to place his evidence by affidavit. Where the case so warrants, the court permits cross-examination of the persons swearing to the affidavit. Thereafter, the court hears arguments and/or receives written submissions and decides the matter. This is of course the routine procedure. The court may vary C the said procedure, depending upon the facts of any particular case or the local rules. What is however clear is that framing of issues as contemplated under Rule 1 of 14 of the Code is not an integral part of the process of a proceedings under Section 34 of the Act.” D (ii) The decision of this Court in the case of Fiza Developers(supra) has been subsequently considered by this Court in the case of Emkay Global (supra) and in paragraph 21, it is observed and held as under: “21. It will thus be seen that speedy resolution of arbitral E disputes has been the reason for enacting the 1996 Act, and continues to be the reason for adding amendments to the said Act to strengthen the aforesaid object. Quite obviously, if issues are to be framed and oral evidence taken in a summary proceeding under Section 34, this object will be defeated. It is also on the cards that if Bill No. 100 of 2018 is passed, then F evidence at the stage of a Section 34 application will be dispensed with altogether. Given the current state of the law, we are of the view that the two early Delhi High Court s [Sandeep Kumar v. Ashok Hans, 2004 SCC OnLine Del 106 : (2004) 3 Arb LR 306] , [Sial Bioenergie v. G SBEC Systems, 2004 SCC OnLine Del 863 : AIR 2005 Del 95] , cited by us hereinabove, correctly reflect the position in law as to furnishing proof under Section 34(2)(a). So does the Calcutta High Court [WEB Techniques & Net Solutions (P) Ltd. v. Gati Ltd., 2012 SCC OnLine Cal 4271] . We may hasten H M/S ALPINE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION 1005 PVT. LTD. v. ASHOK S. DHARIWAL [M. R. SHAH, J.]