1 crore, which constituted the Authorised Capital as on 18.12.2009 – What is more C shares have been offered on a ratio of 1:1 to the existing shareholders – They were given the choice of refusal or to apply for more or lesser number of shares – This is not a case where the Resolution was to allot the further shares to the Directors or Members of their Group alone – There is a concurrent finding that the decision to go in for increase in capital, viz., Authorised Capital, D was not vulnerable to attack – The decision was based on the advice given by the Bank – The purpose of the Board of Directors to increase the capital has been admittedly found to be bona fide – An incidental gain, namely the change in the shareholding pattern is entirely the inevitable result of the refusal of the respondent’s groups E to apply – On the whole, in the facts, the appellants cannot be described as having acted in a defective or in an unfair manner, in the matter of allotment of further shares particularly when the contention of the respondents about the bona fides of the decision to increase the authorised capital has been found in favour of the appellants. F Partly allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 The Authorised Capital of a company, which is also known as nominal capital of the company, represents the maximum number of shares that can be issued. It must be G indicated in the Memorandum of Association. It can be increased only by the company by passing a resolution in a General Body Meeting. In other words, the Authorised Capital cannot be increased by the Board of Directors. It is out of the Authorised Capital that a company issues shares. It then becomes the Issued Capital. Whatever is issued, need not be subscribed to. Whatever H HASMUKHLAL MADHAVLAL PATEL v. AMBIKA FOOD 245 PRODUCTS PVT. LTD. is subscribed to, would become the Subscribed Capital. Paid-up A Capital is defined in Section 2(32) of the Companies Act, 1956 as including capital credited as paid-up. The Subscribed Capital may be wholly or partly paid-up. [Paras 67, 68][279-D-G] 1.2 The position under the Companies Act, 1956, under Section 81, remained the same in that it is only the company, in B its General Body Meeting, which could increase the Authorised Capital. The position still continued that call it increase in Subscribed Capital, it must be within the limits of the Authorised Capital. By the Resolution dated 18.12.2009, the Board of Directors had not actually purported to increase the Authorised C Capital. The contents of the last paragraph of the Resolution, makes it abundantly clear that the Board of Directors was aware that the power lay with the General Body of shareholders to bring about an increase in the Authorised Capital. It has, no doubt, undertaken to resolve to issue further capital, even though it could be said that as on 18.12.2009, there was ‘no further capital’ D subsisting in terms of the limit of Rs.1 crore, which constituted the Authorised Capital as on 18.12.2009.