In a case like this, though recourse to 7 Rule 11 CPC by the appellant was not appropriate, at the same H PREM KISHORE & ORS. v. BRAHM PRAKASH & ORS. 653 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] time, the trial court may, after framing the issues, take up the A issues which pertain to the maintainability of the suit and decide the same in the first instance. In this manner the appellant, or for that matter the parties, can be absolved of unnecessary agony of prolonged proceedings, in case the appellant is ultimately found to be correct in his submissions.” B (Emphasis supplied) 31. This Court in the case of Soumitra Kumar Sen (supra) was examining a case where the defendant had moved an application before the Trial Court under 7 Rule 11 of CPC requesting the Court to reject the plaint on the ground of res judicata. The Courts below had C rejected such a prayer upon which the defendant had approached this Court. This Court, referring to its various judgements on the point, upheld such s observing that if the averments made by the appellant in the written statement are correct, the suit may not be maintainable. However, at this stage, as rightly held by this Court, the defence in the written D statement cannot be gone into. One has to look into the plaint for the purpose of deciding application under 7 Rule 11 of the CPC. 32. While holding that “recourse to 7 Rule 11” by the appellant was not appropriate, this Court observed that the Trial Court may, after framing the issues, take up the issues which pertain to the E maintainability of the suit and decided them in the first instance. The Court held that this course of action would help the appellant avoid lengthy proceedings. 33. On a perusal of the above authorities, the guiding principles for deciding an application under 7 Rule 11(d) of the CPC can be summarized as follows:- F (i) To reject a plaint on the ground that the suit is barred by any law, only the averments in the plaint will have to be referred to; (ii) The defence made by the defendant in the suit must not be considered while deciding the merits of the application; G (iii) To determine whether a suit is barred by res judicata, it is necessary that (i) the ‘previous suit’ is decided, (ii) the issues in the subsequent suit were directly and substantially in issue in the former suit; (iii) the former suit was between the same parties or parties through whom they claim, litigating under the same title; H 654 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A and (iv) that these issues were adjudicated and finally decided by a court competent to try the subsequent suit; and (iv) Since an adjudication of the plea of res judicata requires consideration of the pleadings, issues and decision in the ‘previous suit’, such a plea will be beyond the scope of 7 Rule 11 (d), B where only the statements in the plaint will have to be perused.