a duty is cast upon the A Investigating Agency to furnish or cause to be furnished to the accused, free of cost, a copy of the report forwarded under sub-section (1) under Section 173. Section 173(4) reads as under: “173(4). After forwarding a report under this section, the officer in charge of the police station shall, before B the commencement of the inquiry or trial, furnish or cause to be furnished to the accused, free of cost, a copy of the report forwarded under sub-section (1) and of the first information report recorded under section 154 and of all 41 other documents or relevant extracts thereof, C on which the prosecution proposes to rely, including the statements and confessions, if any, recorded under section 164 and the statements recorded under sub- section (3) of section 161 of all the persons whom the prosecution proposes to examine as its witnesses.” D 4.4 As per Section 173(5) Cr.P.C. when any report is filed in respect of the case to which Section 170 Cr.P.C. applies, the police officer shall forward to the Magistrate along with the report all documents or relevant extracts thereof on which the prosecution proposes to rely other than those already sent to the Magistrate during investigation. E 4.5 Therefore on conjoint reading of Section 173 Cr.P.C. and Section 207 Cr.P.C. the Investigating Agency is required to furnish the copies of the report along with the relevant documents to be relied upon by the prosecution to the accused and to none others. Therefore, if the relief as prayed in the present petition is allowed and all the chargesheets and relevant documents produced along with the chargesheets are put F on the public domain or on the websites of the State Governments it will be contrary to the Scheme of the Criminal Procedure Code and it may as such violate the rights of the accused as well as the victim and/or even the investigating agency. Putting the FIR on the website cannot be equated with putting the chargesheets along with the relevant documents on the public domain and on the websites of the State Governments. G 5. Now so far as the reliance placed upon on Sections 74 & 76 of the Evidence Act is concerned, the reliance placed upon the said provisions are also absolutely misconceived and misplaced. Documents mentioned in Section 74 of the Evidence Act only can be said to be public documents, H 736 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A the certified copies of which are to be given by the concerned police officer having the custody of such a public document. Copy of the chargesheet along with the necessary documents cannot be said to be public documents within the definition of Public Documents as per Section 74 of the Evidence Act. As per Section 75 of the Evidence Act all other documents other than the documents mentioned in Section 74 of the B Evidence Act are all private documents. Therefore, the chargesheet/ documents along with the chargesheet cannot be said to be public documents under Section 74 of the Evidence Act, reliance placed upon Sections 74 & 76 of the Evidence Act is absolutely misplaced.