15. The only issue that we are tasked to decide at this stage is, E whether interference with the common under appeal is called for or not. 16. In our considered view, for more reason than one, relief claimed by the Appellants ought to be declined. 17. Section 47 of the CPC, being one of the most important F provisions relating to execution of decrees, mandates that the court executing the decree shall determine all questions arising between the parties to the suit or their representatives in relation to the execution, discharge, or satisfaction of the decree and that such questions may not be adjudicated in a separate suit. What is intended by conferring exclusive jurisdiction on the executing court is to prevent needless and unnecessary G litigation and to achieve speedy disposal of the questions arising for discussion in relation to the execution, discharge or satisfaction of the decree. Should there be any resistance offered or obstruction raised 12 (2012) 11 SCC 224 H 566 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A impeding due execution of a decree made by a court of competent jurisdiction, the provisions of Rules 97, 101 and 98 of XXI enable the executing court to adjudicate the inter se claims of the decree-holder and the third parties in the execution proceedings themselves to avoid prolongation of litigation by driving the parties to institute independent suits. No wonder, the provisions contained in Rules 97 to 106 of B XXI of the CPC under the sub-heading “Resistance to delivery of possession to decree-holder or purchaser” have been held by this Court to be a complete code in itself in Brahmdeo Chaudhary (supra) as well as in a decision of recent origin in Asgar vs. Mohan Verma13. In the latter decision, it has been noted that Rules 97 to 103 of C XXI provide the sole remedy both to parties to a suit as well as to a stranger to the decree put to execution. 18. In Bhanwar Lal vs. Satyanarain14, this Court held that when any person, whether claiming derivative title from the -debtor or sets up his own right, title or interest de hors the debtor, the D executing court whilst executing the decree, in addition to the power under Rule 35(3), is empowered to conduct an enquiry whether the obstruction by that person is legal or not. 19. This Court in Noorduddin v. Dr. K.L. Anand15 reiterated that the executing court was bound to adjudicate the claim of an obstructionist and to record a finding allowing or rejecting the claim which E was laid before the executing court, the person being neither a party to the earlier proceedings nor the decree being passed against him. 20. Yet again, in Babulal v. Raj Kumar & Ors.16, this Court after setting aside the impugned held that a determination is required to be conducted under XXI Rule 98 before removal of the F obstruction caused by the objector and a finding is required to be recorded in that regard.