Various States such as West Bengal, Assam, Nagaland and Manipur are agreeable to rates fixed by the Central Government. The H States of Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Jharkhand, and Mizoram have argued ALL INDIA JUDGES ASSOCIATION v. UNION OF INDIA 65 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] that their rates must be adopted. Other States have not specifically stated A anything with regard of rates of DA. It is observed that that a uniform rate of DA would achieve the goals of uniformity as well as efficiency. In such circumstances, the recommendation deserves acceptance. IX. Grant of 1st ACP to Civil Judge (Jr Div) (Recommendation 44.15 (i)) B 64. The Commission suggested that the 1st Assured Career Progression be given to the Civil Judges (Jr Div) be granted on the basis of relaxed norms of performance. At present, a Civil Judge (Jr Div) would be entitled to the first ACP only after completing 5 years of service. A Civil Judge (Jr Div) is normally in the process of learning the work in C his first two years. Assessment of the officer’s performance when the first two years are riddled with trainings and deputations cannot be done in a serious manner. This is especially so when, for the first two years, no real work output is expected out of the judicial officer. Therefore, the inability of the Officer to reach the prescribed targets of disposal or not satisfying the quantitative norms during the initial stage of judicial career D need not be viewed seriously, especially having regard to the objective behind the ACP. 65. Another aspect is that judicial officers serving in the cadre of Civil Judge (Jr. Div.) have only two promotional avenues available to them, i.e., Civil Judge (Sr. Div.) and District Judge. Without any E promotional avenues, the stagnation in the service causes loss of morale to judicial officers which has a direct bearing on their independence. 66. It may be noted that the Limited Competitive Examination which has been introduced by virtue of this Hon’ble Court’s in All India Judges Association v. Union of India29 only applies to the F cadre of Civil Judges (Sr. Div.) to the cadre of District Judges. The percentage reserved for LCE was initially 25%. This was reduced to 10% by All India Judges’ Assn. v. Union of India30. 67. This Court in All India Judges Assn. v. Union of India, relaxed the aforesaid conditions only for the Delhi Higher Judicial Services in so far as it permits candidates with experience of 10 years to G appear for the Limited Competitive Examination for becoming District Judges.31 At the same time, it is noticed that the Maharashtra Judicial Service Rules, 2008 envisages an additional method for promotion for 29All India Judges’ Assn. v. Union of India (2002) 4 SCC 247 at para 28. 30All India Judges’ Assn. v. Union of India (2010) 15 SCC 170 (para 7-8). H 31All India Judges Assn. v. Union of India (2022) 7 SCC 494. 66 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R.