The deceased came and had chat with the said person who later accompanied the deceased to bungalow. In third statement dated 11.12.2006, Suresh Thapa changed his earlier version and stated that a silver colour car F came to the gate of the society and driver honked, the deceased came out of his bungalow, he opened the door, the deceased closed the door and he then went towards bungalow no.5 and while returning, the car was standing near his bungalow, the driver went ahead to the deceased, however they had no communication. Then he went ahead and called “Captain Captain”, they had chat. The G person accompanied the deceased and 2 – 3 person were sitting in the car. In the supplementary statement of Ramesh Dhakol – another security, dated 1.1.2007, he refers of vehicle of accused no.2 coming back at around 2 to 2.30 a.m. in the night and she went to her bungalow. He says, his earlier statement was H 476 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A incorrect. Dr. Ajitsingh in his statement dated 31.12.2006 refers to his visit to the deceased and also with the deceased to the house of accused nos. 1 and 2 in April, 2006. He saw the deceased and accused no.2 on a swing while accused no. 1 was nearby. This he noticed on 13.5.2006. The statement of Sajida Begum – wife of Zarnish (Mohd. Asgar) does not implicate the accused- B applicants. Brother of the deceased Mr. Manjitsingh refers to a communication he had with accused no.1 in past, wherein accused no.1 allegedly conveyed him the deceased wanted to purchase everything, if time permits he will also purchase his wife. This communication was on telephone”. C 14. A perusal of the impugned passed by the High Court shows that some of the material collected by the Investigating Agency filed alongwith chargesheet has been referred to in a sketchy manner. The statements of Suresh Sherbahadur Thapa, Collector Thakur Singh, Ramesh Dhakol, Manjit Singh, Dr. Ajit Singh and Sajida Begum have D been referred to. However, from a perusal of the record, it is evident that their statements have not be noticed either in their entirety or only part of the statements recorded on a particular day has been noticed and the statements recorded either before or after, have not been referred to. Besides that, the Investigating Agency had recorded the statements of Hiraman Dyaneshwar Chaudhari, Ramesh Murlidhar, Mohan Vs., E Ashok Gunaji Thosar, Mehboob Dastagi Sheikh, and Rakma Shivram Waghmare, which have not been referred to and considered by the High Court while discharging Respondent Nos. 1 and 2. The fact cannot lost sight of that it was a case of blind murder. The circumstances only could have nailed the accused through the material collected by the Investigating F Agency. 15. Psychological Evaluation including Psychological Profiling, Polygraph Testing and BEOS of Respondent No. 1 was conducted. Besides this test was also conducted of other four persons who were close aides of respondent no.1, namely, Ahok Gajraj Chaudhary, Mehboob G Dastagir Sheikh, Baliram Chidhu Khade and Mohan Vijayamma Shridharan.