A person out of possession, cannot seek the relief of injunction simpliciter, without claiming the relief of possession. 13.3. Where the plaintiff is in possession, but his title to the property is in dispute, or under a cloud, or where the defendant asserts title thereto and there is also a threat of dispossession from the defendant, the plaintiff will have to sue for declaration of title and the consequential relief of injunction. Where the title of the plaintiff is under a cloud or in dispute and he is not in possession or not able to establish possession, necessarily the plaintiff will have to fi le a suit for declaration, possession and injunction.” 31. At the cost of repetition, it must be noted that in the written statement in the suit, the defendant no.1 admitted that the plaintiff together with the defendant nos.2 to 4 purchased total 3 bighas of land through two sale deeds respectively dated 2.3.1970 and 16.3.1970 and it was also admitted that the plaintiff submitted an application before District Magistrate to convert one bigha land to non-agricultural category on which the District Magistrate issued NOC since the said land was needed 21 (2008) 4 SCC 594 544 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. to set up a petrol pump. Here, the title for the plaintiff is not disputed by the defendants and the same is not under a cloud. Therefore, the question of title is not an issue in the suit. Moreover, the mandatory requirements under the provisions of the 1959 Act were itself not followed before issuing notifi cation, without which the title cannot be said to be disputed. Such a suit for injunction in the absence of contest to the title would therefore, be maintainable. 32. In State of Bihar v Dhirendra Kumar22, Laxmi Chand v Gram Panchayat Kararia23, Commissioner, Bangalore Development Authority and another v Brijesh Reddy and another24, it was held that validity of acquisition notifi cation cannot be questioned in a Civil Court and it can only be challenged in the High Court under its writ jurisdiction. Would these ratios apply to the present case is a question that needs to be addressed. It is the case of the Appellant i.e. the Urban Improvement Trust that the nature of land acquired under the 1959 Act was ‘agricultural land’ which got converted for ‘non-agricultural use’ under Section 90-A of the Land Revenue Act,1956. As per Section 207 of the Tenancy Act,1955 read with entry 8A and entry 23C of Third Schedule, the matter relating to agricultural land could be heard and determined only by a Revenue Court. As the scheme of the Tenancy Act, 1955 was earlier examined, it is quite apparent that the prayers made in the suit are beyond the scope of the 1955 Act. Moreover, the relief for quashing the notifi cation was also not sought in the Suit. That apart, it is not the case of the appellant that writ court is the legal option for relief but they want the land owners to be relegated to the Revenue Court under the 1955 Act.