They should be first applied. If no clear picture emerges then only can one resort to the subsequent rules. The appellants have relied upon Rule 3. Rule 3 must be understood only in the context of sub- rule (b) of Rule 2 which says inter alia that C the classification of goods consisting of more than one material or substance shall be according to the principles contained in Rule 3. Therefore when goods are prima facie, classifiable under two or more headings, classification shall be effected according to sub- rules (a), (b) and (c) of Rule 3 and in that .” D 62. On a plain application of the interpretive rules, especially Rule 3(a) it is clear that the heading which provides the most accurate description has to be followed. In the present case, there is no doubt, that before 2001, pan masala and gutkha fell within Chapter 21, as pan masala, regardless of whether they contained tobacco. Goods E classifiable under Chapter 24, i.e. tobacco items were more general; also they did not include pan masala. 63. As regards the question of the rate of tax, in view of the restrictions under Section 15 CST Act, neither gutkha nor pan masala were “declared goods” under Section 14 of the CST Act. The amendment F to the CET Act did not become part of Section 14(ix). The goods under the relevant sub-headings of the CET Act were absent in the list of declared goods of the CST Act; they were not part of the provisions introduced to the Finance Act, 1988. Therefore, the subsequent changes made introducing 2404.40 in the CET Act do not affect or change G the CST Act. Consequently gutkha and pan masala are not covered under sub-heading 2404.40 so far as CST Act is concerned. Resultantly the arguments of the assessees that the rate of local tax, cannot exceed the limit under the CST Act, are rejected as unmerited. H M/S TRIMURTHI FRAGRANCES (P) LTD. THR. ITS DIRECTOR SHRI 1081 PRADEEP KUMAR AGRAWAL v. GOVT. OF N.C.T. OF DELHI THR. ITS PRINCIPAL SECRETARY (FINANCE) [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 64. For the foregoing reasons, the appeals by the assessees have A to fail. The revenue’s appeals are consequently allowed. There shall be no on costs. Divya Pandey Appeals disposed of. (Assisted by : Shevali Monga, LCRA) B C D E F G H