playing fi eld for the consumers in the market driven economy. The 1986 Act as a benefi cial legislation was considered in Lucknow Development Authority v. M.K. Gupta (1994) 1 SCC 243. It was considered thus: “…………. To begin with the preamble of the Act, which can aff ord useful assistance to ascertain the legislative intention, it was enacted, ‘to provide for the protection of the interest of consumers’. Use of the word ‘protection’ furnishes key to the minds of makers of the Act. Various defi nitions and provisions which elaborately attempt to achieve this objective have to be construed in this light without departing from the settled view that a Preamble cannot control otherwise plain meaning of a provision. In fact the law meets long felt necessity of protecting the common man from such wrongs for which the remedy under ordinary law for various reasons has become illusory. Various legislations and regulations permitting the State to intervene and protect interest of the consumers have become a haven for unscrupulous ones as the enforcement machinery either does not move or it moves ineff ectively, ineffi ciently and for reasons which are not necessary to be stated. The importance of the Act lies in promoting welfare of the society by enabling the consumer to participate directly in the market economy. It attempts to remove the helplessness of a consumer which he faces against powerful business, described as, ‘a network of rackets’ or a society in which, ‘producers have secured power’ to ‘rob the rest’ and the might of public bodies which are degenerating into storehouses of inaction where papers do not move from one desk to another as a matter of duty and responsibility but for extraneous consideration leaving the common man helpless, bewildered and shocked. The malady is becoming so rampant, widespread and deep that the society instead of bothering, complaining and fi ghting against it, is accepting it as part of life. The enactment in these unbelievable yet harsh realities appears to be a silver lining, which may in course of time succeed in checking the rot.” In Secretary, Thirumurugan Cooperative Agricultural Credit Society v. M. Lalitha, (2004) 1 SCC 305, in paras 11 and 12 it was held as under: “11. From the Statement of Objects and Reasons and the scheme of the 1986 Act, it is apparent that the main objective of the Act is to provide for better protection of the interest of the consumer and for SMT. M. HEMALATHA DEVI & ORS. v. B. UDAYASRI 279 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] that purpose to provide for better redressal, mechanism through which cheaper, easier, expeditious and eff ective redressal is made available to consumers. To serve the purpose of the Act, various quasi-judicial forums are set up at the district, State and national level with wide range of powers vested in them. These quasi-judicial forums, observing the principles of natural justice, are empowered to give relief of a specifi c nature and to award, wherever appropriate, compensation to the consumers and to impose penalties for non-compliance with their s. 12.