Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 – s.10(a)(i) – D Decisions of Supreme Court in the case of Raneef and Arup Bhuyan (two Judge Bench decision) taking the view on reading down s.10(a)(i) that mere membership of a banned organization will not make a person a criminal/guilty unless he resorts to violence or incites people to violence or creates public dis by violence or E incitement to violence – Reading down of s.10(a)(i) without impleading the Union of India as a party and more particularly when the constitutional validity of the aforesaid provision was not called in question – If proper – Held: When any provision of Parliamentary legislation is read down in the absence of Union of India it is likely to cause enormous harm to the interest of the State F – In absence of any challenge to the constitutional validity of s.10(a)(i) of the UAPA there was no question of reading down of the said provision by this Court – Reading down the provision of a statute cannot be resorted to when the meaning of a provision is plain and unambiguous and the legislative intent is clear – The G Court ought not to have read down s.10(a)(i) of the UAPA, 1967 when neither its’ constitutional validity was under challenge nor the Union of India was heard. Interpretation of Statutes – Doctrines/Principles – “Reading down Doctrine” – Discussed. H 498 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Answering the Reference, the Court HELD: per M.R. SHAH, J. (for himself, C.T. Ravikumar, J. and Sanjay Karol, J.) B 1. Now so far as the reading down of Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA, 1967 by this Court in the case of Arup Bhuyan is concerned, at the outset it is required to be noted that such reading down of the provision of a statute could not have been made without hearing the Union of India and/or without giving any opportunity to the Union of India. When any provision of Parliamentary C legislation is read down in the absence of Union of India it is likely to cause enormous harm to the interest of the State. If the opportunity would have been given to the Union of India to put forward its case on the provisions of Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA, 1967, the Union of India would have made submissions in favour of Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA including the object and purpose D for enactment of such a provision and even the object and purpose of UAPA. Even otherwise in absence of any challenge to the constitutional validity of Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA there was no question of reading down of the said provision by this Court. Therefore, in absence of any challenge to the constitutional validity E of Section 10(a)(i) of UAPA, 1967 there was no occasion for this Court to read down the said provision. Also, reading down the provision of a statute cannot be resorted to when the meaning of a provision is plain and unambiguous and the legislative intent is clear.