In to understand the interplay between the three Acts, reference to the relevant provisions is necessary. F i) Stamp Act, 1899: The residuary entry in Article 5(c) of Schedule I of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 with the title “Agreements” as noted earlier, states “if not otherwise provided for” which, as held by us, brings under its ambit even an Arbitration Agreement. G Now, Instrument is defined under Section 2(14) as under: “(14) ”Instrument” includes every document by which any right or liability is, or purports to be, created, transferred, limited, extended, extinguished or record.” H 57 AIR 1937 Cal 765 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 467 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] Section 17 provides for the timing of stamping: A “ Instruments executed in India.—All instrument chargeable with duty and executed by any person in [India] shall be stamped before or at the time of execution.” “Execution” is defined in Section 2(12): B “Executed” or “Execution” used with reference to instruments, mean “signed” and “signature” ii) Indian Contract Act, 1872: An agreement under the Indian Contract Act, 1872 is defined C in Section 2(e) as under: “Every promise and every set of promises, forming the consideration for each other, is an agreement”. Sections 2(g), 2(h) and 2(j) and Section 10 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 state: D “(g) An agreement not enforceable by law is said to be void; (h) An agreement enforceable by law is a contract;” (j) A contract which ceases to be enforceable by law becomes void when it ceases to be enforceable E (10) All agreements are contracts if they are made by the free consent of parties competent to contrAct, for a lawful consideration and with a lawful object, and are not hereby expressly declared to be void. iii) Arbitration Act, 1996: F Section 2(b) provides as under: “(b) arbitration agreement” means an agreement referred to in section 7" Let us now consider Section 7 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 G which specifically defines Arbitration agreement: “7 Arbitration agreement. — (1) In this Part, “arbitration agreement” means an agreement by the parties to submit to arbitration all or certain disputes which H 468 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A have arisen or which may arise between them in respect of a defined legal relationship, whether contractual or not. (2) An arbitration agreement may be in the form of an arbitration clause in a contract or in the form of a separate agreement. (3) An arbitration agreement shall be in writing. B (4) An arbitration agreement is in writing if it is contained in— (a) a document signed by the parties; (b) an exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or [any other electronic means] other means of telecommunication which C provide a record of the agreement; or (c) an exchange of statements of claim and defence in which the existence of the agreement is alleged by one party and not denied by the other. (5) The reference in a contract to a document containing an D arbitration clause constitutes an arbitration agreement if the contract is in writing and the reference is such as to make that arbitration clause part of the contract.” [emphasis supplied] E 78.1.