H 1012 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 45. A similar power of withdrawal of any case involving, inter alia, a substantial question of law as to interpretation of the Constitution is conferred on the Gauhati High Court by Article 228 of the Constitution. If a situation of the nature contemplated by Article 228 does exist, the principal seat of the Gauhati High Court at Guwahati may withdraw such case from any of the three States of Nagaland, Mizoram and B Arunachal Pradesh and decide which of the two courses of action is to be opted. That would also constitute an inter-State transfer. Obviously, section 25 cannot operate as a bar for the Gauhati High Court to exercise a power conferred on it by the Constitution. 46. Finally, in our opinion, an approach to construe section 25 of C the CPC has to be fair, pragmatic, reasonable and realistic. Any construction of section 25 which would impede “access to justice”, considered to be a Fundamental Right, has to be eschewed. A narrow interpretation of section 25 imposing a bar for entertainment of an application under section 24 for transfer of a suit, appeal or other proceeding by a common High Court like the Gauhati High Court inter- D se the four States in relation to which it exercises jurisdiction could place a heavy burden and might pose an insurmountable obstacle for litigants of the far-flung areas of the North-East, if they were made to approach this Court for such transfer on the specious ground that the Civil Court to which the same is proposed to be transferred is in a State other than E the State in which the suit has been instituted. An interpretation of the law that seeks to address the mischief, that is consistent with the Constitution and promotes constitutional objectives and that which responds to the needs of the nation must be adopted. If “access to justice” has to be real, it becomes the moral responsibility of the Supreme Court, the supreme guardians/protectors of the rights of people guaranteed by F the Constitution and the laws, not to construe the substantive part in section 25 of the Code in a pedantic manner to bring about a situation that would thwart the initiative of making “access to justice” real. 47. What remains is the contention advanced by Mr. Sharma. We are not impressed, to say the least. Although sections 22 to 25 of the G CPC deal with transfers, sections 22 and 23 can be invoked in situations of the nature contemplated in section 22 by a defendant, and by none else, and the court which is empowered to entertain such an application is the court referred to in section 23. Section 22, in our view, permits transfer on application of the doctrine of forum conveniens and it has no applicability on facts and in the circumstances where the application H for transfer is at the instance of the plaintiffs. SHAH NEWAZ KHAN v. STATE OF NAGALAND 1013 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.]