This would merit close scrutiny. The legislature has not expressly excluded the applicability of sub-sections (3) and (4) of Section 29A to an international commercial arbitration. But, at the same time, it must be noticed that the rationale underlying sub-section (3) is to ensure that D despite the stipulation of twelve months for the making of an arbitral award in the domestic context, parties may by consent agree to an extension of time by a further period of six months. Such an extension of six months is envisaged in the case of a domestic arbitration since there is a mandate that the award shall be made within a period of twelve E months. A further extension has, however, been entrusted to the court in terms of sub-section (4) of Section 29A. However, insofar as an international commercial arbitration is concerned, the statutory regime is clear by the substantive part of sub-section 1 of Section 29A in terms of which the timeline of twelve months for making an arbitral award is not applicable to it. In an international commercial arbitration, the F legislature has only indicated that the award should be made as expeditiously as possible and that an endeavour may be made to dispose of the matter within a period of twelve months from the completion of pleadings. 27. The introduction of amended Section 29A finds its genesis in G the report dated 30 July 2017 of the Committee chaired by Justice B N Srikrishna. The ‘High Level Committee’, as it is described, was set up to review the “institutionalization of (the) arbitration mechanism” in India. The report specifically elaborates upon the reason for the exclusion of international commercial arbitrations from the ambit of the mandatory timeline of twelve months stipulated in the context of a domestic arbitration. H The report of the Committee records: TATA SONS PVT LTD (FORMERLY TATA SONS LTD) v. SIVA INDUSTRIES 1281 AND HOLDINGS LTD [DR. DHANAJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] “In fact, one of the provisions of the ACA — section 29A — A which was inserted by the 2015 Amendment Act, is perceived to have made arbitral institutions wary of arbitrations in India. Section 29A provides for strict timelines for completion of arbitration proceedings. This has been criticised as unduly restrictive of the conduct of arbitrations by arbitral institutions which provide for B timelines for different stages of the arbitration proceedings.” “The Committee notes that international arbitral institutions have strongly criticised the setting of timelines for conducting international commercial arbitrations. These institutions are of the view that monitoring the conduct of the arbitral proceedings is best left to C the arbitral institutions. Institutions have their own machinery for case management and do not require monitoring by the court. With respect to domestic arbitrations, the general opinion of arbitrators is that the timelines fixed for conducting domestic arbitrations under section 29A should take effect post completion of pleadings.” D 28. The recommendations of the Committee are extracted below: “1. A new sub-section may be inserted in section 29A limiting the applicability of the section to domestic arbitrations only.