Further, when at the desire of the promisor (the manufacturer), the promise (the dealer) does some act or F promises to do an act, such act or promise is called consideration for the promise. Therefore, the dealer (promisee) agrees to replace a defective part which is a consideration for the promise and in turn, receives a recompense in the form of a credit note from the manufacturer. Thus, there is an agreement between the manufacturer and the dealer, and it G would be in an instance of there being reciprocal promises. 69. In view of the above, the transaction between the manufacturer and dealer while acting pursuant to a warranty in the circumstances explained above has to be construed as sale within the meaning and definition of sale under the Sales Tax Acts under consideration. H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1345 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 70. In the circumstances, the reference is answered in the following A terms: i) The of this Court in Mohd. Ekram Khan is applicable to a situation where a manufacturer issues a credit note to a dealer acting under a warranty given by the manufacturer pursuant to a sale of an automobile in the B following situations. The dealer replaces a defective part of the automobile by a spare part maintained in the stock of the dealer or when the same is purchased by the dealer from the open market. In such situations, the credit note issued in the name of the dealer is a valuable consideration C for a transfer of property in the spare part made by the dealer to the customer and hence a sale within the meaning of the sales tax legislations of the respective States under consideration. The value in the credit note is thus exigible to sales tax under the respective sales tax enactments under consideration. D ii) The in Mohd. Ekram Khan does not apply to a case where the dealer has simply received a spare part from the manufacturer of the automobile so as to replace a defective part therein under a warranty collateral to the sale of the automobile. In such a situation also, the dealer E may receive a consideration for the purpose of the service rendered by him as a dealer under a dealership agreement or any other agreement akin to an agent of the manufacturer which is not a sale transaction. On the above understanding of the of this F Court in Mohd. Ekram Khan, we are of the view that the same does not call for any interference. In light of the above, in our view, overruling of the s in the case of Prem Motors and Geo Motors in Mohd. Ekram Khan, is just and proper. G (iii) It is reiterated that a credit note issued by a manufacturer to the dealer, in the situations explained above, is a valuable consideration within the meaning of the definition of sale and hence, exigible to sales tax under the respective State enactments of the States under consideration.