When the statements of independent witnesses PW-1, PW-4 and PW-6 are read together with the statement of PW-9, wife of the appellant, not only the circumstance of the deceased children being lastly in the company of F the accused-appellant is established but, further to that, it is also established that the appellant attempted to create a false narrative of accidental drowning of the children. This false narrative, in the facts of the present case, becomes another strong link in the chain of circumstances. G 16.4. When the facts established by the evidence on record and the surrounding factors are put together, the chain of circumstances had unfailingly been that the deceased children were lastly seen alive in the company of the appellant; they died because of manual strangulation and obviously, their death was homicidal in nature; their dead bodies were recovered from the canal; and the appellant attempted to project H PREM SINGH v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 851 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] that they had accidentally fallen into the canal. In the given set of A circumstances, when the deceased children were in the company of the appellant, who was none else but their father and when their death was caused by manual strangulation, the burden, perforce, was heavy upon the appellantto clarify the facts leading to the demise of his sons, which would be presumed to be specially within his knowledge. Thus, the B principles of Section 106 of the Evidence Act operate heavily against the appellant. 16.4.1. It is, ofcourse, the duty of prosecution to lead the primary evidence of proving its case beyond reasonable doubt but,when necessary evidence had indeed been led, the corresponding burden was heavy on C the appellant in terms of Section 106 of the Evidence Act to explain as to what had happened at the time of incident and as to how the death of the deceased occurred. There had not been any explanation on the part of the appellant and, as noticed, immediately after the incident, he attempted to create a false narrative of accidental drowning of the children. There had not been any specific response from the appellant in his statement D under Section 313 CrPC either. 17. Taking all the facts and factors together, the chain of circumstances leading only to the hypothesis of the guilt of the appellant has been duly visualised and analysed by the Trial Court as also by the High Court. That being the position, learned counsel for the appellant E has endeavoured to submit that an important link in the chain of circumstances, i.e., motive, has not been established and in that regard, reliance has particularly been placed on the statement of the wife of the appellant PW-9 Sunita Yadav, who did not support the prosecution allegations about strained relationship of the appellant and herself. F 17.1. As noticed, motive,when proved, supplies additional link in the chain of circumstantial evidence but, absence thereof cannot, by itself, be a ground to reject the prosecution case; although absence of motive in a case based on circumstantial evidence is a factor that weighs in favour of the accused.