G (ix) Victory is opposing the claim of the Resolution Professional on the ground that they are in possession of the entire land and that the Adjudicating Authority under the IBC does not have the power to evict a tenant/lessee/licensee in possession of the property. H VICTORY IRON WORKS LTD. v. JITENDRA LOHIA & ANR. 1031 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] (x) Both NCLT and NCLAT agreed with the claim of the Energy A Properties and Victory to the limited extent that the Authorities constituted under the IBC have no jurisdiction to the eviction of a third-party licensee/lessee. Therefore, by their s impugned in these appeals, both the Adjudicating Authority (NCLT) and the Appellate B Authority (NCLAT) have protected the interest of Victory to the extent of land of 10000 sq.ft. covered by the Leave and License Agreement. But at the same time both NCLT and NCLAT refused to acknowledge that Victory is in possession of the entire extent of land of 10.19 acres. Therefore, NCLT and NCLAT thought that the development C rights that the Corporate Debtor has over the remaining extent of land is to be preserved and included in the Information Bulletin. This is what both Energy Properties and Victory are opposing in these two appeals. Rival Contentions D 13. It is contended on behalf of Victory, (i)that the asset in question, namely, the land of the extent of 10.19 acres is owned by Energy Properties and not by the Corporate Debtor; (ii) that under Section 25(2)(a) of IBC, the Resolution Professional is entitled to take custody and control only of the assets of the Corporate Debtor and not the assets E of a third party; (iii) that under Regulation 30 of the Regulations, the Resolution Professional is entitled to seek the assistance of the local district administration only for discharging his duties under the Code and hence the very application moved by the Resolution Professional under Regulation 30 was misconceived, in the light of the circumspection F indicated in Section 25(2)(a) of IBC; and (iv)that even as per the very complaint lodged by the Resolution Professional, Victory is in possession of the entire extent of land and that, therefore, in the light of the law laid down by this Court in Embassy Property Developments Private Limited vs. State of Karnataka and Others9; Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited vs. Amit Gupta and Others10; and Tata Consultancy G Services Limited vs. SK Wheels Private Limited Resolution Professional, Vishal Ghisulal Jain11, the Adjudicating Authority did not have the jurisdiction to enter into this arena. 9 (2020) 13 SCC 308 10 (2021) 7 SCC 209 H 11 (2022) 2 SCC 583 1032 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 14. Energy Properties is also assailing the impugned s on almost identical grounds. More particularly, it is contended on behalf of the Energy Properties, (i) that when the Corporate Debtor is not in possession of the property, he is not entitled to use the mechanism provided in IBC to recover possession; (ii)that though Section 18(f) of the Code enables Interim Resolution Professional to take control and B custody of any asset over which the Corporate Debtor has ownership rights, the Explanation under Section 18 excludes the assets owned by a third party in the possession of the Corporate Debtor, held under contractual arrangements, from the purview of the definition of the term “assets” within the meaning of Section 18; and (iii)that the decisions of C this Court in Embassy Property Developments Private Limited, Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited and Tata Consultancy (supra) have clinched the issue without any pale of doubt.