In the case of Shanti Sports Club and Another v. Union of India and Others16, this Court enunciated the difference between developed and developing countries vis-à- vis planned development and observed that the object of planned development had been achieved by developed countries by rigorous enforcement of master plans prepared after careful study of complex issues, scientific research and G rationalisation of laws and concluded that developed countries had laid great emphasis on the planned development of cities. 125. It was further observed that the people of developed countries had greatly contributed to the concept of planned development of cities 16 (2009) 15 SCC 705 H 662 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A by strictly adhering to the planning laws, the Master Plan etc. and that they respect the laws enacted by the legislature for regulating planned development of the cities and seldom is there a complaint of violation of Master Plan etc. in the construction of buildings, residential, institutional or commercial. On the other hand, the scenario in developing countries like ours was substantially different. Though, the competent legislatures B have, from time to time, enacted laws for ensuring planned development of the cities and urban areas, enforcement thereof has been extremely poor and the people have violated the master plans, zoning plans and building regulations and bye-laws with impunity. This Court observed as under: C “74. ………….In most of the cases of illegal or unauthorized constructions, the officers of the municipal and other regulatory bodies turn a blind eye either due to the influence of higher functionaries of the State or other extraneous reasons. Those who construct buildings in violation D of the relevant statutory provisions, master plan etc. and those who directly or indirectly abet such violations are totally unmindful of the grave consequences of their actions and/or omissions on the present as well as future generations of the country which will be forced to live in unplanned cities and E urban areas. The people belonging to this class do not realize that the constructions made in violation of the relevant laws, master plan or zonal development plan or sanctioned building plan or the building is used for a purpose other than the one specified in the relevant statute or the master plan etc., such constructions put unbearable burden on the public facilities/ F amenities like water, electricity, sewerage etc. apart from creating chaos on the roads……… 75. Unfortunately, despite repeated s by this Court and High Courts, the builders and other affluent people engaged in the construction activities, who have, over the years shown scant G respect for regulatory mechanism envisaged in the municipal and other similar laws, as also the master plans, zonal development plans, sanctioned plans etc., have received encouragement and support from the State apparatus. As and when the courts have passed s or the officers of local and other bodies have taken action for ensuring rigorous compliance of laws relating to planned H RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 663 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.]