That is clear from a combined reading of Rules 2 and 3 respectively and the explanation. In this case, none of these conditions were present and the decision was evidently for default. Rule 2 alone is attracted. (see : G R. Ravindran v. M. Rajamanickam, 2006 SCC Online Mad 169) 53. The passed by the Rent Comptroller dated 27.01.1998 referred to in para 8 of this , has a different angle too. Let us once again read the passed by the Rent Controller closely. The is in two parts. In the first part, the Rent Controller says that the H PREM KISHORE & ORS. v. BRAHM PRAKASH & ORS. 667 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] counsel for the plaintiff is present. Then, he proceeds to observe that the A counsel for the plaintiff made a statement that no witness has come today nor they were summoned. The Rent Controller, further, notes that on none of the grounds further adjournment has been prayed for. Thereafter, he states that the last opportunity was granted to the plaintiff on 09.09.1997 and thereafter, on 01.11.1997. However, the plaintiff did B not care to call his witnesses. In such circumstances, the Rent Controller closed the eviction petition proceedings. The exact words used by the Rent Controller in the dated 27.01.1998 are: “the PE is thus closed.” In the second part of the , the Rent Controller, thereafter, proceeds to observe that since the relationship of Landlord-Tenant is under dispute and the plaintiff has failed to produce any evidence to C establish such relationship, he did not find any good reason to fix the case further for recording of evidence. In such circumstances, he dismissed the eviction petition, as the plaintiff could be said to have failed to establish his case. In the last, he observed that the file be consigned. 54. At the stage of hearing of the case, 17 of the CPC, D applied. Under that on a date of adjourned hearing, if a party was absent, the Court either would act under 9 or otherwise as it thought fit; or if a party was present but it did not produce evidence, it would proceed to decide the suit forthwith without benefit of evidence. This last thing tantamounts that the Court was to say whether the suit E was or was not proved, either wholly or in part and to pass the decree accordingly. 55. The moot question is whether the eviction petition was dismissed for default which dismissal would certainly bar a fresh suit if instituted on the same cause of action. The words, which we have quoted F above, certainly do not mean dismissal either on merits or on default. It was argued before us that the should only be taken to mean what an under 17 can possibly be and nothing else. We are not impressed by such submission. The did not purport to be one of dismissal for default or on merits and it cannot be taken to mean other than what it purported to be.