464 SUPR[2E0M23E] 1C0O SU.RCT.R R. E4P6O4 R: T2S023 INSC 6[220323] 10 S.C.R. A CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. SHYAM BIHARI & OTHERS (Criminal Appeal No. 413 of 2013) JULY 17, 2023 B [B. V. NAGARATHNA AND MANOJ MISRA, JJ. ] Penal Code,1860 – ss. 302 and 34 – Murder case – Acquittal of three policeman – Correctness of – Prosecution case that prosecution witnesses traveling with the victim, though on a separate scooter, at night in the light of the scooter saw three policemen on C the road armed with weapons – Policemen fired at them, hitting the victim who succumbed to the injuries and the prosecution witnesses managed to escape – Policemen charged of murder while patrolling u/s. 302/34 – However, acquittal by the trial court – Appeal thereagainst, u/s. 378(3) – Dismissed by the High Court – On appeal, held: Though of the High Court is a cryptic one but that D by itself need not be a ground to set aside the – There are relevant record to assess the merit of the prosecution case – Incident arose in the year 1987 and the appeal remained pending – Neither of the prosecution witness could identify any of the three accused – They did not depose that the three policemen involved in the crime E were those who were facing trial – Trial court justified in discarding the testimony of the eye-witness – Also no reliable evidence that the exchange of fire was with a view to kill – Moreover, the victim died from a .12 bore gunshot which could not be ascribed to rifles issued to the policemen – Circumstances ought to have formed a chain so far complete as to indicate that in all human probability it were the F persons facing trial and none else who committed the crime – However, the circumstances found proved do not constitute a complete chain – Thus, not a fit case to interfere with the passed by the High Court – Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s. 378(3). G Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973: s. 378(3) – Appeal against acquittal – Power of the appellate court – Explained. Dismissing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 No doubt the and of the High Court appears a bit cryptic but that by itself need not be a ground H 464 CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. SHYAM BIHARI 465 & OTHERS to set aside the and remit the matter to the High Court, A particularly, when there are relevant record to assess the merit of the prosecution case. More so, because the incident is of the year 1987 and the appeal has remained pending since more than a decade. In such circumstances, if the matter is remitted to the High Court only to rewrite the , it would be travesty of B justice. Consequently, as the trial court has dealt with the matter at great length and has discussed each and every piece of evidence on which the prosecution seeks to rely, it would be apposite to assess whether, by not granting leave to appeal against the of the trial court, there has been a miscarriage of justice.