[K. M. JOSEPH, J.] increase in the cost is directly attributable to the error in the WAPCOS A report provided to the bidders at the pre-bid stage. It is contended that the first respondent is required to be compensated for the same. (55) In para 108, it is stated that as per the RFP, the procurers had to provide the water intake study report. As per the said report, the cost of water intake system was approximately Rs.92 crores. It is further B stated in para 110 that there was considerable increase in the cost of water due to the water intake system. It is stated that it is on account of errors in the report. It is, however, no doubt, in para 111 stated that since water pipeline is part of the power station land and the water intake pipeline is an integral part of the power station, the indicative cost of the C water intake system will be covered by change in law. In the appeal also, we have noticed the stand elaborately. (56) Initial consent, has been defined in the PPA as meaning the consents listed in Schedule 2. Article 5.5 of the PPA reads as follows: “5.5 Consents D The Seller shall be responsible for obtaining all Consents (other than those required for the Interconnection and Transmission Facilities and the Initial Consents) required for developing, financing, constructing, operating and maintenance of the Project and maintaining/renewing all such Consents in to carry out E its obligations under this Agreement in general and this Article 5 in particular and shall supply to the Lead Procurer promptly with copies of each application that it submits, and copy/ies of each consent/approval/license which it obtains. For the avoidance of doubt, it is clarified that the Seller shall also be responsible for maintaining/renewing the Initial Consents and for fulfilling all F conditions specified therein.” (57) It is true that the procurers were to secure certain initial consents whereas the vast majority of the consents were to be procured by the seller. Whatever was to be procured by the procurers apparently has been described as initial consents. It is also not in dispute that though G the word consent is used in Article 13.1.1, the initial consent would also qualify as consent. The contention of the appellants is that as far as the initial consent contemplated which was to be performed by the procurers it was to provide the water linkage. The water linkage consisted of making available the source of water which consisted of the Govind H 46 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Ballabh Pant Sagar (Rihand Reservoir). There has been no change in the said consent. It is not a case of the first respondent, in other words, that the first respondent has been forced to take water from any other water source. In this regard by communication dated 23.10.2006, we find the following: B “6. Reference Clause: RFP 1.4(v) – regarding tying up water linkage for the Project requirement alongwith approval of Central Water Commissioner (i) This has already been provided on 12th October, 2006.