The original plaintiff (i.e. the landlady) claimed, inter-alia, recovery of possession as also decree for mesne profi t. Various defences were set up by the defendant in its written statement. One of them was that since it was an agreement for lease under which it was inducted as a tenant and the same was unregistered, the suit was not maintainable. Another plea of the defendant was that the subject property stood vested in the State under the thika tenancy law. This is a special type of tenancy prevalent in the Kolkata region involving multiple-tier of tenancy and ownership structure. The defendant claimed to have fi led certain returns before the Thika Controller. This issue was not raised before the High Court and is not in lis before us also. The defendant in the written statement, denied expiry of tenancy on 31.01.2007.As regards default in payment of rent, we have already referred to the defendant’s stand. Altogether, fi ve issues were framed by the Trial Court. The fi rst two issues framed by the Trial Court related to maintainability of the suit in the form it was framed and subsistence of cause of action. These two issues had not been pressed during trial and the Trial Court found that the suit was maintainable. The other three issues related to the question as to whether the plaintiff was entitled to the reliefs claimed or not. 4. The defendant, in its written statement, referred to the said agreement of 27.3.2003.In paragraphs 6,8 and 10 of the written statement, main defence of the defendant was disclosed. Plea was also taken denying default and vesting of the property in the State under the thika tenancy law. Before us, arguments have been advanced mainly on legal position of the unregistered agreement and the consequences thereof. Rest of the written statement contained broad denial of the plaintiff ’s claims. We quote below the said three paragraphs of the written statement:- M/S PAUL RUBBER INDUSTRIES PVT. LTD. v. AMIT 33 CHAND MITRA [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] “6. As a matter of fact, the plaintiff by representating herself to be the Owner/Landlady of the suit premises inducted the defendant therein as a lessee as would be evident from the Agreement dated 27.3.2003. The plaintiff has not sought any leave from this Learned Court to rely upon the said Agreement neither a copy of which has been fi led. However this defendant craves leave of this Ld. Court to rely upon the said Agreement at the time of hearing. The aforesaid Agreement on the face of it was an Agreement of Lease not registered under the statute and accordingly the suit is not maintainable. 8. It is denied that the tenancy if at all, expired on 31.01.2007 as the defendant was assured of a renewal by the plaintiff and the defendant was willing to renew the same which was known to the plaintiff . 10. The notice of the plaintiff served upon the defendant is defective. Admittedly the defendant was a Lessee under the plaintiff on the strength of the aforesaid Agreement and on expiry of the initial period of fi ve years was subject to a renewal.