[B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] co-operative banks which are co-operative societies engaged in banking business i.e. engaged in lending money to members of the public, which have a licence in this behalf from Reserve Bank of India. 15. It is on the aforesaid touchstone that these appeals must now be further considered from the point of view of the applicable provisions of law. 15.1. Section 80P speaks about deduction in respect of income of co- operative societies from the gross total income referred to in sub-section (2) of the said Section. From the said income, there shall be deducted, in accordance with the provisions of Section 80P, sums specifi ed in sub-section (2), in computing the total income of the assessee for the purpose of payment of income tax. Sub-section (2) of Section 80P enumerates various kinds of co-operative societies. Sub-section (2)(a)(i) states that if a co-operative society is engaged in carrying on the business of banking or providing credit facilities to its members, the whole of the amount of profi ts and gains of business attributable to any one or more of such activities shall be deducted. The sub-section makes a clear distinction between business of banking on the one hand and providing credit facilities to its members by co-operative society on the other. Thus, the defi nition of banking under Section 5(b) of the BR Act must be borne in mind as opposed to providing credit facilities to its members. 15.2. Section 80P was inserted to the Act with eff ect from 01.04.1968, however, sub-section (4) was reinserted with eff ect from 01.04.2007, in the present form. Earlier sub-section (4) was omitted with eff ect from 01.04.1970. Sub-section (4) of Section 80P in the present form is in the nature of an exception which states that the provisions of Section 80P shall apply in relation to any co-operative bank other than a primary agricultural credit society or a primary co-operative agricultural and rural development bank. The expressions co-operative bank and primary agricultural credit society as well as primary co-operative agricultural and rural development bank are defi ned in the Explanation as co-operative bank and primary agricultural credit society having the meanings respectively assigned to them in Part V of the BR Act, 1949. 15.3. The controversy in this case is, whether, the appellant entity is a co-operative bank and if so, it would be covered within the scope and 364 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. meaning of sub-section (4) of Section 80P and therefore, would not be eligible to the benefi t of deduction as provided therein. 15.4. Having regard to the Explanation to sub-section (4) of Section 80P, it is necessary to consider Chapter V of the BR Act, 1949 which states that the said Act shall apply to co-operative societies subject to modifi cations made thereunder. Section 56 begins with a non-obstante clause and states that notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, the provisions of the said Act shall apply to, or in relation to, co- operative societies as they apply to, or in relation to banking companies subject to the following modifi cations, namely, • in clause (a) throughout the said Act, unless the context otherwise requires,- (i) references to a “banking company” or “the company” or “such company” shall be construed as references to a co- operative bank.