3.8 It is submitted that so far as the offence of cheating alleged is concerned, no offence of cheating as defined in Section 415 IPC, is made out. It is submitted that the ingredients for the offence of D cheating has not been made out. It is submitted that even in the complaint, offence under Section 420 IPC was not even mentioned. Later, a proposed amendment with a view to introduce Section 420 IPC and to add the more persons as accused was made, which came to be rejected by a speaking . The matter was E taken to the Hon’ble High Court but the criminal revision was withdrawn. The second application for the same relief moved before the Learned Magistrate was also dismissed by just a well- reasoned . 3.9 It is submitted that even the offence of forgery has not been made out. It is submitted that there is no reference to any specific F document either in complaint or in the preliminary evidence. It is submitted that there is no allegation and/or a case is made out that any false document was created and produced. It is further submitted that as such the appellants had absolutely no role in filing of the application for registration. It is submitted that Parkash G Singh Badal was not the President of the Party at the time of making the application. Neither Sukhbir Singh Badal nor Daljit Singh Cheema was holding any office for the Party at that time. It is submitted that even otherwise, there was no false affidavit nor any forged document had been attached alongwith the application H 926 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A for registration, which was made in accordance with law. It is submitted that a careful perusal of Section 29-A of the Act, 1951 would show that a political party seeking registration could either file its Constitution or a Memorandum incorporating the declaration that it shall bear true faith and allegiance to the principle of Secularism. It is submitted that the copy of Constitution was not B attached and only a copy of the Memorandum adopted by the Party, in terms of Section 29-A of the Act, 1951 was attached with the application. It is submitted that therefore, the ingredients of cheating, forgery are not at all made. 3.10 It is further submitted by Shri Viswanathan, learned Senior C Advocate appearing on behalf of the appellants that so far as Parkash Singh Badal is concerned, the mandatory requirement of inquiry under Section 202 Cr.P.C. has not been followed before issuance of summons. It is submitted that neither, Parkash Singh Badal was arrayed as an accused in the complaint nor at the time D of inquiry he was cited as an accused. It is submitted that therefore, in absence of any mandatory inquiry under Section 202 Cr.P.C., the summoning is vitiated. Reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in the case of Birla Corporation Limited Vs. Adventz Investments and Holdings Limited and Ors., (2019) 16 SCC 610.