What was assigned as H 1 (2013) 5 SCC 397 SHIVSHANKARA & ANR. v. H.P. VEDAVYASA CHAR 381 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] a reason is that they could not file an additional written statement owing A to mistake and by oversight. No other reason was assigned for non-filing of application for amendment of written statement. 18.In the contextual situation, it is relevant to refer to the decision of this Court in Gayathri Women’s Welfare Association v. Gowramma And Anr.2wherein the observation in the decision of this Court in Pandit B Ishwardas v. State of Madhya Pradesh And Ors.3 at paragraph 34 which was quoted with agreement, as under: - “34. In Ishwardas, it has been observed as follows (SCC P. 166, Para 5): C 5. There is no impediment or bar against an appellate court permitting amendment of pleadings so as to enable a party to raise a new plea. All that is necessary is that the appellate court should observe the well-known principles subject to which amendments of pleadings are usually granted. Naturally one of the circumstances which will be taken D into consideration before an amendment is granted is the delay in making the application seeking such amendment and, if made at the appellate stage, the reason why it was not sought in the trial court. If the necessary material on which the plea arising from the amendment may be decided E is already there, the amendment may be more readily granted than otherwise. But, there is no prohibition against an appellate court permitting an amendment at the appellate stage merely because the necessary material is not already before the court.” F 19.After quoting the same it was observed in Gayathri Women’s Welfare Association’s case (supra) thus: - “These observations clearly indicate that one of the circumstances which will be taken into consideration before an amendment is granted is the delay in making the G application seeking such amendment and, if made at the appellate sage, the reason why it was not sought in the trial court.” 2 (2011) 2 SCC 330 3 (1979) 4 SCC 163 H 382 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 20.It is to be noted that in the case on hand also as stated earlier, there was considerable delay in seeking amendment of the written statement or filing additional written statement and no sustainable reason was assigned as to why such prayers were not sought in the trial court while the original proceedings were pending before it. It is also relevant to note that such prayers were also not made before the High Court B when the High Court initially disposed of RFA No. 1966 of 2007 as per dated 29.10.2007 and also before this Court in CA No. 5201 of 2009 directed against the said . 21.In the afore-mentioned contextual situation, the impact and effect of the of remand passed by this Court in CA No.5201 of C 2009, assumes great relevance. We have considered and come to a conclusion on this aspect as can be seen from paragraph 5 (supra).