72. The court was appraised that during the pendency of this case, the NCSK and the Union of India submitted affi davits regarding the position of constitution of State Commissions. The Amicus Curiae points out that the affi davits reveal glaring inconsistencies in the data for constitution of the State Commissions. The lack of precise data due to the inconsistencies means that there is no clarity regarding the constitution of these Commissions. Nonetheless, from the tables supplied to this Court by the Union and the Amicus Curiae, it is clear that very few States have dedicated Commissions for Safai Karamcharis. In fact, the data submitted by the Union of India also shows that the Commissions which have been constituted are neither functioning nor even meeting regularly. The implementation of the 2013 Act is wanting for the lack of institutional support from the State Commissions as well. Central Monitoring Committee 73. A vital institution for the implementation of the Act is the CMC constituted under Section 29 of the 2013 Act, under the chairmanship of the Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment. The Committee is to have various ex offi cio members including Minister of State in the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Chairperson National Commission for Scheduled Castes, Chairperson, NCSK, Member of Planning Commission dealing with development of Scheduled Castes, 3 MPs from SC communities, Secretaries of 7 ministries etc. The functions of this Committee, mandated under Section 30, are equally important. It is to monitor and advise the Central and State Government regarding the implementation of the 2013 Act and to coordinate the functions of all concerned agencies. The 2013 Act also empowers the Committee to look into any other matter incidental to or connected with the implementation of the Act. The broad and sweeping powers of the Committee demonstrate its importance. 74. Regrettably, though the Committee is statutorily mandated to meet once in six months under Section 29(3), it is seen that the Committee met after a gap of three years on 05.07.2023 after a direction from this Court on 02.05.2023. The passed by this Court is reproduced for clarity: DR. BALRAM SINGH v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 1119 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] “We have heard learned counsel for the parties and are of the opinion that the learned A.S.G. should indicate a practical method for the operationalization of the Central Monitoring Committee. That Committee comprises of more than 20 members and has apparently not met for the last three years. The record also discloses that in the last ten years, the Committee has met seven times. … This Court is of the opinion that the A.S.G. should, therefore, obtain instructions with regard to the practical method to be undertaken by State Committees and other agencies, created by the Act, for survey, identifi cation and complete operationalization of the Act. The A.S.G. may indicate also the time lines for this purpose.” The CMC being a central governmental authority which coordinates and monitors the implementation of the 2013 Act, must be proactive.