YRS should be functional by the time of sale of MS touch 300 KL. In case of failure of installation of VRS, Environment Compensation will be levied by SPCBs/ PCCs equivalent to the cost of H 238 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A VRS and this will further increase proportionate to the period of non-compliance. 2. Any new retail outlet set up in cities having population more than 10 Iakh and having sale potential of 100 KL MS per month will be provided with YRS. YRS should be installed B within a period 03 months from the day of sale of MS touch 100 KL. In case of failure of installation of VRS, Environment Compensation will be levied by SPCBs/ PCCs equivalent to the cost of VRS and this will further increase proportionate to the period of non-compliance. C 3. In case of Stage II VRS, nozzle shall be provided with flexible cover flap or other alternative system for proper covering of filling tank and therefore proper recovery of vapors. 4. OMCs are responsible for maintaining installed VRS. They have to maintain periodic inspections for AJL regulator as D prescribed by Legal Metrology. Proper record shall be maintained, 5. Working of dispenser shall be interlinked with VRS functioning. Online system shall be developed within 06 months to monitor status of operation of VRS. In case of E non-operation of YRS, the same shall be automatically reported to concerned OMC. YRS shall be brought into operation immediately within 24 hrs and in any case within 72 hrs failing which sale of MS shall be stopped from the fueling station. Proper records of operation of YRS shall F be maintained. 6. Work zone monitoring for Total VOC and Benzene shall be conducted by OMCs for petrol pumps selling more than 300 KL/ month and more than IO lakh population (in first phase) by E(P)Act, 1986 approved labs once in a year to G check compliance with OSHA norms (Time-Weighted Average) and report shall be submitted to SPCB. In addition, pilot study shall be conducted by OMCs through expert institutions for online monitoring of VOCs. E. Ground water and soil quality monitoring within petrol pump H selling more than 300 KL/ month and more than 10 lakh M/S INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED v. V. B. R. MENON 239 & OTHERS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] population shall be conducted by OMCs once in two years A through E(P)Act, 1986 approved labs for the following parameters from the nearest source and report submitted to SPCB: Permissible Limit B C Enforcement agencies including SPCB can collect samples m and D around petrol pump to check contamination F. Measures for protection of Worker’s Health 1. All workers engaged at retail outlets may be covered under ESI, OMC dealers shall implement the personal protective equipment (PPE) m par labor laws. E 2. IEC (Information Education Communication) activities should be organized by OMC dealers for workers at regular intervals in to sensitize them about harmful impacts of VOC emissions, G. Audit of all protection measures and monitoring F system implemented at petrol pumps: PESO shall conduct audit of tanks and fuel equipment including pipes, overfill protection equipment and alarm system on annual basis and maintain records.