14. Thus, in the case on hand, fixed deposit of Rs 1,00,00,000 for a period of six months in the name of the complainant and to keep E the FDR with the investigating officer as a condition precedent for grant of anticipatory bail is evidently onerous and unreasonable. It must be remembered that the court has not even come to the conclusion whether the allegations made are true or not which can only be ascertained after completion of trial. Certainly, in no words are we suggesting that the power to impose a condition of F this nature is totally excluded, even in cases of cheating, electricity pilferage, white-collar crimes or chit fund scams, etc. 15. The words ‘any condition’ used in the provision should not be regarded as conferring absolute power on a court of law to impose any condition that it chooses to impose. Any condition has to be G interpreted as a reasonable condition acceptable in the facts permissible in the circumstance and effective in the pragmatic sense and should not defeat the of grant of bail. We are of the view that the present facts and circumstances of the case do not warrant such extreme condition to be imposed.” H RAMESH KUMAR v. THE STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 1177 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 23. We may next take note of two decisions of this Court of recent A origin. 24. In Dilip Singh vs. State of Madhya Pradesh5, this Court sounded a note of caution in the following words: “3. By imposing the condition of deposit of Rs 41 lakhs, the High B Court has, in an application for pre-arrest bail under Section 438 of the Criminal Procedure Code, virtually issued directions in the nature of recovery in a civil suit. 4. It is well settled by a plethora of decisions of this Court that criminal proceedings are not for realisation of disputed dues. It is C open to a court to grant or refuse the prayer for anticipatory bail, depending on the facts and circumstances of the particular case. The factors to be taken into consideration, while considering an application for bail are the nature of accusation and the severity of the punishment in the case of conviction and the nature of the materials relied upon by the prosecution; reasonable apprehension D of tampering with the witnesses or apprehension of threat to the complainant or the witnesses; reasonable possibility of securing the presence of the accused at the time of trial or the likelihood of his abscondence; character, behaviour and standing of the accused; and the circumstances which are peculiar or the accused and E larger interest of the public or the State and similar other considerations. A criminal court, exercising jurisdiction to grant bail/anticipatory bail, is not expected to act as a recovery agent to realise the dues of the complainant, and that too, without any trial.” 25. Yet again in Bimla Tiwari vs. State of Bihar6, this is what the Court said: F “9.