12. The issues which arise for the consideration of this Court are: a. What is the nature of the jurisdiction under which this Court is adjudicating this case; and b. Can the relief sought in the writ petition be granted? B. Medical termination of pregnancies 13. The termination of pregnancies is governed by the MTP Act and the rules framed under it. The MTP Act is a progressive legislation which regulates the manner in which pregnancies may be terminated. Section 3 spells out certain conditions which must be satisfi ed before a pregnancy can be terminated.4 The conditions depend upon the length of the pregnancy. 4 “Section 3 - When pregnancies may be terminated by registered medical practitioners (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), a registered medical practitioner shall not be guilty of any off ence under that code or under any other law for the time being in force, if any pregnancy is terminated by him in accordance with the provisions of this Act. 2[(2) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (4), a pregnancy may be terminated by a registered medical practitioner,-- (a) where the length of the pregnancy does not exceed twenty weeks, if such medical practitioner is, or (b) where the length of the pregnancy exceeds twenty weeks but does not exceed twenty-four weeks in case of such category of woman as may be prescribed by rules made under this Act, if not less than two registered medical practitioners are, of the opinion, formed in good faith, that- - (i) the continuance of the pregnancy would involve a risk to the life of the pregnant woman or of grave injury to her physical or mental health; or (ii) there is a substantial risk that if the child were born, it would suff er from any serious physical or mental abnormality. Explanation 1.--For the purposes of clause (a), where any pregnancy occurs as a result of failure of any device or method used by any woman or her partner for the purpose of limiting the number of children or preventing pregnancy, the anguish caused by such pregnancy may be presumed to constitute a grave injury to the mental health of the pregnant woman. Explanation 2.--For the purposes of clauses (a) and (b), where any pregnancy is alleged by the pregnant woman to have been caused by rape, the anguish caused by the pregnancy shall be presumed to constitute a grave injury to the mental health of the pregnant woman. (2A) The norms for the registered medical practitioner whose opinion is required for X v. UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. 455 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Where the length of the pregnancy does not exceed twenty weeks, one Registered Medical Practitioner5 must be of the opinion, formed in good faith, that:6 a. The continuance of the pregnancy would involve a risk to the life of the pregnant woman or of grave injury to her physical or mental health.7 The anguish caused by a pregnancy which occurs due to the failure of a contraceptive method is presumed to constitute a grave injury to the mental health of the woman;8 or b.