The actual rule for apportionment has to be formulated in each case so as to ensure a just and equitable distribution of the total value or compensation among the persons interested in the land. [Para 28][403-E-F] G 1.6. In the said circumstances, the legislature thought fit to assign such function to none other than the Principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction. [Para 29][403-G] 1.7. The submission that the dispute between the parties is not one of apportionment but the same is with regard to giving H 390 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A effect to the passed by the Civil Court in the Civil Suit cannot be accepted. What is perhaps sought to be argued is that the shares in the land acquired should be determined on the basis of some passed by the Civil Court. Thus, if the private respondents want to rely upon the passed by the Civil Court, they can do so before the Court of the Principal Judge of original B jurisdiction. The District Magistrate has no power or jurisdiction in regard to the apportionment of the amount. [Para 30][403-H; 404-A-B] 1.8. It cannot be understood on what basis the High Court in its impugned observed that the District Magistrate is C competent to examine the passed by the Special Land Acquisition Officer and decide the dispute as to the apportionment of the amount. When it comes to resolving the dispute relating to apportionment of the amount determined towards compensation, it is only the Principal Civil Court of original D jurisdiction which can do so. Principal Civil Court means the Court of the District Judge. [Paras 31 and 33][404-C; 409-C] 1.9 If any dispute arises as to the apportionment of the amount or any part thereof or to any person to whom the same or any part thereof is payable, then, the competent authority shall E refer the dispute to the decision of the Principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction within the limits of whose jurisdiction the land is situated. The competent authority possesses certain powers of the Civil Court, but in the event of a dispute of the said nature, the summary power, vesting in the competent authority of rendering an opinion in terms of sub section (3) of Section 3H, F would not serve the purpose. The dispute being of the nature triable by the Civil Court that the law steps in to provide for that to be referred to the decision of the Principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction. The dispute regarding apportionment of the amount or any part thereof or to any person to whom the same or G any part thereof is payable, would then have to be decided by that Court. [Para 34][409-D-F] 1.10 The passed by the District Magistrate is quashed and set aside. In view of the dispute between the parties as regards apportionment of the amount of compensation, the Special Land Acquisition Officer would now refer the dispute to the H VINOD KUMAR & ORS. v. DISTRICT MAGISTRATE MAU & 391 ORS.