13. However, in Shenbagam vs. K.K. Rathinavel, 2022 SCC OnLine SC 71, this Court reiterated that in deciding whether or not to E grant the relief of specific performance, the Courts must be cognizant of the conduct of the parties, the escalation in the price of the suit property and consider whether one party will unfairly benefit from the decree. 14. By way of the Specific Relief (Amendment) Act, 2018 (hereinafter “the Amendment Act”), Section 20 of the Act has been substituted, thereby rendering the relief of specific performance to be a F statutory remedy, instead of a discretionary remedy. Previously, the unamended provision granted the courts the discretion to deny the relief of specific performance, on the basis of judicially developed exceptions, even where it would otherwise be lawful to direct specific performance. Now, such statutorily created exceptions have been excluded. The G Amendment Act has eliminated the discretion of the courts in cases involving specific performance of contracts and grants a right to an aggrieved party to seek specific performance of a contract in certain cases, subject to the provisions contained in Sections 11(2), 14 and 16 of the Act. These Sections deal with ‘Cases in which specific performance H C. HARIDASAN v. ANAPPATH PARAKKATTU VASUDEVA 269 KURUP [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] of contracts connected with trusts being enforceable’, ‘contracts which A cannot be specifically enforced’ and ‘personal bars to relief,’ respectively. 15. It is however to be noted that notwithstanding substitution of Section 20 of the Act, the position of law on all material aspects, such as the essential elements of readiness and willingness and other aspects under the unamended Section 16 remains the same. In this regard, the B decision of this Court in Mehboob-Ur-Rehman (Dead) through LRs vs. Ahsanul Ghani – [(2019) 19 SCC 415] may be referred to. In the said case, this Court held that even following the amendment of the Specific Relief Act, 1963, by way of Act No. 18 of 2018, the position of law on all material aspects remains the same. It was observed that, C even following the amendment, the law was to the effect that specific performance of a contract could not be granted or enforced in favour to the person who fails to prove that he has already performed or has always been ready and willing to perform the essential terms of the contract which are to be performed by him, other than the terms of which, the performance has been prevented or waived by the other D party. 16. Reference may also be had to the decision of this Court in Sughar Singh vs. Hari Singh (Dead) through LRs and Ors., A.I.R. 2021 SC 5581. In the said case, the question as to applicability of the unsubstituted provision of Section 20 of the Act on transactions entered E into prior to the date on which the Amendment Act of 2018, was kept open. However, the Court held that the provisions subsequently substituted, may act as a guide to Courts in exercising discretion in matters dating prior to the substitution, even though such provisions may not apply retrospectively.