The respondent applied for discharge, inter alia, amongst others on the ground that the trap which was a part of the enquiry/investigation had been laid without the previous approval of the Central Government as provided under Section 6A of the DSPE Act. 2.2. The Special Judge, CBI, rejected the application for discharge vide dated 30.04.2006 which was carried in revision before the High Court and was registered as Criminal Revision Petition No.366 of 2006. Learned Single Judge of the High Court vide dated 05.10.2006 framed three questions for consideration namely: 1 (2014) 8 SCC 682 2 In short ‘DSPE Act’ 3 In short, “CBI” 4 In short “PC Act, 1988” CBI v. R.R. KISHORE 7 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] 1. What is the background with regard to Section 6A of the DSPE Act? 2. Did the CBI acted in contravention of Section 6A(1)? 3. If yes, does it mean that the entire trial, consequent upon an illegal investigation, is vitiated? It answered question No.2 in favour of the respondent and further with respect to question No.3 left it open for the competent authority to take the decision and further proceed with reinvestigation and in case sanction is not granted, to notify the Special Judge, CBI, to close the case. The operative part of the is in paragraph 29 of the which is reproduced hereunder: “29. It follows that if, at the initial stage of trial, the illegality of investigation is brought to the notice of the court and yet the Trial Court continues with the trial then, such proceedings would be liable to be set aside by the High Court in exercise of its revisional jurisdiction. In this case, in view of the discussion above, it is clear that the provisions of Section 6 A(1) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 are mandatory and not merely directory. The investigation carried out in contravention of such provisions is, therefore, clearly illegal, in violation of a statutory requirement. The dismissal of the discharge application moved on behalf of the petitioner means that the trial would continue. This cannot be permitted in view of the discussion above. Because, then the court would be turning a blind eye and a deaf ear to the illegality in investigation which has been brought to its notice at the earliest stage. However, it also does not mean that the petitioner is entitled to a discharge and the closure of the case against him. As pointed out in Rishbud’s case and Mubarak Ali’s case, reinvestigation is to be ed in the context of the provisions of section 6A of the said Act. While the fi le is to be kept pending before Special Judge, approval of the Central Government is to be sought for investigation. If approval is accorded then the matter shall be reinvestigated as per prescribed procedure and the material gathered in such re-investigation shall be placed before the Special Judge for further proceedings in accordance with law. If the approval is not given by the Central Government, then the same shall be notifi ed to the Special Judge who shall then close the case.” 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R.