Section 65 of the PMLA, 2002 clearly speaks of the overriding eff ect over the CrPC, 1973. There is due compliance of Section 19 of the PMLA, 2002. The appellant has been hoodwinking the investigating agency, as rightly taken note of by the third learned Judge of the High Court. 26. The application of Sections 167(1) and (2) of the CrPC, 1973 to an investigation in connection with an off ence under the PMLA, 2002, is no longer res integra in view of the decisions rendered in Deepak Mahajan (supra), followed by Ashok Munilal Jain v. Directorate of Enforcement, (2018) 16 SCC 158. 27. The reliance placed by the appellant on Anupam J. Kulkarni (supra), as followed thereafter by this Court is misconceived. In the said case, the facts are diff erent as it was a case of counting the days after the arrestee was given custody in favour of the investigating agency, whereas no such custody has ever been made to the respondents. The principle governing actus curiae neminem gravabit was not the subject matter of those decisions. All legal actions taken by the appellant lack bona fi des, they are solely to evade custody. The appellant has not even challenged the rejection of the bail wherein similar contentions have been taken note of and rejected. 28. To sum up, it is submitted that, both on facts and law, the appellant does not have a case as there is a complete abuse of the process of law. Incidentally, it is prayed that the Special Leave Petitions fi led by the respondents will have to be allowed giving suffi cient number of days for further investigation. 868 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. WRIT OF HABEAS CORPUS: 29. A writ of Habeas Corpus shall only be issued when the detention is illegal. As a matter of rule, an of remand by a judicial offi cer, culminating into a judicial function cannot be challenged by way of a writ of Habeas Corpus, while it is open to the person aggrieved to seek other statutory remedies. When there is a non-compliance of the mandatory provisions along with a total non-application of mind, there may be a case for entertaining a writ of Habeas Corpus and that too by way of a challenge. 30. In a case where the mandate of Section 167 of the CrPC, 1973 and Section 19 of the PMLA, 2002 are totally ignored by a cryptic , a writ of Habeas Corpus may be entertained, provided a challenge is specifi cally made. However, an passed by a Magistrate giving reasons for a remand can only be tested in the manner provided under the statute and not by invoking Article 226 of the Constitution of India, 1950. There is a diff erence between a detention becoming illegal for not following the statutory mandate and wrong or inadequate reasons provided in a judicial . While in the former case a writ of Habeas Corpus may be entertained, in the latter the only remedy available is to seek a relief statutorily given.