5,000 Crores is transferred to the Central Registrar of Cooperative Societies and thereafter the same is disbursed against the legitimate dues of the F depositors of the Sahara Group of Cooperative Societies, it will be just, proper and equitable. 2.2 He has stated at the Bar that on the aforesaid amount, there is no charge and/or attachment of any other agency. He has stated at the Bar that the present application has been filed for appropriate direction G as prayed, after the series of meetings with the different authorities / departments, which shall be in the larger interest of the depositors of the Sahara Group of Cooperative Societies. He has also prayed that a suitable direction be also issued that the amount due and payable to the respective depositors of the Sahara Group of Cooperative Societies may be disbursed H 780 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A in the most transparent manner and the same shall be paid to the genuine depositors on proper identification and on submitting their proof of deposits. He has also requested that for that a suitable direction be also issued that the amount shall be disbursed to the respective depositors under the supervision of the Former Judge of this Court. B 3. Having heard Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the Union of India and taking into consideration the facts narrated hereinabove and when it is reported that Rs. 2253 Crores had been taken out of the Sahara Credit Cooperative Society Ltd., i.e., one of the four Sahara Group Multi-State Cooperative Societies and deposited with SEBI in the “Sahara-SEBI Refund Account” and C the amount lying in the “Sahara-SEBI Refund Account” is lying unutilized and the genuine depositors of the Sahara Group of Cooperative Societies, which otherwise, shall be entitled to get back their money, the prayer sought in the present application seems to be reasonable and which shall be in the larger public interest / interest of the genuine depositors of the D Sahara Group of Cooperative Societies. Therefore, the present application stands disposed of with the following directions:- (i) Out of the total amount of Rs. 24,979.67 Crores lying in the “Sahara-SEBI Refund Account”, Rs. 5000 Crores be transferred to the Central Registrar of Cooperative E Societies, who, in turn, shall disburse the same against the legitimate dues of the depositors of the Sahara Group of Cooperative Societies, which shall be paid to the genuine depositors in the most transparent manner and on proper identification and on submitting proof of their deposits and proof of their claims and to be deposited in their respective F bank accounts directly. (ii) The disbursement shall be supervised and monitored by Justice R. Subhash Reddy, Former Judge of this Court with the able assistance of Shri Gaurav Agarwal, learned Advocate, who is appointed as Amicus Curiae to assist G Justice R. Subhash Reddy as well as the Central Registrar of Cooperative Societies in disbursing the amount to the genuine depositors of the Sahara Group of Cooperative Societies.