Accepting the recommendations of the Committee, out of the 14 general category posts, 5 offi cers of the Fast Track Court were adjusted, thus leaving only 9 to be fi lled up as per selection. In the meantime, 20 fresh vacancies of the cadre became available, out of which, 5 were to be fi lled up by direct recruitment from the Bar, (4 general category and 1 scheduled caste category). Therefore, a conscious decision was taken to add these 4 general category vacancies to the already advertised vacancies, thus making the number of general category vacancies to be 13 [14-5=9+4=13]. Thus, only 13 candidates were appointed. The respondents have not acted arbitrarily in making such appointments. 13. Under the Fast Track Court scheme envisaged by the Central Government, State Governments were required to establish Fast Track Courts for disposal of long pending cases. In Brij Mohan Lal (1) (supra), certain directions were issued for the proper implementation of the above scheme. Some of the said directions which are relevant for our purpose provide that for the appointment of judges in the Fast Track Courts, fi rst preference be given to the eligible judicial offi cers who may be promoted on ad-hoc basis after following the procedure in force for the promotion of the judicial offi cers. Second preference was to be accorded to the retired judges who have good service records with no adverse comment in their ACRs. The third preference was to be given to the members of the Bar for direct appointment as Fast Track Court judges and that they may be continued against the regular post if the Fast Track Court ceases to function. They may be absorbed in regular vacancies in the subsequent recruitment if their SUDESH KUMAR GOYAL v. STATE OF HARYANA & ORS. 419 [PANKAJ MITHAL, J.] performance in Fast Track Court is found satisfactory and in making such absorption, the High Court shall adopt such methods of selection as are normally followed for selection of superior/higher judicial service offi cers amongst the members of the Bar by direct recruitment. 14. It is worth mentioning that Brij Mohan Lal (2) v. Union of India (2012) 6 SCC 502, vide paragraph 207, without interfering with the policy decision of the government, in exercise of its power under Article 142 of the Constitution of India issued certain more directions in relation to Fast Track Court Scheme. One of the directions was for creation of additional 10% posts for the absorption of Fast Track Court judges. Another direction was that all those who have been appointed by way of direct recruitment from the Bar under the Fast Track Court Scheme would be entitled to be appointed to the regular cadre of the higher judicial services of the respective States in the manner laid down therein. In addition to the above, it directed that candidates who were promoted as Fast Track Court judges from the post of Civil Judge (Sr. Division) having requisite experience in service shall be entitled to be absorbed and remain promoted to the higher judicial service of the State against the 25% quota after giving due weightage to the fact that they have already put in a number of years’ service in the higher judicial service.