Section 74 reads as follows: “74. Public documents. —The following documents are public documents: — E (1) Documents forming the acts, or records of the acts— (i) of the sovereign authority, (ii) of official bodies and tribunals, and (iii) of public officers, legislative, judicial and executive, of any part of India or of the Commonwealth, or of a foreign country; F of any part of India or of the Commonwealth, or of a foreign country; (2) Public records kept in any State of private documents.” 100. We have already noticed that Section 35 of the Stamp Act G interdicts the registration of an instrument unless it is duly stamped. 101. The interplay of the Evidence Act, the Stamp Act and the Registration Act is to be understood as follows: In regard to an instrument, which is executed in India and which is liable to be stamped, then, stamping has to take place before or at the H 366 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A time of the execution of the instrument. It is after the instrument is stamped that it can be presented for registration. Section 17 of the Registration Act provides for documents, which are compulsorily registrable. Section 18 permits registration of other documents at the option of the persons concerned. An instrument, which is registered, necessarily involves, it being duly stamped before it is so registered. B This result is inevitable, having regard to the impact of Section 35 of the Stamp Act. In fact, an instrument, which is not duly stamped and which is produced before the Registering Authority, would be liable to be impounded under Section 33 of the Stamp Act. What Section 74 read with Section 76 of the Evidence Act provides for is, the issuance of C certified copies. Certified copies can be issued only in respect of public documents. Section 62 inter alia of the Evidence Act defines primary evidence as the document itself produced for the inspection of the court. Section 63 of the Evidence Act defines ‘secondary evidence’ as meaning and including, inter alia, ‘certified copies under the provisions hereinafter contained’. The provisions ‘hereinafter contained’ referred to in Section D 63 must be understood as Section 74 read with Section 76. A certified copy can be given, no doubt, of ‘public records kept in any State of private documents’. Thus, if a sale deed between two private parties comes to be registered, instead of producing the original document, a certified copy of the sale deed, may qualify as secondary evidence and E a certified copy can be sought for and issued under Section 76 of the Evidence Act. The expression ‘public records kept in any State of a private document’ in Section 74 is not confined to documents, which are registered under the Registration Act. A private document, which is kept as a public record, may qualify as a public document. What is important is, to bear in mind that in view of Section 33 of the Stamp Act, an F instrument, which is not duly stamped, if it is produced before any Public Office, it would become liable to be impounded and dealt with as provided in the Stamp Act.