At present files with RIICO should also be taken back and kept with District Industrial Centre. In all these cases compliance of terms of lease deed and monitoring of the same to be under supervision of District Industrial Centre. H 256 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 2. Before lease deeds are signed for Land allotted under Rajasthan Industrial Area Allotment Rules, 1959 entry of change of land use and ownership should be entered into the revenue records and only then the land should be allotted under Rajasthan Industrial Area Allotment Rules, 1959. 3. After the signing of lease deed the same should be entered B into the revenue records and files pertaining to it should be kept with District Industries Centre. 4. Lease deed of the allotted land under Rajasthan Industrial Area Allotment Rules, 1959 is to be executed by District Collector/ General Manager, District Industries Centre. As C District Collector/ Managing Director has to initiate action in cases of violation of terms of lease deed, General Manager, District Industries Centre to be directly responsible to bring any or all violations in the notice of Director, District Industries Centre and District Collector. D Sincerely, Special Secretary Industry” x---------------------------------x--------------------------------------x 15. A circular by RIICO itself, on 27.01.1995, gave RIICO’s own interpretation of the content and meaning of the Circular issued by E Industries Department, Government of Rajasthan on 12.01.1995. It concurred with the stand that files pertaining to lands for which allotment and leases had been executed under the 1959 Rules, would be retained by the State Government and not the Corporation: “Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment F Corporation Ltd. Udyog Bhawan, Tilak Marg, Jaipur- 302005 Sr. IPI/P-3(24)47/95 Dated:- 27-01-1995 Circular G Sub:- Proceeding in respect of land under Rajasthan Industrial Area Allocation Rules, 1959. In the industrial areas of the corporation (and those industrial areas which were later transferred from the Department of Industries to the Corporation) in violation of the terms of the lease H BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 257 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] of land allotment. Action is taken by the unit office under the A Corporation’s Land Disposal Rules. Some such cases (especially in Bhilwara) have come to notice in which land allocation to Industrial Units at the state level or district level was done under the Rajasthan Industrial Area Allocation Rules, 1959 and whose lease deed was also executed by the District Collector (Industry). B But their files were transferred to the unit offices of the corporation in some such cases proceedings were initiated by the unit office of the corporation in cases of violation of the terms of the lease deed. Such proceedings are irregular. In the above context, the State Government has recently issued C circular dated 12-01-1995, a copy of which is being attached for your information. It will be clear from this that under the Rajasthan Industrial Area Allocation Rules, 1959 the District Industry Center/ Collector (Industry) will have the right and responsibility to take action in respect of violation of the terms of the lease deed.