150. The portions of the dated 28.06.1963 relied upon by the appellants to show that the properties were held to be Mathruka properties left by Khurshid Jah, were all not findings E recorded under Issue Nos. 7(a) and 7(b). They were either part of the pleadings or part of the findings recorded under Issue No. 6(b), which related to the report of the Mirza Yar Jung Committee with particular reference to who constituted the surviving legitimate heirs. Therefore, the reliance placed by the appellants on some portions of the dated 28.06.1963, to say that the property was held to be F Mathruka, is misplaced. 151. For claiming that the suit properties were Mathruka properties, reliance is placed by the appellants also upon:- • The sanad dated 03.12.1877; G • GOMS No.1106 dated 06.06.1959 issued by the State of Andhra Pradesh ing an Inam Enquiry; • The s passed by the Nazim Atiyat Court first on 11.09.1959 and then on 30.10.1968; and H • The Muntakhab issued by the Commissioner on 14.02.1983. M/s TRINITY INFRAVENTURES LTD. & ORS. ETC. v. M. S. 353 MURTHY & ORS. ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] 152. But we do not know how the appellants are placing reliance A upon these documents in support of the contention that the properties left behind by Khurshid Jah are Mathruka properties. If we have a look at the chronology of events, it may be seen that the sanad relied upon by the appellants merely state as follows:- “It is stated that Nazra (i.e. the Farm Land) of Hafiz Peth and B Mazra (i.e. the Farm Land) of Hydernagar, as per the old boundaries, out of Sivar (i.e. Limits) of village Miyanpur of the said Parganna Sarka and of the said Sba with the Nahasil i.e., the Land Revenue assessment of Rupees One thousand one hundred and thirty four and annas ten, given in lieu of Mazna Timmaeepalli C of Sivar of Village Amir Khanguda of Pargana. Ibrahimpatan which has been included in “Khalsa” i.e., in Government lands and the Land of Khurshid Nagar which has gone under Railway Road, both of which had belonged to Khurshid Jah as his purchased ones (i.e. being his ‘Zar Kharid i.e. purchased D lands) and ‘Kharij’ ‘Jama’ i.e. excluded from Government demand. Hence from the commencement of the year 1286 Fasli were determined under the heading ‘Inam Altamgha’ and Kharij” Jama’ (i.e. excluded from Government demand) in the name of the said Bahadur i.e. Khurshid Jah Bahadur and his descendants and successor without the condition of Asami i.e. without naming E anyone particularly, along with the remission of ‘Chowth’ etc items. You, by contracting the Naib of the said Bahadur i.e. the Deputy of Khurshid Jah Bahadur, should continue to make payment of the due amount of revenue assessment, in time and at the season. Treating this to be a strict i.e., ‘Takeed’ in this matter, action F be taken as stated above.” 153. The sanad merely states that the Government lands and land of Khurshid Nagar were acquired for the Railway Road and that the acquired land was the purchased land of Khurshid Jah.