If the appellants answer the description of State in Article 36, then there is a continuing duty to pay obeisance to the Directive Principles. The Act cannot result in transforming the appellants into mere profit-making engines or require of them to be oblivious to their obligations C under the Constitution. But that cannot equally mean that they can act with caprice, or unfairly or treat otherwise similarly situated persons or things with discrimination.We do not say more as the matter must be considered on its own merits both in the appeal as in all the transferred cases. We may only add that in judicial review the appellants would be held to the standard of fairness as also the duty not to discriminate. The D appellants cannot resist the imposition of standards of fairness and the duty to avoid discriminatory practices when a specialized forum has been created by Parliament under the Act where also apart from the CCI being an expert body, it can seek and receive valuable inputs from experts and what is more, the matter is preceded by the report of Director E General of Investigation. CONFLICT BETWEEN SECTION 28 OF THE ACT AND SECTION 32 OF THE NATIONALISATION ACT 121. Section 28 of the Competition Act, 2002, reads as follows: “28 (1) The Commission may, notwithstanding anything contained F in any other law for the time being in force, by in writing, direct division of an enterprise enjoying dominant position to ensure that such enterprise does not abuse its dominant position. (2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing powers, the referred to in sub-section (1) may provide for G all or any of the following matters, namely:— (a) the transfer or vesting of property, rights, liabilities or obligations; (b) the adjustment of contracts either by discharge or reduction of any liability or obligation or otherwise; (c) the creation, allotment, surrender or cancellation of any shares, stocks or securities; 48(d) [Omitted by Competition (Amendment) Act, 2007] (e) the formation or H COAL INDIA LIMITED v. COMPETITION COMMISSION 885 OF INDIA [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] winding up of an enterprise or the amendment of the memorandum A of association or articles of association or any other instruments regulating the business of any enterprise; (f) the extent to which, and the circumstances in which, provisions of the affecting an enterprise may be altered by the enterprise and the registration thereof; (g) any other matter which may be necessary to give B effect to the division of the enterprise. (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force or in any contract or in any memorandum or articles of association, an officer of a company who ceases to hold office as such in consequence of the division of an enterprise shall not be entitled to claim any compensation for such cesser.” C 122. It is, undoubtedly, true that there has been a vesting of rights in regard to the mines under the Nationalisation Act.