are not followed and they would be in a position to keep the concern as a going concern and the CoCs would accept the terms of settlement and approve it by 90%. This, as one may say, is a special privilege for MSMEs. It is, thereafter, in paragraph 22, penned down, that in “exceptional circumstances” if a corporate debtor is an MSME, it is not necessary for promoters to compete with other resolution applicants to retain control of the corporate debtor. 11. In the impugned , it can hardly be disputed that there is no discussion on the special circumstances other than the reference to in Bafna’s case. The impugned is predicated on a broad reasoning as if ipso facto there is no need to call other proposals if it is an MSME. In view of the larger context it would have, we clearly observe and hold that this is not the correct position of law. 12. This is more so as in the factual scenario of Bafna’s case, the observations were made in the context of (a) before the constitution of CoCs R. RAGHAVENDRAN v. C. RAJA JOHN & ORS. 725 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] or (b) in terms of Section 12A of the Code on the basis of an off er given by the promoter in such a case. 13. This is to clarify the legal principles so that there is no confusion in future in appreciating the context of the observations made in Bafna’s Case. 14. We are, thus, clearly of the view that the appellant cannot be faulted for calling for other proposals in which the proposal given by respondent No.1 was also to be examined, put them to voting before the CoCs and declare the results. 15. To that extent, the impugned is set aside. 16. Needless to say all proceedings emanating from the premise of the aforesaid observations in paragraph Nos. 32 and 34, whether in the contempt proceedings or any other proceedings would dissolve and be set aside. 17. We could have put an end to the matter by the aforesaid but having been persuaded by learned counsel for the respondent No.1 to give some hiatus time to the said respondent on account of the fact that he has submitted an OTS (One Time Settlement) proposal to the fi nancial creditors and are hopeful of the acceptance of the same. It is also his say that the fl at buyers are also on board but are only 15% of the CoCs. 18. We are inclined to give that chance to the respondent No.1 in the given facts of the case but would not like the proceedings to drag on under the pretext of the OTS given by the respondent No.1., as it would be the objective of the Court to have a quick resolution with the aspect of insolvency or revival. On our query, learned counsel submits, on instructions, that a two months window may be granted to persuade the fi nancial creditors.