In applying the conception of residence to a company, we ought, I think, to proceed as nearly as we can upon the analogy of an individual. A company cannot eat or sleep, but it can keep house and do E business. We ought, therefore, to see whether it really keeps house and does business. An individual may be of foreign nationality, and yet reside in the United Kingdom. So may a company. Otherwise, it might have its chief seat of management and its centre of trading in England, under the protection of English law, and yet escape the appropriate F taxation by the simple expedient of being registered abroad and distributing its dividends abroad. The decision of Chief Baron Kelly and Baron Huddleston in Calcutta Jute Mills Co. Ltd. v. Henry Nicholson, [1876] 1 TC 83 : [1876] 1 Ex D 428 and Cesena Sulphur Co. Ltd. v. Henry Nicholson, G [1876] 1 TC 83 : [1876] 1 Ex D 428, now thirty years ago, involved the principle that a company resides for purposes of income-tax where its real business is carried on. Those decisions have been acted upon ever since. I regard that as the true rule; and the real business is carried on where the central management and control actually abides.” H MANSAROVAR COMMERCIAL PVT. LTD. v. COMMISSIONER 491 OF INCOME TAX, DELHI [M. R. SHAH, J.] 9. Since that , the words underlined have been A taken as the test, although central management and control has sometimes been stated in the form “head, seat and directing power”. The question depends on the fact of the management and not on the physical situation of the thing that is managed. A company is managed by the board of B directors and if the meetings of the board of directors are held within India, it may be said that the central control and management is situated here. The direction, management and control “the head and seat and directing power” of a company’s affairs is, therefore, situate at the place where the directors’ meetings are held and, consequently, a non- C Indian company would be a resident in this country if the meetings of the directors who manage and control the business are held here. The word “affairs” means affairs which are relevant for the purpose of the I.T. Act and which have some relation to the income sought to be assessed. It D is not the bare possession of powers by the directors, but their taking part in or controlling the affairs relating to the trading, that is of importance in determining the question of the place where the control is exercised. They must exercise their power of control in relation to business or activity wherefrom the profit is derived. (See Egyptian Hotels E Ltd. v. Mitchell, [1915] 6 TC 542 (HL)).” v) In the case of Nandlal Gandalal (supra), this Court has held that the expression “control and management” in Section 4A(b) of the Income Tax Act, 1922, means de facto control and management and not merely the right or power to control F and manage.