In this case, no bills of entry were fi led, and no assessed goods were lost in the fi re. According to the insurer, since the taxable event never happened, there is no customs duty liability. The counsel also cited Section 23 of the Customs Act, which required the Assistant Commissioner of Customs to remit duty for lost or destroyed goods, before clearance. 55. However, the counsel for the claimant rightly contended that the privileges enshrined in Sections 22 and 23 of the Customs Act, pertaining to abetment and remission, extend exclusively to those classifi ed as ‘importers’ of insured goods. The crux of the argument revolves around the claimant’s distinct position, as the claimant neither assumes the role of importer nor owner; instead, they function solely as a custodian entrusted with the goods on behalf of their clients. 104 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 56. The upshot of the above discussion is that the reports suggesting electrical short circuit as the trigger for the warehouse fi re, is found to fi t in with the attendant circumstances. As a corollary, the fi re at the warehouse cannot be attributable to any negligent act of the insured. Moreover, the fi re is found to have occurred within the insured warehouse and the appellant’s plea to the contrary, is not believable. Therefore, it is a case of wrongful repudiation by the appellants. No legal infi rmity is thus seen with the impugned decision favouring the respondent’s insurance claim. 57. In the realm of risk and uncertainty, individuals and organisations seek solace in the bastion of insurance – a covenant forged on the bedrock of trust. Trust serves as the cornerstone, forming the essence of the insurer- insured relationship. The fundamental principle is that insurance is governed by the doctrine of uberrimae fi dei – there must be complete good faith on the part of the insured.9 The heart & soul of an insurance contract lies in the protection it accords to those who wish to be insured by it. This understanding encapsulates the foundational belief that insurance accords protection & indemnifi cation, preserving the sanctity of trust within its clauses. Eff ectively, the insurer assumes a fi duciary duty to act in good faith and honour their commitment. This responsibility becomes particularly pronounced when the insured, in their actions, have not been negligent. In light of the vital role that trust plays in insurance contracts, it is important to ensure that the insurer adequately fulfi ls the duty that has been cast on it, by virtue of such a covenant. 58. Accordingly, the appeal of the Insurance Company deserves to be dismissed. But even while dismissing the appeal, to avoid any confusion, the customs duty component of the claim should, in the given event, be discharged directly to the Customs Department. All other legal consequences will follow on upholding the claim of the insured against the appellants. It is ed accordingly. 59. With the above, the appeal stands dismissed favouring the insured.