Take for instance, in the present case we F have reached to the conclusion that the evidence of the three eyewitnesses inspires confidence and there is nothing in their evidence on the basis of which it could be said that they are unreliable witnesses. Having reached to such a conclusion, in our opinion, to fortify our view we can definitely look into the suggestions made by the defence counsel G to the eyewitnesses, the reply to those establishing the presence of the accused persons as well as the eyewitnesses in the night hours. To put it in other words, suggestions by itself are not sufficient to hold the accused guilty if they are incriminating in any manner or are in the form of admission in the absence of any other reliable evidence on record. It is true that a suggestion has no evidentiary value but this proposition of law would not H 874 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A hold good at all times and in a given case during the course of cross- examination the defence counsel may put such a suggestion the answer to which may directly go against the accused and this is exactly what has happened in the present case. 41. The principle of law that in a criminal case, a lawyer has no B implied authority to make admissions against his client during the progress of the trial would hold good only in cases where dispensation of proof by the prosecution is not permissible in law. For example, it is obligatory on the part of the prosecution to prove the post mortem report by examining the doctor. The accused cannot admit the contents of the post mortem report thereby absolving the prosecution from its duty to prove the C contents of the same in accordance with law by examining the doctor. This is so because if the evidence per se is inadmissible in law then a defence counsel has no authority to make it admissible with his consent. 42. Therefore, we are of the opinion that suggestions made to the witness by the defence counsel and the reply to such suggestions would D definitely form part of the evidence and can be relied upon by the Court along with other evidence on record to determine the guilt of the accused. 43. The main object of cross-examination is to find out the truth on record and to help the Court in knowing the truth of the case. It is a matter of common experience that many a times the defence lawyers E themselves get the discrepancies clarified arising during the cross- examination in one paragraph and getting themselves contradicted in the other paragraph. The line of cross-examination is always on the basis of the defence which the counsel would keep in mind to defend the accused. At this stage, we may quote with profit the observations made by a Division Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in the case of Govind F s/o Soneram v. State of M.P.