Needless to say, imposition of conditions is subsequent to the admitting an accused to bail. The question should be posed whether the accused deserves to be enlarged on bail or not and only thereafter issue of imposing conditions would arise. We do not deny for a moment E that period of custody is a relevant factor but simultaneously the totality of circumstances and the criminal antecedents are also to be weighed. They are to be weighed in the scale of collective cry and desire. The societal concern has to be kept in view in juxtaposition of individual liberty. Regard being had to the said parameter we are inclined to think that the F social concern in the case at hand deserves to be given priority over lifting the restriction on liberty of the accused.” (Emphasis supplied) 27. In Bhagwan Rama Shinde Gosai and Others v. State of Gujarat, reported in (1999) 4 SCC 421, wherein the appellants were G convicted by the Trial Court against which, the appeal was pending before the High Court, the High Court successively rejected the prayer for grant of bail till the pendency of appeal after suspending the sentence.Thus, it has been held as follows: H OMPRAKASH SAHNI v. JAI SHANKAR CHAUDHARY & 159 ANR. ETC. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] “3. When a convicted person is sentenced to a fixed period A of sentence and when he files an appeal under any statutory right, suspension of sentence can be considered by the appellate court liberally unless there are exceptional circumstances. Of course, if there is any statutory restriction against suspension of sentence it is a different matter. Similarly, B when the sentence is life imprisonment the consideration for suspension of sentence could be of a different approach. But if for any reason the sentence of a limited duration cannot be suspended every endeavour should be made to dispose of the appeal on merits more so when a motion for expeditious hearing of the appeal is made in such cases. Otherwise the C very valuable right of appeal would be an exercise in futility by efflux of time. When the appellate court finds that due to practical reasons such appeals cannot be disposed of expeditiously the appellate court must bestow special concern in the matter of suspending the sentence so as to make the D appeal right, meaningful and effective. Of course, appellate courts can impose similar conditions when bail is granted.” (Emphasis supplied) 28. In Sidhartha Vashisht alias Manu Sharma v. State (NCT of Delhi), reported in (2008) 5SCC 230 (popularly known as the Jessica E Lal murder case), this Court had the occasion to consider the rival submissions as well as various judicial pronouncements referred to by both the sides over the prayer for bail.Thus, it has been held as follows: “19. We are conscious and mindful that the main matter (appeal) is admitted and is pending for final hearing. F Observations on merits, one way or the other, therefore, are likely to prejudice one or the other party to the appeal.