Interest Tax Act,1974 – s.2(7) – Interpretation & scope of – Interest recovered under hire-purchase agreement, if falls under s.2(7) – Held: s.2(7) has been interpreted in two decisions, that is, in the cases of Sahara India Savings and Investment Corporation D Limited and State Bank of Patiala Through General Manager, which have given a very limited and restricted meaning to s.2(7) of the Act as interest directly arising “on” loans and advances, and not any other interest, be it interest earned on investment or interest payable on delayed payment of the discounted bill of exchange. E Hire-Purchase – Elements – Held: A hire-purchase agreement has two elements – an element of bailment and an element of sale – Any transfer or sale made by the hirer or any violation of the hire- purchase agreement can lead to civil as well as criminal consequences. F Taxation – Taxation matters – Interference by High Court with findings of fact recorded by the ITAT – Scope – Held: Findings of fact generally recorded by the ITAT are treated as conclusive – The High Court can interfere with the findings of fact while deciding a substantial question of law when the findings are not supported by the material on record, so as to be treated as perverse – For this, G the High Court must frame a separate substantial question of law and only then interfere with the findings of fact by the ITAT, while applying the strict parameters. Taxation matters – Precedents – Rule of caution when applying the ratio of s relating to one tax enactment as a precedent H M/S. MUTHOOT LEASING AND FINANCE LIMITED v. 319 COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX in a case relating to another tax enactment – This rule of caution is A important and should not be overlooked, more so when the language of the enactment and the object and purpose of the enactment are different. Constitution of India – Art.141 – SLP – Dismissal of – Held: If the dismissal is in limine and at the admission stage, it would not B constitute a binding precedent u/Art.141 of the Constitution. Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD : 1. A hire-purchase agreement has two elements – an element of bailment and an element of sale. The element of C sale fructifies when the option to purchase is exercised by the intending purchaser after fulfilling the terms of the agreement. Till then, the goods are given on hire. One can argue that in a hire-purchase, an element of interest is inbuilt, but what is payable is the hire amount and not interest per se. The hirer has an option to return the vehicle or the goods taken on hire. It is not a simple D transaction of giving a loan or advance on which interest is payable. The transaction(s) in commercial and legal sense are far more complex with corresponding rights of the parties. Even if the hirer is recorded as the owner of the vehicle under Section 51 of the MV Act, the name of the appellant – assessee is also recorded E in the registration book, which is in recognition of the hire- purchase agreement.