We also do not fi nd it to be a decision, which no responsible authority acting reasonably and in accordance with law could have reached. On facts, no case of prejudice to public interest by the award of the work has also been made out. In such circumstances, the High Court ought not to have interfered with the acceptance of the tender and the issuance of the work in the present case. 27. Learned counsel for the fi rst respondent herein, in his written submissions, relied upon the of this Court in Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation and Others vs. Anoj Kumar Agarwala and Others, (2020) 17 SCC 577. We have carefully considered the said . In that case, the bank guarantee which ought to have been furnished for forty months was only furnished for six months. The facts of the present case are completely diff erent and, as such, the said is clearly distinguishable. M/S OM GURUSAI CONSTRUCTION COMPANY v. 389 M/S V.N. REDDY & ORS. [K. V. VISWANATHAN, J.] 28. The other relied upon is the in Tata Cellular Vs. Union of India, (1994) 6 SCC 651. On the facts herein, it does not assist the fi rst respondent. 29. We fi nd nothing wrong in the authority having accepted the tender and awarding the work to the appellant. Other grounds raised by the fi rst respondent 30. By way of amendments made to the writ petition before the High Court, certain additional grievances were raised by the fi rst respondent herein. They were: fi rstly that the appellant had fi led acknowledgment of income-tax returns only for three years and not fi ve years and secondly the old partnership deed andthe power of attorney of Shri Devereddy Chinna Guruvi Reddy, father of Shri D. Guru Maheshwar Reddy was fi led. It was alleged that the father had expired and the Power of Attorney of a dead person had been fi led. These averments have been controverted in the reply fi led by the appellant. 31. With regard to the requirement of income-tax return acknowledgements for fi ve years, the answer given was that the fi rm itself was in existence only for three fi nancial years before. Even otherwise, we have not been shown the specifi c clause requiring acknowledgement of the income-tax returns for fi ve years. In any case, the tendering authority has awarded the work, after satisfying itself, about the necessary compliances. The High Court has also not found it fi t to pronounce on these aspects. Hence, on this ground also, the work cannot be set aside. 32. With regard to the submission concerning the reconstituted partnership deed and the Power of Attorney of the father, the Appellant has explained it in the counter, by stating: a) that Shri D. Guru Maheshwar Reddy was always a partner since inception; that his father had died on 05.05.2020 in the middle of the pandemic; b) that after reaching back from the native place from Andhra in September, 2020 the Partnership was reconstituted and that the reconstituted Partnership Deed was submitted to the offi ce of the Registrar of Partnership Firms, Aurangabad on 23.10.2020.