Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 The trade and business of operating cinema theatres is subject to regulation by the state. In this case, the E State Government has framed the 1975 Rules to regulate the industry. Admittedly, the 1975 Rules do not contain a rule compelling the owner of a cinema theatre to allow a movie goer to bring food or beverages from outside within the precincts of the theatre. Similarly, other enactments and rules which regulate the industry, namely, the Cinematograph Act 1952, the F Cinematograph (Certification) Rules 1983, the Jammu and Kashmir Cinematograph Act 1989, and the Jammu and Kashmir Cinematograph Rules 1989 do not contain a provision which requires theatre owners to permit movie goers to carry food and beverages of their own into the cinema hall. The rule making G power of the state must be exercised consistent with the fundamental right of the cinema hall owner to carry on a legitimate occupation, trade, or business within the meaning of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. The legislature’s omission of a provision requiring the cinema owner to allow eatables and beverages to be brought from outside is significant. In the absence H 574 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A of a specific mandate in the 1975 Rules (or any other applicable law) in this regard, the High Court was not justified in issuing a direction prohibiting theatre owners from disallowing food and beverages to be brought in by persons entering a movie theatre who enter it for viewing a film. The High Court has erred in the exercise of its writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the B Constitution. The exercise of its jurisdiction was not consistent with the provisions of the enactments regulating movie theatres. [Paras 20, 22][583-G-H; 584-A-C, F-G] Mafatlal Industries Ltd. v. Union of India (1997) 5 SCC 536 : [1996] 10 Suppl. SCR 585 – followed. C 1.2 The cinema hall is a private property of the owner of the hall. The owner of the hall is entitled to stipulate terms and conditions so long as they are not contrary to public interest, safety and welfare. Like with any other business, the proprietor or the management is entitled to determine the business model D that is to be followed and to give effect to their own conceptions of the economic viability of a particular business model. The owner of a cinema hall is entitled to determine whether she will set up or engage an entity for setting up counters for the sale of food and beverages and to regulate the terms on which such sale should E take place. A prohibition on carrying food and beverages from outside into the precincts of the movie hall is not contrary to public interest, safety or welfare. A movie hall is not a movie hall alone but also doubles up as an eatery when food and beverages are sold within its premises. Patrons of a movie hall cannot demand to bring their own food to eat there when a condition to the contrary F is enforced by the cinema hall owners.