97 of FSSA. Being aggrieved by the said decision of the High Court, the present appeal has been preferred. SUBMISSIONS 4. The learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant made detailed submissions. The learned senior counsel fi rstly pointed out that Section 3 of the FSSA, which contains the defi nition of ‘misbranded food’ in clause (zf) of sub-section (1) thereof, was brought into force on 28th May 2008 and Section 52 of the FSSA, which provides for penalty for misbranding was brought into force with eff ect from 29th July 2010. Secondly, he pointed out that even Section 89 of the FSSA, which starts with a non-obstante clause providing that the FSSA shall have overriding eff ect notwithstanding anything inconsistent contained in any other law for the time being in force, was notifi ed on 29th July 2010. He submitted that, therefore, Section 52 of the FSSA, which provides for a penalty for misbranding, would prevail over the relevant provisions of the PFA, which make the misbranding an off ence punishable with imprisonment and a fi ne. He would, therefore, submit that with eff ect from 29th July 2010, the FSSA will govern misbranding and not the PFA. 5. The learned senior counsel also pointed out that the Prevention of Food Adulteration Rules, 1955 (for short, ‘the PFA Rules’) continued to remain in force till the repeal of the PFA. He pointed out that corresponding rules under the FSSA, namely, the Food Safety and Standards (Packaging and Labelling) Regulations, 2011 came into force on 5th August 2011. He would, therefore, submit that Rule 32 of PFA dealing with standards for labelling continued to operate till 5th August 2011. He submitted that only because the Rules corresponding to Rule 32 of PFA Rules were not notifi ed on the date of commission of the off ence, the appellant could not have been prosecuted under the PFA for violation of a provision that was eclipsed by Section 89 of FSSA. His submission is that after 29th July 2010, the regime under the PFA dealing with misbranding will not apply. 6. He submitted that though Rule 32 of the PFA Rules, the violation of which has been alleged along with other off ences under the PFA, was in force on the date on which the alleged violation was committed, in view of Section 89 of FSSA, Rule 32 will have no application. Learned counsel pointed out that Section 97 of the FSSA was brought into force with eff ect MANIK HIRU JHANGIANI v. STATE OF M.P 555 from 29th July 2010. He submitted that only because the Rules corresponding to Rule 32 of the PFA Rules were not notifi ed under the FSSA regime, the respondent could not have proceeded under the provisions of PFA in the light of Section 89 of the FSSA. 7. He relied upon a chart tendered across the Bar, which contains a comparison of the provisions regarding misbranding under both enactments. He pointed out that for violation of the provisions regarding misbranding, under PFA, the violator could be punished by imposing imprisonment of up to three years.