Hence trade discounts, rebate, duty drawback, and such similar items are deducted in determining the costs of purchase. Therefore, duty drawback, rebate, etc. C should not be treated as adjustment (credited) to cost of purchase or manufacture of goods. They should be treated as separate items of revenue or income and accounted for accordingly (see p. 44 of Indian Accounting Standards & GAAP by Dolphy D’Souza). XXXXXXXX D 43. Therefore, we are of the view that duty drawback, DEPB benefits, rebates, etc. cannot be credited against the cost of manufacture of goods debited in the profit and loss account for purposes of Sections 80-IA/80-IB as such remissions (credits) would constitute independent source of income beyond the first E degree nexus between profits and the industrial undertaking. XXXXXXXX 45. In the circumstances, we hold that duty drawback receipt/DEPB benefits do not form part of the net profits of eligible F industrial undertaking for the purposes of Sections 80-I/80-IA/ 80-IB of the 1961 Act. The appeals are, accordingly, dismissed with no as to costs.” 7.5 Prior thereto, the treatment of “profits and gains derived from industrial undertakings” for the purpose of determining tax liability came G up for consideration before this Court in the case of Sterling Foods, Mangalore (supra), which was followed by this Court in the case of Liberty India (supra). In the case of Sterling Foods, Mangalore (supra), in paragraph 7 and 13, it is observed and held as under:- “7. The question, therefore, was whether the income H derived by the assessee by the sale of the import entitlements M/S. SARAF EXPORTS v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 357 JAIPUR-III [M. R. SHAH, J.] was profit and gain derived from its industrial undertaking of A processing seafood. The Division Bench of the High Court came to the conclusion that the income which the assessee had made by selling the import entitlements was not a profit and gain which it had derived from its industrial undertaking. For that purpose, it relied upon the decision of this Court in Cambay Electric Supply B Industrial Co. Ltd. v. CIT [(1978) 2 SCC 644 : 1978 SCC (Tax) 119 : (1978) 113 ITR 84]. It was there held that the expression “attributable to” was wider in import than the expression “derived from”. The expression of wider import, namely, “attributable to”, was used when the legislature intended to cover receipts from sources other than the actual conduct of the business. The Division C Bench of the High Court observed that to obtain the benefit of Section 80-HH the assessee had to establish that the profits and gains were derived from its industrial undertaking and it was just not sufficient that a commercial connection was established between the profits earned and the industrial undertaking. The D industrial undertaking itself had to be the source of the profit. The business of the industrial undertaking had directly to yield that profit. The industrial undertaking had to be the direct source of that profit and not the means to earn any other profit.