of the Ruling Party. c) The prosecution had established, even through the hostile witnesses, that the date, time, and place of incidence as given in HARENDRA RAI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. 467 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] the Fard Bayan of Rajendra Raiwere fully established. The only issue was with regard to the identity of the assailants. d) The post-mortem reports, show that the death of Rajendra Rai and Daroga Rai was homicidal in nature. The medico legal reports supported the prosecution’s story to the extent that the injuries were caused by a fi re arm, which proved fatal for two out of the three injured. e) Adverse inference against the accused is drawn in view of their subsequent conduct. f) Judicial notice is taken of the in the Habeas Corpus petition dated 13.07.2007 regarding the conduct of the accused, the investigating agency, the Public Prosecutor and the Presiding Offi cer conducting the trial. g) The two administrative reports of the respective judges, who were constitutional functionaries, also have to be given due credence and cannot be ignored outright regarding the conduct of the accused, public prosecutor and the Presiding Offi cer conducting the Trial. h) The statement of CW-1 is found to be reliable, and the Courts below wrongly discarded it on the ground that it was hearsay and tutored. i) The dying declaration and the statement of CW-1 fully establish that it was Prabhunath Singh, who had caused the injuries from his fi rearm weapon, which proved to be fatal for two out of the three injured and also caused injury to the third surviving injured, namely Smt. Devi. j) Prabhunath Singh (accused no.1) is thus liable to be convicted under Sections 302 and 307 IPC for committing culpable homicide amounting to murder and attempt to murder. k) The rest of the accused, although named in the chargesheet after due investigation, since their names were not refl ected either in the Fard Bayan of the deceased Rajendra Rai (dying declaration) or in the statement of CW-1, therefore, their acquittal is not disturbed. 468 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 115. Accused-respondent no.2 is thus convicted under Sections 302 and 307 IPC for the murders of Daroga Rai and Rajendra Rai and also for attempt to murder of injured Smt. Devi. 116. The Secretary, Department of Home, State of Bihar and the Director General of Police, Bihar are directed to ensure that Prabhunath Singh (Respondent No. 2) is taken into custody forthwith and produced before this Court to be heard on the question of sentence in view of Section 235 CrPC. 117. Let the matter be listed again on 1st September, 2023. On the said date, accused Prabhunath Singh (respondent no. 2) be produced before this Court in custody for the aforesaid purpose. Headnotes prepared by: Acquittal of main accused reversed and Bibhuti Bhushan Bose matter listed for hearing on sentence.