ETC. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] the observations made by the Co-ordinate Bench of the High Court in A the impugned assailed before us: “9. The legal point involved in the present criminal original petitions is as to whether the concerned Magistrate is having power of granting fresh investigation, especially after getting closure report and consequently accepting the same. B 10. The Hon’ble Supreme Court, with regard to power of a Magistrate under section 173(8) of the code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, has made a threadbare discussion in the decision reported in AIR 2015 SC 3566 (Chandra Babu alias Moses V. State through the Inspector of Police and others). C After making elaborate discussion, the Hon’ble Supreme Court has culled out the powers of Magistrate under the said Section like thus: “Now, when the report forwarded by the officer in charge of a police station to the Magistrate under sub-section (2)(i) of D Section 173 comes up for consideration by the Magistrate, one of two different situations may arise. The report may conclude that an offence appears to have been committed by a particular person or persons and in such a case, the Magistrate may do one of three things: (1) he may accept the E report and take cognizance of the offence and issue process, or (2) he may disagree with the report and drop the proceeding, or (3) he may direct further investigation under sub-section (3) of section 156 and require the police to make a further report. The report may on the other hand state that, in the opinion of the police, no offence appears to have been F committed and where such a report has been made, the Magistrate again has an option to adopt one of three courses: (1) he may accept the report and drop the proceeding, or (2) he may disagree with the report and taking the view that there is sufficient ground for proceeding further, take cognizance G of the offence and issue process, or (3) he may direct further investigation to be made by the police under sub-section (3) of section 156” 11. From a cursory reading of the observations made by the Hon’ble Supreme Court, it is discernible that after getting a H 176 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A final report under section 173(2) of the said code, the concerned Magistrate is having power, either to take cognizance or to direct the investigating agency to conduct further investigation as per section 173(8) of the said code. 12. Even a mere reading of Section 173 of the Code and its B sub-clauses, would get to show that after getting a final report, the concerned Magistrate is having unfettered right of granting further investigation as envisaged in sub-clause(s) of Section 173 of the said code. 13. But, the legal position involves in the present petitions is C otherwise. The legal point is as to whether after closure of final report, as well as First Information Report, whether the concerned Magistrate is having power to grant permission either to conduct further investigation/re-investigation/de- novo investigation.