The Department having vacancy in the Exempted Category of posts will provide employment to the wife/son/daughter/ C near relation of the employee who died in harness subject to observance of relevant conditions and formalities.” 97-Emp. - 6th June, 2005: “In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (c) of section 3 of D the West Bengal Regulation of Recruitment in State Government Establishments and Establishments of Public Undertakings, Statutory Bodies, Government Companies and Local Authorities Act, 1999, the Governor has been pleased to lay down the following principles and procedures to be followed in dealing with the issue of appointment on compassionate ground to the dependants of E employees who die in harness, or who retire prematurely on being declared permanently incapacitated. xxx 2. One of the dependants of an employee who dies in harness or who retires prematurely on being declared permanently F incapacitated may be offered appointment on compassionate ground subject to the fulfilment of the following conditions: (i) The employee has died, or retired on being permanently incapacitated before completing 20 years of services of before attaining the age of 50 years, whichever is earlier. G (ii) The family of the deceased of the retired employee, as the case may be, is in need of immediate assistance and appointment of dependant of the employee is absolutely essential for survival of the family. H 642 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A For the purpose of appointment of compassionate ground in terms of this notification, a dependant shall mean spouse, a son or an unmarried daughter who was (sic) solely dependent on the earnings of the deceased or the retired employee. xxx B 8. The Labour Department will forward the name of persons found eligible for appointment on compassionate ground to one or more of the following Departments, for appointing them against available vacancies.- 1) Health & Family Welfare Department C 2) School Education Department. 3) Higher Education Department. 4) Mass Education & Extension Department. 5) Home (Police) Department. D 6) Jails Department.” EMP-142 - 1st November, 2007: “Consequent upon issue of this Department’s Notification No. 97-Emp, dated 06.06.2005, a question arose as to if the E provisions of the said notification would be applicable to the State Government employees only or to the employees attached to such other establishments, as are mentioned in the West Bengal Regulation of Recruitment in State Government Establishments and Establishments of Public Undertakings, Government Companies and Local F Authorities Act, 1999, as well. To obviate the question, issue of a clarification in this regard has been under consideration of the Government for some time past and in terms of this Department Notification No. 69-Emp. dated 26-06-2007, it has been clarified that the term ‘employee’ will mean the State Government G employee only for the purpose of this Department’s Notification No. 97-Emp, dated 06-06-2005. xxx 2. The Governor has, now, been pleased to that the appropriate authorities of the establishments of Public H THE STATE OF WEST BENGAL v. DEBABRATA TIWARI & 643 ORS.