In the aforesaid decision, it is specifically observed and held that for the F purpose of attracting Section 31(i) of the SARFAESI Act, the properties in question ought to be actually used as agricultural lands at the time when the security interest was created. In the case of Blue Coast Hotels Limited and Others (Supra), it is also further observed by this Court that since no security interest can be created in respect of agricultural lands and yet it was so created, goes to show that the parties G did not treat the land as agricultural land and that the debtor offered the land as security on this basis. After following the decision of this Court in the case of Blue Coast Hotels Limited and Others (Supra), in the case of K. Pappireddiyar and Another (Supra), it is observed and held in paragraphs 8 and 9 as under: H 592 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A “8. The expression “security interest”, both before and after the amendment, excludes what is specified in Section 31. Clause (i) of Section 31 stipulates that the provisions of the Act will not be applicable to any security interest created in agricultural land. The statutory dictionary in Section 2 does not contain a definition of the expression “agricultural land”. Whether a particular piece of B land is agricultural in nature is a question of fact. In the decision of this Court in Blue Coast Hotels Ltd.,4 a security interest was created in respect of several parcels of land which were meant to be a part of a single unit, for establishing a hotel in Goa. Some of the parcels were purchased by the debtor from agriculturists and C were entered as agricultural lands in the revenue records. The debtor had applied to the revenue authority for the conversion of the land to non-agricultural use, but the applications were pending. This Court held that the fact that the debtor had created a security interest was indicative of the position that the parties did not treat the land as agricultural land. The undisputed position was that the D hotel was located on 1,82,225 sq m of land of which 2335 sq m were used for growing vegetables and fruits for captive consumption. In this background, the two-Judge Bench of this Court held that: “49. The mortgage is thus intended to cover the entire property E of the Goa Hotel. Prima facie, apart from the fact that the parties themselves understood that the lands in question are not agricultural, it also appears that having regard to the use to which they are put and the purpose of such use, they are indeed not agricultural.” F The Court further held that: (SCC OnLine SC para 57) “57. …having regard to the character of the land the purpose for which it is set apart, we are of the view that the land in 5 question is not an agricultural land. The High Court misdirected itself in holding that the land was an agricultural land merely G because it stood as such in the revenue entries, even though the application made for such conversation lies pending till date.” 9.