The appellant was inquired by villagers and her mother (P.W.2) also regarding the victim. The appellant said that he was not having the key of the room. After noticing this fact, the villagers said that if he was not having key, they will break the lock. On which, the appellant threatened them for implicating in dacoity case, if lock is broken. Munna Pandey (appellant) also stated that Pritam (co-accused) was also not being located and he said that it appears that he had gone somewhere with the victim. On the strength of such statement of Munna Pandey (appellant), they started to search Pritam also, however; he could not be traced and thereafter, they returned back to their house and again they went to the house of Munna Pandey (appellant), where she noticed that some light was coming from inside the house of Fuchan Pandey. Thereafter, the villagers raised some suspicion, as if, in the room, there was someone. Munna Pandey (appellant) was again asked to break the lock, then he said that key MUNNA PANDEY v. STATE OF BIHAR 1025 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] was lying with Fuchan Pandey. Villagers thereafter telephoned Fuchan, at that very time, he was in his in-laws’ house. Fuchan over telephone informed that in the morning, he would come. Since by 8:00 AM, Fuchan did not arrive, P.W.3 with her mother went to Sabour Police Station, however; in the meanwhile, Fuchan reached to his house. Villagers by using force also pushed Munna and carried him to the said place. Thereafter, police also arrived there. Lock of outer gate was broken. Thereafter, the key of the room was provided by Munna Pandey (appellant). From the room of Fuchan, Pritam Tiwary came out. In presence of the Police and villagers, Pritam was inquired as to where was the victim, then he explained that victim was in the room of Munna Pandey (appellant). Pritam also said that he and Munna Pandey both had jointly raped the victim and thereafter, killed her. Dead body of the victim was found beneath the bed of Munna Pandey (appellant). Her body was undressed. Her urinal portion was swollen and blood had come out. She had also dispersed her waste (potty) and it was also swollen. Police carried the dead body. She claimed to identify both accused persons, which includes appellant. In cross- examination in paragraph – 2, she stated that her father was living in Gujarat. She further stated that Fuchan Pandey is also known as Nawal Kishore Ojha. In paragraph – 7 of her cross-examination, she claimed that she had seen television in the room, where there was a bed, almirah including fan. In paragraph – 8, she further stated that she was visiting the said room and stated that Munna Pandey (appellant) was her neighbour. In paragraph – 9, she explained that in search of the victim, they had gone to several places including block, chowk, station Sabour etc. In paragraph 12, she stated that Fuchan Pandey and Munna Pandey (appellant) were the full brothers and both brothers were having one room each in their share.