The said was followed in F K.S.B. Ali v. State of Andhra Pradesh, (2018) 11 SCC 277 and Dyna Technologies Pvt. Ltd. v. Crompton Greaves Limited, (2019) 20 SCC 1. In Bachhittar Singh, it has been held as under: “8. What we have now to consider is the effect of the note recorded by the Revenue Minister of PEPSU upon the file. We will assume G for the purpose of this case that it is an . Even so, the question is whether it can be regarded as the of the State Government which alone, as admitted by the appellant, was competent to hear and decide an appeal from the of the Revenue Secretary. Article 166(1) of the Constitution requires that all executive action of the Government of a State shall be expressed in the name of H STATE OF ORISSA & ANR. v. LAXMI NARAYAN DAS (DEAD) 1079 THR. LRS & ORS. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] the Governor. Clause (2) of Article 166 provides for the A authentication of s and other instruments made and executed in the name of the Governor. Clause (3) of that article enables the Governor to make rules for the more convenient transaction of the business of the Government and for the allocation among the Ministers of the said business. What the appellant calls an B of the State Government is admittedly not expressed to be in the name of the Governor. But with that point we shall deal later. What we must first ascertain is whether the of the Revenue Minister is an of the State Government i.e. of the Governor. In this connection we may refer to Rule 25 of the Rules of Business of the Government of PEPSU which reads thus: C “Except as otherwise provided by any other Rule, cases shall ordinarily be disposed of by or under the authority of the Minister in charge who may by means of standing s give such directions as he thinks fit for the disposal of cases in the Department. Copies of such standing s shall be sent to the D Rajpramukh and the Chief Minister.” According to learned counsel for the appellant his appeal pertains to the department, which was in charge of the Revenue Minister and, therefore, he could deal with it. His decision and would, according to him, be the decision and of the State E Government. On behalf of the State reliance was, however, placed on Rule 34 which required certain classes of cases to be submitted to the Rajpramukh and the Chief Minister before the issue of s. But it was conceded during the course of the argument that a case of the kind before us does not fall within that rule. No F other provision bearing on the point having been brought to our notice we would, therefore, hold that the Revenue Minister could make an on behalf of the State Government. 9. The question, therefore, is whether he did in fact make such an . Merely writing something on the file does not amount to an G .