for the Appellant. G Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, A.S.G., Gurmeet Singh Makker, Dr. Arun Kumar Yadav, Ms. Deepabali Dutta, Divyansh H. Rathi, Devashish Bharukha, Ms. Rukhmini Bobde, Ms. Manisha Chava, Ms. Poornima Singh, Ms. Sthavi Asthana, Mrs. Swarupama Chaturvedi, Ms. Saumya Kapoor, Advs. for the Respondents. H SINGRAULI SUPER THERMAL POWER STATION v. 443 ASHWANI KUMAR DUBEY & ORS. The of the Court was delivered by A NAGARATHNA, J. Since the grievances ventilated by the appellant(s) in these appeals are common, they have been clubbed and heard together and are disposed of by this common . B 2. The appellants(s) herein are aggrieved by the passed by the National Green Tribunal, Principal Bench, New Delhi (hereinafter referred to as “NGT” for the sake of convenience) dated 18.01.2022. By the said the following directions have been issued against the appellant(s) herein:- C “Directions: 21. In the light of above discussion, it is patent that remedial measures are required in terms of recommendations set out in para 15 above in respect of individual TPPs or other projects as well as general issues applicable to all the TPPs such as timely D installation of air pollution control and monitoring devises, timely utilization and disposal of fly ash, scientific designing of fly ash dykes and safety norms, addressing public health issues, steps for restoration of deteriorated environment by bringing down CEPI scores in the entire area, restoration of Rihand Reservoir and other damaged/degraded areas, providing arrangement for public E health facilities, including water supply and by coordinated and concerted efforts and high level monitoring. The PP are to be accountable for past violations and are under obligation to remedy the violations and follow the norms for future. The regulators are to enforce the same and higher authorities are to oversee. F Accordingly, following direction are issued: i. We direct constitution of a fly ash management and utilization Mission to be jointly headed by the Secretaries, MoEF&&CC, Coal and Power, GoI and Chief Secretaries of UP and MP. The Secretary, MoEF&CC will be the nodal agency for coordination G and compliance. The Mission will coordinate and monitor issues relating to handling and disposal of flyash as well as all associated issues in the light of above discussion. It may hold its first meeting within one month to take stock of the situation and to prepare action plan in the light of recommendations of Joint Committees quoted earlier in para 15 above in respect of individual plants as H 444 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A well as road map generally. Thereafter, it may meet atleast once in a month for one year to review the progress. The resolutions of the Mission and quarterly progress may be placed on the website of MoEF&CC for information of the stake holders and inhabitants in the area. The Mission will be free to interact with the concerned Government Departments/ Expert institutions/individuals/other B stakeholders. The Mission may in its first meeting require voluntary financial contribution by all the projects in proportion of the financial capacity of the projects out of CSR funds or otherwise.