On 06.05.2004 at around 12:30 AM, the complainant/patient was shifted from Gondia Hospital to the ICU in Suretech Hospital, Nagpur under Dr. Nirmal Jaiswal’s (ICU In-charge) supervision. Mrs. Sunita was put on a ventilator through her Tracheostomy Tube (hereinafter, ‘TT’), which was weaned off on 08.05.2004. On 11.05.2004, Dr. Vinay Saoji, Plastic Surgeon, at Suretech Hospital performed ‘Mandibular Bracing Surgery’ to correctly set Mrs. Sunita’s left-side mandibular fracture in place. The surgery was performed through ‘TT’, horizontally and vertically wiring both the upper and lower jaws. 5. The complainant/patient alleged that on 13.05.2004, Dr. Nirmal Jaiswal, Dr. Madhusudan Shendre, Dr. M.A Biviji performed Bronchoscopy to check Mrs. Sunita’s airways and for evaluating her Larynx and Trachea. The complainant further claimed that even though the Bronchoscopy showed a normal air-passageway, indicating her ability to breathe normally through the existing ‘TT’, Dr. Nirmal Jaiswal, and Dr. Madhusudan Shendre, removed the ‘TT’ and forcefully performed ‘Nasotracheal Intubation’ (hereinafter ‘NI’) i.e., inserting an Endotracheal tube through the nose to facilitate breathing. 118 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 6. According to the patient, until the ‘NI’ procedure was conducted, she was being fed through a Ryle’s Tube i.e., a tube inserted through the nose to the stomach. However, to accommodate the ‘Nasotracheal Tube’ (Hereinafter, ‘NT’), the Ryle’s Tube (Tube inserted through the nose to feed the patient) had to be removed. Subsequently, she was given liquid oral feed through her mouth. The liquid feed started passing into her respiratory tract, and got collected in her lungs leading to Frank pus and severe infection, ultimately causing ‘Severe Septicemia’. As per the patient, the food entered the respiratory tract only due to the infl ated cuff of the ‘NT’. The pus started leaking through the stitched ‘tracheostomy’ wound. As a result of the injuries sustained in the subglottic region, the vocal cords of the patient were also paralysed. 7. On 25.05.2004, Dr. Nirmal ed a ‘Barium Swallow Test’ i.e., a test conducted to check for any abnormalities in the digestive tract of the patient. It was alleged that even though the said test was resisted by the family of the complainant (in particular, a relative of the complainant – Dr. Kalidas Parshuramkar) due to a possible danger of developing asphyxia, the ‘Barium Swallow Test’ was done forcefully without the presence of any doctor, specifi cally the radiologist i.e., Dr. M. A. Biviji. Mrs. Sunita claimed to have been forcefully administered two glasses of Barium Sulphate i.e., the solution used to conduct the aforesaid test. It was alleged that upon consumption of the solution, she experienced extreme breathlessness and almost died. She was saved due to the eff orts of her relative – Dr. Kalidas Parshuramkar, who took her to the suction room to remove the aspirated solution from her tracheostomy wound and lower trachea. 8. The complainant, being unsatisfi ed with her treatment at Suretech hospital sought a discharge. On 27.05.2004, she fl ew to Mumbai, to meet Dr. Sultan Pradhan in Prince Aly Khan Hospital who advised her to fi rst treat life-threatening conditions like diffi cult respiration, ‘Severe Septicemia’, and ‘Severe Thrombocytopenia’.