14. As many Central Authorities faced diffi culties on account of, (a) substantial diff erence in the audit cost charged by diff erent auditing training institutes, (b) shortage of manpower/adequately trained manpower, and (c) pre-engagement of the training institute with its scheduled training activities, a further relaxation through O.M. dated 20.09.2022 was given as per which the task of transparency audits was permitted to be given to any Government Training Institute by the Ministry/Department/Public Authority under the Central or State Governments. 15. It is clarifi ed that if a Training Institute is in itself a public authority, then it may give its audits conducted by Government Training Institute (O.M. 07.09.2021). The Note also states that the department issued O.M. dated 14.09.2022 directing all Ministries/Departments/Public Authorities to (a) nominate Training Institute for third party audit; (b) furnish other requisite details to the CIC as per the Exhaustive Guidelines issued vide OM dated 07.11.2019; (c) adhere to the timelines set by the CIC for conducting transparency audits; and (d) observe the earlier guidelines issued vide OMs dated 13.04.2013 and 07.11.2019. 16. On 07.11.2019, the Department of Personnel and Training issued an O.M. reiterating the 15.04.2013 Guidelines. Clause 4.4 was revised in the following terms: “4.4 Each Ministry/Public Authority should get its proactive disclosure package audited by third party every year. The audit should cover compliance with the proactive disclosure guidelines as well as adequacy of the items included in the package. The audit should examine whether there are any other types of information which could be proactively disclosed. Such audit should be done annually and should be communicated to the Central Information Commission annually through publication on their own websites. Further the task of undertaking KISHAN CHAND JAIN v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 209 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J. ] transparency audits may be given to the respective Training Institutes under each Ministry/Department/Public Authority and across the States and Union Territories. “However in cases where no training institute exists under the Ministries/Departments/Public Authorities the tasks of undertaking transparency audits may be given to any Government Training Institute.” All Public Authorities should proactively disclose the names of the third party auditors on their website. For carrying out third party audit through outside consultants also. Ministries/Public Authorities should utilize their plan/non-plan funds.” 17. It is important to extract the ‘present status’ of compliances as indicated in the Note fi led on behalf of Union of India. Para 17 to 20 of the affi davit is as follows: “17. Every public authority registered with the CIC is required to submit four quarterly returns for assessment of its performance in respect of the implementation of the RTI Act. 18. Out of total 2278 Public Authorities, 2173 of them i.e., 95% public authorities have submitted their all four quarterly returns to the Commission in the reporting year i.e., 2021-22 (Annual Report 2021- 22 of the CIC). 19. The suo motu disclosure under Section 4 of the Act by the public authorities and undertaking the transparency audit of the disclosure are two diff erent provisions.