Conditions for recognition as a State Party – A political party shall be eligible for recognition as a State party in a State, if, and E only if, any of the following conditions is fulfilled: (i) At the last general election to the Legislative Assembly of the State, the candidates set up by the party have secured not less than six percent of the total valid votes polled in the State; and, in addition, the party has returned at least two members to the F Legislative Assembly of that State at such general election; or (ii) At the last general election to the House of the People from that State, the candidates set up by the party have secured not less than six percent of the total valid votes polled in the State; and, in addition, the party has returned at least one member to the G House of the People from that State at such general election; or (iii) At the last general election to the Legislative Assembly of the State, the party has won at least three percent of the total number of seats in the Legislative Assembly, (any fraction exceeding half being counted as one), or at least three seats in the Assembly, H whichever is more; or SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 927 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] (iv) At the last general election to the House of the People from A the State, the party has returned at least one member to the House of the People for every 25 members or any fraction thereof allotted to that State;] or (v) At the last general election to the House of the People from the State, or at the last general election to the Legislative Assembly B of the State, the candidates set up by the Party have secured not less than eight percent of the total valid votes polled in the State.” 105. ‘Political party’ and ‘legislature party’ cannot be conflated. The contention of the respondents that political party and legislature party is inextricably intertwined is erroneous for the following reasons: C a. Parliament in its constituent capacity was conscious of the necessity of not allowing anti-defection laws to stifle intra- party dissent and the freedom of expression of legislators. It was with this objective that the defences of merger, and split (which was later omitted) were introduced. The Tenth D Schedule confers legitimacy to the actions of the legislators which would otherwise lead to disqualification if a substantial number of legislators (two-third in the case of a merger,and one-third in the case of the erstwhile provision for a split) disagree with the political party. The Tenth E Schedule recognizes the independent existence of the legislature party to the limited extent of presenting a defence to the actions of the legislators which would otherwise have amounted to defection; and b. Section 29A of the Representation of the People Act 1951 requires an association of individuals calling itself a political F party to be registered with the ECI.