678.) In that case the words which fell for consideration by the Judicial Committee were “the power of Parliament of Canada to make provisions for the administration, peace, and good government of any territory not for the time being included in any province”. It C was contended that if any legislation differed from the provisions which in England had been made for the administration, peace, and good government then the same could not be sustained as valid. That contention was not accepted. These words were held to embrace the widest power to legislate for the peace and good government for the area in question.”” D (emphasis added) Again, in paragraph 52, the Constitution Bench answered Question (1)(b) as under: “52. We are of the opinion that the Governor’s power to make E new law is not available in view of the clear language of Para 5(1), Fifth Schedule does not recognise or confer such power, but only power is not to apply the law or to apply it with exceptions or modifications. Thus, the notification is ultra vires to Para 5(1) of Schedule V to the Constitution.” F (emphasis added) 12. In paragraph 80, the Constitution Bench answered Question (1)(c). Paragraph 80 reads thus: “80.The power is conferred on the Governor to deal with the Scheduled Areas. It is not meant to prevail over the G Constitution. The power of the Governor is pari passu with the legislative power of Parliament and the State. The legislative power can be exercised by Parliament or the State subject to the provisions of Part III of the Constitution. In our considered opinion, the power of the Governor does not supersede the fundamental H ADIVASIS FOR SOCIAL AND HUMAN RIGHTS ACTION v. 385 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] rights under Part III of the Constitution. It has to be A exercised subject to Part III and other provisions of the Constitution. When Para 5 of the Fifth Schedule confers power on the Governor, it is not meant to be conferral of arbitrary power. The Constitution can never aim to confer any arbitrary power on the constitutional authorities. They are to be exercised in a rational B manner keeping in view the objectives of the Constitution. The powers are not in derogation but the furtherance of the constitutional aims and objectives.” (emphasis added) 13. Therefore, to conclude; C (i) All the Central and the State laws which are applicable to the entire State of Orissa will continue to apply to the Scheduled Area unless, in exercise of powers under sub- clause (1) of Clause 5 of the Fifth Schedule, there is a specific notification issued by the Hon’ble Governor making D a particular enactment inapplicable, either fully or partially; (ii) The power of the Hon’ble Governor under Clause 5 of the Fifth Schedule is restricted to directing that a particular law will not apply to the Scheduled Area or it will apply with such modifications as may be specified in the notification E issued under sub-clause (1) of Clause 5 of the Fifth Schedule or while making Regulations in terms of sub-clause (2) of Clause 5 of the Fifth Schedule; (iii) The power of the Hon’ble Governor under Clause 5 of the Fifth Schedule does not supersede the Fundamental Rights F under Part III of the Constitution of India; and (iv) Therefore, the Fundamental Rights conferred by sub-clause (e) of Article 19(1) of the Constitution of India on the citizens can also be exercised in relation to the Scheduled Area.