Practice and Procedure – Compromise petition signed by advocate without express consent – Duty of Court – Discussed. D Dismissing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1. A three-Judge Bench of this Court doubted the correctness of the dictum as laid in Prakash as there was an apparent conflict between the dictum as laid in Prakash and Danamma. The question concerning the interpretation of Section E 6 of Act 1956 was referred to a larger Bench. The larger Bench ultimately settled the position of law in Vineeta Sharma. Daughters are entitled to 1/3rd share in all the properties as scheduled in the plaint. The same would be in accordance with the dictum as laid in Vineeta Sharma, while passing the final decree. By virtue of the preliminary decree passed by the Trial Court, which was F confirmed by the Division Bench of the High Court, the issues decided therein will be deemed to have become final but as the partition suit is required to be decided in stages, the same can be regarded as fully and completely decided only when the final decree is passed. As the law governing the parties has been G amended before the conclusion of the final decree proceedings, the party benefitted by such amendment (like the two daughters in the case on hand) can make a request to the Trial Court to take cognizance of the Amendment and give effect to the same. No error not to speak of any error of law could be said to have H 22 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A been committed upon Courts below, while determining the shares of the parties. The only thing that needs to be done now is to give effect to the amendment in the provisions of Section 6 of the 1956 Act and redetermine the shares of the parties accordingly. The Plaintiff is entitled to 1/3rd share in all the properties of her Late father. The issue whether all the properties were ancestral B as raised on behalf of the Appellants pale into insignificance. [Paras 63, 64, 80 and 82][56-A-B; 67-B-D, F] Vineeta Sharma v. Rakesh Sharma and Others (2020) 9 SCC 1 : [2020] 10 SCR 135 – relied on. C Prakash and Others v. Phulavati and Others (2016) 2 SCC 36 : [2015] 12 SCR 579; Danamma alias Suman Surpur and Another v. Amar and Others (2018) 3 SCC 343 : [2018] 2 SCR 553 – referred to. 2.1 Whether the High Court was justified in allowing the cross-appeal filed by the Original Defendant No. 2 on the ground D that the settlement arrived at between the Appellants (Defendant No 1 and Defendant No. 2) was not valid and binding under XXIII Rule 3 of the CPC. Right of appeal is the creature of statute. There is no inherent right of appeal. No appeal can be filed, heard or E determined on merits unless the statute confers right on the appellant and power on the Court to do so. The right to prefer cross-objection partakes of the right to prefer an appeal.