After completion of E the construction they sell out the building in portions to various persons and later the open space reserved become no man’s land without any care for its maintenance. If the ownership of the open space reservation for communal and recreational purpose, suppressing the facts later, after passage of time. Therefore, it is F essential that the ownership of the open Space Reservation area should be vested with the civic authority, which is responsible for the maintenance of the parks and play fields in the city. The civic authority is maintaining many parks and play grounds such as Elliot’s Beach Garden, Anna Nagar, Thiru Vi Ka park etc. Which are maintained very well. It is also therefore essential that the G open Space Reservation Area should be located in a location shape and size which is accessible from the public road not only to the Civic Authority but also to the general public without any restriction. Therefore, transferring the OSR area to the Civic body will not amount to talking away the rights of the property owner and it is H intended for the benefit of the community at large.” ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1041 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] “Para 10. In the case of the petitioner, it is submitted that the 10 A % Open Space Reservation Area is very close to his hotel buildings. Therefore, if the ownership were to be vested with the petitioner, it is most likely to be misused by the petitioner for Hotel related activities, rather than allowing it to the use of general public. It is also likely that over a period of the time the OSR area would B be misused for commercial purposes by the petitioner under the guise of improving it. The petitioner has also expressed that the maintenance of the 10 % Open Space Reservation Area will be done by him. It is submitted that the entrusting the maintenance of the Open Space Reservation area is at the discretion of the second and third C respondents. The development Control Rule 19 (a) (II) (Vii) prescribes as follows: “ The authority reserves the right to enforce the maintenance of such reserved land by the owner to the satisfaction of the Authority or the owner to transfer the land to the authority or local D body designated by it, free of cost, through a deed, to the Authority or the local body designated by the authority as case may be, reserve the right to dedicate on entrusting the maintenance work to institution / individual o merits of the case. It is submitted that as per the provisions of the Development Control Rule 19 (b) (II) (Vii) this second respondent reserves the E right to decide on entrusting the maintenance of OSR area to the petitioner. It become the bounden duty of the state Government to safeguard the interest of the public at large and the state government have the statutory power and have approved the development control rules as an integral part of the master plan F for the benefit of the public and to enforce it accordingly.