3.6 Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant has heavily relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of Indira Kaur F and Ors. Vs. Sheo Lal Kapoor; (1988) 2 SCC 488 (para 8, 9 and 10) and the subsequent decision of this Court in the case of Beemaneni Maha Lakshmi Vs. Gangumalla Appa Rao; (2019) 6 SCC 233 (para 14) on the aspect of readiness and willingness on the part of the buyer. It is submitted that in the case of Indira Kaur (supra) it was held that G no adverse inference can be drawn against the plaintiff as to whether he had the means to pay the balance consideration on the grounds of non- production of passbook, accounts or other documentary evidence. 3.7 It is submitted that in the case of Beemaneni Maha Lakshmi (supra) it was observed and held by this Court that failure on the part of H the vendee to “demonstrate” that he was having sufficient money with BASAVARAJ v. PADMAVATHI & ANR. [M. R. SHAH, J.] 237 him to pay the balance sale consideration by the date of his evidence is A not of much of consequence. 3.8 It is further submitted that in the case of Ramrati Kuer Vs. Dwarika Prasad Singh; (1967) 1 SCR 153 (para 9), it was observed and held by this Court that in the absence of a specific prayer asking for the party to produce accounts and their subsequent failure to do so, no B adverse inference could be drawn. 3.9 Making the above submissions and relying upon the afore- cited decisions, it is submitted that the High Court has materially erred in reversing the findings of the Trial Court on readiness and willingness on the part of appellant. Therefore, it is prayed that the present appeals be C allowed and the impugned s bet set aside. 4. Present appeals are vehemently opposed by Shri Shailesh Madiyal, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the seller - respondents – original defendants. 4.1 Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents – D seller submitted that cogent reasons have been assigned by the High Court while reversing the and decree passed by the learned Trial Court and reversing the findings as to the readiness and willingness on the part of the appellant. 4.2 It is further submitted that the appellant – original plaintiff has E not demonstrated and/or led any evidence that he had sufficient means/ funds/cash to pay the balance sale consideration. It is submitted that in absence of such evidence the High Court has rightly held that the buyer – original plaintiff has failed to establish and prove readiness and willingness on his part to perform the agreement dated 13.03.2007. F 4.3 It is submitted that in the written statement itself it was the specific case on behalf of the defendants that the plaintiff was not ready and willing to perform his part of the agreement. 4.4 Learned counsel appearing on behalf of respondents – original defendants, has relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of J.P. G Builders and Anr.