This deliberation took place following the filing of Public Interest E Litigations before the Rajasthan High Court. The final decision to freeze any further conversions of this nature was issued on 05.07.2019 to the State Government and all RIICO unit offices across the state. Following this, the permissions granted to Respondent No. 1 for changing the F land to commercial utilization and sub-division of the plot for this purpose, were both withdrawn on 22.07.2019 and 25.07.2019, respectively. The supplementary lease deed was then cancelled on 11.10.2019; xi) There is no guarantee contained anywhere in the 1959 Rules, G or even the 1979 Rules for that matter, against a change in policy by the Government. It is entirely permissible for the government to act in accordance with changing realities, especially when there is a clear case of public property 5 [1969] 2 SCR 706. 6 (1975) 1 SCC 421. H 270 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A being utilized for private gain, with the collusion of the erstwhile Executive Authorities and the management of RIICO; xii) There can be no question of estoppel against statute. The money spent by Respondent No. 1 on the land would not B validate the contravention of the Master Plan for the LIA, Kota. The Plan clearly contemplated a purely industrial area which was undermined by Respondent No. 1’s desire to set up commercial enterprises instead. xiii) Respondent No. 1 had failed to show in concrete terms, C the exact investments it had carried out on the land. Its equitable entitlement to seek restoration of the earlier decision permitting conversion of the land had not been proved from the records. Even if there was some merit to such claim, this Court in Motilal Padampat v. State of Uttar Pradesh7 had ruled that estoppel would be overridden D by supervening public interest and provisions of binding statutes and/or rules; xiv) The transfer of the case from the Single Judge to the Division Bench by the then-Learned Chief Justice was unjustified and irregular under the Rules of the High Court of Judicature E for Rajasthan, 1952. On this procedural ground as well, the impugned was unsustainable. 33. On the contrary, learned Senior Counsels, Mr. Mukul Rohatgi and Mr. A.N.S. Nadkarni, appearing for Respondent No. 1, have attempted to rebuff the submissions by the State of Rajasthan and RIICO F in the following terms: - i) The Cabinet Committee decision dated 03.08.2019 was solely taken to single out Respondent No. 1 and cancel the permissions/approval accorded by RIICO during the regime of the earlier government. The reasons for the cancellation G were never provided and do not exist in either the file or the final decision. The grounds for cancellation were never mentioned subsequently either. All the reasons eventually cited by the Appellants before the High Court, were merely afterthoughts, such as: H 7 (1979) 2 SCC 409. BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 271 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] a) The Model Code of Conduct being in force; A b) The sub-division of plots of change of use could not have been granted by RIICO and the Corporation did not possess the ability to transfer lands; c) Only the Collector had the power to grant permissions.