The court of facts must ask itself — whether in the facts and circumstances of the case, it was necessary to examine such other witness, and if so, whether such witness was available to be examined and yet was being withheld from the court. If the answer be positive then only a question of drawing an adverse inference may arise. If the witnesses already examined are reliable and the testimony coming from their mouth is unimpeachable the court can safely act upon it, uninfl uenced by the factum of non-examination of other witnesses…” (emphasis supplied) 117 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. EFFECT OF ABSCONDING 25. A subsequent conduct would be a relevant fact under Section 8 of the Evidence Act. However, such a fact has to be proved. Mere absconding by itself cannot constitute a sole factor to convict a person. It may be because an accused may abscond as he might fear an illegal arrest. In Durga Burman Roy v. State of Sikkim, (2014) 13 SCC 35, “13. “To abscond” means, go away secretly or illegally and hurriedly to escape from custody or avoid arrest. It has come in evidence that the accused had told others that they were going from their place of work at Gangtok to their home at New Jalpaiguri. They were admittedly taken into custody from their respective houses only, at New Jalpaiguri on the third day of the incident. Therefore, it is diffi cult to hold that the accused had been absconding. Even assuming for argument’s sake that they were not seen at their workplace after the alleged incident, it cannot be held that by itself an adverse inference is to be drawn against them as held by this Court in Sunil Kundu v. State of Jharkhand [(2013) 4 SCC 422 : (2013) 2 SCC (Cri) 427] . To quote para 28 : (SCC pp. 433-34) “28. It was argued that the accused were absconding and, therefore, adverse inference needs to be drawn against them. It is well settled that absconding by itself does not prove the guilt of a person. A person may run away due to fear of false implication or arrest. (See Sk. Yusuf v. State of W.B. [(2011) 11 SCC 754 : (2011) 3 SCC (Cri) 620] ) It is also true that the plea of alibi taken by the accused has failed. The defence witnesses examined by them have been disbelieved. It was urged that adverse inference should be drawn from this. We reject this submission. When the prosecution is not able to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt it cannot take advantage of the fact that the accused have not been able to probabilise their defence. It is well settled that the prosecution must stand or fall on its own feet. It cannot draw support from the weakness of the case of the accused, if it has not proved its case beyond reasonable doubt.” (emphasis supplied) HARVINDER SINGH @ BACHHU v. 1179 THE STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.]