He submits that such Committee consists of the Central Vigilance Commissioner and the Vigilance Commissioners who are totally C independent, impeccable and impartial persons. Learned SG submits that if a long-fixed tenure of 5 years is granted at a time, then there is also a possibility that a person, knowing that he will continue to be in the office for a period of 5 years, may not discharge his duties effectively. 39. Learned SG submits that insofar as the Director of CBI is D concerned, equally, the extension can be granted only in an event when the Committee consisting of (a) the Hon’ble Prime Minister; (b) the Leader of Opposition; and (c) the Chief Justice of India or his nominee would recommend such an extension. 40. Learned SG relying on the s of this Court in the cases E of Indian Aluminium Co. and others v. State of Kerala and others15, Goa Foundation and another v. State of Goa and another16 and K.S. Puttaswamy (Retired) and another (Aadhar) v. Union of India and another17submits that the delivered by this Court in the case of Common Cause (2021) was on the basis of the FR and the provisions in Section 25(d) of the CVC Act, as it existed then. However, now the F FR as well as the CVC Act has undergone an amendment. It is, therefore, submitted that, by an amendment the very basis on which the was delivered has been taken away. He, therefore, submits that the Legislature, which is undoubtedly competent to pass a legislation, has taken away the basis on which the Common Cause (2021) G was rendered upon. 41. The learned SG submits that, the question that will have to be considered by this Court is that, as to whether this Court would have 15 (1996) 7 SCC 637 16 (2016) 6 SCC 602 H 17 (2019) 1 SCC 1 548 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A rendered the same which was delivered by it in Common Cause (2021), had it considered the law which has undergone change. Learned SG submits that whenthe Common Cause (2021) was delivered, the FR did not include the post of Director of Enforcement. Now, the same has been included by way of an amendment and also a provision has been made that an extension could be granted upto a period B as provided in the relevant Act. He submits that, since the amended Section 25 of the CVC Act now permits an extension at a time for one year could be granted with a rider that the cumulative period should not be more than 5 years, the arguments advanced by the petitioners are liable to be rejected. The learned SG further submits that the scope of interference by this Court while exercising power of judicial review of C the legislative action of the State is very limited. He submits that unless the Court finds that the legislation is not within the competence of the legislature that has enacted the law or it has violated the fundamental rights or any of the provisions of the Constitution, it will not be permissible for this Court to interfere with the same.