By doing so, the District Registrar had correctly found that apart from land, building, and civil works, the plant and machinery must also be reckoned for the H THE SUB REGISTRAR, AMUDALAVALASA & ANR. v. M/S 1119 DANKUNI STEELS LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] purpose of computation of stamp duty. He would contend that the Division A Bench had fallen into error in adopting the reasoning that if the Respondents 1 and 2 did not want the registration of the plant and machinery, they cannot be compelled to do so. He would further point out that adequate opportunity was afforded to the respondents by the District Registrar but they chose not to avail the opportunity. B 18. The learned Amicus would, after referring to the facts, project two issues as arising for consideration: a. Whether there is a comprehensive sale of all the assets and, in a single transaction, is it permissible to draw up a conveyance for only a part of such transaction for seeking registration? C b. Second issue, according to him, is whether the Registration Authorities are empowered to go behind an ostensible instrument and ascertain the stamp duty payable on the actual transaction? 19. He took us to the definition of the word ‘instrument’ in the D Stamp Act, 1899 (hereinafter referred to as, “the Act”). He further drew our attention to Section 47A introduced by the Andhra Pradesh (Amendment) Act of 1971. That apart, he also pointed out that by Andhra Pradesh Act (8 of 1988), a proviso has been inserted in Section 27 of the Act, which we shall advert to. He further pointed out that the triumvirate of Sections 4, 5, and 6 of the Act, has been succinctly explained E by this Court in the decision reported in Member, Board of Revenue v. Arthur Paul Benthall2. He would, on the strength of the law laid down therein contend that the destiny of this case would be governed by Section 5 of the Act. He would contend that there is only one instrument in this case, i.e., the deed of conveyance, and since more than one matter, as F expounded by this Court, exists in substance,there would be justification for the Authorities having regard to the powers available, in particular, in Section 27 after the insertion of the proviso therein and Section 47A. He would point out that the preambular recitals in the conveyance, convey a version which may not square with the actual recitals and the purported terms of the operative part read with the Schedule. In other words, the G auction sale in favour of the second respondent-auction purchaser, indicates that the sale was of assets of the company in liquidation, such as land, building, plant and machinery and other assets. The total sale consideration is stated to be Rs.8.35 crores. 2 AIR 1956 SC 35 H 1120 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 20. According to the learned Amicus, the Authorities are competent to verify the preambular recitals in Clauses (D), (F) and (H) along with the entire recitals, to ascertain whether the instrument purports to provide for a larger transaction than projected in the Schedule.