A 12. The crucial point of time for considering the defence plea of unsoundness of mind has to be with regard to the mental state of the accused at the time the offence was committed collated from evidence of conduct which preceded, attended and followed the crime as observed in Ratan Lal v. State of M.P. (1970) 3 SCC 533 : 1971 SCC (Cri) 139, as follows: (SCC pp. 533-34, para 2) B “2. It is now well settled that the crucial point of time at which unsoundness of mind should be established is the time when the crime is actually committed and the burden of proving this lies on the accused. In Dahyabhai Chhaganbhai Thakkar v. State of Gujarat (1964) 7 SCR C 361 : AIR 1964 SC 1563, it was laid downthat ‘there is a rebuttable presumption that the accused was not insane. when he committed the crime, in the sense laid down by Section 84 of the Penal Code, the accused may rebut it by placing before the court all the relevant evidence- oral, D documentary or circumstantial, but the burden of proof upon him is no higher than that which rests upon a party to civil proceedings’.” 13. If from the materials placed on record, a reasonable doubt is created in the mind of the Court with regard to the mental condition E of the accused at the time of occurrence, he shall be entitled to the benefit of the reasonable doubt and consequent acquittal, as observed in Vijayee Singh v. State of U.P. (1990) 3 SCC 190 : 1990 SCC (Cri) 378.” CHAPTER XXV OF THE CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 1973 F 15. Chapter XXV of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973 (hereinafter ‘Cr.P.C.’), though procedural in nature, also becomes substantive when it deals with an accused person of unsound mind. A well-laid procedure is contemplated under Sections 328 to 339 of Cr.P.C. There is not even a need for an application under Section 329 of Cr.P.C. G in finding out as to whether an accused would be sound enough to stand a trial, rather it is the mandatory duty of the Court. Under Section 330, the Court can even go to the extent of discharging such a person if his inability to stand trial continues with a rigid chance of improvement. As per Section 334 of Cr.P.C., the of the Court shall include a H PRAKASH NAYI @ SEN v. STATE OF GOA 835 [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] specific finding that the act was committed due to unsoundness of mind, A though it was actually done. The reason is simple asthere cannot be an acquittal on the ground of unsoundness of mind unless the act is actually done. 16. The whole idea under the provisions discussed is to facilitate a person of unsound mind to stand trial, not only because of his reasoning B capacity, but also to treat him as the one who is having a disability. The role of the Court is to find the remedial measures and do complete justice.