Therefore, all that we are obliged to see is whether a Recreational Ground was developed or not. 31.The word “development” is also defined in the Act in Section 2(7) as follows: G “2. Definitions In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,— xxx xxx xxx H 74 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A (7) “development” with its grammatical variations means the carrying out of buildings, engineering, mining or other operations in or over or under, land or the making of any material change, in any building or land or in the use of any building or land or any material or structural change in any heritage building or its precinct and includes demolition of any existing building, structure or B erection or part of such building, structure of erection; and reclamation, redevelopment and lay-out and sub-division of any land; and “to develop” shall be construed accordingly;” 32.The above definition shows that the word “development” is given a very wide meaning. In fact, the last limb of clause (b) of sub- C section (1) of Section 126 uses both the expressions, namely (i) development; and (ii) construction. Therefore, the word “development” has to be understood to mean any activity which may or may not include construction. 33.Having seen the relevant provisions of the Statute, let us now D have a look at the Regulations. This has become necessary in view of the fact that the last limb of clause (b) extracted above refers to “the Final Development Control Regulations prepared in this behalf”. Therefore, the question whether the appellants developed or constructed any amenity, should be tested with reference to the Final Development E Control Regulations. 34.The Regulations define the word “amenity” under Regulation 2(7) as follows: “2. Definitions of Terms and Expressions:- xxx xxx xxx F (7) “Amenity” means roads, streets, open spaces, parks, recreational grounds, play grounds, gardens, water supply, electric supply, street lighting, sewerage, drainage, public works and other utilities, services and conveniences.” G Even this definition includes Recreational Ground. 35. Regulation 34 of the Regulations deals with Transfer of Development Rights. Regulation 34 reads as follows: H GODREJ AND BOYCE MANUFACTURING COMPANY LTD. THR. ITS 75 CONSTITUTED ATTORNEY v. THE MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF GREATER MUMBAI [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] “34. Transfer of Development Rights:- A In certain circumstances, the development potential of a plot of land may be separated from the land itself and may be made available to the owner of the land in the form of Transferable Development Rights (TDR). These Rights may be made available and be subject to the Regulations in Appendix VII hereto.” B 36.Appendix VII referred to in Regulation 34 later got renumbered as Appendix VII-A vide dated 15.10.1997. Clauses 5, 6 and 7 of the Regulations formed the eye of the storm before the High Court. Therefore, they are extracted as follows: C “APPENDIX VII-A (Regulation 34) Regulations for the grant of Transferable Development Rights (TDRs) to owners/developers and conditions for grant of such Rights D xxx xxx xxx 5.