That since the Sub-Registrar had accepted the sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968 for registration, it is to be presumed that the Sub-Registrar had done so only on satisfying himself as to the fact that the person who was executing the document was the proper person and competent to do so. B 15. It was submitted that the endorsement made on the sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968 could be considered as prima-facie evidence as to the title to the suit property. That accordingly, there would arise a presumption as to validity of the sale deed. While such presumption is a rebuttable presumption, the defendants in the present case had failed to C discharge the burden of rebutting the same. 16. Section 60(2) of the Registration Act, 1908 was pressed into service, to contend that registration of a document was proof enough of the fact that the said document had been registered in the manner provided under the Registration Act, 1908, and that the facts mentioned in the D endorsement have occurred as mentioned therein. In that regard, it was contended that since the sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968 was a registered document, a statutory presumption may be drawn as to the fact that the registration was completed after due compliance of the provisions of the Act. E 17. That the Trial Court and the first appellate court cast an onerous burden on the plaintiffs to produce the power of attorney which formed the basis of the sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968 to prove the sale deed which is a deed of conveyance of title. That such a burden was not contemplated under law and on that ground, the present Civil Appeal may be dismissed. It was urged that production of power of attorney F was not required in to prove a registered sale deed. In the above backdrop, it was contended that the High Court was right in allowing the second appeal and hence, there is no merit in the present appeal. G 18. Having heard the learned counsel for the respective parties, the following points would arise for consideration: (i) Whether the statutory requirements of Section 33 (1) (c) of the Registration Act, 1908 had been complied with in the instant case while executing the power of attorney dated H 01st August, 1968? MANIK MAJUMDER AND OTHERS v. DIPAK KUMAR SAHA 171 (DEAD) THROUGH LRS. & OTHERS [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] (ii) Whether non-production of the document of power of A attorney before the Trial Court and the first appellate court would be fatal to the case of the plaintiffs? (iii) Whether the plaintiffs have proved the sale deeds dated 03rd September, 1968 and 29th October, 1968? B (iv) What ? The relevant Sections of Registration Act, 1908, adverted to by learned counsel for the parties read as under: “32. Persons to present documents for registration.—Except in the cases mentioned in 5 [sections 31, 88 and 89], every C document to be registered under this Act, whether such registration be compulsory or optional, shall be presented at the proper registration-office,— (a) by some person executing or claiming under the same, or, in the case of a copy of a decree or , claiming under D the decree or , or (b) by the representative or assign of such a person, or (c) by the agent of such a person, representative or assign, duly authorised by power-of-attorney executed and authenticated in manner hereinafter mentioned.