CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. NAROTTAM 317 DHAKAD & ANR. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] Either in Section 353 or 354, there is no provision which requires the Court to interpret the to the accused even if the accused does not understand the language of the Court. 15. The conclusion which can be drawn from the provisions of CrPC and in particular the provisions referred to above is that wherever the legislature intended, there is a specifi c provision incorporated requiring the Court to mandatorily use the language of the Court in the proceedings. There is no such requirement laid down in respect of the report/charge sheet under Section 173 of CrPC. 16. There are two provisions in CrPC which deal with the eff ect of error, omission, or irregularity in the proceedings of the trial of a criminal case. The fi rst is Section 464 which deals with the eff ect of omission to frame, or absence of, or error in, charge. It lays down that only on the ground of such omission, absence, or error, the ultimate fi nding, sentence or will not be invalid unless a failure of justice has in fact been occasioned thereby. Section 465 incorporates the same test of the failure of justice while dealing with any error, omission, or irregularity in the proceedings. While deciding whether there is a failure of justice occasioned due to error, omission, or irregularity in the trial, the Court is required to consider the fact whether the objection could and should have been raised at an earlier stage in the proceedings. There is a specifi c provision to that eff ect under sub-section (2) of Section 465. 17. Therefore, in a given case, if something which CrPC specifi cally requires to be done in the language of the Court is done in any other language, per se, the proceedings will not be vitiated unless it is established that the omission has resulted in failure of justice. While deciding the issue of whether there is a failure of justice, the Court will have to consider whether the objection was raised at the earliest available opportunity. 18. Now, coming to the issue of the language of the fi nal report/charge sheet under Section 173, there is no specifi c provision in CrPC which requires the investigating agency/offi cer to fi le it in the language of the Court determined in accordance with Section 272 of CrPC. Even if such a requirement is read into Section 173, per se, the proceedings will not be 318 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. vitiated if the report is not in the language of the Court. The test of failure of justice will have to be applied in such a case as laid down in Section 465 of CrPC. 19. Under Section 207, it is the obligation of the learned Judicial Magistrate to supply a copy of the report and other documents as provided in Section 207 to the accused. In a case triable by the Court of Sessions, Section 208 provides for the learned Magistrate to provide copies of the statements and documents to the accused including the statements and confessions recorded under Section 164 of CrPC.