The impugned , however, only records that Section 10 and 30 of the Evidence Act, 1872, which deal with things having been said or done by a conspirator in reference to common design and a proved confession being considered as against another person; are not applicable and then observes that the sentence G handed down to Pankaj Singh does not call for any interference. Therefore, the Court implies that the conviction in its entirety including the sentence for criminal conspiracy is upheld. Such a view, in the considered view of this Court, cannot be sustained. 35. Even about the search, we do not find the veracity of the H Investigating Officer’s testimony to be inspiring in confidence on account MAGHAVENDRA PRATAP SINGH @ PANKAJ SINGH v. 843 STATE OF CHHATTISGARH [SANJAY KAROL, J.] of various lapses. For he (a) did not examine the owner of the house; (b) A did not enter his movement in the case diary; (c) did not record that he took the accused for effecting the recovery; (d) was not able to describe clearly the area from where the recovery was effected; (e) admits both the independent witnesses, who do not belong to the area from where the recoveries were effected; (f) does not associate any of the residents B of the area for conducting the search; (g) does not examine any of the residents for carrying out any further investigation and (h) Most importantly he admits that both the memo of arrest as also the recovery not to have been prepared by him or bearing his signature and the same too, have many corrections and over-writing, thus reducing the correctness and authenticity of this document. C 36. Furthermore, he is not clear about the description of the articles recovered. Illustratively, in the memo, he records one black colour scarf to have been recovered, but on a pointed query put by the Court, he admitted that not to be so but only a black cloth which undoubtedly cannot be equated to a scarf. Furthermore, there needs to be more clarity D in his mind about whether the tank from where the articles were recovered was full of water. 37. It has come on record that the recovered arms and ammunition were first sent to the laboratory at Raipur and, after that, to the laboratory at Chandigarh. However, none had come forward to prove the report E received from the said laboratories. Furthermore, there is nothing on the record besides any other scientific evidence linking the accused to the recovered articles. 38. The Investigating Officer is the person tasked with determining a direction, the pace, manner and method of the investigation. In F Amarnath Chaubey v. Union of India (2021) 11 SCC 80, it was observed that the police has a primary duty to investigate upon receiving the report of the commission of crime. In Manohar Lal Sharma v. Union of India (2014) 2 SCC 532, this Court observed that one of the responsibilities of the police is protection of life, liberty and property of G citizens.