The Scrutiny Committee under the 2000 Act has been entrusted with various powers D of the Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. The powers include a power to enforce the attendance of any witness, to receive evidence on affidavits, to issue commissions for the examination of witnesses or documents etc. The scheme of the 2000 Act and both SC and ST Rules provides for the Scrutiny Committee holding an enquiry on E the caste claim of the applicant, if necessary, after examining the applicant on oath, recording evidence of witnesses and calling for documents and records etc. The Scrutiny Committee is expected to record reasons for granting and rejecting the prayer for issue of caste validity certificates. Thus, the Scrutiny Committee has all the trappings of a quasi-judicial authority. F DECISIONS IN THE CASES OF VIJAKUMAR & ANAND 29. Now, we come to the decision in the case of Vijakumar3. A perusal of the decision in the case of Vijakumar3 shows that a Bench of two Hon’ble Judges dealt with issue of a tribe claim arising from the G State of Maharashtra. A careful perusal of the decision shows that there is not even a reference to the ST Rules in the said decision. The attention of the Court was not invited to sub-rule (2) of Rule 12, which lays down that the case can be referred to the Vigilance Cell only if the Scrutiny Committee is not satisfied with the material produced by the applicant. H MAH. ADIWASI THAKUR JAMAT SWARAKSHAN SAMITI v. 1129 THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] Without referring to the provisions of the 2000 Act as well as SC and ST A Rules, in paragraph 9 of Vijakumar’s case3, it is held that:- “9. Having heard the learned counsel for the parties, we are of the considered opinion that there is hardly any merit in the contentions raised on behalf of the appellant. The affinity test was completed by the Vigilance Officer as well as by the Scrutiny B Committee. The certificate has to be validated only after it proves factually and legally correct at the two stages; firstly, at the stage of issuance and secondly, at the stage of verification. If it fails the affinity test at either of these stages, the validity of the certificate cannot be sustained.” C Hence, in view of the fact that the 2000 Act and Rules were not considered, the decision in the case of Vijakumar3 is certainly not a binding precedent for the proposition that in every case, the Scrutiny Committee is required to take recourse to the affinity test by referring the case to the Vigilance Cell. D 30. The decision in the case of Anand4 in paragraphs 4 and 5 specifically refers to Rule 11 and 12 (2) of the ST Rules. In paragraph 22, this Court held thus: “22. It is manifest from the aforeextracted paragraph that the genuineness of a caste claim has to be considered not only on a E thorough examination of the documents submitted in support of the claim but also on the affinity test, which would include the anthropological and ethnological traits, etc., of the applicant.