Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-paragraph,— (a) an elected member of a House shall be deemed to belong to the C political party, if any, by which he was set up as a candidate for election as such member;” (emphasis supplied) 103. The petitioners contend that the Whip and the Leader must be appointed by the political party because Paragraph 2(1)(b) requires D that the direction to vote in a particular manner in the House must be from the political party or a person authorised by it, meaning the political party. The respondents submit that the distinction between political party and legislature party is artificial and that they are intertwined concepts. For this purpose, reference was made to Paragraph 4(2) of the Tenth E Schedule and Paragraph 6A of the Symbols . The term ‘political party’ is not defined in the Tenth Schedule. However, the explanation to Paragraph 2 creates a deeming fiction while referring to political parties. The explanation to Paragraph 2 provides that an elected member of a House shall be deemed to belong to the political party by which they were set up as a candidate for election. Paragraph 4 creates another F deeming fiction. The provision provides that if the “original political party” merges with another political party and they become members of such other political party or a new political party, then such other political party or the new political party shall be deemed to be the political party of the member for the purposes of Paragraph 2. To illustrate, Ms. Z G belonging to party A shall not be disqualified for voting against the direction of party A if party A merges with party B to form party C or if party A is subsumed by party B. This is because for the purposes of Tenth Schedule, Party B or Party C shall be deemed to be their original political party. Paragraph 4(2) stipulates that a merger is deemed to have taken place H 926 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A only if not less than two-third of the members of the legislature party have agreed to the merger: “4. […] (2) For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1) of this paragraph, the merger of the original political party of a member of a House shall B be deemed to have taken place if, and only if, not less than two- thirds of the members of the legislature party concerned have agreed to such merger.” Paragraph 3 which was omitted by the Constitution (Ninety-first Amendment) Act 2003 stipulated that a member would not be disqualified C for their prohibitory conduct if there is a split in the original political party and the legislature party. 104. Paragraph 6A of the Symbols lays down conditions for the recognition of a political party as a recognized State party for the purposes of the Symbols . The provision provides that the political D party must have secured a certain percentage of votes and should have returned a certain number of candidates to the assembly to be recognized as a State party: “6A.