There is a patent error on the part of the Tribunal in interpreting the Regulations. The Tribunal held E that the role of the respondent, who was a Company Secretary, compliance officer, was limited to redressing the grievances of investors. In arriving at the finding, the Tribunal has relied upon the latter part of Regulation 19(3) which deals with redressal of the grievances of investors. The crucial point which has been missed by the Tribunal is F that the compliance officer is also required to ensure compliance with the buyback regulations. Regulation 19(3) of the Regulations expressly so stipulates. Since the interpretation which has been placed by the Tribunal on the interpretation of 19(3) is contrary to the plain terms of Regulation 19(3), we set aside the impugned decision and remit the proceedings back to the Tribunal for consideration of the facts afresh in G the light of the interpretation which has been placed above on the provisions of Regulation 19(3). 12. Mr Arvind Datar, senior counsel, has placed reliance on the prior decisions of the Tribunal in Mr Bhuwaneshwar Mishra Vs SEBI (decided on 31 July 2014 in Appeal No 7 of 2014) and Brooks H 424 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Laboratories Limited & Ors Vs SEBI (decided on 21 March 2018 in Appeal No 266 of 2016). Mr Somasekhar Sundaresan, counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent has urged that these decisions are distinguishable. Since we are remitting the proceedings back for a fresh consideration, we keep the rights and contentions of the parties including on the prior decisions which have been relied upon in the present appeal B open to be urged before the Tribunal on remand. 13. For the above reasons, the appeal is allowed and the impugned of the Tribunal dated 1 November 2022 is set aside. Appeal No 283 of 2022 shall stand restored to the file of the Tribunal for a decision afresh. C 14. The Tribunal shall endeavour to decide the case within a period of six months from the date on which a certified copy of this is placed on its record. 15. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. D Divya Pandey Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Roopanshi Virang, LCRA) E F G H