Declaration of an association as unlawful.—(1) If the Central Government is of opinion that any association is, or has become, an unlawful association, it may, by notification in the F Official Gazette, declare such association to be unlawful. (2) Every such notification shall specify the grounds on which it is issued and such other particulars as the Central Government may consider necessary: G Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall require the Central Government to disclose any fact which it considers to be against the public interest to disclose. (3) No such notification shall have effect until the Tribunal has, by an made under Section 4, confirmed the declaration made therein and the is published in the Official Gazette: H 546 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Provided that if the Central Government is of opinion that circumstances exist which render it necessary for that Government to declare an association to be unlawful with immediate effect, it may, for reasons to be stated in writing, direct that the notification shall, subject to any that may be made under Section 4, have effect from the date of its publication in the Official Gazette. B (4) Every such notification shall, in addition to its publication in the Official Gazette, be published in not less than one daily newspaper having circulation in the State in which the principal office, if any, of the association affected is situated, and shall also be served on such association in such manner as the Central C Government may think fit and all or any of the following modes may be followed in effecting such service, namely: (a) by affixing a copy of the notification to some conspicuous part of the office, if any, of the association; or (b) by serving a copy of the notification, where possible, on D the principal office-bearers, if any, of the association; or (c) by proclaiming by beat of drum or by means of loudspeakers, the contents of the notification in the area in which the activities of the association are ordinarily carried on; or E (d) in such other manner as may be prescribed. 4. Reference to Tribunal.—(1) Where any association has been declared unlawful by a notification issued under sub- section (1) of Section 3, the Central Government shall, within thirty days from the date of the publication of the notification under the F said sub-section, refer the notification to the Tribunal for the purpose of adjudicating whether or not there is sufficient cause for declaring the association unlawful. (2) On receipt of a reference under sub-section (1), the Tribunal shall call upon the association affected by notice in writing G to show cause, within thirty days from the date of the service of such notice, why the association should not be declared unlawful. (3) After considering the cause, if any, shown by the association or the office-bearers or members thereof, the Tribunal shall hold an inquiry in the manner specified in Section 9 and after H calling for such further information as it may consider necessary ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR.