Jain vs. State of Haryana, 2009(2) RCR (Civil) 202 as discussed in M/s ICOMM Tele Limited(supra), dated 15.01.2022 (Annexure P9) and dated 02.04.2022 (Annexure P11) have been correctly passed. This Court is clearly bound by the LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 975 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] of the Hon’ble Supreme in the case of S.K. Jain (supra) which has admittedly not been over ruled till date.” (Emphasis supplied) 54. In the aforesaid decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, both the decisions of this Court i.e., ICOMM Tele Limited (supra) and S.K. Jain (supra) were taken into consideration and ultimately, the Court followed the dictum as laid down in S.K. Jain (supra). 55. B athinda Railway Transhipment Cooperative L&C Society Ltd. v. Punjab Mandi Board & Ors., Civil Writ Petition No. 28981 of 2019 (O&M) Date of : 27.03.2023 Forum: High Court of Punjab and Haryana (Division Bench) Nature of Clause: “8. … 25(viii) It shall be an essential term of this contract that in to avoid frivolous claims, the party invoking arbitration shall specify the disputes based upon facts and calculations stating the amount claimed under each claim and shall furnish a “deposit-at call” for ten percent of the amount claimed, on a scheduled bank in the name of the Arbitrator/Chairman of the Arbitral Tribunal, by his offi cial designation who shall keep the amount in deposit till the announcement of the award. In the event of an award in favour of the claimant, the deposit shall be refunded to him in proportion to the amount awarded with respect to the amount claimed and the balance, if any, shall be forfeited and paid to the other party.” (Emphasis supplied) 56. The relevant observations from the are as under: “10. From a perusal of the aforesaid two clauses (supra) i.e. one that has been assailed by the petitioner and the other that has been quashed by the Supreme Court in juxta position makes it absolutely clear that they are identical containing the same stipulations. The Supreme Court in the case of M/s Icomm Tele Ltd. (supra) after considering the validity of the said clause has held as under:- 976 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. “28. For all these reasons, we strike down clause 25(viii) of the notice inviting tender. This clause being severable from the rest of clause 25 will not aff ect the remaining parts of Clause 25. The of the High Court is set aside and the appeal allowed.” 11. In the light of the aforesaid decision rendered by the Supreme Court in M/s Icomm Tele Ltd. (supra), which has considered absolutely an identical clause contained in the agreement between the parties and after doing so has struck down the said clause, it is not for this Court i.e. the High Court to consider the contention of the respondent and take a diff erent view as that would be not just beyond the authority of this Court but would also be an act of impropriety.