The withdrawal of the State from the domestic space leaves the disadvantaged party unprotected since classifying certain actions as being private has diff erent connotations for those with and without power. In the case of personal relationships which are characterized by inequality, the actions of the more powerful person gains immunity from scrutiny and a degree of legitimacy.163 Thus, all activities in the ‘private space’ dealing with intimate choices must not readily and blindly be categorized to be beyond the scope of the State’s regulation. The State must assess if its interest in democratizing the private space overrides the interests of privacy in a given situation. 170. The State has identifi ed specifi c areas in the private sphere where the interest in democratizing that space overrides the interests of privacy. For example, the State regulates relationships which are in the nature of marriage through the DV Act. The preamble to the DV Act provides that the statute was enacted to protect the rights of women “who are victims of violence of any kind occurring within a family.” The Act regulates the conduct of persons in a domestic relationship which has been defi ned as a relationship between two persons who live together in a shared household where they are related by marriage, a relationship in the nature of marriage, adoption, or consanguinity. By criminalizing actions of domestic violence against women, the State recognizes that there is an unequal power structure which operates in heterosexual relationships. The State also recognizes that the party with lesser power and autonomy may be subjected to violence and suppression and consequently, seeks to democratize the space through regulation. 171. However, in certain other circumstances, the State and the Courts have recognized that there is no State interest in regulating the personal 162 ibid 163 Frances Olsen, “Constitutional law: Feminist Critique of the public/private distinction” Vol. 10 (1993), Constitutional Commentary, p. 319 (1990) SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1333 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] space. For example, this Court has recognized that Article 21 protects a woman’s reproductive choices which includes whether she wants to terminate her pregnancy.164 The Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act 1971 recognizes the decisional autonomy of women over procreation, which is an intimate aspect of their lives. In very narrow circumstances, the State regulates intimate choices about child birth and procreation. For example, the Pre-conception and Pre-natal Diagnostic Techniques (Prohibition of Sex Selection) Act 1994 regulates the intimate zone by prohibiting sex-selection before and after conception. In this case, the State recognizes that the interest in preventing female foeticide and infanticide overrides the privacy interests and decisional autonomy of individuals. The argument that the State has an interest in regulating heterosexual marriages only to sustain society through procreation is fallacious because the state does not impose a compelled choice of procreation on married heterosexual couples. Moreover, heterosexual couples need not be married to procreate nor is marriage a criteria for procreation. viii. The right to marry a.