In that G light, in appropriate cases depending on the location and the extent of land held by each of the land losers who is a part of the same acquisition, is required to be kept in view, while applying the yardstick to reckon the appropriate exemplar and arrive at the ultimate conclusion. There can be no strait jacket formula that when the sale deeds for the sale of large extent are available H 916 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A and large extent of lands are acquired that alone should be reckoned as the exemplar. What is material is its comparability, which would depend on case to case basis and that is for the Court to analyze based on the evidence available on record. [Para 16][925-E-H] 1.7. The lands in issue are within the boundaries of the B Municipal Corporation. The very award dated 10.05.2006 passed by the LAO records that no crops are standing on the land. Therefore, in that circumstance when smaller extent of land is available, the same would be used for urban development and not for agricultural purpose. Hence relying on Ex. R5 to R16 C which are sale deeds of a large extent of agricultural land, would not be justified unless there was further evidence brought on record to demonstrate that the nature of the lands sold under the said sale deeds and the lands notified are comparable to each other. In that view, though the reason assigned by the Reference Court is not appropriate on that aspect, the ultimate conclusion D to eschew the said documents would stand justified. [Para 17][926- B-C] 1.8. If that be the position, from the documents which were relied upon by the appellants- land losers, the most appropriate document to be relied upon was Ex.PX dated 07.12.2004 since it E was earlier to the notification dated 11.01.2005 under s. 4, read with 17 and in close proximity thereto, which has been rightly done by the Reference Court. Since small extents of land belonging to the land losers, having non-agricultural potential in an urban area was notified for acquisition, the said sale exemplar F dated 07.12.2004 can be considered as comparable. The Reference Court was, therefore, justified in reckoning the same. Since the two dates are in close proximity, further addition of the escalation value for 35 days was not justified. The escalation of that nature is normally to be taken if there are no documents within close proximity to the date of notification and a document G of the larger time gap is the only available document to be taken into consideration, in which case, the escalation for a longer time gap is required to be given. [Para 18][926-D-F] 1.9. The land acquired is for the construction of a new Expressway which would require not just laying of the roads but H also providing several amenities through the highway and also RAVINDER KUMAR GOEL v. THE STATE OF HARYANA 917 creation of service roads, flyovers, underpass to townships across A such highway.