36. After withdrawal of the aforesaid suit, the writ petition was B filed to call upon the respondents to show cause as to how the land owned by the writ petitioners was allotted to the Reserve Bank of India. The writ petitioners be allotted land equivalent to the same in terms of the observation made in the dated 01.03.1990 passed by the Settlement Officer. Both the aforesaid prayers are co-related. In fact, C the real dispute started after the finalisation of the record of rights. Reference in the writ petition was made to the passed by the Settlement Officer on 01.03.1990. Implementation of the aforesaid , by which apparently no relief was granted to the petitioner, was sought. The fact remains that at the time of the filing of the writ petition, it was not mentioned that the writ petitioners had already filed a civil suit claiming D the same relief which was dismissed as withdrawn without liberty to file fresh one for the same cause of action. 37. On the question, as to whether after the withdrawal of a suit claiming the same relief without having permission to institute fresh one for the same relief, a writ petition will be maintainable before the Court, E the guidance is available from the of this Court in M.J. Exporters Private Limited v. Union of India and others (2021) 13 SCC 543, wherein the principle of constructive res judicata was applied. The case concerns a litigant who sought to file a fresh writ petition after withdrawal of the earlier writ petition filed for the same relief without F permission to file fresh one. The Court held that the principles contained in 23, Rule 1 CPC are applicable even in writ proceedings. Para 15 thereof is extracted below: “15. In these circumstances, we feel that when this issue was raised and abandoned in the first writ petition which was dismissed G as withdrawn, the principles of constructive res judicata which are laid down under 23 Rule 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, and which principles are extendable to writ proceedings as well as held by this in Sarguja Transport Service v. STAT, (1987) 1 SCC 5.” H 1072 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 38. Having regard to the principles laid down in M.J. Exporters Private Limited (supra), in our view, applying the principles of constructive res judicata, the present writ petition filed by the respondents after withdrawal of the civil suit, was not maintainable, in the sense that it ought not to have been entertained. In case the respondents still wanted to justify filing of the writ petition, they should have at least disclosed B complete facts and then justify filing of the writ petition. 39. The writ petition also ought to be dismissed on the ground of concealment of material facts regarding filing and withdrawal of the civil suit claiming the same relief. Neither in the writ petition nor in the appeal against the passed in the writ petition, the respondents C disclosed the filing of civil suit and withdrawal thereof.