Till such declaration is made, no law can be treated as void; (c) If there is no interim stay, the law has to be implemented and all actions taken pending fi nal hearing will not become unlawful; (d) The word “void” is used 14 times in the Constitution. The use of the word “void” in the context of the Constitution, unlike the Contract Act, only means that a judicial declaration renders a law inoperative or unenforceable; (e) The Oxford Dictionary defi nes the word “void” in two ways: (i) As an adjective, it means that ‘something is not valid or legally binding’; and (ii) As a verb, it means ‘to declare that (something) is not valid or legally binding’. (f) A combined reading of Articles 249-251 read with Article 254 of the Constitution shows that the word “void” basically means ‘invalid’ or ‘inoperative’; (g) The word “void” does not mean “repeal”; a does not amend or alter the statue. It remains in the statute-book but cannot be given eff ect to. (h) Part-III includes not only express fundamental rights but several derivative rights. Therefore, it will be incorrect to treat an unconstitutional law as void ab initio. 13.6. The next submission is that an administrative act, unless declared invalid, will continue to have legal eff ect and actions taken before the law was declared invalid would still remain protected. CBI v. R.R. KISHORE 25 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] 13.7. A large number of s have been referred for the proposition that declaration of invalidity and consequences that follow are two diff erent aspects and this Court has repeatedly granted relief by protecting the actions taken during pendency of the litigation. 13.8. It is also submitted that a law declared as invalid either on the ground of lack of legislative competence or for violating Part-III of the Constitution or other constitutional limitations would have the same eff ect. No distinction can be drawn in either of the cases. 13.9. It was next submitted that protection from prosecution has continued from 1969 as it was deemed necessary to ensure proper administrative function by Government offi cials except for brief periods when this Court had struck down the validity of the relevant clause of the Single Directive in the case of Vineet Narain (supra) and, thereafter, Section 6A of the DSPE Act in the case of Subramanian Swamy (supra). Continuously, the legislature has been incorporating provisions in diff erent statutes to continue to extend such protection to Government offi cials from unnecessary and frivolous criminal prosecutions. 13.10. It was lastly submitted that the doctrines of prospective overruling and the Blackstonian theory do not apply in the present case as no previous decision has been overruled. This is a case of declaring a law as unconstitutional being violative of Part-III of the Constitution. 13.11. In the facts and circumstances, it was submitted that the appeal of Manjit Singh Bali deserves to be allowed. 13.12. Shri Amit Desai, learned Senior Counsel also appearing for the same party made a few submissions.