(ii) The water intake study report and Project Report including C geo-technical study, topographical survey, area drainage study, socio-economic study and EIA (rapid), were provided on 3rd August, 2006.” (58) While on this document, we may also notice the following in regard to the declared price of land contemplated in the RFP under D clause 1.4 (ii): “2. Reference Clause: RFP 1.4(ii) – regarding Declared Price of Land for Power Station Indicative Declared Price of Land for Power Station is as follows: E (i) Power Plant Area – Rs.110 Crores (ii) MGR Land – Rs.80 Crores. (iii) Water Pipeline Corridor– Rs.0.63 Crores (iv) Ash Pipeline Corridor – Rs.0.047 Crores” F (59) There is no dispute regarding this aspect. In this regard, we notice that under Schedule 1A to the PPA it has been clearly indicated that water source in the project is Govind Ballabh Pant Sagar(Rihand Reservoir). (60) It is, thereafter, we must notice that under the caption initial G consent in Schedule 2, on behalf of the procurers, the SPV was expected to issue the notification under Section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, obtain necessarily environmental and forest clearance for the power stations, allocate captive coal mines and finally, give the water linkage for the reasonable project requirements. It is this water linkage for the reasonable project requirements which was contemplated to be fulfilled H HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 47 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] from the water source Govind Ballabh Pant Sagar(Rihand Reservoir). A The communication dated 23.10.2006 would indicate that the Central Water Commission had given its approval for sourcing the water need from the water body in question. In the said sense, the procurers had fulfilled their obligation as contemplated in RFP. (61) The RFP which preceded the PPA provided for certain B conditions which we have already indicated. Clause 1.4 inter alia contained undertaking for providing the water linkage for the project with the requisite approval of the Central Water Commission at least 30 days prior to Bid deadline. In the PPA, it is indicated that the procurers have completed the initial studies as contained in the project report and C obtained initial consent required for the project which are set out in Part I of Schedule 2 and have been made available to the seller on the date of the PPA except two matters: (1) Forest clearance and the declaration under Section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act. It is in Part I Schedule 2 of the PPA stated that the notification under Section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act was an act to be performed by the procurers. It is this D act which was not done initially at the stage of the PPA. Also forest clearance is mentioned in the Part I of Schedule 2. Even the said clearance was also apparently not obtained as is indicated at the beginning of the PPA. Thereafter, Part II of Schedule 2 contains the clause which is the fountainhead of the argument based on initial consent.