Thus, this would not fall within the 4 We have not elaborated on the other litigations wherein the said s were passed, for being not entirely necessary in relation to the core question involved in the matter. H 118 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A scope of adjudication. The Commercial Court further held that the issue of mortgage was not arbitrable. In essence, the considerations of the Commercial Court had been that the relief sought by the plaintiff related to several other transactions which did not provide for arbitration as a dispute resolution mechanism. It was observed that the challenge to the conveyance deed and also the relief sought against the bank to not release B documents in favour of appellant would only be capable of adjudication by the Courts and could not be resolved by arbitrator. 4.3. Another ancillary observation had been that the conduct of respondent Nos. 3 to 5 would indicate collusion with the appellant during pendency of litigation. Thus, in substance, it was held that the issues in C question were not connected with the licence agreement and that there was no valid arbitration agreement between the plaintiff and the rest of the defendants apart from defendant No. 1 (appellant). The Commercial Court further clarified that a partial reference to arbitration would not be possible because the cause of action could not be split into separate D parts. 5. In appeal, the decision of the Commercial Court was upheld by the High Court, after extensively taking note of the material aspects of the pleadings in plaint and the rival submissions as also the principles enunciated in the cited decisions, with the finding that it would not be E proper to bifurcate the disputes in terms of arbitrable and non-arbitrable disputes. 5.1. As regards the suit in respect of a matter which falls partly within and partly outside the arbitration agreement, and also involves non-parties as well as parties, it was held that Section 8 of the Act of 1996 would not be attracted, in reference to several decisions of this F Court. The High Court observed that the licence agreements were only executed between the appellant and respondent No. 1 and respondent Nos. 2 to 5 were not party to the agreement. There was a tripartite agreement between the appellant, respondent No. 1 and the bank, however, it was an admitted position that no arbitration agreement existed G in that regard. Further, the tripartite agreement was an independent agreement for mortgage by deposit of title deeds. It was further observed by the High Court, as had also been observed by the Commercial Court, that the appellant had breached the injunction granted by the High Court as well as the undertaking before the Industrial Tribunal by selling some of the properties to respondent Nos. 3 to 5. Referring to the plaint H GUJARAT COMPOSITE LIMITED v. A INFRASTRUCTURE 119 LIMITED & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] averments, the High Court took note of the reliefs sought by respondent A No.