Therefore, merely because the sessions court had exercised such power, did not vitiate the sentence altogether. Instead, it was contended that the fact that the High Court had affirmed the sentence, C meant the spirit of the law laid down in Sriharan (supra) had been given effect to. Reliance was placed on Gauri Shankar v. State of Punjab19 wherein in view of the grotesque nature of the crime, this court had upheld the session’s court on sentencing, which had been passed in excess of the scope of its powers. D 12. Mr. Shroff also submitted that the VIMHANS report submitted pursuant to this court’s directions, was a neutral report which could not be relied on as demonstrating ‘mitigating circumstances’ as it cannot speak to the mental state of the appellants, at the time of commission of the offences. It does not necessarily support any prospect of rehabilitation or reformation. E Analysis and Reasoning 13. In Bachan Singh v. Union of India20, this court upheld the imposition of capital sentence, subject to the caveat that it should be invoked in the rarest of rare cases. The court, in its later s sought to evolve a principled approach towards capital sentencing. In F Machhi Singh v. State of Punjab21 this court, building upon the observations in Bachan Singh, observed that a balance sheet of “aggravating and mitigating circumstances” needs to be drawn where “mitigating circumstances have to be accorded full weightage and a just balance has to be struck between the aggravating and the G mitigating circumstances before the option is exercised”. The court also laid down a broad two-pronged approach: 19 (2021) 3 SCC 380 20 [1983] 1 SCR 145: (1980) 2 SCC 684 21 [1983] 3 SCR 413: (1983) 3 SCC 470 H 760 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A “(a) Is there something uncommon about the crime which renders sentence of imprisonment for life inadequate and calls for a death sentence? (b) Are the circumstances of the crime such that there is no alternative but to impose death sentence even after according maximum weightage to the mitigating circumstances which B speak in favour of the offender?” 14. During the last two decades or so, however, the capital sentencing decisions adopted no symmetrical approach; this led to the court to lament, on more than one occasion, that the exercise of considering aggravating and mitigating circumstances (which Bachan Singh had C highlighted) had become more of a formality. In Santosh Kumar Satishbhushan Bariyar (supra), this court enunciated a two-step process to decide whether a convict deserved the death sentence: first, that the case belonged to the “rarest of rare” category, and second, that the option of life imprisonment would simply not suffice. The aggravating D and mitigating circumstances – according to the first step, were to be identified and considered equally. The court, in the second step, was to consider whether the alternative of life imprisonment was unquestionably foreclosed as the sentencing aim of reformation was unattainable, for which the State was obliged to provide material.