This is because the Assam Act is stated to be enacted on the strength of Entry 25 of List III, and the power of the State Legislature under the said Entry is circumscribed D to the limited extent of it being subject to Entries 63, 64, 65 and 66 of List I. 16.3. Where one Entry is made ‘subject to’ another Entry, it means that out of the scope of the former Entry, a field of legislation covered by the latter Entry has been reserved to be specially dealt with by the E appropriate Legislature. In the present context, the field of legislation covered under Entry 25 of List III is subject to Entry 66 of List I. This would imply that out of the scope of Entry 25 of List III, a field of legislation covered by Entry 66 of List I is reserved to be dealt with by the Parliament. Hence, the field covered by the Central Act, enacted under Entry 66 of List I, is carved out of the scope of Entry 25 of List III F and is reserved to be dealt with by the Parliament. What is that field of legislation has to be identified. We shall proceed to undertake the said exercise by considering both the Central as well as the State enactments. Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (IMC Act, 1956) (Central law) G 17. The relevant provisions of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (‘IMC Act, 1956’), read as under: Preamble – An Act to provide for the reconstitution of the Medical Council of India, and the maintenance of a Medical Register for India and for matters connected therewith. H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 969 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] x x x A “2. Definitions.- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,- (a) “approved institution” means a hospital, health centre or other such institution recognised by a University as an institution in which a person may undergo the training, if B any, required by his course of study before the award of anymedical qualification to him; x x x (d) “Indian Medical Register” means the medical register maintained by the Council; C (e) “medical institution” means any institution, within or without India, which grants degrees, diplomas or licences in medicine; (f) “medicine” means modern scientific medicine in all its branches and includes surgery and obstetrics, but does not D include veterinary medicine and surgery; x x x (h) “recognised medical qualification” means any of the medical qualifications included in the Schedules; x x x E (k) “State Medical Register” means a register maintained under any law for the time being in force in any State regulating the registration of practitioners of medicine; x x x 10A. Permission for establishment of new medical college, F new course of study.— (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other law for the time being in force,— (a) no person shall establish a medical college; or (b) no medical college shall— G (i) open a new or higher course of study or training (including a post-graduate course of study or training) which would enable a student of such course or training to qualify himself for the award of any recognised medical qualification; or H 970 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R.