A perusal of the of the majority shows that it took the view that dismissal of a complaint under Section 203 of the Code is no bar to the entertainment of a second complaint on C the same facts; but the same could be done only in exceptional circumstances some of which have been illustrated in the . Further observation in this regard is that a fresh complaint can be entertained, inter alia, when fresh evidence comes forward. In the present case, this is precisely what had happened, as on further investigation being made, fresh D materials came to light which led to the filing of further report stating that a case had been made out. The aforesaid decision of this Court has been rightly referred to and relied upon by the High Court in its first dated 11.09.2014. E 70. This Court in K. Chandrasekhar (supra) was considering a case, where on the complaint of a Police Inspector, a case was registered by the Kerala Police against the appellants therein for the offences punishable under Sections 3 and 4 respectively of the Official Secrets Act, 1923 read with Section 34 IPC on the allegation that in collusion with some Indians and foreigners they had committed acts prejudicial to F the safety and sovereignty of India. During the investigation, certain other persons (appellants in accompanying appeals) were arrested. Thereafter, a DIG of Police, who was the head of the team conducting the investigation, recommended the case for being investigated by the CBI. Pursuant to such recommendation, the Government of Kerala by a G notification dated 02.12.1994 accorded its consent under Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 (for short, ‘the Act’) for further investigation of the case by the CBI. Accordingly, the CBI took up the investigation. After completion of the investigation, on 16.04.1996, the CBI filed its report in the final form under Section 173(2) of the CrPC, stating that the charges were not proved and were false. H STATE THROUGH CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. 167 HEMENDHRA REDDY & ANOTHER. ETC. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] Accepting the report, the Magistrate discharged the accused-appellants. A Thereafter, on 27.6.1996, the Government of Kerala issued a notification withdrawing the consent earlier given to the CBI to investigate the said case. The object of the said notification was to enable a reinvestigation of the case by a team of State Police Officers. By a mandatory notification dated 08.07.1996, the words “reinvestigation of the case” B were substituted by the words “further investigation of the case”. The State Government notification dated 27.6.1996 (as amended) was upheld by the High Court. This Court held that, from a plain reading of Section 173 of the CrPC, it is evident that even after submission of police report under sub section (2) on completion of investigation, the police has a right of “further” investigation under sub section (8), but not “fresh C investigation” or “reinvestigation”. The dictionary meaning of “further” (when used as an adjective) is “additional; more; supplemental”.