Secondly, she could have sought for a ‘without prejudice’ enabling her to encash the amount, and at the same time ensure that her claim was not defeated on that score. Thirdly, equally, she could have sought for appropriate s that the amount be maintained by the developer, who could, in the event it became necessary, be directed to pay the principal along with C such interest as the Commission or the Tribunal deemed appropriate and in the interests of justice. Since none of these choices were opted for, and also having regard to the fact that the amount in question was undoubtedly debited from the developer’s current account, there ought to have been a discussion of what was the applicable legal provision D which fastened any liability upon the developer. This was more important because the Tribunal in the present case has accepted Citibank’s explanation regarding interest (or rather, its absence of liability, even though the amount was undoubtedly with the bank for about 11 years). 29. This court, in Gurpreet Singh (supra), observed in the context E of XXI of CPC8 (which deals with modes of payment under 8 XXI Execution of Decrees and s Payment under Decree 1. Modes of paying money under decree.— (1) All money, payable under a decree shall be paid as follows, namely:— (a) by deposit into the court whose duty it is to execute the decree, or sent to that Court by postal money or through a bank; or F (b) out of Court, to the decree-holder by postal money or through a bank or by any other mode wherein payment is evidenced in writing; or (c) otherwise, as the Court which made the decree, directs. (2) Where any payments is made under clause (a) or clause (c) of sub-rule (1), the -debtor shall give notice thereof to the decree-holder either through the Court or directly to him by registered post, acknowledgment due. (3) Where money is paid by postal money or through a bank under clause (a) or G clause (b) of sub-rule (1), the money or payment through bank, as the case may be, shall accurately state the following particulars, namely:— (a) the number of the original suit; (b) the names of the parties or where there are more than two plaintiffs or more than two defendants, as the case may be, the names of the first two plaintiffs and the first two defendants; H 1094 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A decrees and also stipulates when interest shall cease to “run” (i.e., not be payable)) as follows: “Thus, in cases of execution of money decrees or award decrees, or rather, decrees other than mortgage decrees, interest ceases to run on the amount deposited, to the extent B of the deposit. It is true that if the amount falls short, the decree holder may be entitled to apply the rule of appropriation by appropriating the amount first towards the interest, then towards the costs and then towards the principal amount due under the decree.