Such a price cannot be equated with the market value as is understood for the purpose of Section 80IA (8). On the contrary, the rate at which State Electricity Board supplied electricity to the industrial consumers would have to be taken as the market value for computing deduction under Section 80 IA of the Act. 30. Thus on a careful consideration, we are of the view that the market value of the power supplied by the State Electricity Board to the industrial consumers should be construed to be the market value of electricity. It should not be compared with the rate of power sold to or supplied to the State Electricity Board since the rate of power to a supplier cannot be the market rate of power sold to a consumer in the open market. The State Electricity COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX v. M/S JINDAL STEEL & POWER 515 LTD. THROUGH ITS MANAGING DIRECTOR [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] Board’s rate when it supplies power to the consumers have to be taken as the market value for computing the deduction under Section 80-IA of the Act. 31. That being the position, we hold that the Tribunal had rightly computed the market value of electricity supplied by the captive power plants of the assessee to its industrial units after comparing it with the rate of power available in the open market i.e., the price charged by the State Electricity Board while supplying electricity to the industrial consumers. Therefore, the High Court was fully justifi ed in deciding the appeal against the revenue. 32. Revenue has relied upon the decision of the Calcutta High Court in CIT Vs. ITC Ltd. (supra). In that case, the High Court rejected the fi rst contention of the revenue that the assessee therein was not entitled to the benefi t under Section 80-IA of the Act because the power generated was consumed at home or by other business of the assessee. After holding so, the High Court however,answered the question on the point of computation of profi ts and gains of the eligible business against the assessee. On going through the , we fi nd that facts of that case are clearly distinguishable from the facts of the present batch of appeals. It is noticeable that though an opportunity was granted by the assessing offi cer to the assessee to adduce evidence to justify the price of electricity sold by it to its paper unit, the same could not be availed of by the assessee. The electricity generated was sold by the assessee entirely to its paper unit. There was no surplus electricity to be supplied to the State Electricity Board and consequently, there was no contract between the assessee and the State Electricity Board determining the rate of tariff for the electricity supplied by the assessee to the State Electricity Board. On the other hand, it was noticed that the Electricity Act, 2003 had come into force whereby and where under, the rate at which electricity could be supplied is determined, notably by Sections 21 and 22 thereof.