68. Unlike the facts as narrated above in Group I, i.e., Urmin, whereunder the assessee therein had sought to change the classifi cation of the goods manufactured by them, particularly when there was a diff erence in the duty, and a much higher duty was required to be paid by the assessee. Whereas in the instant case on hand, there has been no change in classifi cation of the product which was sought by the assessee. It is settled law that the onus/burden of proof for change in classifi cation of the product lies on the Department, particularly when it wishes to challenge a long-accepted classifi cation. This court in the case of HPL Chemicals Limited Vs. CCE, Chandigarh: 2006 5 SCC 208 while discussing the onus/burden of proof in matters of chargeability held as follows: 616 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. “28. This apart, classification of goods is a matter relating to chargeability and the burden of proof is squarely upon the Revenue. If the Department intends to classify the goods under a particular heading or sub-heading diff erent from that claimed by the assessee, the Department has to adduce proper evidence and discharge the burden of proof. In the present case the said burden has not been discharged at all by the Revenue. On the one hand, from the trade and market enquiries made by the Department, from the report of the Chemical Examiner, CRCL and from HSN, it is quite clear that the goods are classifi able as “denatured salt” falling under Chapter Heading 25.01. The Department has not shown that the subject product is not bought or sold or is not known or is dealt with in the market as denatured salt. The Department’s own Chemical Examiner after examining the chemical composition has not said that it is not denatured salt. On the other hand, after examining the chemical composition has opined that the subject-matter is to be treated as sodium chloride.” 29. It has been held by this Court in a number of s that the burden of proof is on the Revenue in the matter of classifi cation. In Union of India v. Garware Nylons Ltd. [(1996) 10 SCC 413] in para 15 this Court held as under: (SCC pp. 419-20) “15. In our view, the conclusion reached by the High Court is fully in accord with the decisions of this Court and the same is justifi ed in law. The burden of proof is on the taxing authorities to show that the particular case or item in question is taxable in the manner claimed by them. Mere assertion in that regard is of no avail. It has been held by this Court that there should be material to enter appropriate fi nding in that regard and the material may be either oral or documentary. It is for the taxing authority to lay evidence in that behalf even before the fi rst adjudicating authority. Especially in a case as this, where the claim of the assessee is borne out by the trade enquiries received by them and also the affi davits fi led by persons dealing with the subject- matter, a heavy burden lay upon the Revenue to disprove the said materials by adducing proper evidence.