9. Before we deal with the arguments raised by the learned counsel for the parties, we deem it appropriate to refer to the settled legal position with reference to clubbing of diff erent institutes for the purpose of coverage under the EPF Act. 10. In Pratap Press’s case (supra), this Court referred to the earlier of this Court in Associated Cement Co. v. Workmen, AIR 1960 SC 56, wherein it was opined that it is impossible to lay down any one test as absolute and invariable for all cases to determine the issue regarding clubbing of two establishments for the purpose of coverage under the EPF Act. The real purpose is to fi nd out true relations between the two establishments and fi nally opine thereon. In one case, ‘unity of ownership, management and control’ may be an important test whereas in another ‘functional integrity’ or ‘general unity’ may be important. There can also be a case where the test can be of the ‘unity of employment’. Relevant para 5 thereof is extracted below: 544 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. “5. In Associated Cement Co. v. Workmen [AIR 1960 (SC) 56] this Court had to consider the question whether the employer's defence to a claim for lay-off compensation by the workers of the Chaibasa Cement Works that the laying off was due to a strike in another part of the establishment viz. limestone quarry at Rajanka was good. In other words the question was whether the limestone quarry of Rajanka formed part of the establishment known as the Chaibasa Cement Works within the meaning of Section 25-E(iii) of the Industrial Disputes Act. While pointing out that it was impossible to lay down any one test as an absolute and invariable test for all cases it observed that the real purpose of these tests would be to fi nd out the true relation between the parts, branches, units etc. This Court however mentioned certain tests which might be useful in deciding whether two units form part of the same establishment. Unity of ownership, unity of management and control, unity of fi nance and unity of labour, unity of employment and unity of functional “integrity” were the tests which the Court applied in that case. It is obvious there is an essential diff erence between the question whether the two units form part of one establishment for the purposes of Section 25-E(iii) and the question whether they form part of one single industry for the purposes of calculation of the surplus profi ts for distribution of bonus to workmen in one of the units. Some assistance can still nevertheless be obtained from the enumeration of the tests in that case. Of all these tests the most important appears to us to be that of functional “integrity” and the question of unity of fi nance and employment and of labour. Unity of ownership exists ex hypothesie. Where two units belong to a proprietor there is almost always likelihood also of unity of management.