These characteristics of States are not usually lost when its boundaries, size, or name are changed. 500. States under the Indian Constitution have their own independent constitutional existence. The various organs of governance such as the State Governor, the State Legislature, the High Courts, the Public Service Commissions, the State Elections Commissions are all creatures of the Constitution. As Dr Ambedkar noted in the Constituent Assembly: “As to the relation between the Centre and the States, it is necessary to bear in mind the fundamental principle on which it rests. The basic principle of federalism is that the legislative and executive authority is partitioned between the Centre and the States not by any law to be made by the Centre but by the Constitution itself. This is what the Constitution does. The States under our Constitution are in no way dependent upon the Centre for their legislative or executive authority. The centre and the States are coequal in this matter.”360 (emphasis supplied) 501. Dr Ambedkar highlighted that power of the States to govern 360 Kuldip Nayar v. Union of India 2006 (7) SCC 1 [52] IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 285 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] emanated from the Constitution and not Parliament. The exact signifi cance of this understanding of States’ powers may be demonstrated by reference to the decision in State of Himachal Pradesh v. Union of India.361 That case concerned an inter-State dispute over the sharing of power from a hydro-electric plant between the States of Punjab and Himachal Pradesh. The State of Himachal Pradesh argued that it was entitled to 12% free power based on its status as the ‘mother-State’ of the power project. The State of Punjab sought to repel this argument by contending that Himachal Pradesh’s claim of 12% free power was based on a notion that Himachal Pradesh had some pre-existing rights over the land and water, which could not be accepted as the territory of States, and potentially the very existence of States, owed their existence to Parliamentary legislation under Article 3. If Parliament could unilaterally alter the territory of Himachal, how could Himachal claim any pre-existing rights over its land and water? Rejecting this argument, the Division Bench in State of Himachal held: “93. We fi nd that under the provisions of Article 3 of the Constitution, Parliament has the power to form a new State by separation of territory from any State or by uniting two or more States or parts of States or by uniting any territory to a part of any State, increase the area of any State, diminish the area of any State, alter the boundaries of any State and alter the name of any State, but under Article 3, Parliament cannot take away the powers of the State executive or the State legislature in respect of matters enumerated in List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.” (emphasis supplied) 502. As Dr Ambedkar explained to the Constituent Assembly, the division of executive and legislative authority between the Union and the States, the hallmark of a federal constitution, is enshrined in constitutional text.