where these articles could otherwise have been invoked or would, but for Paragraph 7, have operated there is ‘in eff ect’ a change in those provisions attracting the proviso. … 62. In the present case, though the amendment does not bring in any change directly in the language of Articles 136, 226 and 227 of the Constitution, however, in eff ect paragraph 7 curtails the operation of those articles respecting matters falling under the Tenth Schedule. There is a change in the eff ect in Articles 136, 226 and 227 within the meaning of clause (b) of the proviso to Article 368(2). Paragraph 7, therefore, attracts the proviso and ratifi cation was necessary. …” (emphasis supplied) 379. This Court determined the validity of paragraph 7 by considering whether it changed Articles 136, 226 and 227 “in terms of or in eff ect.” It found that while the language of these provisions was not directly amended, the eff ect of paragraph 7 was to change the operation of these provisions. This approach indicates that this Court was concerned more with the substance of the constitutional amendment as opposed to its form. The minority in Kihoto Hollohan (supra) concurred with the ruling of the majority on the constitutional validity of paragraph 7 but diff ered on the question of the validity of the entire Tenth Schedule, holding that it was constitutionally infi rm in its entirety. Its approach to the interpretation of the issue concerning paragraph 7 was similar to that of the majority.265 380. Finally, in Union of India v. Rajendra N. Shah,266 this Court adjudicated the vires of the Constitution (Ninety Seventh Amendment) Act 2011 which inter alia introduced Part IXB under a chapter titled ‘The Co-operative Societies.’ In particular, this Court dealt with the question of whether Part IXB was non est for want of ratifi cation by half of the 265 Paragraph 162: “…Thus, this Dextinction of the remedy alone without curtailing the right, since the question of disqualifi cation of a Member on the ground of defection under the Tenth Schedule does require adjudication on enacted principles, results in making a change in Article 136 in Chapter IV in Part V and Articles 226 and 227 in Chapter V in Part VI of the Constitution.” (emphasis supplied) 266 2021 SCC OnLine SC 474 IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 225 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] States under the proviso to Article 368(2). Answering the question in the affi rmative, this Court held that: “56. A reading of the aforesaid s would indicate that the “change” spoken about by Article 368(2) proviso in any provision of the Constitution need not be direct in the sense of adding, subtracting, or modifying the language of the particular Article or provision spoken of in the proviso. The s above referred to speak of a ‘change-in eff ect’ which would mean a change which, though not in the language of any provision of the Constitution, would yet be a change which would impact a particular article and the principle contained therein in some signifi cant way.