This additional issue has been raised by the revenue in Civil Appeal No.13771 of 2015 (Commissioner of Income Tax Vs. M/s Jindal Steel and Power Ltd.). Revenue has also raised the issue of expenditure in Civil Appeal No.7425 of 2019 (Commissioner of Income Tax Vs.M/s Reliance Industries Ltd.). The expenditure claimed by the assessee was disallowed by the assessing offi cer which was affi rmed by the fi rst appellate authority i.e., Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals). On appeal by the assessee, the Income Tax Appellate COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX v. M/S JINDAL STEEL & POWER 489 LTD. THROUGH ITS MANAGING DIRECTOR [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] Tribunal set aside the of the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) which decision has been affi rmed by the High Court. The third additional issue relates to what is called carbon credit – whether it is a capital or revenue receipt. This additional issue has been raised in Civil Appeal No.9917 of 2017 (Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax Vs. M/s Godawari Power and Ispat Pvt. Ltd.) and also in Civil Appeal No.8983 of 2017 (Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax Chhattisgarh Vs. M/s Godawari Power and Ispat Pvt. Ltd.) RECOMPUTATION OF DEDUCTION UNDER SECTION 80 IA OF THE INCOME TAX ACT, 1961. 5. At the outset let us deal with the core issue i.e., recomputation of deduction claimed by the assessee under Section 80 IA of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (briefl y ‘the Act’ hereinafter). 6. Though this issue has been raised and urged in all the civil appeals, Civil Appeal No.13771 of 2015 was argued and taken up as the lead case. Since the issue raised is common to all the appeals, it is not necessary to refer to the factual details of each of the appeals separately though the price per unit of electricity supplied by the assessee to the power distributing companies/ State Electricity Boards and to their captive plants are diff erent. However, that would not have any material bearing on the analysis as the question of law is identical in all the appeals. Since we have taken Civil Appeal No.13771 of 2015 as the lead appeal insofar the core issue is concerned, all reference for the sake of convenience would be to the facts of this appeal. 7. In this appeal, the assessee is M/s Jindal Steel and Power Ltd, Hisar. The assessee is a public limited company engaged in the business of generation of electricity, manufacture of sponge iron, M.S. Ingots etc. Assessment year under consideration is 2001-2002. Since electricity supplied by the State Electricity Board was inadequate to meet the requirements of its industrial units, the assessee set up captive power generating units to supply electricity to its industrial units. Surplus power was supplied by the assessee to the State Electricity Board. The assessee which is the respondent in this appeal fi led return of income on 29.10.2001 declaring nil income. The total income computed by the assessee at nil was arrived at after claiming various deductions, including under Section 80 IA of the 490 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.