The aforesaid case has full force even to the facts of the present case inasmuch as in the said case, the Court had observed: (SCC p. 21, para 14) C “[I]t is manifest that the appellant was present at the place of occurrence in his official capacity as Sub-Divisional Magistrate for the purpose of removal of encroachment from government land and in exercise of such duty, he is alleged to have committed the acts which form the gravamen of the allegations contained D in the complaint lodged by the respondent. In such circumstances, it cannot but be held that the acts complained of by the respondent against the appellant have a reasonable nexus with the official duty of the appellant. It follows, therefore, that the appellant is entitled to the immunity from criminal proceedings without sanction provided under Section 197 E CrPC.” It is not necessary for us to multiply authorities on this point and bearing in mind the ratio of the aforesaid cases and applying the same to the facts of the present case as indicated in the complaint itself, we have no hesitation to come to the conclusion that the F appellant had been directed by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate to be present with police force and remove the encroachment in question and in course of discharge of his duty to control the mob, when he had directed for opening of fire, it must be held that the of opening of fire was in exercise of the power conferred G upon him and the duty imposed upon him under the s of the Magistrate and in that view of the matter the provisions of Section 197(1) applies to the facts of the present case. Admittedly, there being no sanction, the cognizance taken by the Magistrate is bad in law and unless the same is quashed qua the appellant, it will be an abuse of the process of Court. Accordingly, we allow this appeal H AMOD KUMAR KANTH v. ASSOCIATION OF VICTIM OF 681 UPHAAR TRAGEDY AND ANR. and quash the criminal proceeding, so far as the appellant is A concerned. (14) He also brought to the notice of the Court, the decision in Surinderjit Singh Mand v. State of Punjab, (2016) 8 SCC 722: 25. In continuation of the submissions noticed in the foregoing B paragraphs, it was asserted by the learned counsel representing the respondents that the prosecution contemplated under Section 197 of the Code and the action of the Court in taking cognizance pertain to actions initiated on the basis of complaints which disclose the commission of an offence, or on a police report of such facts, or upon receipt of information from a person other than the police C officer that such offence had been committed. It was asserted that the above action of taking cognizance by a court is based on alleged “facts” and not “on evidence” recorded by a court. The above distinction was drawn by referring to Section 190 of the Code which contemplates initiation of action on the basis of facts D alleged against an accused, as against, Section 319 of the Code whereunder action is triggered against the person concerned only if it appears from the evidence recorded during the trial that the said person was involved in the commission of an offence.