(i). v) With respect to the argument that the unsuccessful candidates had participated in the selection process and thus, were not entitled to challenge it, learned Chief Justice observed that C the writ petitioners or the unsuccessful candidates could not have been debarred from filing the writ petition as the candidates appearing in the selection process can always bring to the notice of the court the illegalities committed during the selection, though, they may not have any locus to challenge D the constitution of the Selection Committee or the eligibility of the members of the Selection Committee, having participated in the selection process with open eyes. vi) The Division Bench thus quashed the selection list published by the Board on 8th September 2009 and gave the liberty to E the Respondent-Board to constitute a Selection Committee to conduct fresh interviews of all the candidates who had appeared before it in accordance with the law, for selection against the posts advertised. The Division Bench further clarified that no post or vacancy which had not been advertised by the advertisement dated 5th May 2008 will be filled by the F said selection process. The Division Bench directed that the exercise if undertaken, should be completed within six months and till such time the selected candidates appointed may be permitted to continue in the said posts to avoid administrative problems. G 5.12. Aggrieved by the common impugned passed by the Division Bench of the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh at Srinagar dated 29th October, 2021, the present appeals have been filed by various stakeholders. Further, SLP (C) No. 976/2022 has been filed assailing the and dated 6th July, 2017, passed by the High Court in SWP No. 1685/2009, by way of which, the High Court H TAJVIR SINGH SODHI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF JAMMU 735 AND KASHMIR & ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] quashed the selection and the list published by the Board on 8th September A 2009. Details of the various appeals filed before this Court, which were heard and are being disposed of by way of this , have been presented for easy reference in a tabular form hereinunder: B C D E F G H 736 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A B C D E F 6. We have heard learned Senior Counsel, Sri Ranjit Kumar and learned counsel Sri Shoeb Alam appearing on behalf of the appellants in SLP (C) Nos. 20781-20789 of 2021, learned Senior Counsel Sri Sanjay Hegde for the appellants in Diary No. 1194 of 2022, learned Senior Counsel Sri P.S. Patwalia appearing for the appellants in SLP (C) Nos. G 20790 – 20798 of 2021, learned Additional Solicitor General Smt. Madhavi Goradia Divan appearing for the Board and learned counsel Ms. S. Janani appearing on behalf of the Respondents herein-writ petitioners and other learned counsel appearing for the respective parties and perused the material on record. H TAJVIR SINGH SODHI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF JAMMU 737 AND KASHMIR & ORS.