The revoking the permission refers to paragraph 9.2 of the Uplinking Guidelines. Paragraph 9.2 is a part of the B ‘procedure for obtaining permission’ which provides that an application for permission will be sent to the Ministry of Home Affairs for security clearance. The procedure to grant or refuse security clearance must be subject to the limitations prescribed in Article 19(2) of the Constitution read with Section 4(6) of the Cable Television Networks (Regulations) C Act 1995; and (c)Paragraphs 5.2 and 5.9 of the Uplinking Guidelines prescribe limited grounds of public interest and national security to suspend the permission granted for a specified period. D (ii) In 2011, MIB granted permission to operate Media One. It pre-supposes that security clearance as required under Paragraphs 9.3 and 9.4 of the Uplinking Guidelines was granted before the permission was granted. The security clearance was not withdrawn between 2011 and 2022. The E renewal should have been granted automatically, more so because the show cause notice does not allege any violation of the conditions set down under Paragraph 10.2 of the Uplinking Guidelines; and (iii) MBL was not provided access to the material which MIB F submitted before the High Court to support the allegations made in the show cause notice. The Union of India, by submitting material in a ‘sealed cover,’ and the High Court, by relying on it in the course of its , negated the principles of natural justice. This procedure is violative of G the principle of an open court and of fairness to parties. 15. Mr Huzefa A Ahmadi, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the editor, Senior Web Designer and Senior Camera Man of Media One11 made the following submissions: 11 SLP (C) No. 4331 of 2922 H 624 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A (i) The issued by MIB violates MBL’s freedom protected under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. The action of MIB denying the renewal of permission is not protected by reasonable restrictions prescribed in Article 19(2). The fundamental rights of MBL cannot be abridged on an arbitrary hypothesis: B (a) The show cause notice and the revoking the permission are bereft of reasons and details; (b) In the counter affidavit filed before the High Court, MIB only contended that the material is sensitive and C ‘as a matter of policy, and in the interests of national security, Ministry of Home Affairs does not disclose reasons for the denial”; (c) The Division Bench of the High Court acknowledges that the ‘gravity’, ‘impact’, ‘nature’, and ‘depth’ of the issue are not discernible from the files produced D by MIB. It was also observed that ‘too many details are not available in the files produced before us”; and (d) This Court has consistently frowned upon the overbroad use of ‘national security’ to abridge fundamental rights. E (ii) The doctrine of proportionality envisages that the least restrictive means for restraining fundamental rights ought to be used. (Anuradha Bhasin v. Union of India12 and KS Puttaswamy (9J)v. Union of India13) The Uplinking and Downlinking Guidelines contemplate suspension of the F licence to operate for varied time periods.