b. If said proceedings are on identical/similar facts and if the charges levied against the delinquent employee are of a serious nature, then it would be desirable if the departmental proceedings are stayed till the conclusion of the other. c. The nature of the charge or the involvement of complex questions of law and fact depends on the facts and circumstances of each case, i.e., the off ence, nature of the case launched, evidence and material collected. d. Sole consideration of the above-mentioned factors cannot be the reason to stay the departmental proceedings. 6 (1999) 3 SCC 679 748 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. e. It must be remembered that departmental proceedings cannot be unduly and unjustly delayed. f. If the criminal proceedings are delayed, the other, having been stayed on account thereof, may be resumed to conclude the same at the earliest. This may result in two possibilities: either the vindication of the position of the delinquent employee or he being found guilty, enabling the department concern to show him out the door. 14.3 The view taken in M. Paul Anthony (supra) was referred to by this Court in Karnataka Power Transmission Corpn. Ltd. v. C. Nagaraju7. 15. As is evident from the judicial pronouncements referred to above, it may be desirable or, in certain circumstances, advisable for disciplinary proceedings to be stayed when criminal proceedings are ongoing; however, stay is not “a matter of course” and is only to be given after consideration of all factors, for and against. 16. Keeping in view Neelam Nag (supra), the following essentialities may be culled out for the operation of clause 4 – a. At least one year ought to have passed since attempts to get the delinquent employee prosecuted; b. If, after the passage of such time, no prosecution is initiated, then the department may proceed in accordance with its procedure for disciplinary action; c. If the prosecution commences later in point of time to the disciplinary proceedings, the latter shall be stayed, but not indefi nitely. Such proceedings are to be stayed only for a reasonable period of time, which is a matter of determination per the circumstances of each case. 17. The next aspect we must consider is whether an acquittal in one of the proceedings entails an acquittal in the other. 17.1 In Nelson Motis v. Union of India8 it was observed that the question whether departmental proceedings could have continued 7 (2019) 10 SCC 367 8 (1992) 4 SCC 711 STATE BANK OF INDIA v. P. ZADENGA 749 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] in the face of acquittal in criminal proceedings had no force as “the nature and scope of a criminal case are very diff erent from those of a departmental disciplinary proceeding and an of acquittal, therefore, cannot conclude the departmental proceeding.” 17.2 In C. Nagaraju (supra) it was observed: “9. Acquittal by a criminal court would not debar an employer from exercising the power to conduct departmental proceedings in accordance with the rules and regulations.