Having regard to the fact that the said funds were raised from contribution of several members including the four banks which 990 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. were corporate members of the said Club and the interest derived from it was utilised by several members of the assessee Club, in the said case, the High Court nevertheless held that the principle of “no man can trade with himself” would not be available in respect of a nationalised banks holding a fi xed deposit on behalf of its customer. That the relationship is one of a banker and a customer. Consequently, the High Court reversed the decision of the Tribunal and restored the of the assessing offi cer. Hence, an appeal was fi led by the assessee Bangalore Club before this Court. The question for determination before this Court was, whether, or not interest earned by the assessee on the surplus funds invested in fi xed deposits with the corporate member banks is exempt from levy of income tax, based on the doctrine of mutuality. After appreciating the general understanding of the doctrine of mutuality in the context of the provision of the Act and by referring to New York Life Insurance Co. vs. Styles (Surveyor of Taxes), (1886-90) All ER Rep Ext 1362 (“Styles”) and other s of the House of Lords and the High Court of Australia and by referring to the Simon’s Taxes Vol. B. 3rd Edn., Paras B1.218 and B1.222 (pp.159 and 167) it was observed as under: “18. In short, there has to be a complete identity between the class of participators and class of contributors; the particular label or form by which the mutual association is known is of no consequence. Kanga and Palkhivala explain this concept in The Law and Practice of Income Tax (8th Edn., Vol. I, 1990) at p. 113 as follows: “1. Complete identity between contributors and participators.- ‘… The contributors to the common fund and the participators in the surplus must be an identical body. That does not mean that each member should contribute to the common fund or that each member should participate in the surplus or get back from the surplus precisely what he has paid.’ The Madras, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala High Courts have held that the test of mutuality does not require that the contributors to the common fund should willy-nilly distribute the surplus amongst themselves: it is enough if they have a right of disposal over the surplus, and in exercise of that right they may agree that on SECUNDRABAD CLUB ETC. v. C.I.T.-V ETC. 991 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] winding up the surplus will be transferred to a similar association or used for some charitable objects.” (emphasis supplied) XXX 22. The second feature demands that the actions of the participators and contributors must be in furtherance of the mandate of the association. In the case of a club, it would be necessary to show that steps are taken in furtherance of activities that benefi t the club, and in turn its members.