While explaining the scope of Rules 23 and 23-A of E XLI CPC, in the case of Municipal Corporation, Hyderabad (supra), this Courthas observedas under: - “32. A distinction must be borne in mind between diverse powers of the appellate court to pass an of remand. The scope of remand in terms of 41 Rule 23 is extremely limited. The F suit was not decided on a preliminary issue. 41 Rule 23 was therefore not available. On what basis, the secondary evidence was allowed to be led is not clear. The High Court did not set aside the s refusing to adduce secondary evidence. 33. 41 Rule 23-A of the Code of Civil Procedure is also G not attracted. The High Court had not arrived at a finding that a retrial was necessary. The High Court again has not arrived at a finding that the decree is liable to be reversed. No case has been made out for invoking the jurisdiction of the Court under 41 Rule 23 of the Code. H 16 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 34. An of remand cannot be passed on ipse dixit of the court…...” 9.3. In the case of Sanjay Kumar Singh (supra) relied upon by the learned counsel for the respondent No. 1, this Court has observed as under: - B “7. It is true that the general principle is that the appellate court should not travel outside the record of the lower court and cannot take any evidence in appeal. However, as an exception, 41 Rule 27CPC enables the appellate court to take additional evidence in exceptional circumstances. It may also be true that the appellate C court may permit additional evidence if the conditions laid down in this Rule are found to exist and the parties are not entitled, as of right, to the admission of such evidence. However, at the same time, where the additional evidence sought to be adduced removes the cloud of doubt over the case and the evidence has a direct and important bearing on the main issue in the suit and interest of D justice clearly renders it imperative that it may be allowed to be permitted on record, such application may be allowed. Even, one of the circumstances in which the production of additional evidence under 41 Rule 27CPC by the appellate court is to be considered is, whether or not the appellate court requires the E additional evidence so as to enable it to pronounce or for any other substantial cause of like nature. 8. As observed and held by this Court in A. Andisamy Chettiar v. A.SubburajChettiar [(2015)17 SCC 713], the admissibility of additional evidence does not depend upon the relevancy to the issue on hand, or on the fact, whether the applicant had an F opportunity for adducing such evidence at an earlier stage or not, but it depends upon whether or not the appellate court requires the evidence sought to be adduced to enable it to pronounce or for any other substantial cause.