5. On sentencing, which was issue No. 3, the Court stated that it was a case not fit to be accorded the benefit of the Probation of Offenders Act, 1958 and therefore the Appellant was sentenced to one year of imprisonment and a fine of one lakh rupees and, in default thereof,an additional period of 6 months rigorous imprisonment. THE IMPUGNED JUDGEMENT 6. The High Court has observed that the ground of unexplained delay, on behalf of the Appellant, holds no merit as the Magistrate’s endorsement indicates that the material was produced on the first day and it was directed to be produced on the next working day. 7. The ground of delay in submitting the final report that is, nearly 3 years from the date of detection, was negatived by the court on the ground that the judgement relied on by the counsel for the Appellant3 has been declared per incurium by a subsequent judgement.4 2 Hereinaft er “trial court” 3 Krishnan H. v. State, [2015 (1) KHC 822]; 2014 SCC OnLine 28741 4 Santosh T.A. & Anr. v. State of Kerala [2017(5)KHC 107] SATHYAN v. STATE OF KERALA 99 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] The effect thereof being that delay, ipso facto, is not fatal to the case of the prosecution. 8. On the interpolation in the Mahazar, i.e., ext. P1 it was observed that the same could not be given too much importance as the crime and occurrence report registered on the same day stated that the sample collected was indeed a sample of 180 ml and not 375 ml as was initially written on such exhibit. The chemical examiners report also notes that the sample was received with its seal intact and therefore no doubt could be seen from the point that the sample drawn was from the contraband recovered from the Appellant. 9. In view of the above fi ndings, vide the impugned judgement, the sentence handed down was confi rmed. 10. Hence the present appeal. ANALYSIS AND CONSIDERATION 11. Section 8 of the Abkari Act reads as follows- “8. Prohibition of manufacture, import, export, transport, transit, possession, storage, sales, etc., of arrack. – [(1) No person shall manufacture, import export [without permit transit] possess, store, distribute, bottle or sell arrack in any form.] [(2) If any person contravenes any provisions of sub-section (1), he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to ten years and with fi ne which shall not be less than one lakh.”] 12. The grounds of challenge, as urged by the Appellant are that- in the absence of independent witnesses, the investigation cannot be sustained since the detecting offi cer and investigator were both offi cial witnesses; there is interpolation in the Mahazar with respect to the quantity of the sample initially being written as 375 ML but then subsequently been corrected to 180 ML; there is unexplained delay in production of the contraband before the trial court; the evidence of PW-2(C.K Manoharan) clearly shows that he was not aware of the seizure and also that he was not present at this spot; members of the patrol team were not made into witnesses; independent witnesses who signed the Mahazar were not examined, et cetera.