However, no such provision is stated in the Rules applicable. ; (vi) Making above submissions, it is prayed to dismiss the present writ petition. B 8. At the outset, it is required to be noted that as per the relevant Recruitment Rules, namely, The Gujarat State Judicial Service Rules, 2005 further amended in 2011, the promotion to the post of District Judge is to be given on the basis of principle of merit-cum-seniority and passing a suitability test. The relevant rules read as under: - C “……………………(1) Recruitment to the cadre of District Judge shall be as under:- (i) 65 percent of posts shall be filled in by promotion from amongst the Senior Civil Judge on the basis of principle of merit-cum-seniority and passing a suitability test. D (ii) 10 percent of posts shall be filled in by promotion on the basis of merit through competitive examination from amongst Senior Civil Judges having not less than five years qualifying service: E Provided that when candidates are not available for 10% seats or are not able to qualify in the competitive examination, then the vacant posts shall be filled in by regular promotion in accordance with clause (i) above, (iii) 25 percent of the posts shall be filled in by direct recruitment F from amongst the eligible advocates on the basis of the written and viva voce test to be conducted by the High Court: Provided that all the vacancies shall be fled up in the particular year and unfilled post shall not be carried forward. G xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx” 8.1 It is also required to be noted that even as per the Recruitment Notice – District Judge (65%), the promotion to the cadre of District Judge (65%) from amongst the Senior Civil Judges shall be on the basis of principle of merit-cum-seniority and passing a suitability test. The H 428 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A suitability of a judicial officer for promotion is also provided in the Recruitment Notice, which consists of four components reproduced hereinabove. Thus, as per the statutory Rules and even as per the Recruitment Notice, the promotion to the cadre of District Judge (65%) shall be on the basis of principle of merit-cum-seniority and passing a suitability test. At this stage, it is required to be noted that the Rules, B 2005 further amended in the year 2011, have been framed by the High Court pursuant to the directions issued by this Court in the case of All India Judges’ Association and Ors. (supra). It is required to be noted that prior to the decision of this Court in the case of All India Judges’ Association and Ors. (supra), the promotion in the cadre of Higher C Judicial Service, i.e., District Judges and Additional District Judges were given on the basis of principle of seniority-cum-merit. Emphasising the need for merit-based criteria for promotion in the cadre of Higher Judicial Service, i.e., District Judges and Additional District Judges, this Court observed in paragraph 27 as under:- D “27.