In Gurdip Singh Uban (supra), Justice M Jagannadha Rao, speaking for a two-Judge Bench of this Court observed: “17.We next come to applications described as applications for “clarification”, “modification” or “recall” of s or H 592 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A s finally passed. We may point out that under the relevant Rule XL of the Supreme Court Rules, 1966 a review application has first to go before the learned Judges in circulation and it will be for the Court to consider whether the application is to be rejected without giving an oral hearing or whether notice is to be issued. B XL Rule 3 states as follows: “3. Unless otherwise ed by the Court, an application for review shall be disposed of by circulation without any oral arguments, but the petitioner may supplement his petition by C additional written arguments. The Court may either dismiss the petition or direct notice to the opposite party....” In case notice is issued, the review petition will be listed for hearing, after notice is served. This procedure is meant to save the time of the Court and to preclude frivolous review petitions being filed and heard in open court. However, with a view to avoid this D procedure of “no hearing”, we find that sometimes applications are filed for “clarification”, “modification” or “recall” etc. not because any such clarification, modification is indeed necessary but because the applicant in reality wants a review and also wants a hearing, thus avoiding listing of the same in chambers by way of E circulation. Such applications, if they are in substance review applications, deserve to be rejected straight away inasmuch as the attempt is obviously to bypass XL Rule 3 relating to circulation of the application in chambers for consideration without oral hearing. By describing an application as one for “clarification” or “modification”, — though it is really one of review — a party F cannot be permitted to circumvent or bypass the circulation procedure and indirectly obtain a hearing in the open court. What cannot be done directly cannot be permitted to be done indirectly. (See in this connection a detailed of the then Registrar of this Court in Sone Lal v. State of U.P. [(1982) 2 SCC 398] G deprecating a similar practice.) 18. We, therefore, agree with the learned Solicitor General that the Court should not permit hearing of such an application for “clarification”, “modification” or “recall” if the application is in substance one for review. In that event, the Court could either H reject the application straight away with or without costs or permit JOSEPH SHINE v. UNION OF INDIA 593 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] withdrawal with leave to file a review application to be listed initially A in chambers.” (19) This view apparently has found acceptance in the subsequent s. It was found undoubtedly in the facts of the said case that the application sought substantive modification of the . Thereafter, undoubtedly, this Court also held as follows: B “12 The hallmark of a judicial pronouncement is its stability and finality.