Further, that a decision rendered later on would H GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI THR. THE SECRETARY, LAND AND BUILDING 233 DEPT. v. M/S. K.L. RATHI STEELS LTD. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] have a retrospective effect clarifying the legal position which was earlier A not accordingly understood. 15. Per contra, learned senior counsel Sriyuth V. Giri, Shyam Divan, Neeraj Kumar Jain, Vivek Chib and other learned counsel have vehemently objected to the very maintainability of the review petitions. This is by contending that having regard to the scope of review as provided B under XLVII Rule 1 CPC and particularly, the Explanation thereto, these review petitions are not at all maintainable. In other words, it is their contention that despite what has been stated in paragraph 365 of Indore Development Authority, in view of the bar contained in the Explanation to XLVII Rule 1 CPC, the review petitions are not C maintainable and the review petitions have to be dismissed in limine. In other words, it is contended that the purport of what has been opined in paragraph 365 is to denude the passed in Pune Municipal Corporationand all other s or s following Pune Municipal Corporationof their precedential authority and effect. This implies that the said cannot be cited as a precedent in future in view of the D subsequent law being laid down by the Larger Bench in Indore Development Authorityby overruling the in Pune Municipal Corporation. However, the themselves do not get effaced and they are binding on the parties to the said cases although they can no longer be cited as a precedent. Heavy reliance has been placed on E the Explanation to XLVII Rule 1 CPC to contend that when a decision on a question of law on which the of the Court has been reversed or modified by the subsequent decision of the superior Court, it shall not be a ground for review of such . Thus, the contention on behalf of the respondents is that the in Pune Municipal Corporationand all other s following the aforesaid F , having been overruled, would cease to be a precedent for future cases. It is submitted that merely because the Larger Bench of this Court in Indore Development Authority has laid down the new law by a different interpretation being given to Sub-Section (2) of Section 24 of L.A. Act, 2013, it cannot give rise to a review of the G passed in Pune Municipal Corporationand all other s following Pune Municipal Corporation. 16. Learned senior counsel for the respondents further submitted that there is delay in filing the review petitions. H 234 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 17. Learned senior counsel, Sri Shyam Divan, appearing for one of the respondents, placed reliance on the two s of this Court: (i) Dr. Subramaniam Swamy vs. State of Tamil Nadu and Ors. (2014) 5 SCC 75, with particular reference to para 52 thereof to contend that having regard to the Explanation B to XLVII Rule 1 CPC, even an erroneous decision cannot be a ground for the Court to undertake review, as the first and foremost requirement of entertaining a review petition is that the , of which review is sought, suffers from an error apparent on the face of the and in absence of any such error, finality attached to the / C cannot be disturbed.