The charge in respect of the surcharge, having been created for the first time by the insertion of the proviso to Section 113, is clearly a substantive provision and hence is to F be construed prospective in operation. The amendment neither purports to be merely clarificatory nor is there any material to suggest that it was intended by Parliament. Furthermore, an amendment made to a taxing statute can be said to be intended to remove “hardships” only of the assessee, not of the Department. G On the contrary, imposing a retrospective levy on the assessee would have caused undue hardship and for that reason Parliament specifically chose to make the proviso effective from 1-6-2002. 45. The aforesaid discursive of ours also makes it obvious that the conclusion of the Division Bench in Suresh N. H 710 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Gupta [CIT v. Suresh N. Gupta, (2008) 4 SCC 362] treating the proviso as clarificatory and giving it retrospective effect is not a correct conclusion. The said is accordingly overruled.” 9.1 While passing the impugned and , the High Court has relied upon earlier decision of this Court in the case of Suresh B N. Gupta (supra). However, the said decision has been specifically overruled by this Court in the case of Vatika Township Private Limited (supra). 9.2 In view of the above, the question of law with respect to levy of the surcharge under proviso to Section 113 of the Income Tax is held C in favour of the assessee and against the revenue. It is observed and held that in the present case the assessee is not liable to pay the surcharge under proviso to Section 113 of the Income Tax Act. To that extent the impugned and passed by the High Court and the assessment qua the surcharge under proviso to Section 113 of the Income Tax Act deserves to be quashed and set aside. D 10. Now so far as levy of the interest under Section 158BFA(1) of the Income Tax Act in absence of any notice served upon the assessee under Section 158BC of the Act and the liability to pay the interest under said provision for the period prior to 01.06.1999 is concerned, while considering the issue the reason for adding Chapter XIV-B for the block E assessment is required to be considered. The reason, object and purpose of Chapter XIV-B has been adequately dealt with and considered by this Court in the case of Vatika Township Private Limited (supra). It is observed and held that Chapter XIV-B which deals with block assessment lays down a special procedure for searched cases. The main F reason for adding the said provisions in the Act was to curb tax evasion and expedite as well as simplify the assessment in such searched cases. It is observed and held that the essence of the new procedure under Chapter XIV-B is a separate single assessment of the “undisclosed income”, detected as a result of search and this separate assessment has to be in addition to the normal assessment covering the said period.