That aspect, in our view, only relates to the conclusion of the decision and not to its ratio decidendi. B 17.1. It has rightly been argued on behalf of the appellants that a is an authority only in regard to its ratio which is required to be discerned; and a decision cannot be regarded as an authority in regard to its conclusion alone or even in relation to what could be deduced therefrom. In Sanjay Singh (supra),a 3-Judge Bench of this Court has explained these principles in clear terms as follows: - C “10. The contention of the Commission also overlooks the fundamental difference between challenge to the final forming part of the and challenge to the ratio decidendi of the . Broadly speaking, every of superior courts has three segments, namely, (i) the facts and the point at D issue; (ii) the reasons for the decision; and (iii) the final containing the decision. The reasons for the decision or the ratio decidendi is not the final containing the decision. In fact, in a of this Court, though the ratio decidendi may point to a particular result, the decision (final relating to relief) may be E different and not a natural consequence of the ratio decidendi of the . This may happen either on account of any subsequent event or the need to mould the relief to do complete justice in the matter. It is the ratio decidendi of a and not the final in the , which forms a precedent.” 18. Keeping the principles aforesaid in view and for what has F been discussed hereinbefore in regard to ratio decidendi of the decision in Dr. Manjeet Kaur Monga, it is but clear that the said decision cannot be read in support of the principle that compensation and/or punitive damages in terms of the Act of 1986 could also be by way of compound interest. As noticed, the State Commission has awarded compound G interest, and National Commission has approved such awarding of compound interest to the present respondent, only with reference to the said decision in the case of Dr. Monga. When we do not find ratio decidendi of Dr. Monga leading to the enunciation in favour of awarding compensation and/or punitive damages by way of compound interest, the substratum of the s impugned is knocked to the ground. H M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR. v. ANITA 1143 MERCHANT [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] The complexities of present matter requiring further A exploration 19. However, the complexities of the present matter are that even the observations and conclusions foregoing cannot be taken as decisive of the matter. It is because of the other pertinent factors that in Dr. Monga’s case, compound interest was indeed awarded against the very B same builders in relation to the very same project. The respondent asserts to be identically situated and rather having suffered excessive losses for a longer period of time. The respondent has been awarded compound interest at rate of 14%. The frequency of compounding has not been specified but, we may take it as that of yearly rests.