23. In view of the clear principle of law which was has been formulated in the of this Court in Chairman and Managing Director, Food Corporation of India (supra), we are of the view that the Single Judge of the High Court was in error in issuing a direction for H BHUBANESWAR DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY v. MADHUMITA 597 DAS [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] reconsideration of the claim of the first respondent for reinstatement. A 24. However, in the facts and circumstances of the case, we and direct that no recovery shall be made from the first respondent of the salary which was paid to her for the period for which she has actually worked. B 25. With the above reasons and subject to the aforesaid clarification, we allow the appeal and set aside the impugned and of the High Court dated 30 October 2019. In consequence, the of the Single Judge shall also stand set aside. The writ petition instituted by the first respondent shall stand dismissed. C 26. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. O R D E R 1. Leave granted. 2. This appeal arises from a of a Division Bench of the D High Court of Orissa dated 30 October 2019. 3. The first respondent joined the service of the appellant as a Junior Assistant against a post reserved for women belonging to Scheduled Castes category. In support of her plea of belonging to a Scheduled Caste, the first respondent submitted a caste certificate which was issued E by the Tehsildar, Bhubaneswar. The caste certificate was issued on 5 January 1996. 4. A Miscellaneous Case No 7/1996 was filed mentioning that the first respondent belong to a Scheduled Caste, “Dewar”. 5. On 2 August 2011, the appellant requested the Sub-Collector, F Khurda (the fourth respondent) to enquire into the veracity of the caste certificate on the ground that the high school certificate and provisional marks sheet of the first respondent and the 12th standard examination reveal that she was a Brahmin. 6. The Tehsildar issued notice to show cause to the first respondent G after registering Rev. Misc. Case No 47 of 2011. 7. In her response dated 16 August 2011, the first respondent stated that she was born into a Brahmin family but claimed to have attained the status of a Schedule Caste upon her marriage on 21 July 1993 to a person belonging to a Scheduled Caste. H 598 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 8. On 16 August 2011, the Tehsildar passed an cancelling the caste certificate of the first respondent under Rule 8(2) of the Orissa Caste Certificate (for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes) Rules, 1980. Placing reliance on the decisions of this Court in Valsamma Paul vs Cochin University6 and Anjan Kumar vs Union of India7, the Tehsildar rejected the submissions of the first respondent that as a result B of marriage, she had become a member of a Schedule Caste. The Tehsildar also relied on the directions of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs that a person who is not a Scheduled Caste or Schedule Tribe by birth will not be deemed to belong to a reserved community.