Empirical Data30 shows that land disputes clog all levels of courts in India, and according to certain studies, land-related litigations account for the largest set of cases, in terms of both absolute numbers and judicial pendency. For those who are going to lose their land through compulsory acquisition, a key redressal mechanism is to enable them to access courts, at fi rst instance. The aggrieved land loser is often 30 ‘Access to Justice Survey 2015-16’ (Daksh, May 2016) <https://dakshindia.org/wp- content/uploads/2016/05/Daksh-access-to-justice-survey.pdf > accessed 19 September 2023. URBAN IMPROVEMENT TRUST, BIKANER v. GORDHAN 549 DASS (D) THROUGH LRS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] unable to access justice from the judicial system. Therefore, having regard to the limited relief that can be obtained from a revenue court under Tenancy Act, 1955, to deny the land losers access to civil court in my opinion, would aggravate the injustice that would otherwise enure, in all cases of compulsory land acquisition. 40. The upshot of the above is that the appellant here failed to establish that they had acquired the land in accordance with the law or paid due compensation to the aff ected party. The appellant took forceful possession of the respondents’ valuable land by disregarding the legal process and thereby denied the protection of procedural fairness to the respondents. At this moment, I am reminded of the words of former Associate Justice of the US Supreme Court, William O. Douglas who in his concurring opinion in Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee v Mc Grath31 wrote the following: “It is procedure that spells much of the diff erence between rule by law and rule by whim or caprice. Steadfast adherence to strict procedural safeguards is our main assurance that there will be equal justice under law.” 41. Noticing the departure from the due process by the authorities, relief was granted to the land owners. No infi rmity is thus seen with those verdicts which invalidated the acquisition process. The impugned of the High Court therefore merits this Court’s approval. 42. The appellant i.e., the Urban Improvement Trust however claims to have developed the balance 2 bighas for the purpose of the Jai Naryan Vyas Yojana and divided it into plots. Therefore, considering the public interest and balancing the equity, it is clarifi ed that notwithstanding the fi ndings in this , if the authorities wish to, they may even now acquire the land by following the due process of law. 43. The appeal is accordingly dismissed leaving the parties to bear their own cost. 31 341 US 123 (1951) 550 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. MANOJ MISRA, J. 1. I had the benefi t of reading the scholarly of my learned Brother, Hrishikesh Roy, J., dismissing this appeal fi led against the and of the High Court1 dated 12.01.2010 passed in S.B. Civil Regular Second Appeal No. 114 of 2004. However, since I’m of the opinion that plaintiff ’s suit was not maintainable in respect of the land which was acquired by a notifi cation, the defendant’s appeal is entitled to be allowed.