For the purposes of this case, the relevant provisions are confi ned to Section 2(2)(b) and its proviso. As such the same is reproduced below: “Section 2. Application.- Xx xx xx (2) The persons referred to in sub-section (1) are the following, namely:- Xx xx xx (b) every person in respect of whom an of detention has been made under the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act, 1974 (52 of 1974) Provided that- (i) such of detention, being an to which the provisions of section 9 or section 12A of the said Act do not apply, has not been THANESAR SINGH SODHI (D) THR. LRS. v. UNION OF INDIA 785 AND ORS. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] revoked on the report of the Advisory Board under section 8 of the said Act or before the receipt of the report of the Advisory Board or before making a reference to the Advisory Board; (ii) such of detention, being an to which the provisions of section 9 of the said Act apply, has not been revoked before the expiry of the time for, or on the basis of, the review under sub-section (3) of section 9, or on the report of the Advisory Board under section 8, read with sub-section (2) of section 9, of the said Act; or (iii) such of detention, being an to which the provision of section 12A of the said Act apply, has not been revoked before the expiry of the time for, or on the basis of, the fi rst review under sub- section (3) of that section, or on the basis of the report of the Advisory Board under section 8, read with sub-section (6) of section 12A, of that Act; or (iv) such of detention has not been set aside by a court of competent jurisdiction;” 22. A perusal of the above quoted provision makes it clear that apart from the four contingencies given in clauses (i) to (iv) above, every person against whom an of detention has been passed under COFEPOSA, the provisions of SAFEMA would apply. In the present case, it is an admitted position that an of detention under COFEPOSA was made against the appellants. 22.1. The of detention had not been revoked on the report of the Advisory Board or before the receipt of the report of Advisory Board or before making a reference to the Advisory Board. Further, it was an of detention passed under Section 3 of COFEPOSA. Section 9 and Section 12 A of COFEPOSA had no application to the detention . As such, clause (i) would not be applicable. 22.2. Clause (ii) would also not be applicable in as much as neither the detention was made to which provisions of Section 9 of COFEPOSA would apply nor had it been revoked before the expiry of the time on the basis of review on the report of the Advisory Board. 22.3. Further, clause (iii) would also not be applicable as Section 12A of COFEPOSA had no application to the detention .