31. From the aforesaid discussion, it is clear that DD-I and DD-IV must entirely be ruled out on the grounds of a degree of hearsay and that 912 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. of an interested witness with no corroboration. Regarding DD-II, the suspicion of interpolation and subsequent insertion of the fi rst name of the convict-appellant has not been suffi ciently dispelled, for no satisfactory explanation stands accorded for the prominent gap. Regarding DD-III, it is found that the mental state in which it is made cannot be ascertained as there is no discussion on the treatment given to the deceased. In the absence of such clarifi cation, such a statement cannot be relied on without corroboration. 32. Further, on perusal of the record, we fi nd inconsistencies to be dotted throughout. For instance, PW13 states that he, along with PW17, had left the police station at about 1:55 AM to go to the hospital where the deceased had been admitted. Upon reaching there, it is PW13’s case that the brother of the deceased was present there. However, on the contrary, PW17 states that while he was in the hospital, “no relation of the injured had arrived in the emergency.” It is unclear how and when the authorities obtained contact details of the brother and got him to come to the hospital. Further confusion arises from the statement of PW5, who stated that she did not live in Delhi and came here in the company of her son and visited the hospital the next day, i.e. on 22 September 2007. Intriguingly, the prosecution did not fi nd it fi t to examine the brother, which could have thrown light upon the deceased’s relationship with the convict-appellant, among other essential facts. 33. It is undisputed that the deceased was in a position to speak up until six days prior to her death when she was put on life support. Yet the non-recording of the deceased’s statement in the presence of the Magistrate or actual ascertainment of her fi tness to make statements by doctors remains unexplained. 34. Additionally, we may note that apart from the alleged dying declarations of the deceased, there is no evidence on record to point to the guilt of the convict-appellant. It is an established principle that a dying declaration, if it is free of tutoring, prompting, etc. can form the sole basis of conviction. However, having perused the record minutely, we do not fi nd even a scintilla of evidence by which we may uphold the s of the courts below. For instance, nothing on record indicates- the ownership of a vehicle by the convict-appellant; any disagreement ABHISHEK SHARMA v. STATE (GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI) 913 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] or animosity between the convict-appellant and the deceased, that is of such an extreme nature as to set her on fi re; any connection between the convict-appellant and the infl ammable substance used to kill the victim such as the record of purchase or statement of any person to show such substance to be in possession of the convict-appellant, etc.