Such percentage for purchase of energy should E be made applicable for the tariffs to be determined by the SERCs latest by April 1, 2006.” By virtue of Regulation 4 (1) of the REC Regulations 2010, there are two categories of RECs: solar and non-solar. Regulation 4 (2) mandates that “non-solar certificate shall be sold to the obligated F entities to enable them to meet their obligation for purchase from renewable energy sources other than solar.” Regulation 5 (1) of the REC regulations (extracted earlier) spells out the eligibility conditions for renewable energy generating companies to apply and seek registration for certificates; these are that the company should have: (a) obtained G accreditation from the State Agency; (b) it does not have any power purchase agreement for the capacity related to such generation to sell electricity at a preferential tariff determined by the Appropriate Commission; and (c) it sells the electricity generated either-(i) to the distribution licensee of the area in which the eligible entity is located, at a price not exceeding the pooled cost of power purchase of such H 696 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A distribution licensee, or (ii) to any other licensee or to an open access consumer at a mutually agreed price, or through power exchange at market determined price. What is meant by “pooled cost or purchase” is elaborated in the Explanation (to Regulation 5) to mean “the weighted average pooled price at which the distribution licensee has purchased the electricity including cost of self-generation, if any, B in the previous ·year from all the energy suppliers long-term and short-term, but excluding those based on renewable energy sources. as the case may be.” 41. The objectives of the REC Regulations 2010 were described in the of this court, reported as Hindustan Zinc C Ltd. v. Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission,28 “44. [..] Regulations have been enacted in to effectuate the object of promotion of generation of electricity from renewable sources of energy as against the polluting sources of energy which principle is enshrined in the Act, the D National Electricity Policy of 2005 and the Tariff Policy of 2006. The provisions requiring purchase of minimum percentage of energy from renewable sources of energy have been framed with an object of fulfilling the constitutional mandate with a view to protect environment and prevent E pollution in the area by utilising renewable energy sources as much as possible in larger public interest.[.. ]” 42. The approach of this court, therefore, has to consider the objective of the policy of promoting non-renewable sources of energy, the purpose of introducing RECs, and the progressive obligations placed upon licensees, to ensure that they purchase energy from such “green” F or “clean” sources, in a viable manner. In the present case, the obligation to procure renewable energy, is located in the Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission (Procurement of Energy from Renewable Sources) Regulations, 2010 (hereafter the “Renewable Sources Regulations”). Regulation 4 (1) of the said Renewable sources Regulations G reads as follows: “4.