The doctor is therefore under a duty to take reasonable care to ensure that the patient is aware of any material risks involved in any recommended treatment, and of any reasonable alternative or variant treatments. The test of materiality is whether, in the circumstances of the particular case, a reasonable person in the patient’s position would be likely to attach signifi cance to the risk, or the doctor is or should reasonably be aware that the particular patient would be likely to attach signifi cance to it.” 69. In the present case, what was the duty of care of the treating professional? Whilst this court cannot be oblivious of the fact that the times 55 [2019] 3 SCR 281. 56 [1985] AC 871. 57 2015 UKSC 11. 58 1992 175 CLR 479. CPL ASHISH KUMAR CHAUHAN (RETD.) v. COMMANDING 643 OFFICER & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] during which the incident occurred were fraught in the sense that a warlike situation prevailed at the b, at the same time, it cannot also ignore, or be blind to certain realities. These are fi rstly that nothing was shown on the record to establish that 171 MH was licensed, even as an ad hoc blood bank. Secondly, there is no material on record as to whether the nature of equipment available at 171 MH for storing blood and blood products was in accordance with the standards and guidelines prevailing then, in 2002. Thirdly, during the testimony of witnesses i.e., before the CoI, 171 MH and 166 MH, there was no specifi c mention about what kind of markers were used to determine whether the transfused blood was in fact safe. Fourthly, apart from mentioning of the guidelines by the concerned doctors, there is nothing on record to show that such guidelines were, in fact, adhered to when the testing as well as the transfusion took place. Fifthly, there is no evidence in the form of deposition by the offi cer in charge of 166 MH, Lt Col Jyoti Borpujari to rule out the possibility of contaminated blood-which was in fact sent to 171 MH had taken place. 70. In the opinion of this court, all the above, cumulatively point to the rather casual and if one may say so, superfi cial attention paid to the entire episode involving blood transfusion. It is a matter of record that the concerned doctors- who were professionals, i.e., either at 171 MH or 166 MH, felt so pressured by the absolute necessity to follow the drills that the safeguards preceding safe transfusion to the appellant appears to have been a given a go by, or dispensed with. In these circumstances, the normal duty of care which would have ordinarily applied and did apply as well, was that at both ends i.e., 166 MH and 171 MH, there should have been no doubt that blood had been fi ltered and found safe for transfusion. Equally, something in the form of other material on record or in the form of the oral testimony by the medical cadre personnel, such as Lt Col Devika Bhat of 171 MH who was present in 2002 or Col Sanjay Chauhan, to show what kind of equipment such as refrigerating unit or other chemical matter to preserve the blood and blood products, even within the safe.