13(2) and Part III. Held: Once a law is declared to be unconstitutional, being violative of Part-III of the Constitution, then it would be held to be void ab initio, still born, unenforceable and non est in view of Article 13(2) of the Constitution and its interpretation by authoritative pronouncements – Thus, the declaration made by the Constitution Bench in the case of Subramanian Swamy will have retrospective operation – Section 6A of the DSPE Act is held to be not in force from the date of its insertion i.e. 11.09.2003. [Para 43] Constitution of India – Art.20(1) – Protection from retrospective Ex post facto law – Explained. Held: Sub-article (1) of Article 20 of the Constitution consists of two parts – The fi rst part prohibits any law that prescribes judicial punishment for violation of law with retrospective eff ect. Sub-article (1) to Article 20 of the Constitution does not apply to civil liability, as distinguished from punishment for a criminal off ence – Further, what is prohibited is conviction CBI v. R.R. KISHORE 3 or sentence for any off ence under an ex post facto law, albeit the trial itself is not prohibited – Trial under a procedure diff erent from the one when at the time of commission of an off ence, or by a court diff erent from the time when the off ence was committed is not unconstitutional on account of violation of sub-article (1) to Article 20 of the Constitution – It may be diff erent, if the procedure or the trial is challengeable on account of discrimination under Article 14 of the Constitution or violation of any other fundamental right – The right under fi rst part of sub-article (1) to Article 20 of the Constitution is a very valuable right, which must be safeguarded and protected by the courts as it is a constitutional mandate. [Paras 27 and 28] Constitution of India – Art.13 – Word “void” – Interpretation and meaning of – Words and Phrases. Held: Under Article 13(1) all existing laws prior to the commencement of the Constitution, insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part-III, would be void to the extent of inconsistency – Further, according to Article 13(2), the State is prohibited from making any law which takes away or abridges the rights conferred by Part-III and further that any law made in contravention of this clause would be void to the extent of contravention – Article 13(2) prohibits making of any law so it would be relating to laws made post commencement of the Constitution, like the case at hand – In the present case, as it has been held that Section 6A of DSPE Act is violative of Article 14 of Part III of the Constitution, as such, the same would be void – The word “void” has been interpreted in a number of Supreme Court s beginning 1951 till recently and it has been given diff erent nomenclature such as ‘non est’, ‘void ab initio’ ‘still born’ and ‘unenforceable’.