All these cases have to be C considered with reference to the case of “Raju (supra)” and the provisions of law noted above. 41) As per the provision in section 94 above, in case of doubt regarding whether a person is child or not the process of age determination shall be undertaken and evidence shall be D sought to obtain the date of birth certificate from the school or matriculation or equivalent certificate from concerned examination board, if available. The certificate given by Corporation, Municipal Authority or Panchayat can also be obtained and in the absence thereof, age can be determined E by ossification test. 42) Therefore, if Rule 7 A of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Rules, 2007 is read with it’s Rule 12 and the present Section 9 and Section 94 of the Act, it is clear that, the date of birth from the school certificate or matriculation certificate or a certificate of Corporation etc. F is relevant consideration. Thus, preference has to be given to the School Certificates. Even in the case of “Raju (supra)” the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India made it abundantly clear that the school certificate would be relevant for the name as well as date of birth. G 43) In view of the above provisions of law, and the authorities placed on record, I proceed to examine the documents to see whether the documents relied on by the petitioner are genuine and authentic and whether those can be relied on to decide juvenility. The submissions made by learned DGP and learned H advocate for the petitioner will be looked into simultaneously. NARAYAN CHETANRAM CHAUDHARY v. THE STATE OF 1077 MAHARASHTRA [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] 44) The Police Officer had visited the Rajkiya Adarsh Uccha A Madhyamik Vidyalaya, Jalabsar. He has recorded statement of the Incharge Head Master Namrata Prabhusing with reference to the document at serial no.1 (Annexure- ‘I-1’). The said document admittedly, is in the name of “Niranaram s/o Chetanram”. She has stated that, the said document was B issued by her school on the basis of the register kept in the school. She also certified that, the admission no. 568 is correct as per the register maintained. The copy of register, which is the document at serial no. 3 (Annexure- ‘I-3’) was also found by the Police Officer to be the correct copy of the register kept by the school. The name of “Niranaram s/o Chetanram” C can be seen in such register. As per such register, the date of birth of “Niranaram” is 01/02/1982. Even as per document no.1, the date of birth of “Niranaram” is 01/02/1982. With regard to document at serial no.2 (Annexure- ‘I-2’), the Police Officer found that the same was issued by the school whose D stamp it bears. Merely because it’s second copy was not found in the school or that the relevant register had some overwriting of names, though not of the name of “Niranaram”, these documents cannot be discarded. The documents at serial Nos.