Having noticed the decision in Ahuja Industries (supra), in my view, the legal position that emerges is, that if the name of the owner is not entered in the record of rights pertaining to the land proposed to be acquired, there is no legal obligation on the state authorities to make a roving enquiry to fi nd out as to who its actual owner is for eff ecting service of notice upon him prior to issuance of the acquisition notifi cation. In such circumstances, there would be suffi cient compliance of the statutory obligation of serving notice on the owner if the notice is served on the owners entered in the record of rights, unless it is specifi cally proved that the real owners, other than owners entered in the record of rights, were known to the revenue authorities. 49. In the instant case, the plaintiff ’s case is not that his name was mutated in the record of rights, rather his case is that the district 568 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. administration was aware of his title to the land because they had issued NOC for conversion of that agricultural land to non-agricultural land. To test the correctness of the aforesaid claim, I have perused the amended plaint. The relevant averments to that eff ect are in paragraph 1 (b) of the amended plaint. A careful reading of the same would indicate that the plea of the plaintiff was that he sought conversion of one bigha, out of three bighas of the disputed land, for non-agricultural use and, in connection therewith, a favorable report was given by the Patwari resulting in issuance of an NOC by the District Magistrate for non-agricultural use of one bigha land. However, there is no averment in the plaint that sale- deeds of the entire disputed land were produced by the plaintiff before the offi cers of the State /administration at the time of seeking NOC. In these circumstances, in my view, a constructive notice of the sale-deeds cannot be imputed on the State. I, therefore, reject the argument that by issuing NOC for non-agricultural use of one bigha of the disputed land, the State acquired knowledge regarding plaintiff ’s title in respect of the entire land comprising 3 bighas. 50. Even assuming that by issuing NOC the State got knowledge about plaintiff ’s title, it could at best be in respect of that one bigha land which was converted for non-agricultural use. But that would not be material for deciding this appeal because the appellant has already given up its claim qua that portion of land in the amended written statement. In fact, the trial court has already passed a decree in favour of the plaintiff in respect of that portion which has attained fi nality. Thus, that one bigha of land is not the subject matter of the current appeal. 51. In light of the discussion above, in my view, once there is no dispute that a notifi cation regarding acquisition of the land was issued and duly published under sub-section (1) of section 52 of the 1959 Act, a presumption would arise under illustration (e) of Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 that the notifi cation was in conformity with the provisions of the 1959 Act.