Thus, there are vacancies, which are yet to be fi lled up for the 32nd Examination. The process of selection is not yet complete. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State of Bihar and BPSC, in the peculiar facts of the case, have fairly stated that because of the directions issued by this Court in the case of Aarav Jain (supra), the other candidates who secured more marks than the cut-off in the merit of the respective categories, can be accommodated. However, upon issuance of directions by this Court, the State Government is ready to accommodate all the three candidates (namely Sweety Kumari, Vikramaditya Mishra and Aditi) who have also secured more marks than cut-off for their respective categories. 26. In view of the discussion made hereinabove, because Sweety Kumari secured 414 marks though cut off in SC category was 405 and Vikramaditya Mishra secured 543 marks, though cut off was 517 in the unreserved category in the 30th examination and they were candidates of merit, they be extended the benefi t at par with the Aarav Jain (supra) and others. 566 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 27. The appellant Aditi appeared in 31st Examination, and secured 501 marks, whereas cut off was 499 in EWS category. Therefore, the respondents are directed to adjust one vacancy of EWS for the same examination or from the next examination and extend similar benefi ts to Aditi, in view of the ratio of Aarav Jain (supra). 28. Accordingly, we set-aside the impugned s dated 03.11.2021, 04.09.2021 and 19.04.2023 passed by the High Court. The appellants Sweety Kumari and Vikramaditya Mishra be accommodated being successful candidate in the 30th Examination and appellant Aditi be accommodated being a successful candidate in the 31st Examination. 29. We clarify that this is passed in the peculiar facts of the case to mitigate the plea of discrimination to candidates who are before us and who knocked the door of the court well within time. It is made clear here that similarly situated candidates would not be entitled to claim the same benefi t further, because they have not come before this Court within a reasonable time. 30. In view of above, the appeals are allowed. Pending application, if any, stands disposed of. No as to costs. Headnotes prepared by: Appeals allowed. Divya Pandey