860 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. ANALYSIS 18. The object of the PMLA hardly needs to be delineated. The said Act has been enacted to prevent money laundering and to provide for confi scation of property derived from, or involved in, money laundering and for the matters connected therewith and incidental thereto. As per Section 2(1)(p), “Money Laundering” has the meaning assigned to it in Section 3. The off ence of Money Laundering has been defi ned in Section 3, which is punishable under Section 4 of the said Act. Section 45 makes the off ences under the PMLA to be cognizable and non bailable. As regards the twin conditions for the grant of bail contained in Section 45(1), it has been held by the Three-Judge Bench in Vijay Madanlal (supra) that the underlying principles and rigours of Section 45 of the Act must come into play and without exception ought to be reckoned to uphold the objectives of the Act, which is a special legislation providing for stringent regulatory measures for combating the menace of money laundering. 19. Though it is true that the Court while considering an application seeking bail is not required to weigh the evidence collected by the investigating agency meticulously, nonetheless the Court should keep in mind the nature of accusation, the nature of evidence collected in support thereof, the severity of the punishment prescribed for the alleged off ences, the character of the accused, the circumstances which are peculiar to the accused, reasonable possibility of securing the presence of the accused at the time of trial, reasonable apprehension of the witness being tempered with, the large interest of the public/ state etc. Though the fi ndings recorded by the Court while granting or refusing to grant bail would be tentative in nature, nonetheless the Court is expected to express prima facie opinion while granting or refusing to grant bail which would demonstrate an application of mind, particularly dealing with the serious economic off ences. 20. As stated hereinabove, the supplementary complaint was fi led against the appellant along with the other accused on 30.01.2023, in which the summary of investigative fi ndings against each of the accused persons have been recorded in Para 8 thereof. The details of the investigation conducted by the respondent - ED have been stated in Para 9 and the role of each accused including the appellant in the commission of alleged off ence of money laundering has been stated in Para-10 thereof, which reads as under: - SAUMYA CHAURASIA v. DIRECTORATE OF 861 ENFORCEMENT [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] “10. Role of accused in the Off ence of Money laundering. A. Evidences of Off ence of Money Laundering Against Smt. Saumya Chaurasia – Mrs. Saumya Chaurasia is an offi cer of the Chhattisgarh State Civil Services who was posted as the Deputy Secretary in the Offi ce of Chief Minister of Chhattisgarh and was working as an OSD to CM. Despite being relatively very junior in the bureaucratic hierarchy, she enjoyed unprecedented power & control because of her direct access to higher political powers.