309 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] b. Such a person refuses to produce the document even after due notice, c. It must be ensured that the alleged copy is a true copy of the original. 35. Applying the constituents of Section 65 (a) of the Evidence Act to the present facts, in reference to the averments made, we fi nd that the exact status of the documents in question could not be ascertained as one party claims that the other has the said documents and the other has allegedly stated that it was with her counsel. However, the said documents could not be recovered from the said counsel, as per records. In such a situation, therefore, the presentation of secondary evidence could be allowed, if other requirements are complied with. 36. We may now consider Section 35 of the Stamp Act which forbids the letting of secondary evidence in proof of its contents. The section excludes both the original instrument and secondary evidence of its contents if it needs to be stamped or suffi ciently stamped. This bar as to the admissibility of documents is absolute. Where a document cannot be received in evidence on the ground that it is not duly stamped, the secondary evidence thereof is equally inadmissible in evidence. 37. In relation to secondary evidence of unstamped/insuffi ciently stamped documents, the position has been succinctly explained by this Court in Jupudi Kesava Rao (supra) wherein it dealt with an issue, i.e., whether reception of secondary evidence of a written agreement to grant a lease is barred by the provisions of Sections 35 and 36 of the Stamp Act and answered it in affi rmative. It observed: “12. The Indian Evidence Act, however, does not purport to deal with the admissibility of documents in evidence which require to be stamped under the provisions of the Indian Stamp Act. …… 13. The fi rst limb of Section 35 clearly shuts out from evidence any instrument chargeable with duty unless it is duly stamped.The second limb of it which relates to acting upon the instrument will obviously shut out any secondary evidence of such instrument, for allowing 310 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. such evidence to be let in when the original admittedly chargeable with duty was not stamped or insuffi ciently stamped, would be tantamount to the document being acted upon by the person having by law or authority to receive evidence. Proviso (a) is only applicable when the original instrument is actually before the Court of law and the defi ciency in stamp with penalty is paid by the party seeking to rely upon the document. Clearly secondary evidence either by way of oral evidence of the contents of the unstamped document or the copy of it covered by Section 63 of the Indian Evidence Act would not fulfi l the requirements of the proviso which enjoins upon the authority to receive nothing in evidence except the instrument itself. Section 25 is not concerned with any copy of an instrument and a party can only be allowed to rely on a document which is an instrument for the purpose of Section 35.