It is, therefore, submitted that in Case-1 D bid there is no consideration of SHR and GCV in the formula of energy charge, whereas in Case-2 bid, these two parameters provide the formula for computing energy charge. (v) It is submitted that the learned APTEL in the case of E Wardha Power v. Reliance Infrastructure & Ors.4 has held that if SHR and GCV as submitted in the bid are considered for Change in Law compensation, it may result in over or under recovery and should be considered only on ‘actuals’. It is submitted that the said in Wardha Power (supra) has not been challenged/appealed against F and has thus attained finality. (vi) The Generators further rely on the of this Court in Adani Rajasthan case (supra). It is submitted that in the said case, the learned APTEL had held that operational parameters (like SHR and Auxiliary consumption) must be G considered as per ‘normative’ value, and this view has been upheld by this Court. (vii) It is further submitted that the MERC in its dated 7th March 2018 in Case No.123 of 2017 (JSW v. MSEDCL) 4 Appeal No.288 of 2013 H 106 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A has held that the lower of actual or normative parameter for Auxiliary consumption (an operational parameter like SHR) has to be considered for Change in Law compensation. It is submitted that the MSEDCL has not challenged the said , which has thus attained finality. (viii) It is submitted that the SHR is continuously being monitored B and its actual value, as certified by Energy Auditors, is submitted to MSEDCL along with claims. As such, ‘actuals’ can be ascertained and verified for computation purposes. (ix) It is submitted that, equally, the GCV of coal is certified by third party sampling agencies. A GCV certificate is C submitted to MSEDCL for each railway rake separately, along with claim. Such ‘actuals’ on ‘as received’ basis can be ascertained/verified for computational purposes. (x) It is further submitted that some of the DISCOMS in the proceedings before the CERC have contended that the D SHR shall be considered after ascertaining actual design heat rate and margin as per CERC Regulations from time to time. They have further taken a stand that Auxiliary Consumption shall be considered as per CERC Regulations. On affidavit, it is also stated that GCV of alternate coal shall be as certified by a Third Party Sampling Agency, for E which the Commission should provide appropriate guideline. It is, however, submitted that now the DISCOMS are taking a U-turn by contending that the SHR should be based on bid assumed parameters. (xi) It is submitted that, in any case, to maintain balance, APML F had itself offered for the benefit to be granted on the lower of ‘actual’ or ‘normative’ SHR as per Regulations. The same has been accepted by the learned APTEL. It is submitted that this will ensure that no inefficiency is passed on to consumers and, at the same time, the Generator is G restituted.