Thus, the Respondent participated in the enquiry proceedings and chose to defend himself despite suffi cient time being given. d. The allegation made by the Respondent that the Complainant submitted a list of witnesses later on 18.09.2012, which the Committee could not look into is misconceived. It is submitted that the Complainant can’t be denied to produced witnesses to provide her claim and that too, even before the preliminary hearing was conducted by the Committee on 26.09.2011. e. The allegation raised by the Respondent that he was not informed of the charges in the form of a ‘charge-sheet’ is frivolous as he was supplied with the copies of all the complaints and all other relevant documents. This goes to show that he was well acquainted with the nature of allegations levelled against him and knew what he had to state in his defence. Given the above position, non-framing of the articles of charge cannot be said to be detrimental to the interest of the Appellants herein. 506 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. f. Therefore, it is submitted few infi rmities here and there would not vitiate entire proceedings unless it is shown that some prejudice has been caused to the Respondent as has been held by this Hon’ble Court in State of U.P. v. Sudhir Kumar Singh, 2020 SCC OnLine SC 847 (Para 39). In the present case, adequate opportunity was aff orded to the appellant not just by the Committee, but also by the Disciplinary Authority and the Appellate Authority before taking any action against him. Therefore, this was not a case of “no opportunity” or “no hearing” but a case of “adequate opportunity” and “fair hearing” aff orded to the appellant before imposing a penalty of withholding 50% pension amount. II. No prejudice has been caused to the Respondent due to non-supply of the Reports submitted in pursuance of an on-spot enquiry and Frontier Level Complaint Committee. a. It is submitted that the fi rst alleged inquiry dated 13.12.2011 was pursuant to conducting of an on-spot enquiry and by the very nature of it, is summary in nature and not an inquiry of the nature envisaged in Vishaka & Ors. v State of Rajasthan & Ors, (1997) 6 SCC 241 line of cases and the SSB Standard Operating Procedure on sexual harassment. Therefore, it cannot be equated with a disciplinary enquiry. b. It is relevant to note that before the report of on-the-spot enquiry was submitted, Frontier Level Complaint Committee (FLCC) was already constituted. The FLCC submitted its report on 17.01.2012. However, the same was cancelled by Memorandum dated 10.12.2012 on the ground that the Chairperson of the FLCC was not an offi cer who was senior to the petitioner against whom the complaint was made as required under Rule 9(b)(a) of the Departmental Standard Operating Procedure on Sexual Harassment. The said decision was conveyed to the Respondent vide Memo dated 10.12.2012. c. Further, it is submitted that even if in the FLCC reports no allegations were found to be proved against the Respondent, same would not have any material bearing on the facts as the said report were subsequently annulled by the competent authority and a fresh committee was constituted as per the rules.