That Section 80P(2) (a)(i) of the Act applies to a co-operative society engaged in carrying on business of banking or providing credit facilities to its members. That the appellant herein is engaged in the business of banking and is a co-operative bank within the meaning of Part V of the BR Act, 1949 and the argument of the appellant that it is not a co-operative bank, is incorrect. According to learned ASG, the status of the appellant is in dispute, as, according to the respondent, the appellant is a co-operative bank while the appellant has contended that it is not doing banking business and therefore is not a co-operative bank but is a co-operative credit society. Distinguishing the of this Court in Mavilayi Service Co-operative Bank, it was submitted that the status of the appellant therein was not in dispute as it was registered as aprimary agriculture society together with one multi-state co- operative society and therefore such a society did not require Reserve Bank of India licence but the appellant is not a primary agriculture credit society 330 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. but a co-operative bank which is excluded from the benefi t of deduction in respect of its income under the provisions of the Act. It was therefore submitted that the of this Court in Mavilayi Service Co-operative Bank does not apply to the appellant herein. In this regard, learned ASG submitted that any central or state co-operative bank is a co-operative bank within the meaning of Section 56 of BR Act, 1949 as it is engaged in banking business. That the appellant is a state co-operative bank. Therefore, sub-section (4) of Section 80P excludes the benefi t of deduction in respect of income to such an entity. It was submitted that impugned s are just and proper and do not call for any interference in these appeals which lack merit and therefore the same may be dismissed. 10.9. By way of reply, learned senior counsel for the appellants reiterated that the appellant is not engaged in banking business at all and it receives funds from National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development and in turn lends money to its member societies and in that sense is an apex bank. Reliance was placed on Section 2(d) of NABARD Act, 1981 to contend that acentral co-operative bank is a principal co-operative society in a district in a state, the primary object of which is the fi nancing of other co-operative societies in that district. The appellant is defi nitely not a central co-operative bank. That the appellant is also not a state co-operative bank whose primary object is the fi nancing of other co-operative societies within the state as per Section 2(u) of the NABARD Act, 1981. That the Kerala State Co-operative Bank is an apex bank coming within the meaning of clause (u) of Section 2 of NABARD Act, 1981 but not the appellant herein. It was submitted that the appellant is a scheduled bank functioning within the State of Kerala as per the Second Schedule of the RBI Act read with Section 2(e) and Section 42 of the said Act.