A 27. In V Nagarajan (supra), a three judge Bench of this Court observed that Rule 22(2) of the NCLAT Rules 2016 mandates that an appeal has to be filed with a certified copy of the impugned . The Court held that limitation commences once the was pronounced and the time taken by the court to provide the appellant with a certified copy would be excluded, as clarified in Section 12(2) of the Limitation B Act 1963, if the appellant had applied for a certified copy within the prescribed period of limitation under Section 61(2) of the IBC. In the facts of the case, this Court held that the appeal was barred by limitation as the appellant demonstrated no effort to secure a certified copy and only relied on the date of the uploading of the of the website. This C Court held that: 29. On the question of a certified copy for filing an appeal against an passed by NCLT under IBC, Rule 22(2) of the NCLAT Rules mandates that an appeal has to be filed with a certified copy of the “impugned ” […] Therefore, D it cannot be said that the parties can automatically dispense with their obligation to apply for and obtain a certified copy for filing an appeal. Any delay in receipt of a certified copy, once an application has been filed, has been envisaged by the legislature and duly excluded to not cause any prejudice to E a litigant’s right to appeal. 30. […] 31. The import of Section 12 of the Limitation Act and its Explanation is to assign the responsibility of applying for a certified copy of the on a party. A person wishing to file an appeal F is expected to file an application for a certified copy before the expiry of the limitation period, upon which the “time requisite” for obtaining a copy is to be excluded. However, the time taken by the court to prepare the decree or before an application for a copy is made cannot be excluded. If no G application for a certified copy has been made, no exclusion can ensue. In fact, the Explanation to the provision is a clear indicator of the legal position that the time which is taken by the court to prepare the decree or cannot be excluded before the application to obtain a copy is made. It cannot be said that the right to receive a free copy under Section 420(3) of the Companies H SANKET KUMAR AGARWAL & ANR v. APG LOGISTICS PVT. 1175 LTD. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Act obviated the obligation on the appellant to seek a certified A copy through an application. The appellant has urged that Rule 14 of the NCLAT Rules empowers NCLAT to exempt parties from compliance with the requirement of any of the rules in the interests of substantial justice, which has been typically exercised in favour of allowing a downloaded copy in lieu of a certified copy. While B it may well be true that waivers on filing an appeal with a certified copy are often granted for the purposes of judicial determination, they do not confer an automatic right on an applicant to dispense with compliance and render Rule 22(2) of the NCLAT Rules nugatory [….]