Adhering to the dictum in Rama Narang (supra) and the other decisions following it, and at the risk of repetition, it is observed that nowhere in the application under section 389 did the appellant plead of there being a real prospect of his projection as a candidate from Ghazipur or any other constituency by the party to which he owes allegiance or even as an independent candidate and/or that should his right to contest the election be scuttled by reason of the conviction, irreversible consequences would ensue. 70. The absence of even a whisper in the pleadings before the High Court or this Court that there is a real likelihood of the appellant contesting the elections for the 18th Lok Sabha in 2024 notwithstanding, the oral submission in this behalf does not advance his case either. According to Dr. Singhvi, the appellant would stand to lose the right to represent his constituency on the basis of an untenable conviction and, hence, the same should be stayed. The right of the appellant to represent a constituency or that of a constituency to be represented by the appellant is not a Constitutional right under Article 326 of the Constitution, as faintly submitted on behalf of the appellant in the written note of arguments. Needless to say, Article 326, which is an integral part of Part XV of the Constitution dealing with ‘Elections’, declares that the election to the Lok Sabha and the Legislative Assembly shall be on the basis of universal adult suff rage. What the laws for conducting elections provide is the manner and mode of elections as well as the conditions and modalities which a prospective candidate is required to follow and abide by. It appears from the rejoinder fi led by the wife of the appellant to the counter affi davit of the respondent before the High Court that the appellant is a septuagenarian, suff ering from diverse ailments. The health condition of the appellant having been cited as a ground for grant of bail, it does cast a doubt on his ability to represent a whole constituency coupled with the undeniable circumstance that the appellant will only advance in age with time. Such being the case pleaded before the High Court and even 102 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. assuming arguendo that the appellant intends to contest the 2024 election, the same is too remote a circumstance that could reasonably be covered by exceptional circumstances warranting a stay of his conviction, far less putting in jeopardy any basis of the Constitution as held in K. Anandan Nambiar (supra). Dr. Singhvi’s argument, though attractive at fi rst blush, needs to be rejected in view of a combined reading of Jyoti Basu (supra), Pradeep Kumar Sonthalia (supra) and Ashish Shelar (supra) where it has been unequivocally laid down that the right to elect and to be elected are statutory rights and not absolute. 71. Heavy reliance placed by Dr. Singhvi on the decision in Rahul Gandhi (supra) to support the claim of the appellant for staying his conviction appears to be misplaced.