In response to the comments received on this aspect from Parliamentary Debates on the Amendment Act in the Sixteenth Lok Sabha Session in 2018, the Report of the Insolvency Law Committee E stated: “Section 53 of the Code places secured creditors who have relinquished their security above unsecured financial creditors. Thus, clear distinction has been drawn between unsecured and secured creditors who join the liquidation proceedings for the purpose of the payment waterfall in case F of liquidation. Unsecured creditors are ranked above secured creditors who have unpaid debts following enforcement of securities as it is presumed that such secured creditors have recovered most of their dues by enforcement of their security outside the liquidation proceedings. Moreover, as stated in G the BLRC Report, protection of dues of unsecured creditors is intentional in to encourage the market for corporate bonds and other unsecured debt. With respect to dues of workmen, they have been placed at the highest priority along with secured creditors who have H 1248 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A relinquished their security, second only to IRP costs under the payment waterfall provided in section 53 of the Code.”25 33. The rationale for placing secured creditors who relinquish their security, higher in priority, is found upon a conjoint reading of Sections 52 and 53. Section 52 reads as follows: B “Secured creditor in liquidation proceedings. (1) A secured creditor in the liquidation proceedings may— (a) relinquish its security interest to the liquidation estate and receive proceeds from the sale of assets by the liquidator in the manner specified in section 53; or C (b) realise its security interest in the manner specified in this section. (2) Where the secured creditor realises security interest under clause (b) of sub-section (1), he shall inform the liquidator D of such security interest and identify the asset subject to such security interest to be realised. (3) Before any security interest is realised by the secured creditor under this section, the liquidator shall verify such security interest and permit the secured creditor to realise only E such security interest, the existence of which may be proved either— (a) by the records of such security interest maintained by an information utility; or (b) by such other means as may be specified by the Board. F (4) A secured creditor may enforce, realise, settle, compromise or deal with the secured assets in accordance with such law as applicable to the security interest being realised and to the secured creditor and apply the proceeds to recover the debts due to it. G (5) If in the course of realising a secured asset, any secured creditor faces resistance from the corporate debtor or any person connected therewith in taking possession of, selling or otherwise disposing of the security, the secured creditor H 25 Report of the Insolvency Law Committee (2018) (pg. 87). PASCHIMANCHAL VIDYUT VITRAN NIGAM LTD. v. RAMAN 1249 ISPAT PRIVATE LIMITED & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] may make an application to the Adjudicating Authority to A facilitate the secured creditor to realise such security interest in accordance with law for the time being in force.