An amendment was moved by Prof. K.T. Shah seeking explicit disqualifi cation of those members who are convicted of any off ence of (a) treason against the sovereignty, security, or integrity of the State, (b) bribery and corruption, and (c) any off ence involving moral turpitude, and liable to a maximum punishment of two years’ rigorous imprisonment. Reverting to the amendment, Mr. H.V. Kamath responded thus20: “I am sure that this new Parliament under the new Constitution will frame such rules as will debar such Members from sitting or continuing in either House of Parliament as have been convicted of any of the off ences which are mentioned by Prof. Shah. The case mentioned in the amendment is so obvious that nobody who is imbued with the right public spirit will say that a member convicted of treason, bribery or corruption or any other off ence involving moral turpitude should be allowed to continue as a Member of either House of Parliament. It is derogatory not merely to the dignity of the Houses of Parliament but also derogatory to the good sense and wisdom of the people who elected them as members of Parliament.” 20 Constituent Assembly Debates, Volume 8 (19th May, 1949) AFJAL ANSARI v. STATE OF UP 1009 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 38. Such was the vision of the Constituent Assembly. It refl ects the highest commitment to the principles of democracy and the rule of law. The RoP Act, born out of this Constitutional vision, undoubtedly stands as a powerful symbol of breaking free from the chains of colonialism and captures the essence of India’s journey from colonial subjugation to a vibrant, sovereign democracy. It marked a transformative shift, highlighting that the nation’s freedom was not just about waving the fl ag but about empowering its people to participate actively in shaping their own future and setting up a robust mechanism of accountability for those who are entrusted with the responsibility of governance. 39. The decision by the lawmakers in the early years of independent India choosing to abide and be governed by a robust regulatory framework like the RoP Act, complete with stringent provisions such as section 8, was indeed a bold and forward-thinking choice which underlines India’s commitment to establishing a strong and accountable democratic system rooted in the rule of law and integrity right from the beginning. 40. In K. Prabhakaran (supra), this Court underlined the aim of introducing disqualifi cation under section 8(3) of the RoP Act, which is to deter criminalisation of politics. It was observed: “54. *** Those who break the law should not make the law. Generally speaking, the purpose sought to be achieved by enacting disqualifi cation on conviction for certain off ences is to prevent persons with criminal background from entering into politics, and the House — a powerful wing of governance. Persons with criminal background do pollute the process of election as they do not have many a hold barred and have no reservation from indulging in criminality to win success at an election.” (emphasis supplied) 41.In Public Interest Foundation and others v. Union of India and Another21, another 5-Judge Constitution Bench of this Court expressed anguish on the criminalisation of politics and observed thus: 21 (2019) 3 SCC 224 101 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.