Rs. 15,00,000/- was sought for the impact her disability had on her husband. Rs. 25,00,000/- was claimed for the mental stress and agony caused to her husband. Rs. 20,00,000/- was claimed collectively for the suff ering undergone by the patient’s children due to her disability. 27. Assailing the impugned decision passed by the NCDRC, Dr. M.A Biviji fi led Civil Appeal 3975 of 2018 claiming that the only charge of negligence against him, which was with respect to the ‘Barium Swallow Test’, was not proved. Also, assailing the same impugned decision by the NCDRC, Suretech Hospital, Dr. Nirmal Jaiswal, and Dr. Madhusudan Shendre fi led Civil Appeal (Diary) No. 21513 of 2018. It was averred that M.A BIVIJI v. SUNITA & ORS. 127 [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] the expert medical board formed by Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital did not fi nd any negligence with respect to performing the ‘NI’ procedure, replacing it with the existing ‘TT’. No other subsequent hospital in which the complainant got treated post her discharge from Suretech Hospital or any of the doctors who treated her subsequently, made a causal connection between the ‘NI’ procedure and the medical complications, and tracheal stenosis and injuries. No hospital or medical record of the complainant indicates that the ‘NI’ procedure was wrong. It is further claimed that the complainant has failed to produce any evidence substantiating the aforesaid negligence. It is stated that despite the NCDRC concluding that such injuries and subsequent medical complications are commonly found in serious cases of road accidents, the act of replacing the ‘TT’ with the ‘NI’ procedure was held to be negligent. It is further contended that the NCDRC did not fi nd any causal connection between the ‘NI’ procedure conducted on 13.05.2004, after removing the ‘TT’ and the alleged tracheal injuries and the subsequent medical complications. 28. It is contended that Dr. Nirmal Jaiswal, being the ICU in-charge, ensured immediate care, and she was consulted by multiple specialists. A neuro-surgeon saw her for head-injuries, ENT specialist conducted her Mandibular Fracture Surgery. Due care was taken in providing Mrs. Sunita treatment, as also observed by the medical expert board. Mrs. Sunita failed to prove a breach of duty, and any resultant causal damage. As per the medical board, as there was no negligence, and satisfactory treatment was given, Dr. Nirmal, Dr. Madhusudan Shendre, Dr. Biviji carried out their duty diligently. Moreover, it is also averred that the NCDRC failed to consider that it was Dr. Rajesh Swarnakar, Pulmonologist and Bronchoscopist at Suretech Hospital, who conducted Bronchoscopy and Bronchoscopy guided ‘NI’ on 13.05.2004. Dr. Ajay Ambade, and Dr. Arti Wanare, Ophthalmologists at Suretech Hospital conducted Mrs. Sunita’s eye-checkup. Dr. Vinay Saoji, Plastic Surgeon, performed the Mandibular Surgery. However, the complainant did not implead them as necessary parties, hence, the complaint is not maintainable in the fi rst place. It is further contended that even though the medical bill raised at Suretech Hospital was Rs. 95,260/-, the NCDRC awarded Mrs. Sunita Rs. 6,11,638/- as medical expenses against the treatment undergone at Suretech hospital.