We have already noted hereinbefore the consequences of conduct of a trial before a Court lacking competence in the light of the provisions under Section 300 (1) Cr. PC and also the object of penology that it is to protect the society by ensuring, granting of adequate, just and proportionate sentence commensurate with the nature and gravity of crime. In other words, to have a fair trial, both the accused and to the prosecution it is only appropriate to ensure that the fi rst trial itself is being conducted by a Court having competent jurisdiction, lest it would prejudice either the accused concerned or the prosecution in which event it would be detrimental to the society at large. Thus, upon a diallage we fi nd that in respect of a case where the off ence to be tried is under Section 409, IPC, as in the case on hand, it is only conducive to conduct the trial before a Court of Session. 25. Having held as above and looking into the indisputable position that cases reach the Courts of Session for trial only upon committal by the Committal Court in accordance with the procedures the question is how this kind of legal conundrum could be resolved. It is bearing in mind such situation, we made an earlier observation that a timely and judicious exercise of power for committal of cases provided in the Cr. PC could 454 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. avert any such situation. In the case on hand, the appellant/accused is facing trial for off ences including Section 409, IPC before the Court of the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Raipur. Both the sides made submissions to the eff ect that the case may be sent for trial before a Court of competent jurisdiction. Upon a diallage, including the impact of conduct of a trial before a Court lacking the jurisdiction, we fi nd that the trial has to be before the Court of Session having jurisdiction over the area in question. We make it clear that this conclusion shall not be misinterpreted or misunderstood that it is for the purpose of ensuring handing down of conviction and upon such conviction imposition of a sentence of more than 7 years, upto a maximum of 10 years or imprisonment for life. Certainly, the Court of competent jurisdiction conducting the trial must have the power to acquit or convict the accused concerned, based on appreciation of evidence on record and in case of conviction to decide the quantum of punishment. With this we will proceed to consider the issue further. 26. As noticed hereinbefore, before the Court of the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Raipur, the trial against the appellant was in progress and 10 out of 86 prosecution witnesses were examined. When the upshot of the discussion made hereinbefore is that the trial of the appellant is to be conducted before a Court of Session having jurisdiction over the area in question, there can be no doubt with respect to the position that going by the scheme of Cr.