5.1 While opposing the present appeal, Shri S. Nagamuthu and Shri Rameshwar Singh Malik, learned Senior Advocates appearing on E behalf of respondent Nos. 8 and 11 have vehemently submitted that fair investigation is the right of the accused as well as the victim. It is submitted that Section 173(8) of Cr.PC permits/authorises the investigating officer (IO) to further investigate the case for which the permission of learned Magistrate is not required. It is submitted that under Section 173(8) of Cr.PC, it is the right of IO for further investigation. Reliance is placed on F the decision of this Court in the case of State ofAndhra Pradesh Vs. A.S. Peter (2008) 2 SCC 383 (para 9). 5.2 It is submitted that as observed and held in the case of Ram Lal Narang Vs. State (Delhi Administration) (1979) 2 SCC 322, in the interest of both the prosecution and the defence, the Police should G have the power to make further investigation and submit a supplemental report. 5.3 It is further submitted by learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the accused that in the present case even, further investigation was carried out by the District Crime Branch (other than the IO of the H BOHATIE DEVI (DEAD) THROUGH LR v. THE STATE OF 651 UTTAR PRADESH & ORS [M. R. SHAH, J.] concerned Police Station) which was on the application/complaint by A the appellant and respondent Nos. 8 and 11 came to be chargesheeted pursuant to the supplementary chargesheet. It is submitted that thereafter, when further investigation has been ed by CBCID on the application of mother of the accused thereafter it is not open for the appellant to make a grievance that further investigation cannot be ed by another B agency – CBCID. 5.4 It is further submitted by learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the accused that even as per Section 173(3) read with Section 158 of Cr.PC, the investigation by another agency is permissible. 5.5 It is further submitted by Shri Nagamuthu, learned Senior C Advocate appearing on behalf of respondent No. 8 that after the investigation by CBCID as ed, a further report shall be submitted before the learned Magistrate and thereafter, there shall be three reports before the learned Magistrate, one on the basis of chargesheet, second on the basis of supplementary chargesheet and third on the basis of D further investigation by CBCID and thereafter, it is ultimately for the learned Magistrate to consider the reports. It is submitted that therefore, let the third report also be considered by the learned Magistrate and therefore, the impugned may not be interfered with by this Court. 6. Heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective E parties at length. We have also heard Shri Anand S. Nuli, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the intervenor. 7. At the outset, it is required to be noted that respondent Nos. 8 and 11 as such have been chargesheeted for the offence under Sections 302 and 120B of the IPC of which the cognizance has been taken by the learned Magistrate on 21.12.2016.