A Jaswinder and he informed them about the incident of P.W.1-Praveen Kumar meeting him and being assaulted. He stated that thereafter he along with both Manjit and Jaswinder went to the place of occurrence. He stated that he was at a short distance from them. He stated that when they reached in the Gali of house of the accused persons, the B accused persons caught both the deceased as well and started giving beatings. From there, he went to Lakhanpur and made a telephone call to Parshotam Lal that deceased persons have been detained in the house by accused persons. He states that when they reached the house of accused persons, Police had already reached there. C 15.P.W.3-Chhajju Ram, who resides near the house of accused persons has turned hostile. 16.It is to be noted that the place of occurrence is the house of accused persons. The versions as to why the deceased-Jaswinder and Manjit as well as P.W.1-Praveen Kumar went to the house of the accused D persons are varying. As per the version of P.W.1-Praveen Kumar, he had gone there in search of labourers and thereafter he was caught by the accused persons since there was a dispute with regard to loan amount of Rs.50/. E 17.As per the dying declaration of deceased Jaswinder, deceased Jaswinder and Manjit had gone there to collect grass (fodder). Whereas as per the evidence of P.W.2-Hardev Singh, when he was going to Jagatpur to buy bidis he met P.W.1-Praveen Kumar and both of them went to the Gali of the accused persons. He admitted that bidi shop F was not in the same Gali. According to him, after P.W.1-Praveen was assaulted by the accused persons, he went from there and on the way deceased Jaswinder and Manjit met him and he informed them about the incident of P.W.1-Praveen Kumar being assaulted and tied. After that, all three of them went to the Gali where the house of the accused persons was situated. There the accused persons assaulted Jaswinder G and Manjit and he went away from there. It is further to be noted that accused No.1-Lal Chand (since deceased) had also received injuries in the said incident. The prosecution has failed to explain the same. The I.O. has admitted that he did not make investigation as to how accused No.1-Lal Chand (since deceased) had received injuries. It is the specific H MOHINDER PAL AND OTHERS v. STATE OF J & K 383 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] defence taken by accused No.1-Lal Chand (since deceased) that while A he was lying on the bed in his room, two persons entered his room and one of them gave a lathi blow on his head as a result of which he started bleeding and became unconscious because of the fracture. 18. From the materials placed on record, it appears that the B prosecution has not come with clean hands and has attempted to suppress the genesis of the incident. There are contradictions in the dying declaration as well as in the evidence of P.W.1-Praveen Kumar and P.W.2-Hardev Singh as to in what circumstances the deceased Jaswinder and Manjit went to the house of the accused persons.