This will be in stark contradiction to the original aspect of creating more affordable housing, whereby the character of the city will be lost and gains will also not be significant. B vii) Chandigarh is today known throughout the world for being one of the best planned urban environment. In large part, it is due to the high proportion of open space, social facilities, civic amenities and infrastructure per living unit. The introduction of apartment rules, by itself does not have any C provision to add these essential services and facilities within the existing built up environment. It will only add residential density while ignoring other urban infrastructure thereby being detrimental to the city environment and will only lead to the long term decline of the city. D Keeping in mind these elements, it will be prudent to annul and negate any efforts to revive the Chandigarh Apartment Rules in its current form. This will not serve to create a large stock of available housing will not increase affordability. It will not serve MIG and LIG and will add to unplanned and unregulated growth E of population density without any matching increase in social and physical infrastructure or amenities. The only beneficiary to this scheme will be a handful of developers which would be detrimental to the existing and future residents of the city. In conclusion, while there is an urgent requirement for increase of affordable housing stock in Chandigarh, the Apartment Rules is a poor and wholly F inadequate instrument for this purpose. The Board, therefore, recommends that all references in the draft Master Plan in respect of the reintroduction of ‘Apartment Rules’ should be deleted and redensification of any government residential/institutional pocket in G Phase-I sectors should only be done with the prior approval of the Chandigarh Heritage Conservation Committee.” 60. It is thus clear that though an attempt was made in the draft CMP-2031 to permit apartments on residential plots, the same was vehemently opposed. The Report considered the recommendations of H the Heritage Committee recommending that the northern sectors of RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 635 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] Chandigarh should be preserved in their present form as far as possible. A It has been recommended that no further enhancement should be given in FAR. It also considered that the concept of redensification in general will go against the heritage of the city. It has further taken into consideration that the Heritage Committee has taken a serious note of the relaxations in FARs and building controls already given earlier and B has recommended that no further relaxation be given and has also recommended that the relaxations already granted should be revoked. 61. The said Board further considered that individual development of apartments in plots will result in increase in density in the areas of the city that are most profitable to the developers rather than where these housing units are required. It further considered that the introduction of C the 2001 Rules will most essentially create apartments in the higher cost bracket of saleable units and is unlikely to create any low income or middle income housing.