644 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 5P OS.RCT.RS. 644 [2023] 5 S.C.R. A BOHATIE DEVI (DEAD) THROUGH LR v. THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS (Criminal Appeal No. 1294 of 2023) B APRIL 28, 2023 [M. R. SHAH AND C. T. RAVIKUMAR, JJ.] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – ss.158, 173(3) – Reinvestigation by another agency – passed by Secretary (Home), State of U.P., Lucknow for reinvestigation by CBCID – C Legality of – Held: s.173(3) r/w s.158 does not permit the Secretary (Home) to for further investigation/reinvestigation by another agency, other than the officer in charge of the concerned Police Station and/or his superior officer – For reinvestigation, the prior permission/approval of the Magistrate is required – In the present D case, the Secretary (Home) passed an for reinvestigation by CBCID and thereafter, the CBCID sent the intimation to the Magistrate – Thus, no prior approval/permission was accorded by the Magistrate – passed by the Secretary (Home) ing reinvestigation by another agency and that too, on the basis of the application/complaint submitted by mother of the accused is E unknown to law – Impugned passed by the High Court is quashed and set aside – passed by the Secretary (Home) and consequently, further investigation/reinvestigation by the CBCID is also quashed and set aside – Penal code – ss.302, 120B. Disposing of the appeals, the Court F HELD: 1.1 Respondent Nos. 8 and 11 as such have been chargesheeted for the offence under Sections 302 and 120B of the IPC of which the cognizance has been taken by the Magistrate on 21.12.2016. That thereafter, respondent No. 8 as such moved the quashing petition before the High Court for quashing the G entire criminal proceedings including the chargesheet/ supplementary chargesheet. The High Court dismissed the quashing petition. Therefore, the accused must have taken all the defences which might have been available to him while considering quashing petition including the ground on which now H further investigation/reinvestigation is ed by another 644 BOHATIE DEVI (DEAD) THROUGH LR v. THE STATE OF 645 UTTAR PRADESH & ORS agency, namely, CBCID. Thereafter, respondent No. 8 A approached this Court and the Special Leave Petition came to be dismissed by this Court and the interim protection in favour of respondent No. 8 came to be vacated. That thereafter, non- bailable warrant was issued against respondent No. 8 and only thereafter, mother of respondent No. 8 – accused moved an B application before the Secretary (Home) for further investigation and he transferred the investigation to CBCID, inter-alia, on the ground that the so-called eye witnesses of the murder were not the eye witnesses. The request of the mother of accused has been accepted by the Secretary (Home) and the investigation was transferred to another agency, namely, CBCID despite the C fact that after the first chargesheet, the investigation was handed over to the District Crime Branch to further investigate the case and they filed the supplementary chargesheet in which respondent Nos. 8 and 11 were even chargesheeted.