Similarly, we find, in regard to the appointment of the Chairperson and Members of the Lokpal, under the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, 2013, the Chief Justice is one of the five Members of a Selection F Committee, in the matter of appointment. We deem it appropriate to notice Section 4 of the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, 2013, which reads as follows: “4. (1) The Chairperson and Members shall be appointed by the President after obtaining the recommendations of a Selection G Committee consisting of— (a) the Prime Minister—Chairperson; (b) the Speaker of the House of the People—Member; (c) the Leader of Opposition in the House of the People—Member; H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 177 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] (d) the Chief Justice of India or a Judge of the Supreme Court A nominated by him—Member; (e) one eminent jurist, as recommended by the Chairperson and Members referred to in clauses (a) to (d) above, to be nominated by the President—Member. B (2) No appointment of a Chairperson or a Member shall be invalid merely by reason of any vacancy in the Selection Committee. (3) The Selection Committee shall for the purposes of selecting the Chairperson and Members of the Lokpal and for preparing a panel of persons to be considered for appointment as such, C constitute a Search Committee consisting of at least seven persons of standing and having special knowledge and expertise in the matters relating to anti-corruption policy, public administration, vigilance, policy making, finance including insurance and banking, law and management or in any other matter which, in the opinion of the Selection Committee, may be useful in making the selection D of the Chairperson and Members of the Lokpal: Provided that not less than fifty per cent. of the members of the Search Committee shall be from amongst the persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes, Minorities and women: E Provided further that the Selection Committee may also consider any person other than the persons recommended by the Search Committee. (4) The Selection Committee shall regulate its own procedure in a transparent manner for selecting the Chairperson and Members F of the Lokpal. (5) The term of the Search Committee referred to in sub-section (3), the fees and allowances payable to its members and the manner of selection of panel of names shall be such as may be prescribed.” G We bear in mind the Report of the Goswami Committee and, what is more, the Law Commission Report (Two Hundred and Fifty- Fifth) and lay down as follows. 230. The appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioners, shall be made by the President on the advice H 178 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A of a Committee consisting of the Prime Minister,the Leader of the Opposition of the Lok Sabha,and in case no leader of Opposition is available, the leader of the largest opposition Party in the Lok Sabha in terms of numerical strength, and the Chief Justice of India.