(viii) It is submitted that the expression “assessment” or “reassessment” appearing in the second proviso and the C expressions “assess or reassess the total income” appearing in Section 153A (1)(b) have been employed carefully by the Parliament to convey clear and distinct intentions. It is submitted that the expression “assessment” or “reassessment” appearing in the second proviso refers to the pending assessments under sections 143, 144 and 147 which would abate. It is submitted that D whereas “assess or reassess the total income” appearing in Section 153A(1)(b) signifies not the pending assessment or reassessment, but the assessment to be made under section 153A for six assessment years. It is submitted that again the Parliament has been extremely careful in not employing the expression ‘total E income’ in the second proviso which expression has been carefully employed under section 153A(1)(b) of the Act, 1961. The omission in the second proviso and the inclusion under Section 153A(1)(b) is extremely significant. The omission under the second proviso is necessary since those pending assessments gets abated upon an initiation of a search under section 132 or a requisition under section F 133, since the total income is to be assessed or reassessed again consequent to search or requisition. However, when it comes to section 153A(10(b) it authorises the AO to assess or reassess the ‘total income’ consequent to search or requisition. (ix) It is submitted that once a search or requisition is initiated, all G pending assessments or reassessments would abate. They would get subsumed into the assessment/reassessment to be passed under section 153(1)(b) and the AO will pass one assessment for each of the six assessment years subsuming all pending assessments and reassessments and such an under section H 916 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 153(1)(b) would be for the ‘total income’ for each of the six assessment years. It is submitted that should the of assessment or reassessment under sub-section 1 get annulled, the abated proceedings shall stand revived. (x) Making above submissions, it is submitted that the assessment B under section 153A is not a block assessment; it is not confined to any undisclosed income; it is not confined only to any incriminating material seized on account of initiation of search under section 132 or requisition under section 132A; the jurisdictional fact or requirement to pass s under section 153A(1)(b) is initiation of a search under section 132 or requisition under section 132A C and not the seizure of any incriminating material finding out an undisclosed income. It is submitted that in the absence of any statutory mandate, any interpretation that the scope of assessment under section 153A should be limited to the incriminating material found during the search is wholly erroneous and unsustainable, D particularly considering the fact that Section 153A requires assessment of ‘total income’ and the statute bars resort to the regular provisions, viz., section 143(3)/147 for assessing the income that may be relatable to the material coming on the AO’s record from sources other than the search.