This is in furtherance of the objective of the UAPA, which has been enacted to provide for the more effective prevention of certain unlawful activities of individuals and associations C and dealing with terrorist activitiesand for matters connected therewith. The distinction, therefore, is clear. 49. Furthermore, the UAPA provides for a system of checks & balances and public notification for any association being declared unlawful: D • S.3 of the Act, states that the Central Government must publish a notification declaring an unlawful association in the Official Gazette and Daily Newspaper in the State in which the principal office of the association affected is situated. Furthermore, the Association must be notified by E affixing a copy on its office or by serving its office bearers or by means of loudspeakers. • Under S.4 of the Act, any notification under S.3 of the Act, shall be adjudicated upon by the Tribunal for the purpose of whether or not there is sufficient cause for declaring the F association unlawful. In this adjudication, the association is given an opportunity to be heard. S.5 provides for setting up this UAPA Tribunal, to which no person shall be appointed unless he is a Judge of a High Court. • Under S.10 of the Act, which may be termed as the genesis G if the present controversy to be adjudicated upon, in my understanding is forthcoming in its meaning. “Is and continues to be” implies that a person, even after the organization being so notified as unlawful, is and continues to be a member, would attract penalty under the said section. The use of the conjunction “and’’ means that both of the H 580 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A abovementioned conditions have to be satisfied. [Hyderabad Asbestos Cement Products and Anr. v. Union of India and Ors.61, (three-Judge Bench)] It is important to reiterate, that the above observations have been made in light of and for application to the present reference. B 50.Importantly, Shreya Singhal (supra) captures the situation in regards the use of s of the Supreme Court of the United States of America aptly to say that those s are of “great persuasive value” but it also notes that there is “a world of difference” between the American and Indian scenario, so far as, subserving public interest is concerned. It is this difference which seemed to have escaped the learned C division bench’s attention in Arup Bhyan and Indra Das. 51.As recorded by the Constitution (First Amendment) Act, 1951, issues in the functioning and implementation of such rights were being faced right from the start and so the law-making authority, in to ensure smooth functioning of law. This Court cannot be oblivious to such D fact. The vast, varied and scholarly jurisprudence developed by this court has been in view of these clauses within Article 19. Now, at this juncture, seven decades thence, in my view a stand of whichever court, cannot be allowed to stand if it is in ignorance of constitutional provisions.