E 32. In the present case, the complainant was aware that the Pay had been tendered by the developer to her; nevertheless she filed the original Pay with her complaint, and did not seek any from the MRTP Commission at the relevant time. The pleadings in the complaint did not disclose that the Pay was filed in the Commission, F to enable the developer to respond appropriately. In these circumstances, the developer’s argument that the rule embodied in XXI, Rule 4 CPC, is applicable, is merited. The developer cannot be fastened with any legal liability to pay interest on the sum of ` 4,53,750/- after 30th April 2005. G 33. This court is also of the opinion that the complainant’s argument that on account of the omission of the developer, she was wronged, and was thus entitled to receive interest, cannot prevail. The records nowhere disclose any fault on the part of the developer; on the other hand, the complainant did not take steps to protect her interests. It has been held H K. L. SUNEJA & ANR. v. DR. (MRS.) MANJEET KAUR 1097 MONGA (D) THROUGH HER LR [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] by this court, in Sailen Krishna Majumdar v Malik Labhu Masih10 A that in such cases, even if equities are equal, the court should not intervene: “Equity is being claimed by both the parties. Under the circumstances we have no other alternative but to let the loss lie where it falls. As the maxim is, ‘in aequali jure melior est B conditio possidentis’. Where the equities are equal, the law should prevail. The respondent’s right to purchase must, therefore, prevail.” In the present case too, the complainant cannot claim interest C from the developer, who had returned the Pay . As discussed, at the time of filing of the complaint, she could have chosen one among the various options to ensure that the amount presented to her was kept in an interest-bearing account, without prejudice to her rights to claim interest later. In these circumstances, no equities can be extended to her aid. D 34. As regards the complainant’s appeal, the contention is that the impugned is in error, because the Tribunal ought to have directed that the developer ought to have been directed to pay interest on the sum of ` 4,53,750/- from 4th October 1993 till the date of its realization i.e., 7th May 2016. This plea is plainly untenable, because the interest payable for the past period was concluded in the previous proceedings. E The complainant did not point to any rule or binding legal principle which obliged the developer to pay such interest, or justify the direction in the impugned , by showing how such liability arose in the facts and circumstances of this case. F 35. Before parting with this case, this court is of the opinion that all courts and judicial forums should frame guidelines in cases where amounts are deposited with the office / registry of the court / tribunal, that such amounts should mandatorily be deposited in a bank or some financial institution, to ensure that no loss is caused in the future.