G H. Siting criteria of Retail Outlets: In case of siting criteria for petrol pumps new Retail Outlets shall not be located within a radial distance of 50 meters (from fill point/ dispensing units/vent pipe whichever is nearest) from schools, hospitals (10 beds and above) and H 240 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A residential areas designated as per local laws. In case of constraints in providing 50 meters distance, the retail outlet shall implement additional safety measures as prescribed by PESO. In no case the distance between new retail outlet from schools, hospitals (10 beds and above) and residential area designated as per local laws shall be less than 30 B meters. No high tension line shall pass over the retail outlet.” 43. Section 21 of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 places restrictions, both on establishment and operation of any industrial plant located in an air pollution control area without previous consent of the Board. The legislative intent behind this provision would C lead to decipher two concepts - one, the consent for the purpose of establishing an industrial plant while the other for operation of that plant. The purpose of this Section is to ensure that when a unit or an industrial plant is given consent to operate, the unit ought to have satisfied all the conditions stated in the of consent to establish and would have D installed the requisite effluent treatment plants and other anti-pollution devices to ensure that it causes no pollution. 44. The upshot of our aforesaid discussion is that the NGT was well within its powers and jurisdiction to issue the directions which have been impugned before us. However, we would like to address on the E question — whether the impugned directions are reasonable and whether the same may lead to unnecessary harassment and cause immense hardships to the retail outlets? 45. We take notice of the fact that all the appellants before us have installed VRS and VRD at their sites and retail outlets. We also take notice of the fact that the respondent No. 2 (original applicant) had F not prayed before the NGT, Chennai to make CTE and CTO mandatory. The prayers in O.A. No. 138 of 2020 (SZ) were limited to the State of Tamil Nadu only. However, the NGT, Chennai by its impugned has directed all the petroleum ROs in cities having more than 10 lakh population to install VRS mechanism which are having turnover of more G than 300 KL/Month. We also take notice of the fact that the CPCB in consultation with the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas has issued circulars/guidelines from time to time for installation of VRS (also known as Vapour Recovery Device circular). We are not inclined to disturb the impugned directions issued by the NGT, Chennai in regard to installation H M/S INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED v. V. B. R. MENON 241 & OTHERS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] of the VRS. The CPCB shall ensure that these directions are scrupulously A followed and complied with.