The intention of the accused must be judged not in the light of actual circumstances, but in the light of what is supposed to be the circumstances. 15. In the case of Basdev Vs. State of Pepsu AIR 1956 SC 488 at page 490 the following observations have been made: “Of course, we have to distinguish between motive, intention and knowledge. Motive is something which prompts a man to form an intention and knowledge is an awareness of the consequences of the act. In many cases intention and knowledge merge into each other and mean the same thing more or less and intention can be presumed from 852 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. knowledge. The demarcating line between knowledge and intention is no doubt thin but it is not diffi cult to perceive that they connote diff erent things. Even in some English decisions, the three ideas are used interchangeably and this has led to a certain amount of confusion.” 16. It requires to be borne in mind that the test suggested in the aforesaid decision and the fact that the legislature has used two diff erent terminologies, ‘intent’ and ‘knowledge’ and separate punishments are provided for an act committed with an intent to cause bodily injury which is likely to cause death and for an act committed with a knowledge that his act is likely to cause death without intent to cause such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, it would be unsafe to treat ‘intent’ and ‘knowledge’ in equal terms. They are not diff erent things. Knowledge would be one of the circumstances to be taken into consideration while determining or inferring the requisite intent. Where the evidence would not disclose that there was any intention to cause death of the deceased but it was clear that the accused had knowledge that his acts were likely to cause death, the accused can be held guilty under second part of Section 304 IPC. It is in this background that the expression used in Indian Penal Code namely “intention” and “knowledge” has to be seen as there being a thin line of distinction between these two expressions. The act to constitute murder, if in given facts and circumstances, would disclose that the ingredients of Section 300 are not satisfi ed and such act is one of extreme recklessness, it would not attract the said Section. In to bring a case within Part 3 of Section 300 IPC, it must be proved that there was an intention to infl ict that particular bodily injury which in the ordinary course of nature was suffi cient to cause death. In other words, that the injury found to be present was the injury that was intended to be infl icted. This Court in the case of Pulicherla Nagaraju @ Nagaraja Reddy vs State of Andhra Pradesh, AIR 2006 SC 3010 has observed: “Therefore, the court should proceed to decide the pivotal question of intention, with care and caution, as that will decide whether the case falls under Section 302 or 304 Part I or 304 Part II.