7ITA No. 1275 of 2006. H 8SLP(C) No. 14202 of 2008. M/S. MUTHOOT LEASING AND FINANCE LIMITED v. 327 COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] (ii) discount on treasury bills;” A 10. There are two direct decisions of this Court interpreting Section 2(7) of the Act vide Commissioner of Income Tax, Kanpur v. Sahara India Savings and Investment Corporation Limited9; and State Bank of Patiala Through General Manager v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Patiala10, which are relevant, and thus, we would refer to them in B some detail. 11. In Sahara India Savings and Investment Corporation Limited (supra), this Court noticed that prior to 1st October 1991, the word “interest” in Section 2(7) was defined so as to include any amount C chargeable to income tax under the head “Interest on Securities”. Post the amendment, the words “amount chargeable to income tax… under the head ‘Interest on Securities’” stood deleted. The Act, this Court held, had been enacted with twofold purposes, namely, as an anti- inflationary measure and for revenue collection. With this objective in mind, the court proceeded to examine and interpret Section 2(7) of the D Act to hold that the expression “interest” must be given a restrictive meaning as interest on “loans and advances, including commitment charges, discount on promissory notes and bills of exchange, but not to include interest referred to in Section 42(1-B) of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 as well as discount on treasury bills”. Section 2(7) defines E taxable interest in the first part and confines the interest only to loans and advances, and in the second part includes, by specific mandate, commitment charges and discounts on promissory notes and bills of exchange. Interpreting the provision in this manner, it was held that the legislature, in its wisdom, had extended the meaning of the word “interest” in the second part to two items, namely, commitment charges and F discounts on promissory notes and bills of exchange. In the said case, the respondent – assessee had made investments in bonds and debentures. It was held that interest on these bonds and debentures bought by the respondent – assessee therein, as and by way of “investment”, is not taxable as interest under Section 2(7) of the Act as they do not qualify and could not be treated as “interest on loans and advances”. G 12. In State Bank of Patiala Through General Manager (supra), this Court had examined the cleavage of opinion between different High 9(2009) 17 SCC 43. 10(2015) 15 SCC 483. H 328 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Courts on whether the fixed percentage charge leviable on default in payment of discounted bills of exchange should be treated as interest within the meaning of Section 2(7) of the Act. The amount credited on this account had been booked by the appellant Bank therein in its interest account. Agreeing with the assessee therein, this Court observed that the definition of ‘interest’ in the Act is a narrow one, and is exhaustive B as it is a “means and includes” definition.