any commercial purpose and for one’s own use, it cannot be gainsaid even in such circumstances the transaction would be for a commercial purpose attributing profi t motive and thereby excluding such person from the defi nition of ‘consumer’. When there is an assertion in the complaint fi led before the Consumer Court or Commission that such goods are purchased for earning livelihood, such complaint cannot be nipped at the bud and dismissed. Evidence tendered by parties will have to be evaluated on the basis of pleadings and thereafter conclusion be arrived at. Primarily it has to be seen as to whether the averments made in the complaint would suffi ce to examine the same on merits and in the event of answer being in the affi rmative, it ought to proceed further. On the contrary, if the answer is the negative, such complaint can be dismissed at the threshold. Thus, it would depend on facts and circumstances of each case. There cannot be any defi ned formula with mathematical precision to examine the claims for non- suiting the complainant on account of such complaint not falling within the defi nition of the expression ‘consumer’ as defi ned under Section 2(1)(d). 13. Now turning our attention to the facts on hand, namely, perusal of the complaint fi led before the Commission would indicate that appellants have specifi cally pleaded that they were in search of offi ce space “for their self-employment and to run their business and earn their livelihood”. In the statement recorded on oath by the Commission, while hearing the maintainability of the complaint, the fi rst appellant has stated that he was earlier engaged in the business of caustic soda as a dealer of M/S Reliance Industries and presently engaged in the business of investment/dealing in property. He has nowhere stated that he had proposed to purchase the offi ce space from the respondent for the purpose of either selling the same for higher price or the said property was being purchased as an investment for being sold in future. The statement of the appellant was that he engaged in the business of investment/dealing in property would not ipso facto suggest or indicate the property proposed to be purchased from the respondent was for commercial purpose. Even according to the statement of the fi rst appellant, he was earlier engaged in the business of castic soda and now engaged in the business of investment/dealing in property. There will be varied eventualities. By way of illustration it can be noted that the appellants might have intended to take this property for running their business to eke ROHIT CHAUDHARY & ANR. v. M/S VIPUL LTD. 409 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] out their livelihood or open the offi ce for the purposes of dealing in the existing business or the possibility of the proposed offi ce being used as a corporate offi ce or head offi ce or branch offi ce of their existing business which cannot be ruled out. It is in this background the averment made in paragraph 6 of their complaint fi led before the Commission would acquire signifi cance and the relevant averment has been noticed hereinabove and at the cost of repetition when perused it would clearly indicate that when the appellants were in search of offi ce space “for their self-employment and to run their business and earn their livelihood” they had entered into an agreement to purchase the same from the original allotees.