The appellant and the co-accused (father of the appellant) pleaded not guilty to the aforesaid charge and claimed to be tried. It D appears that the prosecution examined many witnesses. However, PW 8 – Chidambaram and PW 9 – Jeeva are the main witnesses being the eye witnesses to the occurrence. Both the eye witnesses have deposed that on the date of the incident the appellant herein and the deceased picked up verbal altercation in regard to the pathway and the appellant is said to have inflicted one blow with the weapon of offence as enumerated E above on the head of the deceased leading to his death. ORAL EVIDENCE 9. PW-8 namely Chidambaram in his examination in chief has deposed as under:- F “I am now residing in Indira Nagar, Thaathaiyangar Patti. I am working as Lorry Driver. I know the present accused. About 3 years back I took my lorry to Anbazhagan’s field in Poosari Palayam for transporting harvest of tapioca. Subramani, Veerasamy, Raja Manikkam and Jeeva accompanied me. While Subramani, Veerasamy, Raja G Manikkam and Jeeva were harvesting the tubers of tapioca the person belonging to the adjacent field told us that the lorry should not move any further since he the accused have a dispute regarding the pathway in which the lorry was on. I climbed into my lorry. At that time the accused Anbazhagan H 1102 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A was plucking tapioca in his field. He then asked me to bring the lorry near his field. I told him about what the neighbor told me. But as I took my lorry ahead a verbal fight broke out between Anbazhagan and the neighbor. Then A2 came to that place. She was yelling too. With the axe M.O.1 in his right hand, A1 Anbazhagan hit the neighbor on his head. The B neighbor suffered injuries on his mouth.” 10. PW-9 namely Jeeva in his examination in chief has deposed as under:- “I am now residing in Indira Nagar, Thaathaiyangar Patti. I C I am a coolie. I know the accused present here. I went to pluck tapioca tubers in the garden of the accused Anbazhagan along with Chidambaram, Subramani, Veerasamy, Raja Manikkam between 07.30 & 08.00 am on 25.10.2015 at Poosari Palayam. We went inside the field with Anbazhagan to gather the tubers. When we were clearing the plants after D gathering the tubers Chidambaram drove the lorry inside the field. Immediately the deceased Balasubramaniam came inside. He was shouting at the driver and asked him as to who gave him the authority to enter inside. He told this to Anbazhagan. The deceased Balasubramaniam was standing E on the road. Both the accused present there were gathering tapioca. Incidentally the accused and the deceased started getting into a verbal quarrel. We are securing the plucked tubers. The fight became bigger. Hearing the louder sound we all came over to the road where the verbal fight was going on. At that time the accused hit the deceased at his head with F the wedding axe causing injury.