For this proposition it is not necessary to cite decisions nor text books, although we have been taken through case law and other authorities by counsel on both sides. The essence of a judicial approach is objectivity, exclusion of extraneous materials or considerations and observance of rules of natural justice. Of course, fairplay is the basis and if perversity or arbitrariness, bias UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 543 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] or surrender of independence of vitiate the conclusions reached, such fi nding, even though of a domestic tribunal, cannot be held good. However, the courts below misdirected themselves, perhaps, in insisting that passengers who had come in and gone out should be chased and brought before the tribunal before a valid fi nding could be recorded. The ‘residuum’ rule to which counsel for the respondent referred, based upon certain passages from American Jurisprudence does not go to that extent nor does the passage from Halsbury insist on such rigid requirement. The simple point is, was there some evidence or was there no evidence — not in the sense of the technical rules governing regular court proceedings but in a fair commonsense way as men of understanding and worldly wisdom will accept. Viewed in this way, suffi ciency of evidence in proof of the fi nding by a domestic tribunal is beyond scrutiny. Absence of any evidence in support of a fi nding is certainly available for the court to look into because it amounts to an error of law apparent on the record.” (Emphasis supplied) 52. In view of this unequivocal and clear proposition of law set out in Rattan Singh (supra), it could be said that there was no legal bar on the Central Complaints Committee to look into the allegations levelled in the second complaint dated 18. 09.2012. Since strict and technical rule of evidence and procedure does not apply to departmental enquiry the connotation “evidence” cannot be understood in a narrow technical sense as to include only that evidence adduced in a regular court of law when a person is examined as a witness by administering oath. There should not be any allergy to “hearsay evidence” provided it has reasonable nexus and credibility. 53. In our , the correct principle of law is found in the following observations of Diplock, J. in Regina v. Deputy Industrial Injuries Commissioner, Ex parte Moore reported in (1965) 1 Q.B. 456. “These technical rules of evidence, however, form no part of the rules of natural justice. The requirement that a person exercising quasi- judicial functions must base his decision on evidence means no more than it must be based upon material which tends logically to show the existence or non-existence of facts relevant to the issue to be 544 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. determined, or to show the likelihood or unlikelihood of the occurrence of some future event the occurrence of which would be relevant. It means that he must not spin a coin or consult an astrologer, but that he must take into account any material which, as a matter of reason, has some probative value.