22. In the case of RBI v. Cooperative Bank Deposit A/C HR. B Sha4,the Reserve Bank Of India challenged an passed by the High Court during an application under section 439 of the CrPC, wherein directions were issued to the bank to distribute the money it recovered from the accused. This court, while examining these directions held that the High Court must have confined itself to the issues relevant for the C purposes of deciding bail. The relevant observation of this Court is being extracted hereunder: “We are of the opinion that the far-reaching consequences of the directions of the High Court are in a way beyond the scope of an application for bail filed by an accused under D Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the High Court, as much as anyone else, must stay confined to the issues relevant to the matter before it. It was thus not open to the High Court to pass s which could affect the working of banks all over the country. It has been pointed out by Mr Basava Prabhu S. Patil, the learned Senior Counsel for the E appellant that it is for this reason that Reserve Bank of India had filed this appeal.” 23. In the case of State Represented by Inspector of Police v. M. Murugesan & Anr5, this Court held that in cases where a separate mechanism exists, the court under its inherent powers, especially in F context of bail proceedings, cannot issue directions that are outside the purview of deciding the grant or rejection of bail. The relevant observations made by this court are being reproduced herein: “We find that the learned Single Judge has collated data from the State and made it part of the after the decision [of G the bail application, as if the Court had the inherent jurisdiction to pass any under the guise of improving the criminal justice system in the State. The jurisdiction of the 4 (2010) 15 SCC 85 5 (2020) 15 SCC 251 H 596 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A court under Section 439 of the Code is limited to grant or not to grant bail pending trial. Even though the object of the Hon’ble Judge was laudable but the jurisdiction exercised was clearly erroneous. The effort made by the Hon’ble Judge may be academically proper to be presented at an appropriate forum but such directions could not be issued under the colour B of office of the court.” 24. Further, in the case of State of Punjab vs Davinder Pal Singh Bhullar and Others6, where after deciding a criminal appeal, the High Court continued to pass s with respect to other offenders in unconnected cases, this court held that such invocation of jurisdiction C outside the purview of the main case at hand was unjust. The relevant paragraph of the said is being produced herein: “An inherent power is not an omnibus for opening a Pandora’s box, that too for issues that are foreign to the main context.