The ingredients of the plea of non est factum as laid down not only in the case of Bismillah (supra) are existing in the present case, but also the three parameters as can be deduced from Saunders (supra) were in existence in the present case as well. The aforementioned test for a successful plea of non est factum requires that: A. The person pleading non est factum must belong to “class of persons, who through no fault of their own, are unable to have any understanding of the purpose of the particular document because of blindness, illiteracy or some other disability”. The disability must be one requiring the reliance on others for advice as to what they are signing. As Lord Pearson had aptly put: RAMATHAL AND ORS. v. K. RAJAMANI (DEAD) 361 THROUGH LRS. AND ANR. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] “In my opinion, the plea of non est factum ought to be available in a proper case for the relief of a person who for permanent or temporary reasons (not limited to blindness or illiteracy) is not capable of both reading and suffi ciently understanding the deed or other document to be signed. By “suffi ciently understanding” I mean understanding at least to the point of detecting a fundamental diff erence between the actual document and the document as the signer had believed it to be.” B. “The “signatory must have made a fundamental mistake as to the nature of the contents of the document being signed”, including its practical eff ects. Lord Wil berfore has succinctly put this aspect: “In my opinion, a document should be held to be void (as opposed to voidable) only when the element of consent to it is totally lacking, that is, more concretely, when the transaction which the document purports to eff ect is essentially diff erent in substance or in kind from the transaction intended” C. The document must have been radically diff erent from one intended to be signed. As Lord Reid Remarked in the judgement: “There must, I think, be a radical diff erence between what he signed and what he thought he was signing — or one could use the words “fundamental” or “serious” or “very substantial.” But what amounts to a radical diff erence will depend on all the circumstances.” All these three criteria are clearly pleaded and made out in the instant case as well. 20. In the present case, the defendant respondent had taken a plea which the High Court had given due consideration that the plaintiff appellant had not sought any relief either for declaration of the Power of Attorney as void as also the cancellation of the sale deeds. Law is well settled that where it is alleged that the document of sale is void, then no cancellation would be necessary and such a document can be ignored under law. Cancellation of a sale deed would be necessary only where it is alleged to be voidable on 362 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R.