E 44. Electricity is a movable good because it can be transmitted, transferred, delivered, and possessed like any other movable property.27 This position of law was established by a Constitution Bench of this Court in State of AP v. National Thermal Power Corporation Ltd.28 In Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam (supra) a two-judge bench of this Court held that the supply of electricity to a consumer is a sale of F goods. The charges paid by the consumer to the distribution licensee is essentially the price paid for goods supplied and consumed. The consumption of electricity by a consumer is always effected through equipment or appliances installed within the premises. 45. Section 2(15) of the 2003 Act defines the expression G ‘consumer’ as follows: 27 Commissioner of Sales Tax, Madhya Pradesh, Indore v. Madhya Pradesh Electricity Board, Jabalpur (1969) 1 SCC 200 28 (2002) 5 SCC 203, paragraph 20. H 674 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A “(15) “consumer” means any person who is supplied with electricity for his own use by a licensee or the Government or by any other person engaged in the business of supplying electricity to the public under this Act or any other law for the time being in force and includes any person whose premises are for the time being connected for the purpose of receiving electricity B with the works of a licensee, the Government or such other person, as the case may be;” (emphasis supplied) 46. The definition of “consumer” under Section 2(15) of the 2003 C Act is similar to the definition of “consumer” in the 1910 Act. The definition consists of two limbs: (i) any person who is supplied with electricity for their own use; and (ii) any person whose premises are for the time being connected D for the purposes of receiving electricity, irrespective of whether or not such person is supplied with electricity for his own use.29 The first limb of the definition is prefaced with “means” while the second limb is prefaced with “includes”. The definition is thus exhaustive E of the ambit of the expression defined. The inclusive part is intended to expand the ambit of the initial limb of the definition. 47. In Jivendra Nath Kaul v. Collector/District Magistrate30, a two judge Bench of this Court held that the meaning of the phrase “for the time being” means at the moment or the existing position. The F reference to premises in the second limb connotes that the demand for guaranteed charges or dues will incur even if the owner or occupier has stopped consuming power for the time being, but the premises remain connected. The second limb clarifies that a consumer who commences receiving power at the premises will continue to remain a consumer even if they stop consuming power for the time being, so long as the G premises are connected to the power system. The second limb encompasses a variety of foreseeable and practical situations. For example, the consumer may have rented out the premises to a tenant.