This has also been acceded to by RBI and lender banks in their written submissions. It is now a settled principle of law that the rule of audi alteram partem applies to administrative actions, apart from judicial and quasi-judicial functions.24 It is also a settled position in administrative law that it is mandatory to provide for an opportunity of being heard when an administrative action G results in civil consequences to a person or entity. 22 1993 Supp (4) SCC 260 23 (2013) 6 SCC 384 24 A K Kraipak v. Union of India, (1969) 2 SCC 262; Governing Body, St Anthony’s College, Shillong and Ors v. Rev. Fr. Paul Petta of Shillong, (1988) Supp SCC 676; Uma Nath Pandey and Ors v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (2009) 12 SCC 40. H 504 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 33. In State of Orissa v. Dr (Miss) Binapani Dei25, a two- judge bench of this Court held that every authority which has the power to take punitive or damaging action has a duty to give a reasonable opportunity to be heard. This Court further held that an administrative action which involves civil consequences must be made consistent with the rules of natural justice: B “9. […] The rule that a party to whose prejudice an is intended to be passed is entitled to a hearing applies alike to judicial tribunals and bodies of persons invested with authority to adjudicate upon matters involving civil consequences. It is one of the fundamental rules of our constitutional set-up that every citizen is C protected against exercise of arbitrary authority by the State or its officers. Duty to act judicially would therefore arise from the very nature of the function intended to be performed: it need not be shown to be super-added. If there is power to decide and determine to the prejudice of a person, duty to act judicially is D implicit in the exercise of such power. If the essentials of justice be ignored and an to the prejudice of a person is made, the is a nullity. That is a basic concept of the rule of law and importance thereof transcends the significance of a decision in any particular case.” E 34. In Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India26, a seven-judge bench of this court held that any person prejudicially affected by a decision of the authority entailing civil consequences must be given an opportunity of being heard. This has been reiterated in a catena of decisions of this Court. In view of the settled position of law, the next question that arises before us is the scope and definition of the phrase ‘civil consequences’. F 35. In Mohinder Singh Gill v. Chief Election Commissioner, New Delhi27, a Constitution Bench of this Court held that ‘civil consequences’ cover infraction of not merely property or personal rights but of civil liberties, material deprivations, and non-pecuniary damages. In that case, the Court held that denial of a democratic right to cast a G vote inflicts civil consequences.