Appearances: S. Nagamuthu, Sr. Adv., C. B. Gururaj, Shreyas Kaushal, Sudhakaran, Prakash Ranjan Nayak, Animesh Dubey, Advs. for the Appellants. Nishanth Patil, AAG, V. N. Raghupathy, Mahendra Pal Gupta, Md. Apzal Ansari, Ayush P. Shah, Vignesh Adithiya S., Shubhranshu Padhi, Advs. for the Respondent. H. D. SUNDARA & ORS. v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 49 / OF THE SUPREME COURT ABHAY S. OKA, J. 1. This is an appeal preferred by the accused challenging the impugned of the High Court of Karnataka at Bangalore by which the of their acquittal, passed by the Sessions Court, was overturned. The appellants were convicted for the off ences punishable under Part I of Section 304 and Section 324 read with Section 149 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (for short, ‘IPC’). They were sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for seven years and pay a fi ne of Rs. 5,000/-. FACTUAL ASPECTS 2. We may refer to a few factual aspects of the case. PW-1 (Jagadeesha) is the complainant. The complainant’s family had property in the village Hebbale. The appellant no.1 - accused no.1-Mariyappa is PW-1’s uncle, with whom PW-1’s family was having a dispute over water. Manjunatha and Shivarama are the brothers of PW-1, who are the victims of the off ence. On 29th August 1999, both entered the village Hebbale to engage labourers for plucking ginger. PW-1 followed them. On the road to the village, he found that PW-2 (Sundara) and PW-6 (Ravi) were sitting on a culvert. When he was talking to them, they heard the hue and cry from the village, and therefore, they rushed to the village and found that the appellants, who are relatives of PW-1, were holding various weapons like sticks, kathi and club and they were assaulting Manjunatha and Shivarama. It is alleged that accused no.1-Mariyappa assaulted Shivarama by using a club. Accused no.8-Puttappa also assaulted Manjunatha by using a club. Accused no.7-Rajappa used a stick as a weapon of assault for assaulting Shivarama. Accused no.5-Somashekara stabbed Shivarama by using a knife. Accused no.6-Krishnappa assaulted Manjunatha on his head by using a club. Further, an assault was made by accused no.3-Chandrahasa by putting a stone on the chest of Shivarama. Even accused no.4-Rajakumara crushed the leg of Shivarama with a stone. Though PW-1, PW-2 and PW-6 tried to rescue the deceased, they could not save the deceased. Accused no.3- Chandrahasa caught hold of PW-2 (Sundara) and assaulted him by using 50 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. a sickle (kathi). Accused no. 1 assaulted PW-1 with a club. Accused no.1 also assaulted PW-1’s mother on the right hand. 3. The Trial Court acquitted all the accused. However, by the impugned , the High Court has interfered and convicted the appellants as narrated above. 4. Accused no.6 died during the pendency of the trial. The accused no.1 - appellant no.1 and accused no.7 – appellant no.7 died during the pendency of this appeal. Counsel for the appellants has fi led I.A. No. 71417 of 2023 – application for permission to fi le additional documents.