The nature of the supply of electricity also depends upon the type of consumer as well their needs. The licensee has to make a significant capital outlay for creating the necessary infrastructure as well as operation and maintenance costs to keep the infrastructure in readiness according to Section 42. The licensees are required to maintain the infrastructure even if the consumer does not consume electricity. F They are also required to pay the salaries of their employees and pay the dues of electricity generation and transmission companies. 87. The 2003 Act has been enacted to promote the development of the electricity industry as well as to protect the interests of the consumers and to ensure the supply of electricity to all areas. The Supply G Conditions providing for recoupment of electricity dues of a previous consumer from a new owner are necessary to recover the costs incurred for laying down the infrastructure as well as the ongoing current liabilities towards the electricity generation and transmission companies. In the absence of such conditions, it may be difficult for the distribution licensees H 692 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A to recover defaulted payments, adding to the revenue deficits. This may adversely impact the financial health of the distribution licensees to the detriment of the interests of the consumers. 88. In Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam (supra), this Court observed that a condition stipulating that the distribution licensee can B recover the electricity dues from the new owner or occupier was necessary to safeguard the interests of the distributor. It was observed: “13.A stipulation by the distributor that the dues in regard to the electricity supplied to the premises should be cleared before electricity supply is restored or a new connection is C given to a premises, cannot be termed as unreasonable or arbitrary. In the absence of such a stipulation, an unscrupulous consumer may commit defaults with impunity, and when the electricity supply is disconnected for non- payment, may sell away the property and move on to another property, thereby making it difficult, if not D impossible for the distributor to recover the dues. Having regard to the very large number of consumers of electricity and the frequent moving or translocating of industrial, commercial and residential establishments, provisions similar to Clauses 4.3(g) and (h) of the Electricity Supply Code are necessary to safeguard the E interests of the distributor.” (emphasis supplied) 89. Electricity constitutes a public good. The Court’s interpretation of the law must foster this position. In Hyderabad Vanaspati (supra) this Court was adjudicating upon the validity of Clause 39 of the Conditions F of Supply which defined various malpractices and provided for enquiries by designated officials. This Court observed that it was the statutory duty of the Board to supply, transmit, and distribute electricity throughout the state in the most efficient and economical manner. It was further observed that terms and conditions such as Clause 39 were necessary to prevent unauthorised use, pilferage or malpractices by the consumers. G Such terms were necessary to recoup the loss suffered by pilferages, and to stop the continuation of similar malpractices.