The High Court rejected the plea of the appellants to modify the conviction to that for an offence under Section 363 or 365 of the IPC or under Section 506 IPC, which did not provide for a minimum sentence of life imprisonment on the ground of prolonged detention of over seven years. D Being aggrieved by the judgement and sentence of the High Court, the accused have approached this Court by filing their respective Special Leave Petitions, in which leave has been granted and are now considered Criminal Appeals. E On 11.05.2009, this Court noted that the appellants had served seven years in prison and could be granted bail on the satisfaction of the Trial Court of necessary conditions. It also granted leave to appeal in the Special Leave Petitions and admitted the matters. 10. Appellants-accused before this Court have submitted that there is grave doubt about the fact that the appellants herein are the very F persons who had kidnapped Harsh Sobti, PW-21, but the Courts below have found reasons to believe the evidence of PW-21. Thus, without conceding the arguments made for acquittal by raising questions about the investigation, appellants have urged that judicial notice may be taken of the long period of their incarceration and their conviction under Section G 364A of the IPC be modified to a conviction under Section 363 of the IPC. Sri Gaurav Agrawal, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellantsappointed by Supreme Court Legal Services Committee, placed reliance on Sk. Ahmed vs. State of Telangana, (2021) 9 SCC 59 H 172 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A (“SK Ahmed”), to contend that the essential ingredients of Section 364A of the IPC have not been proved in this case. The crux of his argument was that the Sessions’ Court as well as the High Court have disregarded the fact that PW-21’s statement before the Court on 15.04.2002 was a substantial improvement upon the statement made to the police on 15.02.2000. Therefore, he submitted that no threat to cause death or B hurt has been proven. He also submitted that no demand for ransom on the basis of the cause of death or hurt could be proven as these emanated from the police. He submitted that PW-12 turned hostile and PW-13 was only a chance witness. Hence, the s impugned may be interfered with and the appellants may be granted relief by modifying C the sentences imposed on them even if acquittal of the appellants may not be possible. On the other hand, Sri Rakesh Mudgal, learned AAG for the respondent-State supported the of the High Court and contended that there is no merit in these appeals and the same may be D dismissed. He submitted that the High Court was justified in its reasoning and in dismissing the appeals filed by the appellants herein. 11. In view of the facts on record and the rival submissions of the parties, we deem it appropriate to limit the point for consideration in this appeal to whether the facts, in this case, attract the offence under Section E 364A of the IPC and if the answer is in the negative, would it be just and proper to modify the conviction to a sentence under Section 363of the IPC.