Companies Bill to replace the Companies Act, 1956. A concept A paper was published on the website of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs on which various comments were received. An expert committee was also constituted by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs under the chairmanship of Dr. J.J. Irani, to make recommendations on provisions of company law. B a. Companies Bill 2008 and the Companies Bill 2009 i. After considering the report of the J.J. Irani Committee, the Ministry prepared the Companies Bill, 2008 and introduced the same before the Lok Sabha on October 23, 2008. The 2008 Bill was referred to the Department related Parliamentary C Standing Committee (PSC) on Finance for their examination. However, the Lok Sabha was dissolved before the PSC could present its report and therefore the 2008 Bill lapsed as per Article 107(5) of the Constitution of India. ii. Accordingly, the Companies Bill 2009 was introduced in the D Lok Sabha on or about July 15, 2009. The 2009 Bill too was referred to the PSC. In identifying the features of the 2009 Bill, the PSC Report of August 2010 notes the salient features as being “the role, rights and duties of the auditors have been defined so as to maintain integrity and independence of the E audit process.” iii. In setting out the guiding principles underlying the 2009 Bill, the PSC, in the Report, notes that, amongst other principles, the following are the key principles underlying the 2009Bill: “Need for sturdy systems, enhanced transparency and F comprehensive disclosures based regime emphasized; as companies grow, become bigger and globalise with the number and range of stakeholders increasing by volumes, necessitating proper checks and balances. Self-regulation through internal mechanism/procedures, to G be underpinned on strong systems and procedures; Central Government to step in only when mis-governance takes place. In the light of recent experiences in corporate mis- governance, process of audit and functioning of auditors to H 970 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A be made more independent and effective; stringent joint and individual liability prescribed; setting up of oversight body to set standards and supervise quality of audit recommended” iv. Further, the report notes that various suggestions were made B by the PSC during deliberations on the Bill which were incorporated by the Central Government. On a reading of these suggestions, it is essential to note that independence of the auditors was a key point. v. Crucially, in the Report, the PSC notes that the 2009 Bill C incorporates suggestions of the JPC on the 1993 Banking and Securities Market Scam and the 2002 JPC on the Stock Market Scam. This means that the 2009 Bill was a culmination of the growing corporate economy and past experiences of corporate fiascos too. One of the suggestions were to provide for stricter accountability for auditors. Moreover, at the foot of the same D page, the PSC notes that the 2009 Bill has made the regulatory provisions and regime more stricter by inter alia providing for making statutory auditors more accountable by providing for substantial civil and criminal liability for auditors.