6. The petitioner humbly submits that in S.No. 3 of Part-B in the affidavit Form 26 the 2nd respondent had provided the information in regard to the constituency Number, name and State as No. 36, Thoothukudi, Tamilnadu, but whereas in Part A No. 2, she H KANIMOZHI KARUNANIDHI v. A. SANTHANA KUMAR 805 [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] mentioned that her electoral constituency is No. 19 CHEPAUK, A Tamil Nadu, exposes the improper submission of nomination form. 7. The petitioner humbly submits that having aggrieved against the unconstitutional act of the 2nd respondent the returned candidate, inasmuch as of which the electors of the constituency are unable to have information regarding the income of the spouse B of the returned candidate disclosed in the income tax return, consequently as the result is materially affected he is before this Hon’ble Court praying to declare the election of the returned candidate, the 2nd respondent herein, from No. 36, Thoothukudi Constituency as void and set aside the same. C 8. The petitioner respectfully submits that the nomination paper, the affidavit FORM 26 is without particulars of the payment of amount of income tax of her spouse (Thunaivar) namely Mr. Arvindan, Citizen of Singapore though the information in regard to the payment of the amount of income tax is sought by the D election commission of India in exercise of their statutory powers under Article 324 of the Constitution of India in view of providing information to the public under the Representation of People Act. Besides, it is pertinent to state here that the income from the foreign countries is subject to income tax under the Singapore Income Tax Act and each income tax payer is provided the Income E Tax Reference Number by the authority. 9. The petitioner humbly submits that the suppression of information by the returned candidate the 2nd respondent herein in regard to the payment of income tax of her spouse herein in regard to the payment of income tax of her spouse (Thunaivar) F debar the electors of the constituency to get complete information of the payment of income tax to the income tax authority in Singapore and lead to filing false affidavit in on adherence of the rules.” 6. In the said Election petition, the appellant/returned candidate G had filed OA No. 929/2019 praying to strike off paragraphs 5 to 17 of the Election petition and had filed OA No. 930/2019 praying to reject the Election petition in limine on the ground inter alia that the averments and allegations contained in the Election petition were wholly vague and bereft of material facts, and therefore did not meet with the requirements H 806 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A of Section 81, 83, 86 and 100 of the said Act. It was also averred that the paragraph nos. 5 to 17 of the Election petition were bereft of material facts and did not disclose any cause of action. The High Court vide the impugned common dismissed both the Original Applications filed by the appellant/returned candidate.