G Learned Attorney General appearing on behalf of the Union of India also contended that the issues raised in these petitions have become infructuous and wholly academic as the action of demonetisation has been acted upon and therefore, the present cases are only of academic H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 225 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] significance. It is necessary to examine the nature of relief A that could be moulded by the Court in this matter. 20.2 There are several s which could be relied upon in this context: (i) This Court acknowledged in S.R. Bommai vs. Union of India AIR 1994 SC 1918, that although B substantive relief may be granted only if the issue remains live in cases which are justiciable, this Court may prospectively declare a law, for posterity. Notwithstanding the fact that no substantive relief could be granted in the said case for the reason that C following the Presidential proclamation, fresh elections had been held and new Houses had been constituted, this Court went on to declare the law, for posterity, as to the federal character of the Constitution, the nature of the power conferred on the President under Article 356 of the Constitution D and the manner in which such power is to be exercised for imposing President’s Rule in a State by dissolution of the Legislative Assembly. (ii) In Golak Nath vs. State of Punjab (1967) 2 SCR 762, this Court declared that it is open to the Court, E to find and declare the law, but restrict the operation of such law to the future. (iii) Further, the observations made by this Court in Orissa Cement Ltd. vs. State of Orissa 1991 Supp (1) SCC 430, while determining what relief that could F be granted following a declaration of a provision of an enactment as invalid, are also relevant. This Court held that declaration of invalidity of a provision, and determination of the relief to be granted as a consequence of such invalidity, are two distinct things. That in respect of the relief to be granted as a G consequence of declaration of invalidity, the Court has discretion which could be exercised to grant, mould or restrict the relief. 20.3 In the instant case, the elementary question that requires determination is,whether the challenge to the validity of the H 226 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Central Government’s decision dated 8th November, 2016 to demonetise all Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/- bank notes, having been adjudicated upon, at this juncture, i.e., after a lapse of over six years since the impugned action was carried out, the nature of relief that could be granted by this Court at this juncture is to be considered. B 20.4 Stated very patently, the controversy in the present cases relates to the true meaning and interpretation of sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. Therefore, the question that arises for consideration is, whether, this Court can declare the law as to the validity of an action, even after such action C has been given effect to in toto.