[2023] 2 S.C.R. 343 343 BAR COUNCIL OF INDIA A v. BONNIE FOI LAW COLLEGE & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 969 of 2023) B FEBRUARY 10, 2023 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, SANJIV KHANNA, ABHAY S. OKA, VIKRAM NATH AND J.K. MAHESHWARI, JJ.] Advocates Act, 1961 – ss.49, 24(3)(d) – Bar Council of India C (Training) Rules, 1995 – Pre-enrolment training in terms of the 1995 Rules; Pre-enrolment/Post-enrolment examination, if can be validly prescribed by the Bar Council of India – Held: Bar Council of India is not devoid of its jurisdiction in undertaking a pre-enrolment training course or examination prescribed by it – Wide powers given to the Bar Council of India u/s.49 r/w s.24(3)(d) are adequate powers D with it under the 1961 Act to provide such norms and Rules – Thus, the interdict placed by the of Supreme Court in V. Sudeer v. Bar Council of India on the powers of the Bar Council of India cannot be sustained and the said case does not lay down the correct position of law – Questions referred, answered. E Legal Profession: Role of the Bar Council of India – Discussed. Standards of legal profession – Various aspects of holding the All India Bar Examination, suggestions made by the Amicus – F Discussed. Disposing of the appeal and the petitions, the Court HELD: 1.1 The object of Parliament enacting the Advocates Act, 1961 was to consolidate the law relating to legal practitioners. G The prominent role of the Bar Council of India, the apex body, is apparent from the functions prescribed for the Bar Council of India under Section 7 of the said Act. Clause (h) of Sub-Section (1), provides for promotion of legal education and for laying down standards of such education in consultation with Universities in H 343 344 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A India and State Bar Councils. Sub-Clause (m) is in the nature of a residuary clause, having the widest amplitude to do all other things necessary for discharging the aforesaid functions. These provisions do not entrust the Bar Council of India with direct control of legal education, as primarily legal education is within the province of the universities. Yet, the Bar Council of India, B being the apex professional body of the advocates, is concerned with the standards of legal profession and the equipment of those who seek entry into that profession. Neither these provisions, nor the role of the universities to impart legal education, in any way, prohibit the Bar Council of India from conducting pre- C enrolment examination, as the Council is directly concerned with the standard of persons who want to obtain a license to practice law as a profession. Section 24 of the said Act prescribes as to who are the persons who may be prescribed as Advocates on State roll. Sub-Section (1) of Section 24 provides conditions fulfilling which a person shall be qualified to be admitted as an D advocate on a State roll. Sub-Section (3) of Section 24 of the said Act begins with the non-obstante clause qua Sub-Section (1) by stating “notwithstanding anything contained in Sub-Section (1)”.