22. The majority view in Sriharan (supra) and the minority view, had underlined the need to balance societal interests with the rights of the convict (that in a given case, the sentence should not be unduly harsh, or excessive). The court acknowledged that it lies within the executive’s domain to grant, or refuse premature release; however, such power would be guided, and the discretion informed by reason, stemming from appropriate rules. The 19 See Rules 405 and 413 of the Bihar Prison Manual, 2012. 504 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. minority view (of Lalit and Sapre JJ) had cautioned the court from making sentencing rigid: “73. […] Any putting the punishment beyond remission will prohibit exercise of statutory power designed to achieve same purpose Under Section 432/433 Code of Criminal Procedure In our view Courts cannot and ought not deny to a prisoner the benefi t to be considered for remission of sentence. By doing so, the prisoner would be condemned to live in the prison till the last breath without there being even a ray of hope to come out. This stark reality will not be conducive to reformation of the person and will in fact push him into a dark hole without there being semblance of the light at the end of the tunnel.” This concern suff uses the reasoning in Ram Chander(supra). 23. This court, on earlier occasion, had grappled with the situation of diff erent remission policies/rules prevailing at diff erent points of the convict’s sentence – i.e., when the policy on the date of conviction, and on the date of consideration for premature release, are diff erent. It has been held that the policy prevailing on the date of the conviction20, would be applicable. However, in Jagdish(supra) it was also recognised that if a more liberal policy exists on the date of consideration, the benefi t should be provided: “43. […] The State authority is under an obligation to at least exercise its discretion in relation to an honest expectation perceived by the convict, at the time of his conviction that his case for premature release would be considered after serving the sentence, prescribed in the short-sentencing policy existing on that date. The State has to exercise its power of remission also keeping in view any such benefi t to be construed liberally in favour of a convict which may depend upon case to case and for that purpose, in our opinion, it should relate to a policy which, in the instant case, was in favour of the respondent. In case a liberal policy prevails on the date of consideration of the case of a “lifer” for premature release, he should be given benefi t thereof.” 20 See State of Haryana v. Raj Kumar, (2021) 9 SCC 292 [para 16]. RAJO @ RAJWA @ RAJENDRA MANDAL v. THE STATE 505 OF BIHAR & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 24. Applying these principles in the case at hand, on the date of conviction (24.05.2001), it is the pre-2002 policy21 that was applicable.