2. The allegation in the said FIR No. 224 of 2022 dated 19.09.2022 is that the Complainant Ram Kumar (Respondent No. 4 herein), who is a resident of Village Kasimpur, Mirzapur, District Saharanpur, is recorded as a tenure holder of land situated at Khasra No. 256/1, Village Mayapur, Mirzapur, District Saharanpur. It is further alleged that the accused Haji Iqbal (Petitioner No. 2 herein) and his sons Javed, Mohammad Wajid (Petitioner No. 1 herein), Alishan, Afjal and his brother Mehmood Ali had earlier claimed that the said land bearing Khasra No. 256/1 belonged to them. In the year 2021, when the Complainant and his bother Raj Kumar went to Petitioner No. 2’s house situated at Mirzapur, Saharanpur and requested him not to disturb the peace and tranquility of their land upon which Petitioner No. 2 Iqbal, Mehmood Ali, Javed, Petitioner No.1 Mahmood Wajid, Alishan and Afzal abused the Complainant and thereafter they assaulted him and his brother Raj Kumar with their hands and fi sts. 322 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. It is further alleged that the accused persons then pointed a pistol on the Complainant’s forehead and forcibly took an amount of Rs. 2 lakh from the Complainant’s pocket. The accused persons threatened the Complainant that in case he told anyone about the incident then all his family members will be eliminated. It is further alleged that the accused persons forcibly got the signatures of the Complainant and his brother on a blank stamp paper and after being robbed of their money the Complainant and his brother quietly returned home. 3. It is respectfully submitted that the alleged First Information Report is absolutely false and frivolous, and on a reading of the said FIR, the off ence of dacoity is clearly not made out against the Petitioners. It is highly doubtful that the Complainant, who was aware of the criminal history of Petitioner No. 2 Iqbal, would go to the house of the accused Petitioner No. 2 with a huge sum of money, that is, Rs. 2 lakh in his pocket and after the alleged incident would remain silent for one year. Although it is alleged that the Complainant and his brother Raj Kumar were assaulted by the accused persons however there is no injury or medical report whatsoever to substantiate the said allegation. 4. The allegations in the First Information Report are not only vague but also highly improbable given that except for the bald allegation that the incident occurred in the year 2021, there is no mention of the date and time of incident in the FIR. The said incident allegedly occurred in the year 2021, while the FIR has been lodged after an inordinate delay of 1 year, that is, on 19.09.2022. On a reading of the FIR it is evident that the entire dispute is with respect to the land situated at Khasra No. 256/1, Village Mayapur, Mirzapur, District Saharanpur. It is pertinent to submit that the Petitioners are neither the owner of the land nor have they got anything to do with the said land and there was therefore no question of the Petitioners having threatened and assaulted the Complainant.