However, as the remaining three accused absconded for number of years pursuant to the passed by the High Court, the trial against the respondent herein accused Vijendra Singh came to be separated. Charge came to be reframed and the accused Vijendra Singh came to C be charged for the offence under Section 302/149 IPC also. Thereafter on conclusion of the trial, the learned Trial Court convicted the accused Vijendra Singh for the offence punishable under Sections 147, 323, 302/ 149 IPC and sentenced him to undergo life imprisonment for the offence punishable under Sections 302 read with Section 149 IPC, one year R.I. for the offence under Section 323 IPC and two years R.I. for the offence D under Section 147 IPC. 2.3 The respondent herein – accused preferred the present appeal before the High Court. By the impugned and the High Court has set aside the conviction of the accused Vijendra Singh for offence under Section 302 read with Section 149 IPC by observing that E no case is made out for conviction with the aid of Section 149 IPC. That thereafter the High Court has considered the individual act of the accused and thereafter after taking into consideration the fact that the fatal blow on the head was given by accused Bhupendra Singh (who died during the trial) and the weapon used by the accused was lathi, the High Court F by the impugned and has convicted the accused for the offence under Section 323 IPC. 2.4 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned and passed by the High Court convicting the accused for the offence under Section 302 read with Section 149 IPC, the original complainant/ G informant Surendra Singh has preferred the present appeal. 3. Shri Siddhartha Dave, learned Senior Advocate has appeared as Amicus Curiae on behalf of the appellant, Shri Vishal Meghwal, learned counsel has appeared on behalf of the respondent – State and Shri Abhishek Gupta, learned counsel has appeared on behalf of respondent no.2. H SURENDRA SINGH v. STATE OF RAJASTHAN AND ANR. 359 [M. R. SHAH, J.] 4. Shri Siddhartha Dave, learned Senior Counsel appearing on A behalf of the appellant has vehemently submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case the Division Bench of the High Court has materially erred in observing that no case was made out for conviction with the aid of Section 149 IPC. 4.1 It is vehemently submitted by Shri Dave, learned Senior Counsel B that the High Court has materially erred in observing that after the registration of the FIR, even the police found the case only against the two accused and the cognizance of the offence against the other accused are taken subsequently on the remand of the case by the High Court after rejection of application under Section 319 Cr.P.C. and the learned C trial Court took cognizance against the accused later on and therefore no case is made out for conviction with the aid of Section 149 IPC. 4.2 It is vehemently submitted by Shri Dave learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant that the High Court has not properly appreciated and/or considered the fact that as such in the FIR the D allegations were specific against five accused persons.