Assuming that each plot will eventually be built upto 3 storeys with one unit per floor, the total dwelling units available will be 69000 which can house approximately 3,00,000 population.” 74. Clause 19.1 of the CMP-2031 considered the major B recommendations, some of which include thus: “19 CHANDIGARHS HERITAGE ……… 19.1 THE MAJOR RECOMMENDATIONS INCLUDE C 1. The city’s monumental architecture, principles of town planning of Sun, Space, and Verdure, as enunciated by Le Corbusier, along with urban design, landscaping, honesty in the use of construction materials, like shuttered concrete and exposed brick-work, ought to be preserved as Modern D Heritage of Universal Value for which Chandigarh has become known throughout the world. 2. A holistic approach towards protection, preservation, and maintenance of heritage buildings and unique characteristic of the city should be adopted. E 3. The philosophy, plans and approach envisioned by Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru with regard to the new city should not be lost sight of and kept in mind while taking the steps for the above purposes. 4. The philosophy, plans and designs propounded and used by F Le Corbusier, while building the city, should not be allowed to be affected and should be kept in mind while protecting preserving, maintaining and expanding heritage structures. 5. Efforts should be directed to retain the essence of the original Plan of the city and as such the following is G recommended: – Chandigarh shall remain an Administrative City. – Chandigarh shall retain the essential planning postulates of Sun, Space, and Verdure. H 640 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A – Chandigarh shall be a Low-Rise City. – Chandigarh shall be a Green City. 6. Corbusian Chandigarh title to the first phase of the city which is the most representative of Le Corbusier’s thought and philosophy is truly worthy of recognition for its Modern B Heritage Value. The sectors 1 to 30 planned and detailed out by the original team in fulfillment of the CIAM principles of Living, Working, Care of Body and Spirit and Circulation. 7. Heritage status to Sector 22, built as the first typical sector on the concept of the neighbourhood and Heritage status to C Sectors 7 and 8 as a tribute to the architect planner, Albert Mayer. No development must be allowed that may jeopardize their original concept. 8. Preservation of the concept of a neighbourhood unit, no D further enhancement in FAR, supplementing the V7s with an efficient public transport system, execution of the pedestrian footpaths and cycle tracks, augmenting parking spaces in the city, development of villages and slum rehabilitation, regular upkeep. E 9. The Committee hasalso made recommendations for a Master Plan for Chandigarh to ensure regulated development of the city’s Inter State Regional Plan and mechanism for its implementation, City Development Plan, Solar City, restoring the city’s strong imageability, Urban F Design, restoration of Architectural Control/Frame Control, Design, Advertisement Control . 10. Revitalization of the City Centre, construction of the Eleven Storied Tower. 11. Holistic planning of Capitol Complex to address immediate G and future requirements, no scope for additional buildings within campus completion of the incomplete projects of the Capitol Complex, including the Museum of Knowledge, the Martyrs’ Memorial, revitalization of the plaza, campus lighting and illumination to highlight building edifices, H addressing the security issues to enable comfortable RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 641 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.]