B 23. The operandi for registration of information in a cognizable offence and eventual investigation is not limited to Police, and as observed above, sub-section (3) to Section 156, subject to legal stipulations, gives the ameliorating power to a Magistrate empowered under Section 190 to an investigation in a cognizable offence. Two different powers C vested with two distinct authorities, namely the Police and the Magistrate, who discharge distinct functions and roles under the Code as indicated above are not entirely imbricating. 24. The power of Magistrate to direct investigation falls under two limbs of the Code: one is pre-cognizance stage under Section 156(3), D and another on cognizance under Chapter XIV (‘Conditions Requisite for Initiation of Proceedings’; Sections 190-199) read with Chapter XV (‘Complaints to Magistrates’; Sections 200-210). These two powers are different and there also lies a procedural distinction between the two. 25. A three Judge Bench decision of this Court in Ramdev Food E Products Private Limited (supra) had examined the distinction between powers of the Magistrate to direct registration of an FIR under Section 156(3) and power of the Magistrate to proceed under Section 202 of the Code. It was observed that the power under the former Section is to be exercised, on receiving a complaint or a Police report or information from any person other than the Police officer or upon his own knowledge, F before he takes cognizance under Section 190. Once the Magistrate takes cognizance, the Magistrate has discretion to take recourse to his powers under Section 202, which provides for postponement of the issue of process and inquire into the case himself or direct investigation to be made by a Police officer or by such other person as he thinks fit for the G purpose of deciding whether or not there are sufficient grounds for proceedings. The proviso to Section 202 states that no direction for investigation shall be made where a complaint has not been made by a Court, unless the complainant and the witnesses present (if any) are examined on oath under Section 200. When it appears to the Magistrate that the offence complained of is triable exclusively by the Court of H 166 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Sessions, he shall call upon the complainant to produce all his witnesses and examine them on oath. However, in such cases, the Magistrate cannot issue direction for investigation of an offence. Thus, the Magistrate has the power, when a written complaint is made, to issue direction under Section 156(3), but this power is to be exercised before the Magistrate takes cognizance of the offence under Section 190. However, B in both cases, whether under Section 156(3) or under Section 202 of the Code, the person accused as the perpetrator, when the proceedings are pending before the Magistrate, remains unrepresented. Under Section 203, the Magistrate, after considering the statement of the complainant and witnesses (if any) on oath and the result of an inquiry (if any) under C Section 202, can dismiss the complaint if he is of the opinion that there is no sufficient ground for proceeding and in every such case briefly record his reasons.