The Court, while setting aside this , G stated that upon a plain reading of the provisions, an application under Section 127B could not be made in respect of ‘gold’, which is specifically an item listed under Section 123 applies. 26.3 The decisions in Ram Niwas Verma (Supra) and Avinash Dawar (Supra) have been followed in Commissioner of Customs v. H Jyotsna Chikersal and Anr., 2019 SCC Online Del 6574 (2-Judge YAMAL MANOJBHAI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 937 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] Bench of the Delhi High Court)where a recovery of 6 gold bars was A made from the Respondent therein. No declaration or disclosure was made in the disembarkation slip or the customs area. The Court held that a conjoint reading of these two provisions clearly bears out that the jurisdiction of the Commission to settle cases involving goods referred to in Section 123(2) is excluded. B 26.4 Significantly, in the abovementioned cases, the decision of the Delhi High Court in Commissioner of Customs v. Ashok Kumar Jain, 2013 (292) ELT 32 (Del), wherein settlement application under 127B was allowed for watches recovered, has been distinguished on the ground that the said decision did not consider Section123 and the C consequent bar therein. 26.5 It is also pertinent to note that the reasoning in Suresh Raheja (supra) was given in the facts and circumstances of that case, wherein the entire baggage, including the watches, had become wet and affected by the floods. D 27. In the present case, the recovery from the Petitioner was on crossing the green channel at the Delhi airport on 05.10.2022, wherein the officers of the Investigating Agency apprehended him with dutiable goods, including watches of admitted foreign origin. Watches is one of the categories of goods mentioned in Section 123 of the Act. Since there is a recovery of goods to which Section 123 applies, the same is a bar E for the Petitioner to approach the Settlement Commission. The matter, in my view, is fit to be remitted to the adjudicating authorities to take appropriate action, as per law. Writ Jurisdiction under Article 32 28. I have considered the law on the merits of the dispute; however, F it is also essential to consider the maintainability of the present proceedings since the Petitioner has invoked Article 32 of the Constitution of India. 29. It is well-settled law that this Court has wide powers when the violation of fundamental rights is alleged under Article 32 of the G Constitution. However, such intervention must be made on a case-by- case basis and only when a fundamental right question arises. 30. In Northern Corporation v. Union of India, (1990) 4 SCC 239 (2-Judge Bench), this Court dealing with the issue of enforcement of the provisions of the Customs Act, in a petition filed H 938 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A under Article 32, observed that the Petitioner has no fundamental right as such to clear any goods imported in accordance with the law.