6.We find from the of the Tribunal that the main argument that was advanced before it by the appellant herein was that the case of Nirmal Verma (supra) was distinguishable in the sense that no E chargesheet was issued to the applicant in that case whereas in the case of respondent, a chargesheet had been submitted alleging breach of certain provisions of the Central Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, 1964. The memorandum of charges was issued on 4th September 2011 and the two articles of charges related to her involvement in political activities while working. Annexure II of Memorandum of charges stipulated: – F “ANNEXURE II STATEMENT OF IMPUTATION OF MISNDUCT/ MISBEHAVIOUR IN SUPPORT OF THE ARTICLE OF CHARGES FARAMED AGAINST SMT, KAMLESH RANI G BATLA, ASSTT. TEACHER. ARTICLE-I Smt. Kamlesh Rani Batla, Assistant Teacher while working in Govt. Sarvodya Coed. Middle School, J-Block, Sangam Vihar, New Delhi, during her duty hours, attended the meeting held H THE GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI & ORS. v. KAMLESH 681 RANI BHATLA [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] by the BSP, the National Political Party without informing or A taking permission from the department. ARTICLE-II Smt. Kamlesh Rani Batla, Assistant Teacher while working in Govt. Sarvodya Coed. Middie School, J-Block, Sangam Vihar, B New Delhi, and during the elections period canvassing and delivering slogans for the BSP as evident from the CDs and photo clippings. Thus, she has violated Rule 3 of CCS Conduct Rules, 1964 which unbecoming of a government servant.” C (quoted verbatim from the paper book) 7.As we have already indicated, only argument advanced by the appellant before the Tribunal was that a chargesheet was issued to the respondent before her resignation. On that basis, the authorities wanted to distinguish her case in relation to the case of Nirmal Verma (supra). D The Tribunal observed and held:- “5. The only argument advanced by the counsel for the respondents that a chargesheet was issued to the applicant before her resignation and accordingly the case of the applicant cannot stand on the same footing as that of Nirmal E Verma, relied upon by her, does not seem to be justified for the simple reason that if a chargesheet was issued to the applicant then it was within the domain of the respondents not to accept her resignation and they could not have issued vigilance clearance. Once the respondents have given the vigilance clearance in respect of the applicant and allowed F her to contest MCD election, hence, in my considered opinion, the respondents are estopped from taking the plea of pendency of chargesheet against the applicant. I am also of the view that the respondents were very much within their capacity not to accept the applicant’s resignation pending enquiry, if any, G rather they ought to have awaited the decision in the enquiry. Hence, at this stage, taking the above plea of pendency of chargesheet and distinguishing the character of the present case with that of Nirmal Verma’s case (supra) seems to show their power vested with the respondents to deny or reject the applicant’s application for withdrawal of her resignation.