In the said case, this Court had approved the full bench decision of Punjab High Court in Ramji Lal and Another vs. The State of Punjab and Others6, which had ruled that a pre-emptor must maintain his qualification to pre-empt upto the date of the decree. 19. The Constitution Bench in case of Shyam Sunder and Others D vs. Ram Kumar and Another7also while examining the issues whether in a suit for pre-emption, the pre-emptor should possess his right to pre- empt on the date of sale and on the date of the decree of the First Court, and whether the loss of that right after the date of decree either by his own act or by an act beyond his control or by any subsequent change in E the legislation which is prospective in operation during the pendency of the appeal filed against the decree of the Court of First instance, would affect the right of the pre-emptor or not, has laid down certain principles, after making analysis of various decisions including the decision of the Full Bench rendered by the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Ramji Lal vs. State of Punjab (supra). F “10. On an analysis of the aforesaid decisions referred to in first category of decisions, the legal principles that emerge are these: 1. The pre-emptor must have the right to pre-empt on the date of sale, on the date of filing of the suit and on the date of passing of the decree by the Court of the first instance only. G 2. The pre-emptor who claims the right to pre-empt the sale on the date of the sale must prove that such right continued to subsist 5 1971 (1) SCC 12 6 AIR 1966 P&H 374 H 7 (2001) 8 SCC 24 JHABBAR SINGH (DECEASED) THROUGH LEGAL HEIRS v. 581 JAGTAR SINGH S/O DARSHAN SINGH [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] till the passing of the decree of the first court. If the claimant A loses that right or a vendee improves his right equal or above the right of the claimant before the adjudication of suit, the suit for pre-emption must fail. 3. A pre-emptor who has a right to preempt a sale on the date of institution of the suit and on the date of passing of decree, the loss B of such right subsequent to the decree of the first court would not affect his right or maintainability of the suit for pre- emption. 4. A pre-emptor who after proving his right on the date of sale, on the date of filing the suit and on the date of passing of the decree by the first court, has obtained a decree for preemption by the C Court of first instance, such right cannot be taken away by subsequent legislation during pendency of the appeal filed against the decree unless such legislation has retrospective operation.” 20. In the light of the afore-stated legal position, let us examine whether the pre-emptor i.e., plaintiff Jagtar Singh had established his D superior right of pre-emption all through out from the date of the execution of the sale deeds by the original owner – vendor Jit Singh, till the date of filing of the suit as also till the date of passing of the decree by the court of the first instance.