It was observed at page 536 as follows: (SCC p. 536, paras 13 and 14) B “An for release on bail under proviso (a) to Section 167(2) may appropriately be termed as an -on- default. Indeed, it is a release on bail on the default of the prosecution in filing charge-sheet within the prescribed period. The right to bail under Section 167(2) proviso (a) thereto is absolute. It is a legislative command and not court’s C discretion. If the investigating agency fails to file charge- sheet before the expiry of 90/60 days, as the case may be, the accused in custody should be released on bail. But at that stage, merits of the case are not to be examined. Not at all. In fact, the Magistrate has no power to remand D a person beyond the stipulated period of 90/60 days. He must pass an of bail and communicate the same to the accused to furnish the requisite bail bonds. The accused cannot, therefore, claim any special right to remain on bail. If the investigation reveals that the E accused has committed a serious offence and charge- sheet is filed, the bail granted under proviso (a) to Section 167(2) could be cancelled.” (emphasis supplied) 28. On analysis of the case law above discussed I have F rather come to the conclusion that a compulsive bail made by a court under Section 167(2) of the Code being one not on merit, when required to be cancelled after the filing of the challan, would not involve any review of a decision made on merit. Such bail is cancellable if the court has reason to entertain the belief that the accused has committed a non-bailable offence and that it G is necessary to arrest him and commit him to custody. The occasion to grant or refuse bail on merit becomes available to the court after the filing of the challan because earlier thereto merit of bail could not figure at the time of the grant of compulsive bail. The goal of the court in any event is to strike a judicial balance H THE STATE THROUGH CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION V. T. 759 GANGI REDDY @ YERRA GANGI REDDY [M. R. SHAH, J.] depending on the exigencies of the situation keeping in view A amongst others the claims of personal liberty and the larger interests of the State. It cannot be overlooked that a bail under Section 167(2) of the Code could even be managed through a convenient investigating officer, however heinous be the crime. The court would have to grant bail under the mandate of law, debarred as it B is to see to the merits of the case at that stage. To say that thenceforth the court is for ever shut to see to the merits of the case, though it otherwise has power to cancel bail, is to deprive it of its elementary function to administer justice and weigh the claims on merit inter se. I would rather loathe for such an interpretation as that would frustrate justice, and would on the other hand let the C court have the power to cancel bail, for once examining the merits of the case in such a situation.” Therefore, as such, even Justice Punchhi, had concurred with the other Hon’ble Judges taking the view that every person released on bail under sub-section (2) of Section 167 Cr.P.C.