However, there had not been any recommendation for conversion of the land from leasehold to freehold; and there was no provision for any such conversion in the allotment letters or the lease deeds. Apart from this, a letter dated 14.01.2016 sent by the Principal Secretary to the State Government to D UPSIDC has also been referred to stating that no transfer of the land allotted to UPSIDC would be permitted except by lease. 11.3. Learned counsel for the respondents have also submitted that the prevailing policy of UPSIDC and other industrial development authorities of the State with respect to allotment or transfer of plots is on E leasehold basis. Given that there has been no conversion of leasehold to freehold as regards nearly 6000 allotments of land by UPSIDC in the subject area, if the petitioner is granted this benefit, the other lessees may also claim the same which would be highly prejudicial to the Government, as also contrary to the rules and regulations of UPSIDC. F 11.4. As regards other submissions on behalf of the petitioner for allowing bipartite sub-leases, learned counsel for the respondent UPSIDC has referred to the stipulation of the allotment letter dated 05.08.2006, including clause 10 that in relation to the allottees of the petitioner, a tripartite lease deed has to be executed with allottee of the developer to G be the lessee, UPSIDC to be the lessor and the developer to be a confirming party. Further, clause 13 of the lease deeds dated 23.08.2006 and 30.03.2009 makes it clear that the lessee has to abide by the terms and conditions of allotment, leaving no room of doubt that the subject property is a leasehold property. It has also been submitted that the petitioner never sought execution of tripartite lease deeds from UPSIDC, H 1088 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A and the original suit filed by the petitioner, being CS No. 257 of 2018, seeking declaration and permanent injunction against respondent No. 2 from enforcing clauses 3(e), (i) and (j) of the lease deed dated 23.08.2006, remains pending before the Trial Court. 12. We have given anxious consideration to the rival submissions B and have perused the material placed on record. 13. As noticed hereinabove, a few contentions have been urged in this matter on behalf of the petitioner as regards the questions relating to the execution of sub-lease deed or against execution of tripartite sub- lease deed and such contentions have been refuted/contested on behalf C of the respondents. We have only taken note of the rival contentions in regard to these questions but, for the reason that these aspects are not forming the part of principal prayer in T. C. (C) No. 82 of 2022 and even other litigations remain pending, we would leave the same at that only and for determination at the appropriate stage in the appropriate proceedings. D 14. The principal question arising for determination in the present matter is whether the petitioner is entitled to seek conversion of the subject land from leasehold to freehold in view of the policy formulated by the respondent No.