There has to be an inconsistency between the two so as to apply the maxim generalia specialibus non derogant. The jurisdiction conferred on the Supreme Court pursuant to the amendment of section 25 of the CPC in 1976 though special, invocation of the jurisdiction of the High Court under section 24 may not come in conflict and defeat section 25, if jurisdiction is still found available to be G exercised in a given case under the former without doing violence to the latter. 38. In our considered opinion, section 25 of the CPC would operate as a bar in cases like the one in Durgesh Sharma (supra); however, 8 (2004) 10 SCC 65 H 1008 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A section 25 of the CPC ~ notwithstanding the scheme envisaged in it ~ does not operate as a complete bar to denude a common High Court, like the Gauhati High Court, to entertain an application under section 24 thereof even for an to transfer a suit, appeal or other proceeding from one State to another State, provided the States concerned are two of the four States in relation to which such High Court still exercises B jurisdiction. This is an opinion formed by us, for the reasons, which we venture to assign now. 39. From the factual matrix vis-à-vis the Constitutional and statutory provisions, there can be no cavil that the courts and tribunals in the States of Assam, Nagaland, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh are C not only under the superintendence of the Gauhati High Court in terms of Article 227, all district courts and courts subordinate thereto in such States are subject to the control of the Gauhati High Court under Article 235 as well as subordinate to the same High Court in terms of section 3 of the CPC. Section 25 has been inserted in the CPC with a definite D purpose of ensuring that no High Court transfers a suit, appeal or other proceeding pending in a Civil Court in one State to a Civil Court in another State. The reason for this is that the High Court to which the application for transfer is made does have the power in law to transfer a suit, appeal or other proceeding to a Civil Court subordinate to it but it does not have any power in law to transfer any of the above to a Civil Court which is E subordinate to another High Court. The same situation that Durgesh Sharma (supra) had to deal with, where the Civil Courts subordinate to the High Court of Madhya Pradesh and the Bombay High Court were involved. This Court had the occasion to hold that if two courts are subordinate to different High Courts, one High Court has no power, F jurisdiction or authority to transfer a case pending in any court subordinate to that High Court to a court subordinate to another High Court and it is only the Supreme Court which may the transfer. The reason for such conclusion seems to be obvious that the High Court, to which an application for transfer is made, does neither enjoy any power of superintendence under Article 227 over the Civil Court to which the G transfer is sought nor can such Civil Court be said to be a court over which the High Court exercises any control of the nature referred to in Article 235.