The appellants urged – much like in the Delhi cases, that if the goods fell within the description of Sl. No. 1(iv)(d) of the Third Schedule of the TNGST Act, they are exempt from tax by virtue of Section 8. Once the goods are exempted by enumeration under the Third Schedule, Section 8 of the State Act operates, to exempt the goods from C levy under the State Act. The subsequent specification of the goods in the First Schedule will have no effect in view of the exemption. The exemption under Section 8 of the TNGST Act is not subject to any restriction or condition as far as Sl. No. 1(iv)(d) of the Third Schedule is concerned. The definition under Sl. No. 1(iv)(d) of the Third Schedule is not restricted to chewing tobacco, but includes preparations containing D chewing tobacco and the word ‘including’ should be construed to enlarge the Entry to comprehend all preparations of chewing tobacco and not restricted to just chewing tobacco. 21. Section 3 of the TNGST Act is the charging section; Section 3(2) enacts as follows: E “(2) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (1), in the case of goods mentioned in the First Schedule, the tax under this Act shall be payable by a dealer, at the rate and at the point specified therein on the turnover in each year relating to such goods.” F 22. Much like Section 7 of the DST Act, Section 8 of the TNGST Act reads as follows: “Subject to such restrictions and conditions as may be prescribed, a dealer who deals in the goods specified in the Third Schedule, shall not be liable to pay any tax under this G Act in respect of such goods.” 23. Serial No. 1 (iv)(d) of the Third Schedule to the TNGST Act (which enumerated exempted articles) read as follows: “1. (iv) Other manufactured tobacco as described against H the heading ’24.04", including- M/S TRIMURTHI FRAGRANCES (P) LTD. THR. ITS DIRECTOR SHRI 1063 PRADEEP KUMAR AGRAWAL v. GOVT. OF N.C.T. OF DELHI THR. ITS PRINCIPAL SECRETARY (FINANCE) [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (a) smoking mixtures for pipes and cigarettes. A (b) cut tobacco (c) Bins (d) Chewing tobacco and preparations containing chewing tobacco. B (e) Snuff of tobacco and preparations containing snuff of tobacco in any proportion” 24. The High Court’s judgement considered all previous decisions of the courts, including the judgement in Kothari ProductsLtd. (supra) as well as s of various High Courts as to whether Panmasala C is tobacco. The court adopted the test indicated as the ‘common parlance test’ i.e., whether a common man understands “panmasala” as tobacco or a product containing tobacco. It held that if the common man is asked to buy chewing tobacco, he may buy an article that is mainly chewing tobacco and in fact falls within the same class of the CET Act D classification, but one would not buy pan masala. It was, therefore, held that pan masala is different from chewing tobacco or even tobacco.