Section 3(1) of the 1936 Act, defined ‘Wakf’ as follows: “3(1) ‘Wakf’ means the permanent dedication or grant of any G property for any purposes recognized by the Musalman law or usage as religious, pious or charitable and, where no deed of Wakf is traceable, includes Wakf by user, and a Wakif means any person who makes such dedication or grant.” 47. Section 38 (1) of the 1936 Act, read as follows: H SABIR ALI KHAN v. SYED MOHD. AHMAD ALI KHAN AND 979 OTHERS [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] “38(1) Every Wakf whether subject to this Act or not and whether A created before or after the commencement of this Act shall be registered at the office of the Central Board of the sect to which the Wakf belongs. (Emphasis Supplied) B 48. It is, no doubt, true that in Fazlul Rabbi Pradhan (supra), in the context of the question whether the waqfs were affected by the passing of the West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953, and, in that, the waqf in question fell within the definition of the words ‘charitable purpose’ and ‘religious purpose’, the Court held, inter alia, as follows: C “13. These cases led to agitation in India and the Mussalman Wakf Validating Act 1913 (6 of 1913) was passed. It declared the rights of Mussulmans to make settlements of property by way of wakf in favour of their families, children and descendants. For the purposes of the Validating Act the term “wakf” was defined to mean “the permanent dedication by a person professing the D Mussalman faith of any property for any purpose recognized by the Mussalman law as religious, pious or charitable”. This gave a wider meaning to the word wakf but only for the purpose of taking them out of the invalidity which would have otherwise existed and which was already authoritatively stated to have so existed. E 14. After the passage of these two Acts wakfs, in which the object was the aggrandisement of families of wakifs without a pretence of charity in the ordinary sense, became valid and operative. But the intention of the Validating Act was not to give a new meaning to the word “charity” which in common parlance is a word denoting a giving to someone in necessitous F circumstances and in law a giving for public good. A private gift to one’s own self or kith and kin may be meritorious and pious but is not a charity in the legal sense and the courts in India have never regarded such gifts as for religious or charitable purposes even under the Mahomedan law. It was ruled in Syed Mohiuddin G Ahmed v. Sofia Khatun [44 CWN 974] that neither the Wakf Validating Act 1913 nor the Shariat Act 1937 had the effect of abrogating the Privy Council decisions on the meaning of “charitable purpose” as such.” H 980 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 49. No doubt, the Court was dealing with a case of a waqf-alal- aulad.