It considered that the demand in the city is for lower income and middle- income housing rather than housing for the rich and affluent. It further considered that a situation like this will D predictably lead to proliferation of slums required to service the higher density of highest income group people. It further considered that the planning for support and supply of infrastructure would not be sufficient to meet the growth in population density on account of apartmentalization. 62. The said Board also considered that the introduction of the E 2001 Rules would lead to further increase in real estate prices. It considered that this will be in stark contradiction to the original aspect of creating more affordable housing, whereby the character of the city will be lost, and the gains will also not be significant. It considered that Chandigarh is today known throughout the world for being one of the best planned urban environment, due to the high proportion of open space, F social facilities, civic amenities and infrastructure per living unit. It considered that the introduction of the 2001 Rules by itself does not have any provision to add these essential services and facilities within the existing built-up environment. It stated that this will only add residential density while ignoring other urban infrastructure thereby being detrimental G to the city environment, and will only lead to the long-term decline of the city. 63. It could thus be seen that the Report clearly opposed reintroduction of the 2001 Rules. The Report has been duly accepted and all references regarding re-introduction of the 2001 Rules have been deleted in the Final CMP-2031, which was notified on 23rd April 2015. H 636 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A VIII. CHANDIGARH MASTER PLAN-2031: 64. Clause 1.2 of the CMP-2031 would reveal that the original plan of Phase-I divided the city into a grid of 30 sectors with the Capitol Complex as well as the Civic Centre. Sector 17 was designed as the Central Business District. It provided that, the greenbelt at the centre ran north east to south east. Wide roads were planned in a systematic B hierarchy providing structure to the city which has well planned facilities. Landscaped green avenues give it amenity value. It states that the First Phase which is considered as city’s Historic Core was designed for population of 1,50,000 in low rise plotted development. Phase-II from Sectors 31 to 47 for the remaining targeted 3,50,000 was with 4-storeyed C apartments for government employees with an increase in the ratio of smaller plots/lesser open areas/nearly four times increase in density. Though there is a reference that the original concept itself included redensification of Phase-I, no details with regard to the same were available. D 65. A perusal of the CMP-2031 would reveal that while finalizing the CMP-2031, the Expert Committee took into consideration the preservation of original concept of the plan, maintaining the basic character of the town, preserving ecology and environment, heritage status of the city, promoting sustainable urban development etc.