In the of the Sessions Court (Sessions Case No.462 of 1994), the accused no.1 has been described as Narayan Chetanram Chaudhary. Thus, we find that he had used the name of Chetanram as his middlename at the time of his trial, which obviously refers to his father’s name. He has F been consistent in describing his father’s name. Now, the question we will have to address is as to whether the very act of posing himself as Niranaram at such a belated stage is to be accepted or not. In paragraphs 53 and 54 of the Inquiry Report we find that the Inquiring Judge had accepted the stand of the applicant that Narayan and Niranaram is the G same person. 18.The applicant has sought to establish his identity as Niranaram relying on a series of documents where his father’s name has been shown as Chetanram. These include three documents originating from the school, Rajkiya Adarsh Uccha Madhyamik Vidyala, Jalabsar. The H 1088 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A said institution is a government school. It uses the letterhead of the State Government with the national emblem. Copies of these documents have been marked “I-1”, “I-2” and “I-3” in the Inquiry Report. The Tehsildar of Shri Dungargarh, Bikaner has also issued a certificate dated 10th August 2009 to the effect that Niranaram is bonafide resident of the Jalabsar and he has been referred to therein as son of Chetanram. The B father’s name of the applicant also appears in the OBC Certificate, which is marked “I-5” to the application. This certificate is also dated 10th August 2009. A certificate by one Gauradevi, the Sarpanch of Udrasar gram panchayat, Shri Dungargarh records that Narayan Chaudhary is the same person as Niranaram. Subsequently, we find C from the report of the Inquiring Judge that both Gauradevi and her son had disowned issuing any such certificate. But in the same report, it has been recorded by the Inquiring Judge that he had matched the signature of Gauradevi appearing in the said certificate with her signature in another document and found them to be identical. This appears from paragraph 50 of the report which we have quoted above. In the Pariwar Card of D Chetanram, which is annexure “L-I” to the report, ‘Anada’, ‘Mukhram’ and ‘Nirana’ have been referred to as his sons. This also has different dates. The year 1989 appears to be the date of issue whereas the inspection dates show 22nd September 1991 and 17th February 1992. In the said card, the applicant’s age is shown to be 12 years. Thus, there E are age variations of the applicant as appearing in the family card with that of the school records and we shall deal with that aspect later in this . We are referring to these documents here mainly to examine the applicant’s claim that he is the son of Chetanram. In the case of Raju (supra), it has been observed that the name of the father on certificate can be a factor for identifying a person with two names F floating.