The defendant no. 2 was apparently RAMATHAL AND ORS. v. K. RAJAMANI (DEAD) 355 THROUGH LRS. AND ANR. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] apprehensive that in case if the plaintiff s came to know of the contents of the Power of Attorney, which authorises defendant no. 2 to sell the land, they would have cancelled it. So, without taking any chances as any delay would frustrate his malicious intent, he executed the sale deed in favour of his own father and brother for a nominal amount. (v). The First Appellate Court had rightly determined the plea of non est factum as one of the points of consideration, which was based upon the pleadings and did not require any specifi c issue to be framed but the same would be squarely covered as part of the issues already framed. (vi). The High Court fell in error in holding that there was no pleading, which is contrary to the record. (vii). Reliance has been placed upon the following judgements by learned counsel for the appellant in support of his submissions: a) Smt. Bismillah vs. Janeshwar Prasad and Others1, b) Sri Sinna Ramunuja Jeer and Others vs. Sri Ranga Ramanuja Jeer and Another2, c) Randhir Kaur vs. Prithvi Pal Singh and Others3. 14. On the other hand, submissions advanced on behalf of the respondents are summarised as under: (i). The plaintiff s, having admitted the execution of the Power of Attorney, its contents could not be disputed. (ii). The plaintiff s, having pleaded that they acquired knowledge of the Power of Attorney in 1988, did not take any action for either revoking the Power of Attorney or for cancellation of the sale deed, or any criminal action, and it was almost after three years that the suit was instituted in the year 1991. (iii). The First Appellate Court did not reverse the fi ndings of the Trial Court that the sale consideration of Rs. 12,000/- was paid 1 (1990) 1 SCC 207 2 (1962) 2 SCR 509 3 (2019) 17 SCC 71 356 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. to the plaintiff s. The fi nding on possession was in favour of the defendants, as the plaintiff s did not produce any documentary evidence to prove their possession, whereas the defendants had fi led documents (D-03 to D-14) to establish their possession. (iv). The plaintiff s had wrongly pleaded that they were illiterate, whereas in fact the High Court had recorded the fi nding that they are literate and were ably assisted by their brothers and cousins in executing the Power of Attorney. The plaintiff s did not plead any kind of fraud by the defendants. (v). The Power of Attorney being a registered document, its contents would be deemed to be correct unless proven otherwise. There is a presumption of the correctness of the contents of the Power of Attorney. (vi). The suit was not maintainable as no relief was claimed for setting aside the Power of Attorney or for cancellation of the sale deed.