3000/- and had shown readiness and willingness to deliver the possession of it to the plaintiff. G To make matters worse, the High Court has failed to consider the crucial issue whether the plaintiff is entitled to possession of the suit land on the strength of the registered Ext.128 sale deed executed by the defendants. 31. The long and short of this long discussion is that for all the reasons mentioned above, the decision of the High Court on the validity H 198 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A of the sale transaction covered under the sale deed dated 04.07.1978 executed by the second defendant in favour of the first defendant, in terms of the provisions under the Fragmentation Act (when that question was not legally available to be considered in the subject suit) and the virtual declaration of the said sale as void, are absolutely unsustainable. It is the product of erroneous assumption of jurisdiction and also erroneous B and perverse appreciation of evidence. It being the foundation for holding the registered sale deed dated 21.04.1979 (Ext.128) as void under Sub- section (1) of Section 9 of the Fragmentation Act, it is unsustainable. The various reasons mentioned above would support our conclusion as above. C 32. Having held as above, we will now proceed to consider the question whether the upturning of the and decree of the First Appellate Court, which held the sale deed dated 21.04.1979 (Ext.128) as one transferring ownership of the suit land by the plaintiff, by the High Court can be sustained. There can be no doubt with respect to the D position that where a deed of sale had been duly executed and registered, its delivery and payment of consideration have been endorsed thereon it would amount to a full transfer of ownership so as to entitle its purchaser to maintain a suit for possession of the property sold. The very object of the mandate for registration of transfer of an immovable property worth more than Rs. 100/- under Section 54 of the Transfer of Property Act, E 1882, read with Section 17 of the Indian Registration Act, is primarily to give certainty to title. When execution is challenged, registration by itself is no proof of execution and proof of complying with Section 67 of the Evidence Act is necessary. There can be no reason to disbelieve a recital contained in a registered sale deed regarding payment of consideration, F executed by the vendor. Hence, if it is said to have already been paid, going by the registered sale deed, certainly it is for the vendor asserting non-passing of consideration to prove the said asserted fact. Bearing in mind the aforesaid aspects the aforesaid question has to be approached. 33. It is common case that the sale deed dated 21.04.1979 G (Ext.128) is registered and its executants viz., the first defendant endorsed its execution and fully endorsed its contents and the second executant viz., the second defendant also endorsed its execution, but depose differently on its intention.