The suspension passed against the theater in question was the subject matter of challenge in the two writ petitions and the suspension was kept in abeyance. The theater continued to operate. It is nearly 17 years after the dated 24.12.1979, on 13.06.1997 that a fire broke out which led to the unfortunate passing away of 59 persons B besides injury to several others. He would, therefore, point out that, at best or at worst, what could be projected against the appellant could not take it out of the ambit of Section 197. In other words, it could not be said despite all that has happened that he was not exercising power which flowed from his office. He did whatever he did in the discharge C of his official functions. Section 197 immunisesa person if his act is in exercise of his official power. Whichever way one looks at it, whatever he has done, or even if there is an excess, even if there has been negligence, he would be entitled in law to the protection afforded by Section 197 of the Cr.P.C. The Courts have ignored this salutary principle enshrined in Section 197 of the Cr.P.C. The principle enshrined by Section D 197 of the Cr.P.C. is intended to protect public servants. It is not to be confused with the question as to whether an offence has been committed. The law mandates that once the person against whom cognizance is taken was holding a public office within the meaning of Section 197 of the Cr.P.C. and the act or omission attributed to him is done in the discharge E of his official duties or in the purported exercise of his official duties, it would be completely illegal for the judicial officer concerned to move the law forward against him by taking cognizance in the absence of sanction. In the facts of the case before the Court, he would submit that it was clear that whatever he did or did not, it arose within the discharge of his official functions. In this regard, he drew inspiration from the F following decisions: (5) In D. Devaraja v. Owais Sabeer Hussain (2020) 7 SCC 695, he drew our attention to the following: “71. If the act alleged in a complaint purported to be filed against G the policeman is reasonably connected to discharge of some official duty, cognizance thereof cannot be taken unless requisite sanction of the appropriate Government is obtained under Section 197 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and/or Section 170 of the Karnataka Police Act. H AMOD KUMAR KANTH v. ASSOCIATION OF VICTIM OF 675 UPHAAR TRAGEDY AND ANR. 74. It is well settled that an application under Section 482 of the A Criminal Procedure Code is maintainable to quash proceedings which are ex facie bad for want of sanction, frivolous or in abuse of process of court. If, on the face of the complaint, the act alleged appears to have a reasonable relationship with official duty, where the criminal proceeding is apparently prompted by mala fides and B instituted with ulterior motive, power under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code would have to be exercised to quash the proceedings, to prevent abuse of process of court.” (6) Next, he drew our attention to Indra Devi v. State of Rajasthan and Another (2021) 8 SCC 768 to the following paragraphs: C “10.