E Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 – Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 2017 – Is the Tamil Nadu Amendment Act, in pith and substance, to ensure the survival and well-being of the native breed of bulls? Is the Act, in pith and substance, relatable to Article 48 of the Constitution of India – Held: F The Tamil Nadu Amendment Act is not in pith and substance, to ensure survival and well-being of the native breeds of bulls – The said Act is also not relatable to Article 48 of the Constitution of India – Incidental impact of the said Amendment Act may fall upon the breed of a particular type of bulls and affect agricultural activities, but in pith and substance the Act is relatable to Entry 17 G of List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India. Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 – Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 2017 – Does the Tamil Nadu Amendment Act go contrary to Articles 51A(g) and 51A(h), and could it be said, therefore, to be unreasonable and H 428 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A violative of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India – Held: The Tamil Nadu Amendment Act does not go contrary to the Articles 51-A (g) and 51-A(h) and it does not violate the provisions of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India. Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 – Prevention of B Cruelty to Animals (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 2017 – Is the impugned Tamil Nadu Amendment Act directly contrary to the in A. Nagaraja, and the review dated 16.11.2016 in the aforesaid case, and whether the defects pointed out in the aforesaid two s could be said to have been overcome by the Tamil Nadu Legislature by enacting the impugned Tamil Nadu C Amendment Act – Held: The Tamil Nadu Amendment Act read along with the Rules framed in that behalf is not directly contrary to the ratio of the in the case of A. Nagaraja and of this Court delivered on 16.11.2016 dismissing the plea for Review of the A. Nagaraja as the defects pointed out in the D aforesaid two s have been overcome by the State Amendment Act read with the Rules made in that behalf. Constitution of India – Art. 48 – Recognising rights of animals – By virtue of Article 48 of the Constitution of India which essentially operates as a national guideline for law makers, a two-way path E has been devised – The first is imposing duty on the State to organise agriculture and animal husbandry on modern and scientific lines – The second is emphasising the duty of the State to take steps for preserving and improving the breeds and prohibiting slaughter of cows and calves and other milch and draught cattle. Answering the referred questions, the Court F HELD: 1. On the question of conferring fundamental right on animals there is no precedent.