Firstly, he did not make disclosure to anyone of having witnessed the incident even though the villagers had arrived and congregated at the spot in sufficient numbers to instil confidence in any person to make a disclosure against any person regardless of his position. Secondly, instead of giving his statement to the investigating agency, the witness got an affidavit prepared from a lawyer, who prepared not one C but three affidavits identically worded. One was of PW15 and the other two were of those two persons who could not appear as witnesses during the trial. This would indicate that those affidavits were prepared on legal advice. Thirdly, PW15’s version that Anil Kumar took out a country made pistol to shoot the deceased appears improbable for two reasons, D namely, there was no proven motive to commit such an act and once they had already fired from their rifles they could easily have used the same to kill the deceased by giving the incident a colour of an encounter. 23. In respect of the incriminating circumstances such as the presence of the accused persons at the spot, use of service rifle to fire E shots and killing of the deceased by policemen, it was submitted that they by themselves are insufficient to constitute a chain so far complete as to indicate that in all human probability it were the accused and no one else who committed the crime. Rather, there existed circumstances, proven on record, such as the presence of few empty cartridges at the spot which were not fired from rifles issued to the three accused, which F indicated the presence of some other person also and possibility of the incident occurring in some other manner than set out by the prosecution. 24. Highlighting all the above points, the learned counsel for the respondents submitted that this is not a case where the and of the High Court be interfered with. G Analysis 25. We have considered the rival submissions and have perused the record. 26. At the outset, we may observe that no doubt the H and of the High Court appears a bit cryptic but that by itself need CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. SHYAM BIHARI 475 & OTHERS [MANOJ MISRA, J.] not be a ground for us to set aside the and remit the matter to the A High Court, particularly, when we have the relevant record to assess the merit of the prosecution case. More so, because the incident is of the year 1987 and the appeal has remained pending since more than a decade. In such circumstances, if we remit the matter to the High Court only to rewrite the , it would be travesty of justice. Consequently, as B the trial court has dealt with the matter at great length and has discussed each and every piece of evidence on which the prosecution seeks to rely, it would be apposite for us to assess whether, by not granting leave to appeal against the of the trial court, there has been a miscarriage of justice.