The learned Judge said: “36. If a pyramidical structure is to be imagined, with life on D top, personal liberty (and all the rights it encompasses under the new doctrine) immediately below it and other fundamental rights below personal liberty it is obvious that this will apply only to death sentence cases. In most other cases, the factors mentioned by Krishna Iyer, J. in particular the E Supreme Court’s overcrowded docket, and the fact that a full oral hearing has preceded of a criminal appeal on merits, may tilt the balance the other way.” Therefore, the importance of the right to personal liberty over and above all the other rights guaranteed under Articles 19 and 14 need hardly to be over-emphasized. F 103. Therefore, our answer to Question No.3 would be that the State is under a duty to affirmatively protect the rights of a person under Article 21, whenever there is a threat to personal liberty, even by a non-State actor. G Question No.4 104. Question No.4 referred to us is this: “Can a statement made by a Minister, traceable to any affairs of the State or for protecting the 106 Anup Surendranath in his Article “Life and Personal Liberty” in The Oxford Handbook of the Indian Constitution (South Asia Edition), 2016 H 692 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Government, be attributed vicariously to the Government itself, especially in view of the principle of Collective Responsibility?” 105. The above question revolves around the role and responsibility of a Minister and the vicarious liability/responsibility of a Government to any statement made by him. For answering the said question, we may B need to understand the role of a Minister under our Constitutional scheme. 106. Part V of the Constitution providing for matters connected with “The Union” contains five chapters, dealing respectively with, (i) the Executive; (ii) Parliament; (iii) Legislative powers of the President; (iv) the Union Judiciary; and (v) Comptroller and Auditor General of C India. Part VI of the Constitution dealing with “The States” contains six chapters, dealing respectively with, (i) general provision containing the definitions; (ii) the Executive; (iii) the State Legislature; (iv) Legislative power of the Governor; (v) the High Courts in the States; and (vi) Subordinate Courts. 107. While Articles 74 and 75 provide for, (i) ‘Council of Ministers D to aid and advise the President’; and (ii) ‘Other provisions as to Ministers’, insofar as the Union is concerned, Articles 163 and 164 provide for, (i) ‘Council of Ministers to aid and advise the Governor’; and (ii) ‘Other provisions as to Ministers’, insofar as the States are concerned. Similarly, Article 77 provides for the conduct of business of the E Government of India and Article 166 provides for the conduct of business of the Government of a State. The duties of the Prime Minister are dealt with in Article 78 and the duties of Chief Ministers are dealt with in Article 167. 108. Article 75(3) states that “the Council of Ministers shall be F collectively responsible to the House of the People.” Similarly, Article 164(2) states “the Council of Ministers shall be collectively responsible to the Legislative Assembly of the State”.