58. We consider it appropriate to refer the following issue, to be G authoritatively settled by a Constitution Bench of five Judges of this Court: “Whether the statutory bar contained in Section 35 of the Stamp Act, 1899 applicable to instruments chargeable to stamp duty under Section 3 read with the Schedule to the Act, would also H 428 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A render the arbitration agreement contained in such an instrument, which is not chargeable to payment of stamp duty, as being non-existent, unenforceable, or invalid, pending payment of stamp duty on the substantive contract/instrument?” 10. Thus, the correctness of the decisions in SMS Tea(supra), B Garware(supra), Vidya Drolia(supra), as well as other relevant decisions is to be evaluated during the course of the reference. It has been brought to the notice of this Court that conflicting decisions have created a vexed situation for arbitral proceedings and hence, this issue is expected to be settled through this reference. C 11. The background facts in NN Global (supra) which gave rise to this reference are to be noted at the outset: C. Facts in N.N. Global7 12. Indo Unique Flame Ltd. (for short “Indo Unique Flame”) entered into a sub-contract Work with N.N. Global Mercantile D Pvt. Ltd (“NN Global”) on 28.09.2015 for transportation of coal. In terms of Clause 9 of the Work , NN Global furnished a Bank Guarantee to Indo Unique. Clause 10 of the Work provided for an arbitration clause. Due to certain disputes in the principal contrAct, Indo Unique invoked the Bank Guarantee furnished by NN Global. Thereafter, NN Global filed a Civil Suit before the Commercial Court, E Nagpur. An application under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 was also filed seeking reference of the disputes to arbitration. The Commercial Court on 18.01.2018 rejected the application under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 holding that the Bank Guarantee was an independent contract. Thereafter, Indo Unique filed a Writ Petition F against the of the Commercial Court. On 30.9.2020, the Bombay High Court allowed the application under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996. It held that the non-stamping of Work can be raised at the stage of Section 11 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 or before the Arbitral Tribunal at the appropriate stage. It set aside the of the Commercial Court on 18.01.2018. An appeal was filed in this Court G where NN Global contended that since the sub-contract was not stamped under the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958, the arbitration agreement would be rendered ‘unenforceable’. It is in this context that the Court doubted the correctness of previous decisions in Garware (supra) which H 7 (2021) 4 SCC 379 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 429 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] was cited with approval in Vidya Drolia (supra) declaring such A arbitration agreements to not exist in law and reconsideration of the issue was sought from this Constitution Bench. D. Modification of the reference question: 13.