Because, in such a scenario, it would be logical to expect that the police would have left no nook and corner of that building unscanned. For all the reasons above, we doubt the recovery of clothes at the instance of Santosh and thereby discard the circumstance of recovery of clothes D at his instance. 76. Having doubted the recovery of clothes at the instance of Santosh, the circumstance that the clothes carried blood of same group as of the deceased is rendered meaningless because there is no admissible evidence to connect the clothes with the two accused. The disclosure E statement made to the police, even if not discarded, was not admissible for proving that the clothes recovered were the one which the accused were wearing at the time of murder. The reason being that only so much of the disclosure would be admissible under Section 27 of the IEA, 1872 as distinctly relates to the fact thereby discovered which, in the instant F case, would be the place where the clothes were concealed. 77. In Pulukuri Kottaya & Others v. Emperor25, the Privy Council, while discussing the extent to which the disclosure information provided by the accused to the police is admissible under Section 27 of the IEA, 1872, held: G “it is fallacious to treat the ‘fact discovered’ within the section as equivalent to the object produced; the fact discovered embraces the place from which the object is produced and the knowledge of the accused as to this, and the information given must relate distinctly to this fact. Information as to past H 25 AIR 1947 PC 67 SANTOSH @ BHURE v. STATE (G.N.C.T.) OF DELHI 767 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] user, or the past history, of the object produced is not related A to its discovery in the setting in which it is discovered. Information supplied by a person in custody that ‘ I will produce a knife concealed in the roof of my house’ does not lead to the discovery of a knife; knives were discovered many years ago. It leads to the discovery of the fact that a knife is B concealed in the house of the informant, and if the knife is proved to have been used in the commission of the offence, the fact discovered is very relevant. But if to the statement the words be added ‘with which I stabbed A’, these words are inadmissible since they do not relate to the discovery of the knife in the house of the informant.” C (Emphasis supplied) 78. In K. Chinnaswamy Reddy v. State of A.P. & Another26, a three-judge Bench of this Court, while agreeing with the view expressed by Privy Council in Pulukuri Kottaya (supra), clarified the law in following terms: D “10. … It is only that part which distinctly relates to the discovery which is admissible; but if any part of the statement distinctly relates to the discovery it will be admissible wholly and the court cannot say that it will excise one part of the statement because it is of a confessional nature.