However, such constitutional remedies could be availed only when the s passed by the Settlement Commission are contrary to the provisions of the Act or have prejudiced the Revenue/assessee or that they are vitiated by bias, fraud or malice. Thus, the learned Single Judge erred in fi nding fault with the validity of the after having approved the jurisdiction and procedure followed by the Settlement Commission. ii. That the learned Single Judge ought to have appreciated that Section 245C contemplates full and true disclosure of income to be made before the Settlement Commission alone and to that extent the provisions of Section 245C are unambiguous and certain. The application to the Settlement Commission to be fi led under Section 245C ought to contain full and true disclosure of income that was not disclosed in the returns/revised returns 10 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. filed before the Assessing Officer. That the learned Single Judge misdirected himself in holding that there is a statutory requirement that concealment of particulars before the Assessing Offi cer would have a bearing while the Settlement Commission exercises its powers under Section 245H of the Act for grant of immunity from prosecution and penalty. That Section 245H bestows exclusively upon the Settlement Commission, the discretion to grant immunity to an applicant from prosecution for any off ence under the Act or grant of immunity wholly or in part from the imposition of penalty under the Act. The only precondition for granting immunity to the applicant is that the applicant must have co-operated in the proceedings before the Settlement Commission and made full and true disclosure of his income and the manner in which such income has been derived before the Settlement Commission. Thus, the learned Single Judge erred in drawing reference to the possibility of concealment of income before the Assessing Offi cer. iii. That the learned Single Judge failed to appreciate the diff erence between the provisions of Section 245H and Section 27l(l)(c) of the Act. Section 245H does not contemplate off ering of any explanation or evidence by an applicant to the satisfaction of the Settlement Commission. If the Settlement Commission is satisfi ed that an applicant has complied with the precondition specifi ed therein, the Settlement Commission could exercise its discretion to grant immunity from prosecution and penalty. Therefore, there was no error committed by the Settlement Commission in granting immunity from prosecution and penalty. 2.12. In the meanwhile, Revenue preferred Special Leave Petition (C) CC No. 19663 of 2010 before this Court against the dated 20.05.2010 passed by the learned Single Judge in Writ Petition No. 12239 of 2008. On 06.01.2012, this Court directed the Special Leave Petition to stand over for eight weeks and directed the Settlement Commission to dispose of the matter remanded to it by the High Court. In pursuance of the dated 06.01.2012 passed by this Court, the Settlement Commission, Chennai, issued a notice in the remanded matter on 30.01.2012. KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. v. COMMISSIONER OF 11 INCOME TAX BANGALORE [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.]