3.2 It is submitted that this can also happen in the case of “designs & drawings”. It is submitted that a set of tailor made drawings and designs or readymade drawings and designs would constitute a distinct clause when compared to preparation of drawings and designs under a G contract of service for a specific customer to suit his specifications. 3.3 Shri N. Venkataraman, learned ASG has heavily relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of BSNL v. Union of India, reported in (2006) 3 SCC 1 (paras 44 & 45), in support of his submission on the distinction between sale of goods and a contract of service. On the H 330 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A decision of this Court in the case of BSNL (supra) and the distinction between sale of goods and a contract of service, Shri N. Venkataraman has made the following submissions: a) it held that sale in the conventional sense would mean the Gannon Dunkerly test and, deemed sale involving both goods and B services would be limited only to a work contract and food contract; b) It made it clear that Article 366(29A) does not give a license to assume that a transaction is a sale and then to look around for what could be the goods. This would be an incorrect approach since the expression goods had not been altered by the 46th C amendment and the ingredients of sale continues to have the same definition; c) However, this does not mean that the content of the concepts remain static, and the Courts must move with times; d) It proceeded to hold that Article 366(29A) does not seek to D cover hospital services, lawyer services and other professional services, where during the course of rendering such services, there may be a transfer of goods; e) Treatment of a patient in a hospital and administration of pills in the course of a treatment would not tantamount to sale; E f)When a doctor writes out and hands over a prescription or a lawyer drafts a document and delivers it to his/her client, strictly speaking, with a payment of fees, consideration does not pass from the patient or client to the doctor or lawyer for the documents in both the cases; F g) However, these are mere services and do not involve a sale for the purposes of Entry 54 List 2; h) The reason is that ultimately one has to apply the Gannon Dunkerly test. If there is an instrument of contract which may be composite in form, in any case other than the exceptions in Article G 366(29A), unless the transaction in truth represents two distinct and separate contracts and is discernible as such, then the State would not have the power to separate the agreement to sell from the agreement to render service and impose tax on sale; H COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE & SERVICE 331 TAX v. M/S SUZLON ENERGY LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.]