Savings.— (2) Nothing contained in this Act shall be deemed to aff ect any right recognised by custom or conferred by any special enactment to obtain the dissolution of a Hindu marriage, whether solemnized before or after the commencement of this Act.” SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1519 OF INDIA [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] sections 4(d)9 and section 15 (e)10 saves customary practices, without which the marriage would have been otherwise null and void. Same is the case with the proviso to section 4(d) of the Foreign Marriage Act, 196911. Legislative accommodation of customary practices is also refl ected in section 5 of the Anand Marriage Act, 190912. 8. The legal regulation of the institution of marriage, as it exists today, involves regulation of the solemnisation or ceremony of marriage, the choice of the partner, the number of partners, the qualifying age of marriage despite having attained majority, conduct within the marriage and conditions for exit from the marriage. 9 “4. Conditions relating to solemnization of special marriages.―Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force relating to the solemnization of marriages, a marriage between any two persons may be solemnized under this Act, if at the time of the marriage the following conditions are fulfi lled, namely:― (d) the parties are not within the degrees of prohibited relationship: Provided that where a custom governing at least one of the parties permits of a marriage between them, such marriage may be solemnized, notwithstanding that they are within the degrees of prohibited relationship;” 10 15. Registration of marriages celebrated in other forms.―Any marriage celebrated, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, other than a marriage solemnized under the Special Marriage Act, 1872 (3 of 1872), or under this Act, may be registered under this Chapter by a Marriage Offi cer in the territories to which this Act extends if the following conditions are fulfi lled, namely:― (e) the parties are not within the degrees of prohibited relationship: Provided that in the case of a marriage celebrated before the commencement of this Act, this condition shall be subject to any law, custom or usage having the force of law governing each of them which permits of a marriage between the two” 11 “4. Conditions relating to solemnization of foreign marriages.—A marriage between parties one of whom at least is a citizen of India may be solemnized under this Act by or before a Marriage Offi cer in a foreign country, if, at the time of the marriage, the following conditions are fulfi lled, namely:— (d) the parties are not within the degrees of prohibited relationship: Provided that where the personal law or a custom governing at least one of the parties permits of a marriage between them, such marriage may be solemnized, notwithstanding that they are within the degrees of prohibited relationship.” 12 5. Non-validation of marriages within prohibited degrees.—Nothing in this Act shall be deemed to validate any marriage between persons who are related to each other in any degree of consanguinity or affi nity which would, according to the customary law of the Sikhs, render a marriage between them illegal.” 152 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.