This provision does not, in any way, affect the power of the Investigating Officer to further investigate the case even after submission of the report as F provided in sub section (8) of Section 173 of the Code. Therefore, considering all these provisions, in my view, the Magistrate can reopening of the investigation even after acceptance of the final report “making closure report”. 9. In the instant case, the learned Principal Special Judge for CBI Cases has passed the impugned on the petition G filed by the Investigating Officer, Inspector, CBI/ACB. It is now clear that sub section (8) of section 173 of Cr.P.C gives power to the Investigating Officer to reopen the investigation in the case in which final report had been submitted earlier and after completing the investigation fresh report has to be H 174 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A submitted before the learned Special Judge under sub section (2) of Section 173 of the Code. Of course, this can be done only on such fresh materials which did not come to the knowledge of the Investigating Officer, while he was conducting the investigation and in my view, exactly the same situation prevailed in this case. B 11. The same view has also been taken in the decision of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in State of Rajasthan Vs. Aruna Devi and others (1995-SCC-Crl-1) wherein it was held that acceptance of final report by Magistrate does not debar him from taking cognizance of the offence if on further C investigation fresh materials come to light. 12. Mr. N. Chandrasekaran, the learned Special Public Prosecutor has contended that there is no legal bar to the reopening of the investigation of any case in which closure report has been submitted if there are sufficient, cogent fresh D materials to proceed against the accused persons. I find all force in his submissions. Having considered the rival contentions of both the parties, I am of the opinion that in view of the facts that the Inspector CBI/ACB has collected some fresh materials connected with this case, which were E not available to the Investigating Officer earlier, it cannot be said that the learned Principal Special Judge for CBI cases had acted beyond its jurisdiction by ing reopening of the investigation of the case. 13. For the reasons stated above, I find full force in the contentions raised by the learned Special Public Prosecutor F for CBI Cases. I, therefore, do not find any illegality in the impugned which warrants any interference by this court.” (Emphasis supplied) G 79. It goes without saying that the aforesaid delivered by the learned Single Judge of the High Court was very much binding to a Co-ordinate Bench when the Crl. O.P. Nos. 15873 and 11101 of 2015 respectively and Crl. O.P. No. 411 of 2016 were heard and decided. These are the matters, which were filed by the accused persons seeking discharge from the criminal proceedings. We may reproduce some of H STATE THROUGH CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. 175 HEMENDHRA REDDY & ANOTHER.