9/3, Village – Veshvi, Gavan Phata, Chirner Road, Opp. Forces CFS, Taluka – Uran, Raigad. The policy document specifi ed the address of the insured as ‘Mudit Roadways, 7 2022 SCC OnLine 1451 NEW INDIA ASSURANCE CO. LTD. & ORS. v. M/S. MUDIT 1039 ROADWAYS [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] Survey No. 9/3, Opp. Forbes CSF, Chirner Road, Village - Veshvi, Uran, MH1369, MH-4000702.’ In addition, the impugned rightly points out that the warehouse was physically verifi ed by the Customs Authorities after which telephone and electricity connections were provided to the insured at the same address. All communication addressed to the claimants, including letters of repudiation from the insurance company, admit to having insured the premises located at the given address. 35. Therefore, looking at the policy documents, the Leave & License Agreement and various communications received from the customs, police, fi re & electricity departments, it is reasonable to conclude that the insured premises was the one that was identifi ed and insured at Survey No. 9/3, by the insurance company. Needless to say, there is nothing to conclude that the area where the fi re occurred on 14.03.2018 was not covered by the said insurance policy. ALTERATION TO INSURED PREMISES & RISK INCREASE 36. To consider this aspect, Clause 3 in the insurance policy is relevant which reads as below: “3. Under any of the following circumstances the insurance ceases to attach as regards the property aff ected unless the insured, before the occurrence of any loss or damage, obtains the sanction of the Company signifi ed by endorsement upon the policy by or on behalf of the Company:- (a) If the trade or manufacture carried on be altered, or if the nature of the occupation of or other circumstances aff ecting the building insured or containing the insured property be changed in such a way as to increase the risk of loss or damage by Insured Perils. (b) If the building insured or containing the insured property becomes unoccupied and so remains for a period of more than 30 days. (c) If the interest in the property passes from the insured otherwise than by will or operation of law.” 37. Clause 3(a) indicates that the insurance policy would cease to be applicable or cover the insured premises in certain cases where there 104 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. is an increased risk of loss or damage to the insured premises or goods within it. In this case, the insured had undertaken repairs on the rooftop to prevent water leakage to the warehouse. Such essential repair work on the rooftop by itself, cannot be reasonably construed to be an alteration that would increase the risk of loss or damage, as has been urged by the insurance company. In our assessment, the said repair work would not fall in the category of an alteration which would increase the risk insured for the warehouse premises. Therefore, no infi rmity is seen with the view taken by the NCDRC on the same.