108. In response to the in Chahal (supra), the Government of the United Kingdom passed the Special Immigration C Appeals Commission Act 1997 which paved the way for security-cleared Special Advocates to represent the applicant in substantive proceedings that take place behind closed doors. The material is not disclosed to the claimant. However, the Special Advocate represents the interest of the party before the court though they are not permitted to interact with to the claimant about the non-disclosable security evidence in the closed D proceedings. For all purposes, closed material proceedings are similar to the sealed cover procedure, except that a security cleared lawyer is appointed to counterbalance the limitations on procedural guarantees. The Terrorism Act 2000 prescribes a similar procedure. Since then the Courts in the United Kingdom have been using Special Advocates in E civil proceedings, quasi-criminal proceedings86, and in public interest immunity claims.87 The Special Advocate serves two purposes : firstly, to seek maximum possible disclosure of closed material; and secondly, to test by cross-examination and make submissions on any material that remains closed.88 F (III) Public Interest Immunity 109. The Evidence Act prescribes rules precluding disclosure of certain communications and evidence. Section 123 stipulates that no 85 Article 5(4): “Everyone who is deprived of his liberty by arrest or detention shall be G entitled to take proceedings by which the lawfulness of his detention shall be decided speedily by a court and his release ed if the detention is not lawful.” 86 Roberts v. Parole Board, (2005) 2 AC 738 87 R v. H, (2004) AC 134 88 Martin Chamberlain, Special Advocates and Amici Curiae in National Security proceedings in the United Kingdom, The University of Toronto Law Journal , Summer 2018, Vol. 68, No. 3, Special Issue on Indigenous Law (Summer 2018), pp. 496-510 H 674 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A person shall be permitted to give any evidence that is derived from unpublished official records relating to affairs of the State. The evidence shall be disclosed only with the permission of the officer at the head of the department: 123. Evidence as to affairs of State.- No one shall be permitted B to give any evidence derived from unpublished official records relating to any affairs of State, except with the permission of the officer at the head of the department concerned, who shall give or withhold such permission as he thinks fit. Section 124 provides that a public officer shall not be compelled C to disclose communications made to him in official confidence if the disclosure affects public interest: 124. Official communications.- No public officer shall be compelled to disclose communications made to him in official confidence, when he considers that the public interests would suffer by the disclosure. D 110. Section 162 stipulates that a witness who is summoned to produce a document in court shall bring the document to court notwithstanding any objection that is raised on its production and admissibility. The provision provides that the objection shall be decided by the Court.