v. 245 E. VANAJA [PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, J.] 16. of succession and manner of distribution among heirs of a female Hindu.—The of succession among the heirs referred to in section 15 shall be, and the distribution of the intestates property among those heirs shall take place according to the following rules, namely:— Rule 1.—Among the heirs specifi ed in sub-section (1) of section 15, those in one entry shall be preferred to those in any succeeding entry and those included in the same entry shall take simultaneously. Rule 2.—If any son or daughter of the intestate had pre-deceased the intestate leaving his or her own children alive at the time of the intestate’s death, the children of such son or daughter shall take between them the share which such son or daughter would have taken if living at the intestate’s death. Rule 3.—The devolution of the property of the intestate on the heirs referred to in clauses (b), (d) and (e) of sub-section (1) and in sub- section (2) to section 15 shall be in the same and according to the same rules as would have applied if the property had been the father’s or the mother’s or the husband’s as the case may be, and such person had died intestate in respect thereof immediately after the intestate’s death.” 12. Sections 15 and 16 of the Act provide that the property of a female Hindu dying intestate shall devolve according to the rules set out in Section 16. Section 15(1)(a) provides that such devolution shall be fi rstly, upon the sons and daughters (including the children of any pre-deceased son or daughter) and the husband. The rule for distribution of the intestate property of a female Hindu and of succession is provided under Section 16 of the Act according to which, the of succession among the heirs of a female Hindu referred to in Section 15 shall be fi rstly, as per rule 1 thereof, among the heirs specifi ed in sub-section (1) of Section 15 of the Act. 13. A combined reading of Section 15(1)(a) and Section 16 of the Act would make it manifest that the property of a female Hindu dying intestate shall devolve, fi rstly, upon the sons and daughters (including the children of any pre-deceased son or daughter) and the husband. Therefore, the plaintiff being the widow of the pre-deceased son does not have the fi rst right or entitlement to receive any share in the share of her mother-in-law. 246 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 14. For the foregoing reasons, we allow Civil Appeal No. 3667 of 2018 in part. The impugned rendered by the High Court shall stand modifi ed only to the extent that the plaintiff -respondent no. 1 is not entitled to 1/16th share in the share of her mother-in-law in the suit properties. The and decree passed by the High Court is, thus, affi rmed subject to the above modifi cation. 15. Resultantly, the civil appeal arising out of SLP(C) Diary No(s).