Thus, the provision for an examination for enrolment of advocates by the Bar Council of India can hardly be doubted. We had specified at the inception itself that quality control of entry into the Bar is the need of the hour. E 33. The objective of the legislature while giving wide powers to the Bar Council of India under Section 49, which gives it the powers to make Rules, read with Section 24(3)(d), which gives it the powers to prescribe the norms for entitlement to be enrolled as an Advocate under the Rules of the Bar Council of India, leads us to the conclusion that these are adequate powers with the Bar Council of India under the said F Act to provide such norms and Rules. 34. We are, thus, of the view that while considering the questions referred to us, the only conclusion which can be laid is that the interdict placed by the of this Court in V. Sudeer26on the powers of the G Bar Council of India cannot be sustained and we cannot hold that V. Sudeer27 lays down the correct position of law. 35. The effect of the view expressed by us would be that it has to be left to the Bar Council of India as to at what stage the All India Bar 26 (supra) H 27 (supra) BAR COUNCIL OF INDIA v. BONNIE FOI LAW COLLEGE 365 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] Examination has to be held – pre or post. There are consequences A especially in respect of the interregnum period which would arise in holding the All India Bar Examination in either scenario, and it is not for this Court to delve into them but it would be appropriate to leave it to the Bar Council of India to look to the niceties of both situations. However, in view of larger ramifications we do consider it appropriate to delve into B some, though not all of the aspects which may get involved in holding the All India Bar Examination, especially in view of some suggestions made by the Amicus. 36. We may take note of the fact that the All India Bar Examination is scheduled to be held twice in a year. It is necessary that this schedule C should be strictly followed as otherwise the students with law degrees would be left idling their time. 37. One of the questions which arose was whether only on passing the examination from a law University/College or obtaining such a degree should a person be eligible to take the All India Bar Examination? In D India, the various recognised institutions providing law degrees often declare results at different times. The concern is that a person on account of non- declaration of result may lose out on the opportunity to appear in the All India Bar Examination leading to a fairly long hiatus period of time without having the opportunity to work in court proceedings. E 38. We are inclined to accept the suggestion from the learned Amicus that students who have cleared all examinations to be eligible to pursue the final semester of the final year course of law, on production of proof of the same, could be allowed to take the All India Bar Examination.