ii. That the respondent discovered that the appellant had been in an adulterous relationship with Kshitij Bafna, while he was using her phone on 14th September, 2016. That on being confronted about the same the appellant admitted to the H adulterous relationship with Kshitij Bafna. APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 695 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] iii. That the respondent, being unwilling to accept the truth as A confirmed by the appellant, decided to further investigate the issue of Master “X’s” paternity and hence, caused a DNA test to be conducted at DNA Labs India, a private laboratory. The DNA Test report dated 24th November, 2016 indicated as follows: B “The alleged father lacks genetic markers that must be contributed to the child by the biological father. The probability of paternity is 0%”. iv. That the respondent was certain that Master “X” was born as a result of the adulterous relationship of the appellant. C However, in to substantiate his contention as to the appellant’s infidelity as a ground for divorce, it was necessary to conduct a DNA test which would reveal that the respondent was not the biological father of Master “X”. v. That a DNA test is the most legitimate and scientifically D perfect means, that the respondent could use to establish the assertion of infidelity on part of the appellant. That in the absence thereof it would be impossible for the respondent to conclusively establish the assertions made by him in the pleadings. E vi. That the respondent had access to telephonic conversations between him and Kshitij Bafna, wherein Kshitij Bafna had expressed his anger at the respondent for intimating his wife i.e., the wife of Mr. Bafna, of his illicit relationship with the appellant. That Kshitij Bafna when confronted about the paternity of Master “X”, did not deny that the child was F born to him and the appellant. That the appellant was in the habit of maintaining a daily diary wherein she had penned her thoughts as to her adulterous relationship. Having regard to the sensitive nature of the conversation and the contents of the diary, the respondent sought for the leave of the Family G Court to produce the recording, the diary and other evidences, if necessary, at the time of final hearing of the divorce proceedings. 4.4. The appellant filed an affidavit in reply, opposing the application filed by the respondent seeking a direction to conduct DNA test of Master H 696 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A “X”, inter-alia, contending that the respondent had not made out a prima- facie case requiring the Court to exercise its discretion to direct DNA test to be conducted as prayed for. 4.5. By an dated 12th August, 2021, the Family Court, Pune, allowed the application filed by the respondent seeking DNA test of B Master “X” and further observed that in the event that the appellant fails to comply with the directions of the Court, the allegations of adultery as against her would be determined by drawing an adverse inference as contemplated under Illustration (h) of Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (hereinafter “Evidence Act” for the sake of brevity).