It is in that context that diverse provisions are made by the Development Control Regulations to regulate every stage of the Slum Rehabilitation Scheme, from the submission of the proposals, the evaluation of proposals, scrutiny and verifi cation, grant of sanctions and the actual implementation of SAYUNKTA SANGARSH SAMITI & ANR v. THE STATE OF 741 MAHARASHTRA [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] the Scheme. Though a dispute between the co-operative society and its developer has a private element, it is not as if that a recourse to private law remedies is the only available form of redress. The Slum Rehabilitation Authority as the authority which is vested with the power to regulate the implementation of the Scheme and the owners of the land such as the Municipal Corporation or, as the case may be, the State Government are vital components in the implementation of the Slum Rehabilitation Scheme. Their statutory powers to ensure that the Scheme is not misused and is utilized to subserve the public purpose underlying the Scheme is not trammelled by private contractual arrangements. (emphasis supplied) [See also: Susme Builders Private Limited v. Chief Executive Offi cer, Slum Rehabilitation Authority, 2014 SCC OnLine Bom 4822 at Para 109 and New Janta SRA CHS Ltd. v. State of Maharashtra, 2019 SCC OnLine Bom 3896 at Para 189] 24. Moreover, under the Maharashtra Slum Areas (Improvement, Clearance and Redevelopment) Act, 1971 SRA is the fi nal authority for implementing a slum rehabilitation scheme. The Bombay High Court has held in the case of Smt. Usha Dhondiram Khairnar and Others v. State of Maharashtra and Others reported in 2016 SCC OnLine Bom 11505 that slum society or private Developer cannot dictate terms to the SRA and it must act in terms of its own policies and circulars. The following was held in Paragraphs 24 and 26: 24. We do not think that the developer and slumdwellers’ society can dictate the SRA in such cases and matters. If that is the designated authority, then, it must act strictly in terms of its own policy, circulars, rules, regulations and the SLUM Act. These are guiding the SRA and in ensuring that all such slum dwellers who are languishing in slums for decades together and if found eligible are rehabilitated, how the rehabilitation package evolved for them has to be implemented and worked out, is entirely left to SRA. 26. We do not allow the SRA to take a decision like this and contrary to the principle of natural justice, fairness and equity. If they now intend 742 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. to withdraw the allotment letters issued to the Petitioners and desire to accommodate them in some other scheme nearby, then, that decision cannot be reached or allowed to be reached in the manner stated by the SRA before us. Equally, the SRA cannot at the instance of any developer/owner or society of slum dwellers take a decision contrary to its defi ned and settled policies, circulars, rules and regulations. We, therefore, direct that no such decision as is intended to be taken now in paragraph no.