At the very outset, we would like to clarify that in the present appeals, we are only concerned with the adverse remarks made by the C High Court against the appellants and the subsequent directions issued to the counsel of CBI against the Appellant No.2. The substantive prayer for bail sought for by the respondent No.1 is not being entertained by this court at the present, and the proceedings for the same are ongoing in the High Court. 12. In the aftermath of the aforesaid proceedings, this court is D now tasked with answering two questions in the present Appeals. I. Whether the adverse remarks made by the High Court against the appellants during the bail proceedings of the respondent No. 1 is liable to be expunged? E II. Whether the direction issued by the High Court to seek for reports against the Appellant No.2 during the bail proceedings of the respondent no.1 is liable to be set aside? ANALYSIS F ISSUE I-Whether the adverse remarks made by the High Court during the bail proceedings of the respondent No.1 is liable to be expunged? 13. The High Court, on 04.07.2022 and 07.07.2022, on two separate occasions, during the bail proceedings of the Respondent No.1, made G adverse remarks against the Appellants herein, which is said to have caused great harm to their reputation. Due to the proceedings being broadcasted on the High Court’s YouTube channel, the said comments have received wide publicity, and several media and news outlets have picked up on those comments and reported the same. H 592 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 14. It is to be noted that bail proceedings, unlike a full criminal trial, are burdened with the task of only forming a prima facie view on the merits of the case. In such a circumstance when the evidence is not fully analyzed, and a presumption of innocence is still operational in favour of the accused, the courts must then be extremely cautious in passing adverse remarks against the accused. This becomes especially important B in cases where the party against whom the remarks are passed do not have a lis in the said proceedings, for such comments, especially if passed by constitutional courts, can cause great injury to the reputation of the parties at the receiving end of such remarks. This burden of caution on the courts has been held in a catena of s by this Court. C 15. In the case of Niranjan Patnaik v. Sashibhusan Kar1, this Court, while examining certain remarks made by a High Court stated that the courts, while passing adverse remarks, must be extremely careful and must resort to passing such remarks only if it is necessary to come to fair conclusion in to meet the ends of justice. The relevant D paragraph of the said is being extracted herein: “In expressing their opinions, Judges and Magistrates must be guided by consideration of justice, fair play and restraint, (…) the judges should not normally depart from sobriety, moderation and reserve and harsh or disparaging remarks E are not to be made against the parties or authorities unless it is really necessary for the decision of the case as integral part thereof” 16.