1 (ORIGINAL PLAINTIFF) 30. Ms. B. Sunita Rao, the learned counsel appearing for the Respondent No. 1 (Original Plaintiff) vehemently submitted that no error not to speak of any error of law could be said to have been committed by the High Court in passing the impugned and decree. She C submitted that in view of the decision of this Court in the case of Vineeta Sharma (supra) the Plaintiff is now entitled to 1/3rd share in all the properties of Late Shri Kumar Sahoo, which were available at the time of filing of the suit. She submitted that in view of the decision of this Court, in the case of Ganduri Koteshwaramma and Another v. Chakiri Yanadi and Another reported in (2011) 9 SCC 788, the preliminary D decree can be awarded/altered or modified in the event of the changed circumstances, even if no appeal has been filed. 31. The learned counsel further submitted that in view of the amendment of 2005 to Section 6 of the Act 1956 and the decision of this Court in case of Vineeta Sharma (supra) the daughters are entitled to E equal share with that of the son in the coparcenary properties. The Plaintiff being one of the daughters of Late Kumar Sahoo is entitled to a larger and equal share in the ancestral property and in such circumstances the decree now needs to be modified on account of the operation of law. 32. The learned counsel submitted that the Plaintiff and Defendants F are now each entitled to 1/3rd share of both ancestral and self-acquired properties of Late Kumar Sahoo. While explaining the true import of the operation of the amended provision of Section 6(1) of the Act 1956, she submitted that the alienations before 20.12.2004 are permitted but the property alienated would fall to the share of the co-parcener, who made the alienation, if no legal binding necessity is proved. The learned counsel G pointed out that the Trial Court has held that alienation would be a part of the share of the Defendant No. 1. She submitted that any alienation after the date of filing of the suit would be hit by the doctrine of lis pendens. The alienation prior to the filing of the suit was considered by the Trial Court and specific finding in that regard has been recorded. H PRASANTA KUMAR SAHOO & ORS. v. CHARULATA SAHU 41 & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 33. It was pointed out that out of 4.408 acres of land in Schedule A ‘A’ and ‘B’ properties, the unencumbered property available for immediate division is 3.762 acres (around 94 guntas). It was also pointed out that full extent of the suit properties in Schedule ‘C’, ‘D’, ‘E’ and ‘F’ resply are available for division, as at the time of the preliminary decree. 34. As regards the settlement between the Defendant Nos. 1 and B 2, the learned counsel submitted that the Plaintiff was never a part of the compromise. No notice was issued to her nor she had put her signature on any part of the compromise deed or had agreed to the terms of the compromise.