Three years later, he was directed to be appointed as Assistant Engineer which was a promotional post from the Overseer Grade-III. He further submitted that there are no allegations by the appellant that respondent no.3 had not fi led any representation against the seniority list. In fact, he had fi led several representations which were not given due consideration. That is why a writ petition had to be fi led. He referred to one such representation dated 26.03.1994 and also the admission made by the State in its counter affi davit fi led before the High Court. He further submitted that the grant of promotion to the respondent no.3 along with other private respondents from a back date was nothing else but correction of the error. The next promotion to the post of Assistant Executive Engineer was not going to be aff ected. He relied upon a of this Court in R.M. Ramual’s case (supra) to submit that promotion can be given from back date and the seniority list can be challenged even after 11 years. 16. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the relevant referred records. 17. The fact that presently only the respondent No. 3 is in service and all others have retired, was not disputed by learned counsel for the parties at the time of hearing. 18. In our view, if the impugned is examined on the principles laid down by this Court regarding a challenge laid to a seniority list, the same may not be legally sustainable The of this Court in R.M. Ramual’s case (supra) will not be applicable as it was a case on its own facts where this Court found that there was no unreasonable delay in challenging the seniority. In the said case, though the seniority list was prepared in 1971, however, on acceptance of the representation made by some of the employees later on, it was changed, as a consequence of which cause of action arose in favour of the appellant therein and reckoned from that date onwards, there was no unreasonable delay. 19. In the case in hand, the seniority list as such was not challenged by the private respondents. They only made representations for correction of their dates of promotion as Assistant Engineer, which was fi nally accepted by the State on 14.03.2005. 152 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 20. Be that as it may, even otherwise, we do not fi nd that any case has been made out for interference in the present appeal for the reason that the appellant has not been able to demonstrate that for the purpose of promotion from the post of Assistant Engineer to that of Assistant Executive Engineer, he was likely to be aff ected by ante-dating the date of promotion of the private respondents as separate quotas had been prescribed for promotion to the next higher post for the categories of Graduate Engineers and Diploma Holders. The 2010 Rules have been placed on record by the appellant along with IA No.