“149. Every member of unlawful assembly guilty of off ence committed in prosecution of common object.—If an off ence is committed by any member of an unlawful assembly in prosecution of the common object of that assembly, or such as the members of that assembly knew to be likely to be committed in prosecution of that object, every person who, at the time of the committing of that off ence, is a member of the same assembly, is guilty of that off ence.” A plain reading of the above would show that the provision is in two parts. The fi rst part deals with cases in which an off ence is committed by any member of the assembly “in prosecution of the common object” of that assembly. The second part deals with cases where the commission of a given off ence is not by itself the common object of the unlawful assembly but members of such assembly “knew that the same is likely to be committed in prosecution of the common object of the assembly”. 20. As noticed above, the commission of the off ence of murder of Felix Felicio Monteiro was itself not the common object of the unlawful assembly in the case at hand. And yet the assembly was unlawful because from the evidence adduced at the trial it is proved that the common object of the persons comprising the assembly certainly was to either commit a mischief or criminal trespass or any other off ence within the contemplation of clause (3) of Section 141 IPC, which may to the extent the same is relevant for the present be extracted at this stage: “141. Unlawful assembly.—An assembly of fi ve or more persons is designated an ‘unlawful assembly’, if the common object of the persons composing that assembly is— First.—*** Second.—*** Third.—To commit any mischief or criminal trespass, or other off ence;” 21. From the evidence on record, we are inclined to hold that even when commission of murder was not the common object of the accused persons, they certainly had come to the spot with a view to overawe NARESH @ NEHRU v. STATE OF HARYANA 785 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] and prevent the deceased by use of criminal force from putting up the fence in question. That they actually slapped and boxed the witnesses, one of whom lost his two teeth and another sustained a fracture only proves that point. 22. What then remains to be considered is: whether the appellant as a member of the unlawful assembly knew that the murder of the deceased was also a likely event in prosecution of the object of preventing him from putting up the fence? The answer to that question will depend upon the circumstances in which the incident had taken place and the conduct of the members of the unlawful assembly including the weapons they carried or used on the spot. It was so stated by this Court in Lalji v. State of U.P. [(1989) 1 SCC 437 : 1989 SCC (Cri) 211] in the following words: (SCC p. 441, para 8) “8.