5.4 Appellants are summoned to face the trial for the offences under Sections 420, 465, 466, 467, 468, 471 read with 120B IPC. The relevant provisions are as under:- “420. Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery E of property.—Whoever cheats and thereby dishonestly induces the person deceived to deliver any property to any person, or to make, alter or destroy the whole or any part of a valuable security, or anything which is signed or sealed, and which is capable of being converted into a valuable security, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a F term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine. 465. Punishment for forgery.—Whoever commits forgery shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with G both. 466. Forgery of record of Court or of public register, etc.—Whoever forges a document or an electronic record, purporting to be a record or proceeding of or in a Court H SHRI SUKHBIR SINGH BADAL v. BALWANT SINGH KHERA 931 AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] of Justice, or a register of birth, baptism, marriage or burial, or A a register kept by a public servant as such, or a certificate or document purporting to be made by a public servant in his official capacity, or an authority to institute or defend a suit, or to take any proceedings therein, or to confess , or a power of attorney, shall be punished with imprisonment of either B description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section “register” includes any list, data or record of any entries maintained in the electronic form as defined in clause (r) of sub- section (1) of C Section 2 of the Information Technology Act, 2000. 467. Forgery of valuable security, will, etc.— Whoever forges a document which purports to be a valuable security or a will, or an authority to adopt a son, or which purports to give authority to any person to make or transfer D any valuable security, or to receive the principal, interest or dividends thereon, or to receive or deliver any money, movable property, or valuable security, or any document purporting to be an acquittance or receipt acknowledging the payment of money, or an acquittance or receipt for the delivery of any movable property or valuable security, shall be punished with E imprisonment for life, or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine. 468. Forgery for purpose of cheating.— Whoever commits forgery, intending that the document or electronic F record forged shall be used for the purpose of cheating, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine. 471. Using as genuine a forged document or G electronicrecord.—Whoever fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any document or electronic record which he knows or has reason to believe to be a forged document or electronic record, shall be punished in the same manner as if he had forged such document or electronic record.” H 932 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R.