The writ petition fi led by the appellant was allowed and those fi led by the respondents No.5 to 8 were dismissed. The recommendations made by the Chancellor of the University were accepted. 4. Aggrieved by the aforesaid decision, respondents No.5 to 8 preferred intra court appeals7 before the Division Bench. By the impugned judgement, the Division Bench has set aside the well-reasoned passed by the learned Single Judge and held that merely because there were some variations in the marks obtained by various candidates in the four diff erent interviews conducted by the Selection Committee would alone not indicate with certainty that the selection process was grossly vitiated for requiring interference. The Division Bench frowned upon the learned Single Judge for having gone into the said issue and observed that all the candidates had been subjected to the same yardstick and therefore, no discrimination could be alleged. As a result, the writ petition4 fi led by the appellant, which was allowed by the learned Single Judge, was dismissed as meritless. 5. As far as the respondents No.5 to 8 were concerned (appellants before the Division Bench), it was observed that since no notice was issued to the said respondents at the stage of the inquiry ed by the Chancellor, respondent No.1 – University, their termination was bad in law and in violation of the principles of natural justice. Resultantly, the s terminating the services of the private respondents, including the directions issued by the Chancellor, were quashed and set aside with liberty granted to the authorities to proceed afresh with the inquiry after due notice to the respondents. 6 CWJC No. 14680 of 2009 7 Letter Patent Appeals No. 482/2011, 408/2011, 593/2011, 713/2011 and 751/2011 706 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 6. It is the aforesaid that has brought the appellant before this Court. Learned counsel for the appellant has primarily argued that there was no good reason for the Division Bench to have interfered in a well-reasoned and analyzed passed by the learned Single Judge where all aspects were carefully considered on merits before returning the fi ndings. It is submitted that the Division Bench has completely ignored the fact that there were drastic variations in the marks assigned to the appellant in the interview which cannot be termed as “some variation” as sought to be described in the impugned . While in one interview, the appellant had scored 24 marks out of 30 marks, on the same day, the same Selection Committee on conducting another interview of the appellant assigned her 12 marks out of 30 marks, thus materially aff ecting the outcome of the selection process. 7. It is next submitted by learned counsel for the appellant that the respondent No.6 herein, Shri Chandrama Singh, who was selected and appointed as a PTI in a women’s college (M.S.K.B. College, Muzaff arpur), was over-aged and therefore, ineligible to have even applied for the subject post. Learned counsel submits that the respondent No.6 was born on 3rd April,1971; the advertisement in question was published on 13th July, 2008 and the last date of receipt of the applications was 5th August, 2008.