However, under Section 3 of the Preventive Detention Act, the specially empowered officer, within 12 days of the detention, has to seek for an approval from the Government for continued detention, and only if the Government B approves the same can the detention be continued. This process of seeking an approval from the Government is essentially a transfer of power from the empowered officer to the Government, making the Government the detaining authority after the initial lapse of 12 days. In the COFEPOSA Act however, no such approval is required from the Government, and hence the detaining authority and the Government C remain to be two separate bodies independent of each other. This difference between the COFEPOSA Act and the other preventive detention laws has been upheld by this Court in the case of Kamlesh Kumar Ishwardas Patel vs Union Of India & Ors.6, the relevant extract of the abovesaid is being reproduced hereunder: D “The second premise that the Central Government becomes the detaining authority since there is deemed approval by the Government of the made by the officer specially empowered in that regard from the time of its issue, runs counter to the scheme of the COFEPOSA Act and the PIT E NDPS Act which differs from that of other preventive detention laws, namely, the National Security Act, 1980, the Maintenance of Internal Security Act, 1971, and the Preventive Detention Act, 1950.” 33. If we read the Pankaj Kumar (Supra) in light of F this distinction between the specially empowered officer and the Government in the COFEPOSA Act, we find that there exists no friction between the Pankaj Kumar (Supra) and the Abdullah Kunhi Judgement (Supra), since the Pankaj Kumar Judgement, while mandating the central Government to not wait for the decision of the Advisory Board, only does so because the central Government is the G detaining officer in the Preventive Detention Act. In simpler terms, this would mean that the mandate to not wait for the decision of the Advisory Board is effectively not for the central Government, but only for the detaining officer. 6 (1995) 4 SCC 51 H 814 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 34. In the COFEPOSA Act, since the detaining authority is separate from the Government, both, the Pankaj Kumar (supra) and the Abdullah Kunhi (supra) would apply, but in different spheres. The Pankaj Kumar (supra), since it was rendered in the context of the Government being the detaining authority, would be applicable only to the detaining authority/specially B empowered officer under the COFEPOSA Act. The Abdullah Kunhi (supra) however, since it was rendered in the context of the COFEPOSA Act, the mandate thereunder would squarely apply only to the Government, and not the detaining authority. In simpler terms, this would mean that the mandate to not wait for the Advisory Board would C be applicable only to the detaining authority. The Government, however, as per the Abdullah Kunhi Case (supra), must wait for the decision of the Advisory Board. Since these two s exist symbiotically and apply to two separate authorities within the COFEPOSA Act, there exists no friction between the s, and hence there is no necessity for this point of law to be referred to a Larger Bench since the same is D already settled.