Who these persons were, is another aspect that remains unclear. Whether these persons were examined is unknown. The dying declaration was signed by thumb impression by the deceased but, it is not the case of the prosecution that the deceased was illiterate. The Doctor also does not state that the injured was in a condition to sign. Then why the thumb impression, remains a mystery casting a serious doubt about its authenticity or correctness of such declaration. 19. The reason for the non-examination of the scribe, however, does not bear itself. Nowhere has it been stated, either by the trial court or the High Court that scribe could not be examined for which or what particular reason. In Sudhakar (supra) this Court has held that if the original dying declaration MANJUNATH & ORS. v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 749 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] is lost and therefore not available, the prosecution could adduce secondary evidence in support thereof. The logical extension of such holding would be that, if the scribe, for reasons beyond control, such as incapacitation or death, would be unavailable, it would be open for the prosecution to take necessary aid of secondary evidence. That not being the case however, such unexplained non-examination would, as a consequence of the holdings in Govind Narain (supra), Kans Raj (supra) and Sudhakar (supra), render the case to be doubtful if not, land a fatal blow to the prosecution case. 20. It is trite in law that given the nature of a dying declaration, it is required that such statement be free from tutoring, prompting, or not be a product of imagination. But it has emanated from the statement of the Doctor, PW1, that at the time of the dying declaration being made, there were numerous people present near him. In such a case, can it be categorically ruled out that the statement made by the deceased, is free from tutoring or prompting? 21.For fi nding an answer, we have independently evaluated the testimonies, relevant to adjudication of the present appeal, forming part of record. 21.1 Prosecution has endeavoured to establish the guilt of the accused by way of ocular evidence through the testimonies of numerous independent witnesses. 21.2 PW-2 has not supported the prosecution and despite being declared hostile and cross examined extensively, nothing fruitful, benefi tting the prosecution case could be elicited from his testimony. All that he states is that “a group of 50 to 60 persons from the direction of the village approached towards the land. Seeing the same, I went towards the village.” The ladies of the house of the deceased came and informed that the deceased had to be treated in the hospital for he has sustained injuries. He has denied having affi xed his thumb impression on the documents prepared by the police and signifi cantly the same has not been proved through any scientifi c evidence. 21.3 On this issue we also take note of the testimony of PW-9 (mother of the deceased) who only states that in the hospital, the deceased informed her that the “accused persons before the Court” had beaten 750 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R.