(2) The Commission shall— C (a) publish its proposals for the delimitation of constituencies, together with the dissenting proposals, if any, of any associate member who desires publication thereof, in the Gazette of India and in the Official Gazettes of all the States concerned and also in such other manner as it thinks fit; D (b) specify a date on or after which the proposals shall be further considered by it; (c) consider all objections and suggestions which may have been received by it before the date so specified, and for the purpose of such consideration, hold one or more public sittings at such place E or places in each State as it thinks fit; and (d) thereafter by one or more s determine— (i) the delimitation of parliamentary constituencies; and (ii) the delimitation of assembly constituencies, of each State.” F (emphasis added) As noted earlier, by virtue of clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 62 of the J&K Reorganisation Act, the year 2001 appearing in sub-section (1) of Section 9 of the Delimitation Act, 2002 will have to be read as 2011. Therefore, the Delimitation Commission established under G the dated 6th March 2020 had to undertake the exercise of delimitation or readjustment on the basis of the census figures of 2011 as the earlier exercise of delimitation of the constituencies of the erstwhile State was not made on the basis of the census figures of 2011. For the reasons stated above, there is nothing illegal about the exercise of H 542 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A delimitation/readjustment of the constituencies undertaken by the Delimitation Commission for the purposes of dividing the Union Territory into 90 constituencies on the basis of the 2011 census figures. 30. Before we deal with the issue of the legality of the appointment of the Delimitation Commission, we must deal with parliamentary B constituencies in the newly created Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh. In the First Schedule to the RP Act of 1950, a total of 6 seats were allocated to the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir with no reservation for Scheduled Castes and Schedule Tribes. Section 10 of the J&K Reorganisation Act provides that out of the 6 seats allocated to the erstwhile State, 5 will be allocated to the Union Territory of J & K and C one will be to the Union Territory of Ladakh. That is how Section 11 provides thereof that the Delimitation of Parliamentary Constituencies , 1976 stands amended as provided in the Second Schedule of the said Act. Thus, the delimitation of the five parliamentary constituencies of the Union Territory of J & K and one constituency of the Union D Territory of Ladakh was made by virtue of Section 11 as provided in the Second Schedule. 31. We have already quoted Section 60 of the J&K Reorganisation Act. Clause (c) of sub-section (1) thereof provides that considering the increase in the number of seats of the Legislative Assembly, the E adjustments in the boundaries and description of the extent of the Parliamentary Constituencies in each Union Territory may be made by the Election Commission.