While the said Rule 33 prescribes general powers of the Court of appeal, the specific powers of remand are prescribed in Rules 23 and D 23-A of XLI CPC. Hence, for the purpose of the case at hand, reference to aforesaid Rule 33 remains inapposite. [Para 10][16-H; 17-A] 3. With respect, what turns on the observations in the impugned is that the High Court was unable to arrive E at a conclusion on the basis of the material on record. However, fact of the matter remains that on the basis of the same material on record, the Trial Court had indeed arrived at a definite conclusion that the plaintiff had failed to establish her case and hence, the suit was liable to be dismissed. As indicated F hereinabove, the High Court has not at all referred to the findings of the Trial Court and it is difficult to find from the impugned as to why at all those findings of the Trial Court were not to be sustained or the decree was required to be reversed. [Para 11.1][17-E-F] G 4. The scope of remand in terms of Rule 23 of XLI CPC is extremely limited and that provision is inapplicable because the suit in question had not been disposed of on a preliminary point. The remand in the present case could only be correlated with Rule 23-A of XLI CPC and for its H SIRAJUDHEEN v. ZEENATH & ORS. 3 applicability, the necessary requirements are that “the decree is A reversed in appeal and a re-trial is considered necessary”. As noticed hereinabove, there is no reason whatsoever available in the impugned as to why and on what basis the decree was reversed by the High Court. Obviously, the reversal has to be based on cogent reasons and for that matter, adverting to and B dealing with the reasons that had prevailed with the Trial Court remains a sine qua non. Thus, remand in the present case cannot be held justified even in terms of Rule 23-A of XLI CPC. [Para 11.2]P17-G; 18-A-C] 5. None of the parties have sought any permission to C adduce evidence nor the High Court has specified as to what specific evidence was considered necessary to enable it to pronounce or for any substantial cause. It does not appear from the of the High Court if the plaintiff/ respondent No. 1, ever projected that the Trial Court did not allow her to produce any evidence that was sought to be produced. D It is also not borne out if any of the parties at all made out any case for production of additional documents or oral evidence with reference to the applicable principles. Hence, the general observations of the High Court cannot be correlated with Rule 27(1) either. [Para 12][18-C-E] E 6. Trial Court had returned its findings on the basis of evidence on record. Whether those findings are sustainable or not is a matter entirely different and the High Court may examine the same but merely because the High Court could not reach to a conclusion on preponderance of probabilities, the evidence on F record could not have been treated as insufficient so as to not pronounce the in terms of Rule 24 of XLI CPC.