Thus, even in the case of liquidation the accountability remains towards surplus and liabilities do not come to an end. C Even if the period fixed for liquidation of Society is over, that does not terminate the proceedings for recovery which have been initiated and appeals are pending. Xxx xxx xxx D 24. The concept of restitution is a common law principle and it is a remedy against unjust enrichment or unjust benefit. The court cannot be used as a tool by a litigant to perpetuate illegality. A person who is on the right side of the law, should not have a feeling that in case he is dragged in litigation, and wins, he would turn out to be a loser and wrongdoer as a real E gainer, after 20 or 30 years. Thus, the members who have obtained stay in appeal or on recovery proceedings or the case is pending, cannot take advantage of the fact that the period fixed for the Liquidator under the Act is over. 25. Once a report has been submitted, the Registrar has to F take action in terms of the report and in such circumstances when the proceedings for recovery are pending against the members and the Society has taken loan from the banks for its member, the actual money has to go to the creditor i.e. to the bank who is going to be benefitted by recovery of public G money in the hands of members. In such cases it would be appropriate for the Registrar to send notice of the proceedings to a person who is to be benefitted from the recovery. In the instant case, the Bank itself is a prime lender-cum- liquidator. The proceedings cannot come to the end. Thus, in our considered opinion, it is open to the bank to continue with H 1038 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A the recovery proceedings and make recoveries from the defaulting members. Merely on the liquidation of the Society, or the factum that the period fixed for liquidation is over, liability of the members for the loans cannot be said to have been wiped off. The disbursement of loan in an arbitrary manner and failure to recover was the very fulcrum on the B basis of which winding up of the Society was ed.” (Emphasis supplied) TERMS OF THE RESOLUTION PLAN CANNOT CONTROL THE ENACTMENT/RULES C 63. Before I proceed to comment on the aforesaid, it is necessary to look into the relevant clauses of the resolution plan upon which strong reliance is sought to be placed on behalf of the appellant. The relevant clauses read thus: “Part K: Extinguishment of Claims/Rights D 1. Save and except specifically dealt with under this Resolution Plan, no other payments or settlements (of any kind) shall be made to any other Person in respect of claims filed under the CIRP (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any unverified portion of their claim) and all claims against the Corporate E Debtor along with any related legal proceedings, including criminal proceedings, and other penal proceedings, shall stand irrevocably and unconditionally abated, settled and extinguished in perpetuity on the Effective Date, and with effect from the Appointed Date.