In short, in a case covered Under Section 69 of the Evidence Act, what is to be proved as far as C the attesting witness is concerned, is, that the attestation of one of the attesting witness is in his handwriting. The language of the Section is clear and unambiguous. Section 68 of the Evidence Act, as interpreted by this Court, contemplates attestation of both attesting witnesses to be proved. But that D is not the requirement in Section 69 of the Evidence Act.” 17. It is therefore clear that in the event where attesting witnesses may have died, or cannot be found, the propounder is not helpless, as Section 69 of the Evidence Act, 1872 is applicable. 18. In the present case, both attesting witnesses had died. The E two sons of the testator deposed about their presence when the will was signed by him. They also identified the signatures of Nivas Bhuiya, who drew and signed the will. In addition, one Phani Bhusan Bhuiya (PW-4), son of Nivas Bhuiya, deposed. In his evidence he deposed to having been present when the testator and the two attesting witnesses signed F the will; he was able to identify their signatures. This witness was educated and a graduate. The circumstances when the will was signed, where it was signed and who all were present, were deposed by him. Additionally, the witness also withstood cross- examination. 19. Besides the deposition of witnesses, the trial court relied on the partition deed which gave effect to it, and in which, shares in G accordance with the terms of the will were distributed. This document was a registered one; further, the late Upendra, predecessor of the appellant, also signed a document which acknowledged the existence of the will. H 246 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 20. If all the above circumstances are considered in totality, and one also keeps in mind the fact that none of the heirs of Upendra contested the grant of letters of administration, there can be only one conclusion, i.e., that the will was duly executed, and the propounder/respondent herein was successful in proving it. B 21. In view of the foregoing discussion, this court finds no infirmity with the findings in the impugned of the High Court. The appeal therefore fails, and is dismissed. There shall be no as to costs. Divya Pandey Appeal dismissed. C (Assisted by : Shloka Sah and Shevali Monga, LCRAs) D E F G H