Further, one empty cartridge was found in the gun whereas one empty cartridge of 9 mm was found in the country-made pistol. Both the fi re-arms were in operating condition and the Recovery Memo for the gun and the country-made pistol were prepared and sealed in two separate clothes. Following which, panchayatnama was prepared by Sub-Inspector Surendra Singh (PW-16) with regards to the three deceased, namely, Masooq Ali, Rihan and Rizwan. Additionally, panchayatnama and inquest reports with regards to the deceased, namely, Ram Kishan, Satendra and Sunil were prepared by another Sub-Inspector. 2.8 Subsequently, the investigation was transferred and handed over to Bahadur Singh Chauhan, the then C.B.C.I.D. (PW-17) on 13th January 2004 by the s of higher authority. Bahadur Singh Chauhan (PW-17) recorded the statement of Lokendra (PW-1), inspected the place of the incident and accordingly prepared a site plan. The statements of other witnesses were also recorded. Bahadur Singh Chauhan (PW-17) thereafter recorded the statements of earlier investigating offi cers in C.D. 2.9 Subsequently, the investigation was again transferred from C.B.C.I.D. to the civil police. After the chargesheet was submitted by Bahadur Singh Chauhan (PW-17) against appellant Madan along with other accused persons, namely, Kanwar Pal and Ishwar; the investigation was taken over by the then S.H.O. P.S. Babri, Siddh Narayan Yadav on 18th October 2004 who was examined as PW-19. Siddh Narayan Yadav (PW-19) submitted the chargesheet against appellant Sudesh Pal and another accused person who was absconding at the time. Siddh Narayan Yadav (PW-19) was 774 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. the fi fth IO of this case and he also submitted a chargesheet against accused Rajvir along with other accused persons. 2.10 The post-mortem of deceased Ram Kishan was conducted by Dr. Arvind Kumar Aggarwal (PW-14) on 15th October 2013 at 12.50 PM. The injuries sustained by deceased Ram Kishan are thus: 1. Wound of fi rearm 4 cm X 1.5 cm in depth of the muscle in the right side off ace and aside of the nose. Around the wound there were tattooing in the area of 20 cm x 7 cm. 2. Wound of entering of 8 fi rearms 20 cm X 19 cm towards left side of chest which was in deep ranging from ½ cm X ½ cm from the surface of the chest. Around the wound no blacking and tattooing were present. One metal pellet was taken out from the cavity of the chest. 3. Wound of entering of fi rearm ½ cm X ½ cm X till the cavity of abdomen, towards left of abdomen and 1 cm above of tunica crest. 4. Wound of entering of fi rearms towards right side of the chest, 5 m away from the right side nipple. As per position of 2 hrs. 1.5 cm X 1 cm in deep in the cavity of the chest. 5. Wound of entering of fi rearm ½ cm X ½ cm in deep of cavity of the abdomen, around 5 cm away from the right side navel, in the position of 8 hrs.