Any finding rendered in the preliminary decree, that the G properties were Mathruka properties liable to be partitioned, was only incidental to the claim of the legal heirs and such a finding will not be determinative of their title to property as against third parties. [Paras 119 & 120][341-E-H] H 286 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 2. Technically the High Court may not be right, in the true legal sense, in branding the preliminary decree as vitiated by fraud. But the fact remains that insofar as third parties to the family of Khurshid Jah (and those claiming under them) are concerned, the preliminary decree is nothing more than a mere paper, as those third parties have had nothing to do with the claim B for partition, though they have had a legitimate claim to title to the properties, described in the suit schedule. Therefore, the and preliminary decree dated 28.06.1963, though may not be vitiated by fraud, are certainly not binding upon third parties like the claim petitioners and the Government who have set up C independent claims. Also, in an enquiry under XXI, Rules 97 to 101, CPC, the Executing Court cannot decide questions of title set up by third parties, who assert independent title in themselves. Marina Beach (in Chennai) or Hussain Sagar (in Hyderabad) or India Gate (in New Delhi) cannot be included as one of the items of properties in the Plaint Schedule, in a suit for D partition between the members of a family and questions of title to these properties cannot be allowed to be adjudicated in the claim petitions under XXI, Rules 97-101, CPC. [Para 126][344-E-H; 345-A] 3. The and preliminary decree dated 28.06.1963, E though may not be vitiated by fraud, are certainly not binding upon third parties like the claim petitioners as well as the Government who have set up independent claims and that whatever was done in pursuance of the preliminary decree was an abuse of the process of law. In an enquiry under XXI, F Rules 97 to 101, CPC, the Executing Court cannot decide questions of title set up by third parties (not claiming through or under the parties to the suit or their family members), who assert independent title in themselves. All that can be done in such cases at the stage of execution, is to find out prima facie whether G the obstructionists/claim petitioners have a bona fide claim to title, independent of the rights of the parties to the partition suit. If they are found to have an independent claim to title, then the holder of the decree for partition cannot be allowed to defeat the rights of third parties in these proceedings. [Para 139][348-D-G] H M/s TRINITY INFRAVENTURES LTD. & ORS. ETC. v. M. S. 287 MURTHY & ORS. ETC. 4. Since everyone focused attention only on Hyderabad Jagir A Abolition Regulations, 1948 and a contention was raised that the personal properties of the Jagirs were exempt under Section 18, no one ever examined the impact of 1955 Act.