for the Respondents. The of the Court was delivered by B. R. GAVAI, J. F 1. Application for intervention is allowed. 2. This appeal challenges the and passed by the Division Bench of the High Court of Bombay dated 22nd December 2018, thereby dismissing the petition filed by the appellant challenging the passed by the Scheduled Tribe Caste Certificate Scrutiny G Committee, Kokan Division, Thane (for short, ‘the Scrutiny Committee’) dated 12th December 2017, thereby invalidating the claim of the appellant that she belongs to ‘Mana’ Scheduled Tribe. 3. The appellant is a student having secured admission in the first year of MBBS Degree Course in Respondent No.4/ College during the H Academic Year 2016-17 against the seat reserved for Scheduled Tribe. PRIYA PRAMOD GAJBE v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA 1263 AND OTHERS [B. R. GAVAI, J.] The appellant claimed that she belongs to ‘Mana’ Scheduled Tribe. As A such, her case was referred to the Scrutiny Committee. The Scrutiny Committee by dated 12th December 2017 invalidated the claim of the appellant on the following grounds:- i. The appellant failed to satisfy the Affinity Test conducted during the vigilance inquiry. B ii. The appellant failed to prove that she originally belongs to an area where the people of Mana Scheduled Tribe reside. 4. We have heard Shri Sudhanshu Choudhari, learned counsel appearing for the appellant, Shri Shrirang B. Varma, learned counsel appearing for the State of Maharashtra and Shri Kunal Cheema, learned C counsel appearing for the intervenor. 5. Shri Choudhari, learned counsel for the appellant, relying on the recent rendered by a three Judges Bench of this Court in the case of Mah. Adiwasi Thakur Jamat Swarakshan Samiti v. State of Maharashtra and Others1, submits that once the pre-Constitutional D documents established that the appellant belongs to ‘Mana’ Scheduled Tribe, further reference to the Vigilance Cell itself was not necessary. He further submits that the Affinity Test cannot be applied as a litmus test. 6. Shri Varma, learned counsel appearing for the State of E Maharashtra, on the contrary, submits that the Scrutiny Committee as well as the High Court have rightly concluded that the appellant has failed to establish that she belongs to ‘Mana’ Tribe. He submits that some of the documents show that the appellant’s forefathers entries are ‘Mani’. He, therefore, submits that in view of the conflicting documents, F it was necessary for the appellant to clear the Affinity Test. Relying on a Full Bench of the High Court of Bombay in the case of Ku. Yogita v. State of Maharashtra and Others2, he submits that though area restrictions have been removed in 1976, it will still be necessary for a candidate to establish that the candidate’s family originally belongs to an area for which a particular tribe was notified as a Scheduled Tribe. G 7. Shri Cheema, learned counsel appearing for the intervenor(s), supports the arguments advanced by Shri Varma, learned counsel for the State of Maharashtra. 1 2023 SCC Online SC 326 2 Writ Petition No.6103 of 2010 decided on 15.09.2016 H 1264 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R.