to the scrutiny of law. However, such misconduct including A statements that may be made by a Minister, cannot be linked to the principles of collective responsibility. Submissions of learned amicus curiae, Ms. Aparajita Singh, Senior Advocate: B 10. The submissions of learned amicus curiae, Ms. Aparajita Singh, may be summarized as under: 10.1. At the outset she submitted that the right to freedom of speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a) is subject to clearly defined restrictions under Article 19(2). Therefore, C any law seeking to limit the right under Article 19(1)(a) has to fall within the limitation provided under Article 19(2). 10.2. That the right to freedom of speech and expression of a public functionary who represents the state has to be balanced with a citizen’s right to fair investigation under Article 21 and if the exercise of a Minister’s right under D Article 19(1)(a) violates a citizen’s right under Article 21 then the same would have to be read down to protect the right of the citizen. Thus, a Minister cannot claim the protection of Article 19(1)(a) to violate Article 21 rights of citizens. E 10.3. Ms. Aparajita Singh next contended that a Minister, being a functionary of the State represents the State when acting in his official capacity. Therefore, any violation of the fundamental rights of citizens by the Minister in his official capacity, would be attributable to the State. Thus, it would F be preposterous to suggest that while the State is under an obligation to restrict a private citizen from violating the fundamental rights of other citizens, its own Minister can do so with impunity. However, learned amicus curiae qualified such submission by stating that the factum of violation would need to be established on the facts of a G given case and hence the law has to evolve from case to case. It would involve a detailed inquiry into questions such as i) whether the statement by the Minister was made in his personal or official capacity; ii) whether the statement was made on a public or private issue; iii) whether the H statement was made on a public or private platform. 728 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 10.4. It was submitted that a Minister is personally bound by the oath of office to bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India under Articles 75(4) and 164(3) of the Constitution. That the code of conduct for Ministers (both for Union and States) specifically lays down that the Code is in addition to the “…observance of the provisions of B the Constitution, the Representation of the People Act, 1951”. Therefore, a constitutional functionary is duty bound to act in a manner which is in consonance with the constitutional obligations. 10.5. It was lastly submitted that the State acts through its C functionaries. Therefore, an official act of a Minister which violates the fundamental rights of the citizens, would make the State liable by treating the said act of the Minister as aconstitutional tort.