No doubt, the power under section 25 is a special power, but the common High Courts H 1010 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A of the country ought not to read section 24 of the CPC in a manner as if the power of the Supreme Court under section 25 to an inter-State transfer is available to be exclusively exercised by it in all cases of inter- State transfer, thereby denuding the common High Courts of the country of their jurisdiction by mere reference to involvement of an inter-State transfer and without anything more being looked at. B 43. The States of Assam and Nagaland by reason of the provisions of the 1962 Act, then the 1971 Act and finally the Amendment Act have the Gauhati High Court as their common High Court and it is the Gauhati High Court that enjoys power of judicial superintendence over all courts within the territories of these two States. Gauhati High Court also C exercises administrative control over all district courts and courts subordinate to them. Although the States of Assam and Nagaland in the political map of India have well demarcated areas, for the purpose of administration of justice, both States are mandatorily subject to the jurisdiction of the Gauhati High Court. Having regard to the special nature of jurisdiction that is vested in a common High Court like the Gauhati D High Court, there cannot be a truncation of the power available under clauses (a) and (b) of section 24(1), which includes suo motu power. 44. Secondly, we are inclined to the view that should the contention advanced by Mr. Balgopal be accepted, the same is bound to lead to anomalous and incongruous results. If a common High Court, such as E the Gauhati High Court, is satisfied that a situation for withdrawing a civil suit from a court, say in Nagaland, does exist, section 24(1)(b)(i) of the CPC confers power on the Gauhati High Court to withdraw such suit and dispose of the same itself. We are conscious that the verb employed in the first part of section 24(1)(b(i) is ‘withdraw’ and not ‘transfer’; also, that clause (b) of sub- section (1) of section 24 employs F the verbs ‘withdraw’, ‘transfer’ and ‘retransfer’ in the three sub-clauses for achieving the specified ends. However, would it mean that withdrawal of a case does never involve a transfer? The verb ‘transfer’, inter alia, means to move, or to make somebody/something move, from one place to another. Once, for whatever reason, the movement of a file from one G place to another is involved, may be by reason of withdrawal, a transfer in the broader sense does take place. Now, the principal seat of the Gauhati High Court being at Guwahati, in the State of Assam, were to exercise the power conferred by section 24(1)(b(i), the effect thereof upon such a withdrawal is that the suit would stand transferred to the principal seat at Guwahati from the Civil Court in Nagaland and, possibly, H assigned a separate registration number for the purpose of administrative SHAH NEWAZ KHAN v. STATE OF NAGALAND 1011 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.]