B 4.5 Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, learned senior counsel has taken us to the additional affidavits dated 20.09.2022 and 28.11.2022. He has also taken us to the EC & CRZ Compliance Report dated 12.01.2022 as well as the subsequent Compliance Report dated 20.09.2022 and the copy of the response of the project proponent. He has stated at the Bar that by and large all the conditions of the original EC as well as C corrigendum to the EC have been complied with by the appellant/project proponent and few conditions are under continuous compliance. He has stated that the conditions imposed while issuing the EC and the corrigendum have been substantially complied with and there are no fundamental breaches and/or non-compliance. He has stated at the Bar that whichever conditions are not complied with and not complied with D fully and/or there are continuous compliance, the same shall be complied with within the time stipulated in the response of the project proponent. 4.6 Making above submissions and praying for keeping the question of law , if any, namely, “Whether for the project like this, a cumulative impact assessment study is required or not” open and also the question, E “whether an appeal before the NGT against the corrigendum to the EC and the additional conditions imposed as per the corrigendum to the EC would be maintainable or not” and keeping the aforesaid questions(s) of law open, it is prayed to dispose of the present appeals by permitting the appellant to continue the power plants which are in operation since 2015. 5. Shri Shiv Mangal Sharma, learned counsel appearing on behalf F of the MoEF has submitted that as such the appellant had never challenged earlier conditions imposed while issuing the EC and the first and passed by the NGT dated 23.05.2012 and even the corrigendum dated 14.08.2012 issued by the MoEF imposing additional conditions and therefore the appellant is bound by the conditions imposed G while issuing the EC and corrigendum to the EC dated 14.08.2012 and the appellant has to comply with all the conditions imposed while issuing EC as well as additional conditions imposed vide corrigendum dated 14.08.2012. He has pointed out certain non- compliances/part compliances of certain conditions and the response by the appellant. Therefore, he has submitted that if this Court is inclined to permit the appellant to H 200 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A continue with the power plants in the public interest, in that case, the appellant may be directed to comply with all the conditions imposed while issuing EC as well as additional conditions imposed while issuing corrigendum dated 14.08.2012. 6. Ms. Srishti Agnihotri, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the original petitioners has prayed that in case this Court is inclined to B permit the appellant to continue with the power plants as per the EC and the corrigendum dated 14.08.2012 which are in operation since 2015, in that case, the question of law, namely, “whether for the project like this conducting a cumulative environment impact assessment study is must or not”, may be kept open as so many other such projects may come C and that on conducting cumulative environment impact assessment study, the Tribunal may consider the said issue in detail.