In certain cases, it may not be possible to have a uniform minimum area by virtue of inter-state boundaries or a sea or a river beyond one side of the Protected Area. In any case, a detailed procedure is required to be followed as prescribed under Rule 5 of the 1986 Rules which we have F already referred hereinabove. We find that once such a notification is issued after following the procedure prescribed under the 1986 Rules, the ESZs will have to be as per the said notification. 56. It is further to be noted that, as required under sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 of the 1986 Rules, before any final notification is issued, a draft G notification is required to be published in the Official Gazette and in such other manner as the Central Government may deem necessary from time to time. Any person interested in filing any objection to such a draft notification is entitled to file objection within a period of 60 days from the date of publication of the draft notification in the Official Gazette. We H 632 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A find that the Central Government can be directed to give a wide publicity to the draft notification so that all persons interested have knowledge about issuance of such draft notification. 57. It is pertinent to note that after following the aforesaid procedure, the matter is placed before the Expert Committee consisting B of 13 organizations having expertise in the relative field. As such, before an ESZ area is specified, various factors are taken into consideration. There are various factors which will determine the ESZs for a particular Protected Area. The circumstances may differ from one Protected Area to another Protected Area. As such, we find that the direction which prescribes a uniform one kilometre ESZ requires to be modified. C 58. It is further to be noted that on the date of filing of the present application, final notifications have been issued in respect of 474 Protected Areas whereas draft notifications have been issued in respect of 102 Protected Areas. 73 proposals are pending. As already discussed hereinabove, this Court has already found the said Guidelines to be D reasonable and has accepted the same. The Court has also accepted the view of the Standing Committee of the NBWL that uniform guidelines may not be possible in respect of each Sanctuary or National Park for maintaining ESZs. Though the Court has observed that a minimum width of one kilometre in ESZ ought to be maintained, in paragraph 56.6 of the E dated 3rd June 2022 (supra) itself, it has observed that minimum width of the ESZ may be diluted in overwhelming public interest but for that purpose the State or Union Territory concerned is required to approach Central Empowered Committee (CEC) and MoEF & CC. It has further observed that both these bodies shall give their respective recommendations before this Court and on that basis, the Court should F pass appropriate .