The fi rst respondent has disclosed what transpired before the NCLAT after the of this Court dated 13 October in the following terms: “At around 02.15 pm, when the NCLAT Appeal was called out ‘for ’, the Ld. Senior Counsel representing me informed the Learned NCLAT about the First and the directions contained therein. It was also informed to NCLAT that petitioner had voted against resolution No.4. It was also informed that the Consolidated Scruitinzer’s Report was being uploaded. The Learned NCLAT proceeded to pronounce the operative part of the dated 13.10.2023 (“NCLAT ”), which occurred at around 2:15 pm. The NCLAT was only made available on the offi cial website of the Learned NCLAT, at 4.30 pm and it was only after that time that it was even made public.” (emphasis supplied) 17 We will fi rst deal with the report which has been submitted before this Court by the Chairperson of the NCLAT. The Presiding Judge, Mr Rakesh Kumar, Member (Judicial) states that the appeal was listed for pronouncement of in the supplementary cause list which was uploaded on 12 October 2023. He states that the normal procedure which is followed in the tribunal is that mentioning is entertained after the pronouncement of s/ s and since he is “not holding a constitutional post” as such he is “required to follow the procedure”. The Member (Judicial) has therefore stated that “as per the procedure established here” the was pronounced on 13 October 2023. 18 The Member (Technical) on the other hand states that when the proceedings were called out in the post-lunch session in the case which was listed for , “some lawyers started to intervene on which the Presiding Judge commented that whatever you want ORBIT ELECTRICALS PRIVATE LIMITED v. 1033 DEEPAK KISHAN CHHABRIA & ORS. to fi le, please bring it on record”, after which, the pronouncement of the was made. The Member (Technical) has tendered an unconditional apology to this Court. These facts are conspicuously absent in the statement of the Member (Judicial). 19 Neither the statement of the Member (Judicial) nor the statement which has been tendered by the Member (Technical) refer to the fact that the dated 13 October 2023 passed by this Court in the morning session was communicated to the Bench of the NCLAT together with the directions which were contained therein. In paragraph 3 of the dated 13 October 2023 passed in the afternoon session, the statement of senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner that the Bench of the NCLAT was apprised of the of this Court in the afternoon session was recorded. This is also the clear case of the fi rst respondent on affi davit since he has stated that around 2.15 pm when the NCLAT appeal was called out for , the senior counsel representing him informed the Bench of the NCLAT of the which was passed by this Court earlier and the directions which were contained therein. Neither the statement of the Member (Judicial) nor the statement of the Member (Technical) reveals this to the Chairperson of the NCLAT.