E Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s. 406 – The power of transfer under Section 406, CrPC is to be exercised sparingly and only when justice is apparently in grave peril and therefore can be allowed only in exceptional cases considering the fact that transfers may cast unnecessary aspersions on the State Judiciary and the prosecution agency – Further the convenience of parties and F witnesses as well as the language spoken by them are also relevant factors when deciding a transfer petition. Issuing directions, the Court HELD: 1. Section 406(2) of the CrPC provides that the G Supreme Court may transfer a case “only on the application of the Attorney -General of India or of a party interested”. Considering the apt and expansive interpretation of phrase ‘party interested’ under Section 406(2) of the CrPC, it is held that the Petitioner, being the real brother of the Deceased, is vitally interested in a fair trial so that the Deceased and his family gets H 1092 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A justice. The Respondents’ challenge to the locus standi of the Petitioner is thus rejected. [Paras 22, 24][1106-B-C, G] 2. It has by now been well established that a well-founded apprehension that justice will not be done is a prerequisite for transfer of the case. Tracing the power of transfer of a case, we B are reminded of Lord Hewart’s dictum in Rex v. Sussex Justices stating that “It is not merely of some importance but is of fundamental importance that justice should not only be done, but should manifestly and undoubtedly be seen to be done”. The right to a fair trial is a fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution of India and its importance cannot be emphasised enough. However, to C obtain the transfer of a case, the Petitioner is required to show circumstances from which it can be inferred that he entertains a reasonable apprehension. This apprehension cannot be imaginary and cannot be a mere allegation. The power of transfer under Section 406, CrPC is to be exercised sparingly and only when D justice is apparently in grave peril. This Court has allowed transfers only in exceptional cases considering the fact that transfers may cast unnecessary aspersions on the State Judiciary and the prosecution agency. [Paras 25, 26, 27][1107-A-E] 3. The convenience of parties and witnesses as well as the E language spoken by them are also relevant factors when deciding a transfer petition, as has been noted by this Court in a catena of s. In some of the recent decisions including in Neelam Pandey v. Rahul Shukla, this Court has viewed that transfer of a criminal case from one state to another implicitly reflects upon credibility of not only the State Judiciary but also of the prosecution F agency. [Paras 31, 32][1109-C-D] 4. There is no legal necessity to transfer the trial outside the State of West Bengal and the apprehensions of the Petitioner, some of which are indeed genuine, can be effectively redressed by issuing appropriate directions.