[K. M. JOSEPH, J.] I. HINDUSTAN STEEL LIMITED ANALYSED A 51. This Court in Hindustan Steel Limited v. Dilip Construction Company21, was dealing with the following set of facts: An award was made by an Umpire under the Indian Arbitration Act, 1940, which was filed in the Court. The appellant applied to B set aside the Award, inter alia, contending that it was unstamped. It contended that it was on that account, invalid, illegal and liable to be set aside. The respondent thereupon applied to the District Court to have the Award impounded and validated by the levy of stamp duty and penalty. The Award was impounded and visited with duty and penalty, which was duly paid and certified. The C contention of the appellant was that, not only could an unstamped Award, be not admitted in evidence, but it could not be acted upon, as the instrument had no existence in the eye of law. It is thereupon that the Court had held, inter alia: “5. An instrument which is not duly stamped cannot be D received in evidence by any person who has authority to receive evidence, and it cannot be acted upon by that person or by any public officer. Section 35 provides that the admissibility of an instrument once admitted in evidence shall not, except as provided in Section 61, be called in question at any stage of the E same suit or proceeding on the ground that the instrument has not been duly stamped. 6. Relying upon the difference in the phraseology between Sections 35 and 36 it was urged that an instrument which is not duly stamped may be admitted in evidence on payment of duty and penalty, but it cannot be acted upon because F Section 35 operates as a bar to the admission in evidence of the instrument not duly stamped as well as to its being acted upon, and the Legislature has by Section 36 in the conditions set out therein removed the bar only against admission in evidence of the instrument. The argument ignores the true G import of Section 36. By that section an instrument once admitted in evidence shall not be called in question at any stage of the same suit or proceeding on the ground that it has not been duly stamped. Section 36 does not prohibit a challenge 21 (1969) 1 SCC 597 H 336 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A against an instrument that it shall not be acted upon because it is not duly stamped, but on that account there is no bar against an instrument not duly stamped being acted upon after payment of the stamp duty and penalty according to the procedure prescribed by the Act. The doubt, if any, is removed by the terms of Section 42(2) which enact, in terms unmistakable, B that every instrument endorsed by the Collector under Section 42(1) shall be admissible in evidence and may be acted upon as if it has been duly stamped.” We may also profitably refer to paragraph-8 as well: C “8.