211 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J. ] recommendations in respect of the particular public authorities, for the development, improvement, modernisation, reform or amendment to this Act or other legislation or common law or any other matter relevant for operationalising the right to access information. (4) The Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be, may, as soon as practicable after the end of each year, cause a copy of the report of the Central Information Commission or the State Information Commission, as the case may be, referred to in sub-section (1) to be laid before each House of Parliament or, as the case may be, before each House of the State Legislature, where there are two Houses, and where there is one House of the State Legislature before that House. (5) If it appears to the Central Information Commission or State Information Commission, as the case may be, that the practice of a public authority in relation to the exercise of its functions under this Act does not conform with the provisions or spirit of this Act, it may give to the authority a recommendation specifying the steps which ought in its opinion to be taken for promoting such conformity.” 21. Section 25 gloriously integrates ‘the right to information’ of a citizen with the collective responsibility of the Government to the Legislature under Article 75(3) or 164(2) of the Constitution. At the beginning of the chain is the citizen exercising her right to information. The Public Authority obligated to provide the information is accountable to the Department. The Department, shall, in relation to the public authorities within their jurisdiction, collect and provide such information to the CIC or SIC (see Section 25(2)). The CIC or SIC shall then prepare a ‘Report’ on the implementation of the provisions of the Act during the year and forward a copy to the appropriate Government (see Section 25(1)). The ‘Report’ prepared by the CIC or SIC is mandated to comprise all details specifi ed in Clauses (a) to (g) of Section 25(3). The Central or the State Government shall cause a copy of the Report of the CIC/ SIC be laid before Parliament/Legislative Assembly (Section 25(4)). It is then for the House, representing the will of the people, to ensure that the confi dence reposed by it in the Council of Ministers (Government) is affi rmed. Thus, the circle of representative democracy connects supremacy of the Parliament with the right of the citizen by ensuring 212 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. that the State performs its obligations. This is the primary principle of accountability. 22. Power and accountability go hand in hand. While declaring that all citizens shall have the ‘right to information’ under Section 3 of the Act, the co-relative ‘duty’ in the form of obligation of public authorities is recognized in Section 4. The core of the right created under Section 3 in reality rests on the duty to perform statutory obligations. Public accountability is a crucial feature that governs the relationship between ‘duty bearers’ and ‘right holders’.