As evident from Clauses (a) to (i), this provision is a catch-all provision which seeks to eliminate discrimination against the transgender community both in public as well as private spaces. It is worded in exceptionally broad terms: 267. The prefatory portion of Section 3 states that “no person or establishment” shall discriminate against a transgender person. ‘Establishment’ is defi ned as any body or authority established by or under a Central Act or a State Act or an authority or body owned or controlled or aided by the Government or a local authority or a Government company233 233 As defi ned in Section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013. 138 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. and includes a Department of the Government.234 An establishment also means any company or body corporate or association or body of individuals, fi rm, cooperative or other society, association, trust, agency, or institution.235 ‘Establishment’ therefore includes any public or private entity, authority, or body, including any ‘body of individuals.’ Individuals are, of course, covered by the word ‘person.’ 268. Clauses (a) to (i) of Section 3 list the spheres in which transgender persons cannot be discriminated against. They include the spheres of education,236 employment,237 healthcare,238 movement,239 property,240 public or private offi ce,241 care and custody.242 It also bars any discrimination with respect to goods, accommodation, service, facility, benefi t, privilege, or opportunity which is dedicated to the use of the public or customarily available to the public.243 269. The prefatory portion of Section 3 read with Section 2(b) delineates who the prohibition against discrimination operates against. In other words, it defi nes the actors who are prohibited from discriminating against transgender persons. The term ‘establishment’ has been defi ned in the broadest possible terms to include all manner of undertakings or groups of people. Clauses (a) to (i) of Section 3 set forth the content of the anti-discrimination principle. They describe the actions which amount to discrimination as well as the sphere in which the discrimination operates. The actions which amount to discrimination vary depending upon the sphere they refer to and they include denial, discontinuation, unfair treatment, termination, and removal. The spheres, too, are broadly defi ned and extend to practically every aspect of life. In to establish a violation of Section 3, an aggrieved person would have to demonstrate: 234 Section 2(b)(i), Transgender Persons Act 235 Section 2(b)(ii), Transgender Persons Act 236 Section 3(a), Transgender Persons Act 237 Section 3(b), 3(c), Transgender Persons Act 238 Section 3(d), Transgender Persons Act 239 Section 3(f), Transgender Persons Act 240 Section 3(g), Transgender Persons Act 241 Section 3(h), Transgender Persons Act 242 Section 3(i), Transgender Persons Act 243 Section 3(e), Transgender Persons Act SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1381 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] a. That the person against whom they seek a remedy is either an establishment as defi ned in Section 2(b) or a person; b. That they have been discriminated against in one of the spheres listed by Section 3; and c. That the discriminatory action corresponds to that sphere (for example, a person alleging a violation of the right to movement must prove that there has been a denial, discontinuation of, or unfair treatment of that right244).