The principle of equality does not mean that every law must have universal application C for all persons who are not by nature, attainment or circumstances in the same position and the varying needs of different classes of persons require special treatment. The legislature understands and appreciates the need of its own people, that its laws are directed to problems made manifest by experience and that its discriminations are based D upon adequate grounds. The rule of classification is not a natural and logical corollary of the rule of equality, but the rule of differentiation is inherent in the concept of equality. Equality means parity of treatment under parity of conditions. Equality does not connote absolute equality. A E classification in to be constitutional must rest upon distinctions that are substantial and not merely illusory. The test is whether it has a reasonable basis free from artificiality and arbitrariness embracing all and omitting none naturally falling into that category.” F 34. The learned Additional Solicitor General has also referred to the decision in (2001) 2 SCC 259 K.Thimmappa Vs. Chairman, Central Board of Directors to contend that when a law is challenged to be discriminatory essentially on the ground that it denies equal treatment or protection, the question for determination by the Court is not whether it has resulted in inequality but whether there is some differentia which G bears a just and reasonable relation to the object of Legislation. Mere differentiation does not per se amount to discrimination within the inhibition of the equal protection clause. 35. Having noted the above, at the outset, insofar as the decision relied on by the learned senior counsel for the petitioner in the case of H 286 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A Navtej Singh Johar & Ors. (supra), though the Doctrine of Progressive Realisation of Rights is referred and has been stated that there must notbe any regression of rights and in a progressive and an ever-improving society there is no place for retreat, the society has to march ahead that the state should not take measures or steps that deliberately lead to retrogression on the enjoyment of rights either under the constitution or B otherwise, we are of the opinion that the said observation would depend on the nature of the rights regarding which a consideration is made in appropriate cases. In the instant facts, the said observation cannot be of any assistance to the petitioners since the right though had been conferred earlier, such rights, insofar as the petitioners are concerned only a C statutory right as they are admittedly not citizens of this country. Though certain rights under the statute were given, the state has a duty to balance the interests of its citizens and the non-citizens when a change is required to be made. However as to whether such consideration has been made in a just and proper manner with reference to all aspects is another aspect which we will advert to in the course of this , but to D contend that it amounts to retrogression may not arise in the present context.