Local bodies must 38 The statute is titled “the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013”. DR. BALRAM SINGH v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 1109 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] be guided by the central and state governments by laying down guidelines on when a survey must be conducted, and which local bodies must conduct a survey. Without a policy of this nature, a local body cannot be expected to implement the 2013 Act in a proper manner. 55. In a similar vein, this Court in Swaraj Abhiyan v. Union of India39, while monitoring the implementation of the National Food Security Act, 2013, noticed that some states were not implementing the statute. This Court noted: “109. It is surprising that the implementation of a law enacted by Parliament such as the NFS Act is left to the whims and fancies of the State Governments, and it has taken more than two years after the NFS Act came into force for Gujarat to implement it and Uttar Pradesh has only implemented it partially. This is rather strange. A State Government, by delaying implementation of a law passed by Parliament and assented to by the President of India, is eff ectively refusing to implement it and Parliament is left a mute spectator.Does our Constitution countenance such a situation? Is this what “federalism” is all about? Deliberate inaction in the implementation of a parliamentary statute by a State Government can only lead to utter chaos or worse. One can hardly imagine what the consequence would be if a State Government, on a similar logic, decides that it will not implement other parliamentary statutes meant for the benefi t of vulnerable sections of society. Hopefully, someone, somewhere, sometime will realise the possible alarming consequences.” 56. The disquieting consequences referred to in the National Food Security Actcase (supra) have also manifested in the case of manual scavengers – the entire statutory scheme of the 2013 Act has been challenged as the fi rst step towards rehabilitation has not been taken. Our constitutional scheme does not approve of a situation where parliamentary enactments are rendered dead-letter by executive inaction. This argument of the Union 39 (2016) 7 SCC 498 111 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. must therefore be rejected to the extent that while local governments must conduct surveys, it was for the appropriate authorities, at both the central and state levels, to lay down parameters for the surveys to be conducted. It was also incumbent on these authorities to ensure that proper implementation of the 2013 Act had taken place. On both counts, the Central and State Governments do not appear to have taken any steps. Insuffi ciency of the previous (2013 and 2018) Surveys 57. The second submission of the Union is that two surveys were in fact conducted in 2013 and 2018 and a continuous self-declaring survey is taking place on a mobile application. These submissions, too, are misplaced. It may be noticed that neither the 2013 nor the 2018 surveys could have been conducted as prescribed under the scheme of the 2013 Rules and the 2013 Act for the reason that the institutions entrusted with duties to conduct the Surveys were either not constituted or were not functioning.