(xiii) It is submitted that such a submission / argument would be against the foundational principle of SICA and, in general, other insolvency legislations that their purpose is to rescue the sick companies from the throes of their inevitable death G / liquidation and are not mechanisms for recovery of debts of creditors. (xiv) Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the respondents that the scaling down/reduction/waiver of dues of creditors is violative of Article 300A of the Constitution of India is H 1042 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A concerned, it is submitted that Article 300A of the Constitution of India shall have no application to a rehabilitation scheme sanctioned by BIFR under the framework of SICA. It is submitted that there is no deprivation of and/or confiscation of property when the dues owed to a creditor other than prescribed entities under B Section 19(1) of SICA, is unilaterally reduced after complying with the procedure stated in Section 18(3)(a) including publication of draft rehabilitation scheme inviting objections and suggestions, as the same is done by authority of law i.e., SICA. It is submitted that SICA has been enacted C to secure the principles specified in Article 39(a) and (b). It is submitted that in reality, there is no real property or interest in favour of creditors which get affected. In the case of winding up of a sick industrial company whose networth is eroded, the ordinary creditors including decree holders do not normally get anything. D (xv) It is submitted that the High Court has interpreted the provisions of SICA by juxtaposing them with the provisions of Companies Act, 1956 in a way which is contrary to the general principle that no person can stay out of insolvency regime. The High Court has by its interpretation allowed E the creditors to stay out of the insolvency regime, which is impermissible. The High Court has failed to appreciate the full import of various provisions of Sections 18(3)(a), 18(4), 18(8), 19(1), 19(2) etc. The purpose of SICA is to expeditiously rehabilitate a sick company by framing and F sanctioning a scheme of rehabilitation and the timeline fixed to complete the process is 90 days. The Parliament in its wisdom provided for public notice rather than individual notices as the same was neither practical nor of commercial utility. G (xvi) It is submitted that in the case of Tata Motors Limited Vs. Pharmaceutical Products of India Limited and Anr., (2008) 7 SCC 619, it is specifically observed and held by this Court that the provisions of a special Act will override the provisions of a general act. It is observed that SICA is a special statute and is a self-contained code. The H MODI RUBBER LIMITED v. CONTINENTAL CARBON INDIA 1043 LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] Companies Act, 1956 is a general act. Therefore, wherever A any inconsistency is seen between the provisions of the two Acts, SICA would prevail. It is further submitted that in the said decision, it is also further observed that the SICA has been enacted to secure the principles specified in Article 39 of the Constitution.