34 Baljeet Singh @ Jeeta (see n 31). H 770 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A VIMHANS); these are on record, and form part of this court’s consideration, to ascertain the individualised sentences appropriate in the present case. Counsel for the appellants have also placed on record, written submissions outlining the mitigating factors and justification for a modification, on the question of sentence. B 25. The appellant Vikas Chaudhary, was merely 18-19 years old at the time of offence and is currently about 37-38 years old. As per the social investigation report (probation report), he comes from an educated, urban, ‘middle-class’ family background; he has passed 10th standard, but his 12th standard was interrupted by the facts relating to this offence. He continues to undertake written work during his time in custody. He C has undergone more than 17 years of actual sentence, during which he has demonstrated satisfactory conduct (as per jail reports dated 30.11.2017 and 18.11.2020). The report dated 08.09.2021, regarding work done in jail is positive and mentions that he has worked as Sahayak in the Langar, jail control room, and ward, during his incarceration period, D for which he has received appreciation certificates. Barring three episodes of aggression which were prior to 2012, there is no other negative instance on the record. The VIMHANS report too, did not disclose any cause for concern. The latest probation report dated 06.09.2021 is encouraging; similar to the earlier report (dated 01.12.2017) given the to the trial court, the report mentions that the appellant had strong continuing relations E with his parents and relatives. His parents have accepted him and remain worried about his future. The interviews with the neighbours of his family home, i.e., members of the community, were also positive. He has no other criminal antecedents. The report further suggests that the appellant has ample scope for reformation and reintegration into society, and that F the appellant could look after his parents and lead a normal social life. 26. The appellant, Vikas Sidhu, who was in his early 20s at the time of offence, is currently 40-41 years old, and has undergone over 17 years of actual imprisonment. He is a graduate of Delhi University and was a medical representative at the time of the offence. His family G consisted of five people; however, he has lost his father who was a government servant, and his younger brother, to illness. He too grew up in an urban, ‘middle-class’, educated family setting. He is married, and enjoys the affection of his mother, spouse, and elder sister. During his incarceration period, he worked as a volunteer teacher under the ‘Padho aur Padhao’, and at different times as a sahayak at the legal cell, jail H VIKAS CHAUDHARY v. THE STATE OF DELHI 771 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] control room, IGNOU study center, vocational training institute, bakery A unit, jail dispensary; he also worked in the paper making unit of jail factory for a few months. In addition to having attended some vocational training and cultural programmes, he has received numerous appreciation certificates for work done in jail – especially most recently, for his efforts during the COVID-19 crisis.