It is submitted that the perusal of the said scheme, from Sections 15 to 23 of the MSMED Act, clearly E shows that there is no express ‘priority’ envisaged for payments under the MSMED Act over the dues of secured creditors or over any taxes or cesses payable to Central Government or State Government or Local Authority as the case may be. It is submitted that no provision to this effect is consciously provided. It is submitted that in sharp contrast to this, the perusal of the scheme of SARFAESI Act, including in Section F 26E, thereof leaves no room for doubt that the legislature has expressly and unambiguously provided for a legal framework exclusively on the issue of ‘priority’ of payment of dues. It is submitted that in case of certain other legislations, there is express provision for the manner in which the dues thereunder may either have a charge over the property G or have ‘priority’ over other dues. Reference is made to the provisions of the Maharashtra Value Added Tax Act, 2002; Employees’ Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952; Kerala General Sales Tax Act, 1963; Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923; Central Excise Act, 1944; Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery Debts Laws and Miscellaneous Provisions (Amendment) Act, 2016, etc. It is submitted H KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. v. GIRNAR CORRUGATORS 879 PVT. LTD. & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] that in the absence of such express provisions, there can be no basis to A ignore the specific scheme of the SARFAESI Act in comparison to such specific scheme under the MSMED Act with regard to ‘priority’ of payments. It is submitted that any such ‘priority’ over and above the dues of secured creditors or government dues has to be expressly and unambiguously provided for and cannot be read by implication. It is B submitted that viewed from this angle, in fact, there is no conflict between the two schemes, i.e. MSMED Act and SARFAESI Act as far as the specific subject of ‘priority’ is concerned. 2.1 It is further submitted that Section 26E of the SARFAESI Act being subsequently inserted vide amendment in 2016, C the non-obstante clause in Section 26E of the SARFAESI Act shall prevail over the provisions of MSMED Act. Reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in case of Bank of India vs. Ketan Praekh & Ors. [(2008) 8 SCC 148 (para 28)]. D 2.2 Making above submissions, it is prayed to allow the present appeal and quash and set aside the impugned and passed by the Division Bench and restore the and passed by the learned Single Judge by holding that the recoveries under SARFAESI Act shall be accorded E priority over recoveries under MSMED Act. 3. The present appeal is vehemently opposed by Shri Niranjan Reddy, learned Senior Counsel appearing for respondent No.1. 3.1 Learned counsel appearing for respondent No.1 has F vehemently submitted that MSMED Act has been enacted to promote and protect the interests of the small and medium scale enterprises which is a source of livelihood for several citizens and contributes towards 27% to the GDP.