A producers or generators of electricity, in that they set up power plants, be entitled to a reasonable margin of profit and a reasonable return on their capital, so that they are induced to set up more and more power plants. 147. It is further to be noted that, though it was sought to be B contended in the case of Energy Watchdog (supra) that in a case under Section 63 of the Electricity Act, the Commission was only to adopt a tariff as determined through a transparent process of bidding, this Court rejected the said contention. It held that, in fact, Sections 62 and 63 of the Electricity Act deal with ‘determination’ of tariff, which is part of ‘regulating’ tariff. It further held in a situation where the guidelines issued C by the Central Government under Section 63 cover the situation, the Central Commission is bound by those guidelines and must exercise its regulatory functions. 148. It would be relevant to refer to clause 4.7 of the guidelines issued by the Union of India, which have been held to be binding in the D case of Energy Watchdog (supra), which reads thus: “Clause 4.7. (amended) Any change in law impacting cost or revenue from the business of selling electricity to the procurer with respect to the law E applicable on the date which is 7 days before the last date for RFP bid submission shall be adjusted separately. In case of any dispute regarding the impact of any change in law, the decision of the appropriate Commission shall apply.” 149. The of this Court in the case of Energy Watchdog F (supra) has been approved by a three Judge Bench of this Court in Adani Rajasthan case (supra). 150. In spite of this legal position and the stand taken by the Union of India, the DISCOMS are taking a stand which is contrary to the stand of the Union of India. In Energy Watchdog (supra), it was also sought G to be urged by DISCOMS that even on account of Change in Law, adjustments would not be permissible, which contention was outrightly rejected. We have come across a number of matters wherein concurrent s passed by the Regulatory Body and the Appellate Forum are assailed. Such a litigation would, in fact, efface the purpose of the Electricity Act. As already discussed herein above, one of the major H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 151 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] reasons for the enactment of the Electricity Act was the deterioration in A performance of the State Electricity Boards. 151. In that view of the matter, we find that the stand taken by the DISCOMS that, since the loss being sustained by the generating companies is on account of non-fulfillment of obligation by CIL/Coal Companies, they should be relegated to the remedy available to them in B law against the CIL/Coal Companies, is totally unreasonable. The claim is based on change of NCDP 2007 by NCDP 2013, which, undisputedly, is covered by the term ‘Change in Law’.