18. He submitted that the respondent cannot be said to have failed to act as required under the prescribed procedure. He invited the attention of a three-Judge Bench of this Court to a decision in the case of S.K. Jain v. State of Haryana and Another reported in (2009) 4 SCC 357, wherein a similar clause requiring a security deposit of certain percentage of the claim amount was held to be valid. He argued that the reliance on the decision of this Court in the case of ICOMM Tele Limited (supra) by the petitioner is completely misconceived as the relevant arbitration clause therein was quite diff erently worded vis-a-vis the pre-deposit clause provided in the case of S.K. Jain (supra). 19. He submitted that in the absence of any clause to the contrary, the security deposit is refundable by virtue of being only a deposit for “security”. The object of such a clause is to ensure that only valid and bona fi de claims are made by the parties, and that the project is not hindered by frivolous 954 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. and baseless claims. He submitted that a three-Judge Bench of this Court in S.K. Jain (supra) found the clause providing for pre-deposit to be logical and containing a balancing factor to prevent frivolous and infl ated claims. The relevant clause in S.K. Jain (supra) provided that on the termination of arbitration proceedings, the sum would be adjusted against the costs awarded by the arbitrator and the balance amount would be refunded. In ICOMM Tele Limited (supra), the contract expressly provided for forfeiture of the security deposit, even in the event of the award going in favour of the party which made the deposit. In such circumstances, this Court held such a clause to be arbitrary being violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. In the present case, the Contract does not provide for any such forfeiture under Clause 55 and by virtue of the terminology used, the amount is to be deposited as a “security”. It was submitted that the same should be understood to be refundable upon completion of the proceedings between the parties. It was argued that in any case, Clause 4 of the GCC stipulates that the security deposit is to be refunded to the contractor on demand, after 14 days of expiry of Defects Liability Period. It does not exclude the security deposit made under Clause 55 from its purview. 20. He submitted that as such there is no challenge to the pre-deposit clause in the petition and the present petition under Section 11(6) of the Act 1996 is only for appointment of an arbitrator. The s in S.K. Jain (supra) and ICOMM Tele Limited (supra), relied upon on behalf of the petitioner were delivered in appeals arising out of writ petitions before the respective High Courts, where substantive challenges were made to the pre-deposit clause. 21. It was also argued that the petitioner having consented to the pre- deposit clause cannot be permitted to turn around and question its validity at the stage when a petition under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 is being considered, thereby circumventing the principle of “party autonomy”.