4. The IsG concerned will monitor such visits of the committee members to ensure positive results.” 40. Rule 3C of the 1964 CCS Rules and the Proviso to Rule 14(2) of the 1965 CCS Rules along with the 2006 Standing encompass the entire legislative scheme for dealing with sexual harassment at workplace in connection with the Central civil services and posts. 41. The Proviso to Rule 14(2) of the 1965 CCS Rules, provides that in an inquiry into sexual harassment under the 2006 Standing , the general procedure laid down in the 1965 CCS Rules shall also be applicable as far as practicable. The expression “as far as practicable” was examined by this Court in Aureliano Fernandes v. State of Goa and Othersreported in 2023 SCC OnLine SC 621 wherein it was held that the same is to provide fl exibility for achieving a balance between sensitivity and fairness in an inquiry into sexual harassment. It further held that while a detour may be made from the CCS Rules however the same must not be unreasonable. The relevant observations are given below: - “51. As can be seen from the above, when the misconduct relates to a complaint of sexual harassment at the work place, the Complaints Committee constituted by the respondent no. 2-University to examine such a complaint, dons the mantle of the inquiring authority and is expected to conduct an inquiry in accordance with the procedure prescribed in the rules, as far as may be practicable. The use of the expression “as far as is practicable” indicates a play in the joints available to the Complaints Committee to adopt a fair procedure that is feasible and elastic for conducting an inquiry in a sensitive matter UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 537 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] like sexual harassment at the workplace, without compromising on the principles of natural justice. Needless to state that the fact situation in each case will vary and therefore no set standards or yardstick can be laid down for conducting the inquiry in complaints of this nature. However, having regard to the serious ramifi cations with which the delinquent employee may be visited at the end of the inquiry, any discordant note or unreasonable deviation from the settled procedures required to be followed, would however strike at the core of the principles of natural justice, notwithstanding the fi nal outcome.” (Emphasis supplied) 42. It is well settled that when it comes to disciplinary proceedings, it is the inquiry authority and the disciplinary authority who could be said to be the fact-fi nding authority and the courts in exercise of their powers of judicial review should not sit in appeal and reappreciate the evidence or substitute its own fi ndings. The scope of judicial review of the courts is limited only to the propriety of the decision-making process and the fairness of the inquiry procedure as held by this Court in B.C. Chaturvedi v. Union of India & Ors. reported in (1995) 6 SCC 749.