It is, however, subject to an exception that by the proposed amendment, an opposite party should not be subject to injustice and that any admission E made in favour of the other party is not but wrong. All amendments of the pleadings should be allowed liberally which are necessary for determination of the real controversies in the suit provided that the proposed amendment does not alter or substitute a new cause of action on the basis of which the original lis was raised or defence taken. 38. Inconsistent and contradictory allegations in negation to the F admitted position of facts or mutually destructive allegations of facts should not be allowed to be incorporated by means of amendment to the pleadings. 39. In the case on hand, the first suit filed in the Small Causes Court was on the premise that the Defendant as a tenant was in arrears G of rent and had unlawfully inducted sub-tenants in the tenanted premises. Thus, the Plaintiffs put forward a case, as if, there was a landlord tenant relationship between the parties. The said suit came to be dismissed for non-prosecution. Later in point of time, the present suit came to be filed in the Civil Court with the prayer that the Plaintiffs be permitted to redeem H the mortgage and take back the possession of the suit property. GANESH PRASAD v. RAJESHWAR PRASAD AND ORS. 919 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 40. It appears that the present suit in which the courts below A permitted the Plaintiffs to amend the plaint is based on the stance taken by the Defendant in his written statement filed in the first suit i.e., the Small Cause Case No. 3 of 2007, which came to be dismissed for non- prosecution. However, it appears that the Plaintiffs have not given up their case that the Defendant is a tenant in the suit property and has B inducted sub-tenants. It is also the case of the Plaintiffs that the Defendant is in arrears of rent. Thus, the stance of the Plaintiffs in the present suit is two-fold. First, as regards the tenant-landlord relationship and secondly, the case of redemption of mortgage. 41. The pleadings are so poor and pathetic that as a result, this C Court found it extremely difficult to understand what the Plaintiffs intend to say by way of the amendment. With lot of effort, ultimately what we have been able to understand is that the father of the Appellant Defendant, namely, late Gulab Chand was the mortgagee of the suit property. The father of the Plaintiffs, namely, late Harihar Prasad was the mortgagor and he executed a mortgage deed dated 12.02.1957 in favour of the D father of the Appellant Defendant for a sum of Rs. 700/-. The grandfather of the Appellant Defendant, namely, late Laxman Prasad remained in occupation of the suit property as a tenant from the year 1953 at the rate of Rs. 23 monthly rent and later the father of the Appellant Defendant occupied the suit property, as a tenant till the year 2005 i.e., the year of E his demise.