GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 481 & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 27. The petitioners while referring to the observations of this Court in Royappa (supra) contend that the Central Government cannot unilaterally appoint the Chief Secretary because the Chief Secretary in addition to the subjects of land, police, and public also assists the Government of NCTD on a variety of other matters which falls within the legislative and executive competence of NCTD. However, these are grounds which can be raised when the challenge to the constitutional validity of the provisions of the 2023 Amendment Act is adjudicated. In view of the fact that this Court has not stayed the provisions of the NCT Amendment Act, this Court must adjudicate the controversy based on the position of law as it exists today. 28. The petitioners seek that the Court to appoint one of the fi ve senior most offi cers from the pool of offi cers who are serving in the AGMUT cadre and who has had the experience of having served as the Chief Secretary in the Government of NCTD. The relief sought by the petitioner is beyond the scope of powers exercisable by this Court. This Court cannot usurp the powers of the appointing authority conferred by law. 29. The issue which survives for consideration is as to whether the Central Government has the power to extend the service of an incumbent Chief Secretary. The Union Government, inter alia, relied upon the provisions of Rule 16 of the AIS (DCRB) Rules 1958. Dr Singhvi urged that the third proviso to Rule 16 clearly stipulates that an extension of service can be granted to a person holding the post of Chief Secretary to a State Government on the recommendations made by the concerned State Government “with full justifi cation and in public interest” with the prior approval of the Central Government. Hence, it was urged that the power of extension can be exercised only on the recommendation of the State Government which, in the present case, must mean, the GNCTD. 30. On the other hand, an eff ort has been made on behalf of the Union Government to submit that in a case involving a joint cadre, the expression State Government must mean the Joint Cadre Authority and bearing in mind the Transaction of Business Rules 1961 of the Union Government, it is the Ministry of Home Aff airs which alone would exercise jurisdiction on general questions relating to public services in the Union Territories and service matters pertaining to IAS and IPS offi cers serving in connection with the aff airs of the Union Territories. 482 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 31. This submission of the Union Government has not found acceptance in the 2023 Constitution Bench . Paragraph 173 of the (extracted above) holds that the GNCTD would exercise jurisdiction over public services in NCTD. 32. Rule 16 of the 1958 Rules is a general rule which is applicable to members of the service holding the post of Chief Secretary across all States.