Nor does the Act say that on transfer of ownership the captive generating plant will lose its character of being captive despite fulfi llment of all other conditions requiring it to be so. Section 9 of the Act which permits captive generation begins with the following words: notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the person may construct, maintain or operate a captive generating plant and dedicated transmission lines”. Obviously the owner of a captive generating plant need not be one who constructs. Set up defi ned in section 2(8) has been made equal to “construct, maintain or operate’’ by the use of these words in section 9. As we view it a captive generating plant does not lose its character by transfer of the ownership or any part of the ownership provided the generating plant produces power primarily for the use of its owner(s). The Regulation quoted above lays down further restrictions on the user of the power generated by a CGP. If all the provisions of the Act and Regulations governing captive generation and consumption from the CGP are specifi ed a plant will be a CGP notwithstanding the fact 40 Supra note 5. 370 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. that the plant at present is not owned by the person who originally set up the plant.” We agree with the said interpretation and logic. ACGP does not lose its captive status due to transfer of its ownership or any part of its ownership, provided that the transferee, that is, a new captive user, complies with eligibility criteria specifi ed under Rule 3 of the Rules. 37. This Court in Global EnergyLtd. and Anotherv. Central Electricity Regulatory Commission41,while holding that Regulation 6-A of the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Procedure, Terms and Conditions for Grant of Trading Licence and Other Related Matters), Regulations, 2004 was intra vires the Act and the Constitution of India, had reasoned: “38. When a disqualifi cation is provided, it is to operate at the threshold in respect of the players in the fi eld of trading in electricity. When, however, a regulatory statute is sought to be enforced, the power of the authority to impose restrictions and conditions must be construed having regard to the purpose and object it seeks to achieve. Dealing in any manner with generation, distribution and supply and trading in electrical energy is vital for the economy of the country. The private players who are permitted or who are granted licence in this behalf may have to satisfy the conditions imposed. No doubt, such conditions must be reasonable. Concededly, the doctrine of proportionality may have to be invoked.” Dealing with the generation of electricity being vital for the economy of the country, a narrow interpretation will ignore realities, leading to irrational results. Section 2(8) and Section 9(2) are required to be read harmoniously with Section 9(1) of the Act. A purposive interpretation would include a subsequent owner of the CGP, who is an owner as per clause (c) to Explanation 1 to Rule 3 of the Rules.