While we would not go, so far as to hold that Parliament was under a compellable duty, which this Court can enforce by a Mandamus, to make a law, all that we are finding is that the Constituent Assembly clearly intended that Parliament must make a law within the meaning of Article 324(2). Such an understanding of Article 324(2) may H 56 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A be contrasted with similar provisions in the Constitution, which also contemplated enabling the making of law by Parliament. This brings us to the question relating to an evaluation of similar provisions in the Constitution. M. ARTICLES IN THE CONSTITUTION, WHICH B EMPLOY THE WORDS ‘SUBJECT TO ANY LAW’ TO BE MADE BY PARLIAMENT ASCONTAINED IN ARTICLE 324 34. One of the contentions of the respondent-Union is that this Court must bear in mind the snowballing effect of the interpretation C canvassed by the petitioners being accepted on other situations governed by other Articles. 35. Articles in the Constitution, which employ the words ‘subject to any law’ to be made by Parliament as contained in Article 324. D 36. Article 98 provides that each House of Parliament shall have a separate Secretarial Staff. Article 98(2) provides that Parliament may, by law, regulate the recruitment and conditions of the staff. Article 98(3) empowers the President, in consultation with the Speaker of the House of People or Chairman of the Council of States, to make Rules, till Parliament makes law. Apart from the dissimilarity, it is to be noticed E that, even in the matter governed by Article 98, if not law, Rules are to govern. 37. Article 137 declares that, subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament or Rules made under Article 145, Supreme Court shall have the power of review. It will be noticed that in the first place, F the Supreme Court has framed rules, regulating the power to review. The absence of a law made by Parliament would have little effect. The purport of Article 137 has absolutely no comparison with Article 324(2). Article 142(2) uses the same expression, viz., ‘subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament’ and it provides that the Supreme Court G is to have power for ing the attendance of any person, the discovery or protection of any document or the investigation or punishment for any contempt. Patently, the absence of any law under Article 142cannot produce the impact, which Article 324(2) is capable of producing and, what is more, vouchsafed by the debates in the Constituent Assembly. H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 57 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] 38. Article 145 uses the expression ‘subject to the provisions of A any law made by Parliament’, Supreme Court can make Rules for regulating the practice and procedure of the Court. It is self-evident that it bears no resemblance to the context, purpose and background of Article 324(2). 39. Article 146 of the Constitution of India reads as follows: B “146.