125. Undisputedly, vide the NCDP 2007, insofar as the power utilities including IPPs/CPPs and Fertilizer Sector are concerned, the MoC had assured 100% of the quantity as per the normative requirement of the consumers for supply of coal, through FSA by CIL at fixed prices to be declared/notified by CIL. The units/power plants, which were yet D to be commissioned but whose coal requirements has already been assessed and accepted by the MoC and linkage/LoA approved as well as future commitments, were also to be covered by the said Policy. Para 5.2 of the NCDP 2007 also provided that in to meet the domestic requirement of coal, CIL may have to import coal as may be required E from time to time, if feasible. The CIL was to adjust its overall price accordingly. There was an unequivocal assurance given that it will be the responsibility of CIL/Coal Companies to meet full requirement of coal under FSAs even by resorting to imports, if necessary. 126. However, in 2013, on account of the limited availability of coal, the MoC had indicated that CIL may not be in a position to supply F more than 60 to 65% of ACQ. The Union of India, therefore, realised that PPAs which are already concluded between the developers and the DISCOMS as a result of competitive bidding in the last few years based on domestic coal linkage (LoA) may have to use imported coal to bridge the shortage of domestic coal in to fulfill their contractual obligations. G 127. The CCEA considered the issue and decided that the higher cost of imported coal will be allowed as a pass-through. This is evident from the communication dated 9th May 2013 addressed by the MoP to the CERC. 128. The CERC also considered the issue. It noted that it was the H full responsibility of CIL to meet full requirement of coal under FSAs MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 143 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] even by resorting to import, if necessary. After referring to the Change A in Law clause, the CERC, in its advice dated 20th May 2013, stated that for claiming any benefit under Change in Law, the Project Developer would have to move the appropriate Commission and the appropriate Commissions are expected to take decisions on the merits of each case including the claims of the Project Developers for compensation on B account of imported coal. Such decisions were required to be taken after consultation with the stakeholders. 129. The Government of India through MoP, in its Press Note dated 21st June 2013, published the decision of the CCEA which clearly provided that the higher cost of imported coal was to be considered for pass-through as per the modalities suggested by CERC. C 130. The MoP, thereafter, addressed a communication dated 31st July 2013 to the Secretary, CERC specifically pointing out the decision of the CCEA to the effect that the higher cost of imported coal was to be considered for pass-through as per the modalities suggested by CERC.