109. Generally, all executive action of the Government of India shall be expressed to be taken in the name of the President under Article G 77(1). However, for more convenient transaction of the business of the Government of India, the President shall make Rules. These Rules shall also provide for the allocation of the business among Ministers. This is under Article 77(3). Similar provisions are found in sub-Articles (1) and (3) of Article 166. H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 693 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] 110. There are special duties assigned to the Prime Minister and A the Chief Ministers, under Articles 78 and 167 respectively. 111. While dealing with the scheme of Article 166(3), the Constitution Bench of this Court pointed out in A. Sanjeevi Naidu vs. State of Madras107, that under our Constitution, the Governor is essentially a constitutional head and the administration of the State is run by the B Council of Ministers. Since it is impossible for the Council of Ministers to deal with each and every matter that comes before the Government, the Governor is authorized under Article 166(3) to make Rules for the more convenient transaction of the business of the Government of the State and for allocation amongst its Ministers the business of the C Government. In paragraph 10 of the said decision, the Constitution Bench spoke about “joint responsibility” and not about collective responsibility. The relevant portion of paragraph 10 reads as follows: “10. The cabinet is responsible to the Legislature for every action taken in any of the Ministries. That is the essence D of joint responsibility. That does not mean that each and every decision must be taken by the cabinet. The political responsibility of the Council of Ministers does not and cannot predicate the personal responsibility of the Council of Ministers to discharge all or any of the Governmental functions. Similarly an individual Minister is responsible to the Legislature for every action taken E or omitted to be taken in his ministry. This again is a political responsibility and not personal responsibility. …” 112. The expression “collective responsibility” can be traced to some extent, to Article 75(3) insofar as the Union is concerned and to Article 164(2) insofar as the States are concerned. But in both the F Articles, it is the Council of Ministers who are stated to be collectively responsible to the House of the People/Legislative Assembly of the State. Generally collective responsibility of the Council of Ministers either to the House of the People or to the Assembly should be understood to correlate to the decisions and actions of the Council of Ministers G and not to every statement made by every individual Minister. 113. In State of Karnataka vs. Union of India.108, a Seven Member Constitution Bench of this Court, while dealing with a challenge 107 (1970) 1 SCC 443 108 (1977) 4 SCC 608 H 694 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A made by the State of Karnataka in the form of a civil suit under Article 131, to the appointment by the Central Government, of a commission of enquiry against the Chief Minister of Karnataka, had an occasion to consider the exposition of the words “collective responsibility” appearing in Article 164(2).