7.3 In the case of Asian Paints (India) Ltd. (supra), the decision which has been rendered subsequent to the decision of the High Court in the case of Bajaj Auto Ltd (supra) it is observed and held as under: D “We have read the s of the larger Bench of the Customs, Excise and Gold (Control) Appellate Tribunal, which are impugned in these appeals. We are of the view that the s viewed Section 35-E and 11-A of the Central Excise Act in the proper perspective. The two sections operate in different E fields and are invoked for different purposes. Different time-limits are, therefore, set out therein. We do not accept the contention that recovery of excise duty cannot be made pursuant to an appeal filed after invoking the provisions of Section 35-E, if the timelimit provided in Section 11-A has expired. To so read the provisions, would be to render Section 35-E virtually ineffective, which would F be impermissible.” 7.4 Before this Court in the case of Asian Paints (India) Ltd. (supra) the s of the larger Bench of the Tribunal were under challenge. The Special Bench of the Tribunal took the view that Section 35E and Section 11A operate in different fields and are invoked for G different purposes and different time limits are therefore set out therein. This Court in the case of Asian Paints (India) Ltd. (supra) specifically negated and/or did not accept the submission on behalf of the assessee that the recovery of excise duty cannot be made pursuant to an appeal filed invoking the provisions of Section 35E if the time limit under Section H 898 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 11A has expired. 7.5 The law laid down by this Court in the case of Asian Paints (India) Ltd. (supra) as such was binding on the High Court and despite the same was pointed out and pressed into service by the Revenue before B the High Court, the High Court has without giving any reasons how the same is misplaced has ignored to follow the decision of this Court in the case of Asian Paints (India) Ltd. (supra) and rather has followed its earlier decision in the case of Bajaj Auto Ltd (supra) which admittedly was prior to the decision of this Court in the case of Asian Paints (India) Ltd. (supra). C 8. As observed hereinabove, once the in original sanctioning the refund came to be set aside in a proceeding under Section 35E of the Act and the proceedings under Section 35E was initiated within the time prescribed under Section 35E of the Act, thereafter there is no question of any further notice under Section 11A of the Central Excise Act as D observed by the Tribunal affirmed by the High Court on quashing and setting aside the in original sanctioning the refund in exercise of powers under Section 35E of the Act which otherwise is prescribed under the Act within the time stipulated under Section 35E of the Act, thereafter necessary consequence shall follow and thereafter there is E no question of any refund pursuant to in original.