4. It is the contention of the respondents, who have filed separate C appeals arising from SLPs (C) Nos. 10484-85 of 2016 and SLPs (C) Nos. 10481-82 of 2016, that the company and the director have no liability to pay the compound interest even assuming that the appellant in Civil Appeals Nos. 5032-33 of 2016 is entitled to any compensation. It can be only the amount determined under D Section 12-B of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (for short “the Act”). Section 12-B reads as follows: “12-B. Power of the Commission to award compensation.— (1) Where, as a result of the monopolistic or restrictive, or unfair trade practice, carried on by any undertaking or any E person, any loss or damage is caused to the Central Government, or any State Government or any trader or class of traders or any consumer, such Government or, as the case may be, trader or class of traders or consumer may, without prejudice to the right of such Government, trader or class of traders or consumer to institute a suit for the recovery of any F compensation for the loss or damage so caused, make an application to the Commission for an for the recovery from that undertaking or owner thereof or, as the case may be, from such person, of such amount as the Commission may determine, as compensation for the loss or damage so caused. G (2) Where any loss or damage referred to in sub-section (1) is caused to numerous persons having the same interest, one or more of such persons may, with the permission of the Commission, make an application, under that sub-section, for and on behalf of, or for the benefit of, the persons so interested, and thereupon the provisions of Rule 8 of 1 of the First H 1136 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), shall apply subject to the modification that every reference therein to a suit or decree shall be construed as a reference to the application before the Commission and the of the Commission thereon. B (3) The Commission may, after an inquiry made into the allegations made in the application filed under sub-section (1), make an directing the owner of the undertaking or other person to make payment, to the applicant, of the amount determined by it as realisable from the undertaking or the owner thereof, or, as the case may be, from the other person, as C compensation for the loss or damage caused to the applicant by reason of any monopolistic or restrictive, or unfair trade practice carried on by such undertaking or other person. (4) Where a decree for the recovery of any amount as compensation for any loss or damage referred to in sub-section D (1) has been passed by any court in favour of any person or persons referred to in sub-section (1), or, as the case may be, sub-section (2), the amount, if any, paid or recovered in pursuance of the made by the Commission under sub- section (3) shall be set off against the amount payable under E such decree and the decree shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), or any other law for the time being in force, be executable for the balance, if any, left after such set off.” 5.