D 143. It is further pertinent to note that the MERC itself in its dated 7th March 2018 in Case No.123 of 2017 (JSW v. MSEDCL),has taken a totally contradictory stand. It will be relevant to refer to paragraph 19.11 of the said dated 7th March 2013, which reads thus: “19.11 In view of the above, financial impact of Change in E Law on the auxiliary consumption to restore the generator to the same economic position as if such Change in Law has not occurred is allowed. The Change in Law shall be applicable on auxiliary consumption of the Unit as per the Norms laid down F by the Commission or actual, whichever is less since the tariff of the project is based on Competitive Bidding the auxiliary power consumption considered is not known. However this auxiliary consumption should be at a normative value corresponding to Scheduled generation only. G Moreover, this Change in Law with respect to auxiliary consumption shall not include power consumption for staff colonies of the generating station.” [emphasis supplied] H 148 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 144. It is, thus, difficult to appreciate as to how the MERC, in one case, has taken a view that Change in Law on the Auxiliary Consumption has to be as per the Norms laid down by the Commission or actual, whichever is less, when it has rejected the same in the case of APML in the dated 7th March 201811. 145. We may gainfully refer to the stand taken by the Union of B India in the case of Energy Watchdog (supra), which reads thus: “15. The learned Attorney General appearing on behalf of the Union of India, submitted before us that he was not interested in the ultimate outcome of the appeals before us. He was only appearing in to apprise us that the electricity sector, C having been privatised, has largely fulfilled the object sought to be achieved by the 2003 Act, which is that electricity generation, being delicensed, should result in production of far greater electricity than was earlier produced. He urged us not to disturb the delicate balance sought to be achieved by D the Act i.e. that producers or generators of electricity, in that they set up power plants, be entitled to a reasonable margin of profit and a reasonable return on their capital, so that they are induced to set up more and more power plants. This must be consistent with competitiveness among them, which then translates itself into reasonable tariffs that are payable by E consumers of electricity. For this purpose, he relied strongly upon Section 3 of the Electricity Act, which states that the Central Government, shall from time to time, prepare a National Electricity Policy and a tariff policy in consultation with the State Governments, and the authority for development of the power system, based on optimal utilisation of natural resources. F According to him, the National Electricity Policy and Tariff Policy that are issued from time to time, being statutory in nature, are binding on all concerned.