In the totality of the Case, this Court fi nds that the testimony of CW-1, Lalmuni Devi (mother of deceased Rajendra Rai), corroborates the same and makes it reliable. The narration about the incident’s time, place and manner, the specifi c role attributed to the accused persons, etc, as described by Lalmuni Devi (CW-1), conforms with the contents of the FIR/Bayan Tahriri. 106. This Court is conscious of the fact that a path diff erent from the normal is being adopted to determine the guilt of the accused. The Court is compelled to do so in the glaringly peculiar facts of the present case which have been elaborately discussed in the preceding paragraphs. 107. We have noticed that the three main stake holders in a criminal trial, namely the Investigating Offi cer that is the part of the police of the State of Bihar, the Public Prosecutor, and the Judiciary, have all utterly failed to keep up their respective duties and responsibilities cast upon them. This Court time and again has commented upon the failure of the major stakeholders in the criminal delivery system. 462 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 108. In the case of State of Haryana and Ors. vs. Ch. Bhajan Lal and Ors18., this Court had commented on the conduct of the Police Offi cer. The following extract from the said is reproduced hereunder: “Human dignity is a dear value of our Constitution. But if a police offi cer transgresses the circumscribed limits and improperly and illegally exercises his investigatory powers in breach of any statutory provision causing serious prejudice to the personal liberty and also property of a citizen, then the Court, on being approached by the person aggrieved for the redress of any grievance has to consider the nature and extent of the breach and pass appropriate s as may be called for without leaving the citizens to the mercy of police echelons since human dignity is a dear value of our Constitution.” 109. Insofar as the Public Prosecutors are concerned, a lot of comments have been made, not only by this Court but also by the Law Commission, highlighting the role and importance of a Public Prosecutor. We may quote with profi t the role of the Prosecutors as stated in the 197th Law Commission of India Report on Public Prosecutors’ Appointments (2006): “The Prosecutor has a duty to the state, to the accused and the Court. The Prosecutor is all times a minister of justice, though seldom so described. It is not the duty of the prosecuting counsel to secure a conviction, not should any prosecutor even feel pride or satisfaction in the mere fact of success.” In 154th Law Commission of India Report it was reported as follows: “Prosecutors are the ministers of Justice whose job is none other than assisting the State in the administration of Justice. They are not representatives of any party. Their job is to assist the Court by placing before the Court all relevant aspects of the case.