The conclusions of the Full Bench have been recorded in D paragraph 40. In clause (i) of paragraph 40, the Full Bench of the High Court records that under Rule 12(2), the Scrutiny Committee, if it is not satisfied with the documentary evidence produced, has to forward the application to Vigilance Cell for holding a school, home and other enquiry. The Full Bench does not lay down that in every case where the Scrutiny E Committee is dealing with a Scheduled Tribe claim, a reference must be made to the Vigilance Cell. In clause (ii) (a) of paragraph 40, the Full Bench records that the Scrutiny Committee must have regard to the entire body of evidence, including on the question as to whether the applicant has satisfied the affinity test. As held earlier, the question of taking recourse to the affinity test will arise only if the case is referred F to Vigilance Cell. In fact, in clause (b) of paragraph 40, the Full Bench holds that even if an applicant does not have any documentary evidence it will not ipso facto result into invalidation of the caste claim. The reason is that in such a case, sub-rule (2) of Rule 12 will apply and the Vigilance Cell will have to hold an enquiry including affinity test. Even in such a G case, affinity test will not be conclusive either way as held in clause (2) of paragraph 20 in Anand’s case4. In clause (c) of the same paragraph, the Full Bench of the High Court also holds that even if the applicant partially satisfies the affinity test, depending upon the nature of the evidence on record, the Scrutiny Committee has power to validate the H MAH. ADIWASI THAKUR JAMAT SWARAKSHAN SAMITI v. 1133 THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] claim. Thus, even clause (c) proceeds on the footing that the affinity test A is not conclusive. 35. Reading paragraph 40 of the impugned as a whole, we cannot conclude that a finding has been recorded by the full Bench about the conclusive nature of the affinity test. The finding cannot be understood to mean that reference to the Vigilance Cell and conduct of B affinity test is mandatory in every case. However, we make it clear that for the reasons we have recorded in this , we do not approve the observation in the impugned that “the affinity test is an integral part of the determination of the correctness of the claim” CONCLUSIONS C 36. Thus, to conclude, we hold that: (a) Only when the Scrutiny Committee after holding an enquiry is not satisfied with the material produced by the applicant, the case can be referred to Vigilance Cell. While referring the case to Vigilance Cell, the Scrutiny Committee must D record brief reasons for coming to the conclusion that it is not satisfied with the material produced by the applicant. Only after a case is referred to the Vigilance Cell for making enquiry, an occasion for the conduct of affinity test will arise.