It is submitted that once the purchasing dealer demonstrates that he has complied with such requirement, he G cannot be denied the ITC only because the selling dealer fails to discharge his obligation under the KVAT Act. 7.3 It is submitted that in the present case, the respondents are purchasing dealers, who have complied with the requirement of KVAT Act and have ensured that the purchases made by them are in compliance with the requirements of the KVAT Act and Rules for H THE STATE OF KARNATAKA v. M/S ECOM GILL COFFEE 655 TRADING PRIVATE LIMITED [M. R. SHAH, J.] claiming ITC. Reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in the A case of Corporation Bank Vs. Saraswati Abharansala, (2009) 19 VST 84 (SC). It is further submitted that the ITC could be denied where the purchasing dealer has acted without due diligence, i.e., by proceeding with the transaction without first ascertaining if the selling dealer is a registered dealer having a valid registration. It is submitted B that denial of ITC to a purchasing dealer who has taken all the necessary precautions fails to distinguish such a diligent purchasing dealer from the one that has not acted bonafide. It is submitted that in the case of The Additional Commissioner of commercial Taxes Zone – II and Ors. Vs. M/s. Transworld Star Manjushree, Civil Appeal Nos. 216-217 of 2023 @ SLP (Civil) No. 6337-6338 of 2022, C both the seller and dealer were registered. 7.4 Making above submissions, it is prayed to dismiss the present appeals. 8. We have heard learned counsel for the respective parties at D length. We have gone through the s passed by the Assessing Officer and the first Appellate Authority as well as the s passed by the second Appellate Authority/Tribunal and also the impugned (s) and (s) passed by the High Court dismissing the revision applications. E The respondents herein – all purchasing dealers claimed the Input Tax Credit on the alleged purchases made from the respective dealers. The Assessing Officer, on appreciation of evidence and considering the other material on record, doubted the genuineness of the transactions and the purchases made from the respective dealers and denied the ITC. The findings of fact recorded by the Assessing Officer came to be confirmed F by the first Appellate Authority. However, the second Appellate Authority and the High Court have allowed the ITC, by observing that as the purchasing dealers produced the invoices issued by the respective dealers and that in some of the cases they also made the payment through cheques, the Assessing Officer was not justified in denying the ITC. Against the G grant of ITC, the State is before this Court. 8.1 Therefore, the short question which is posed for the consideration of this Court is, “whether, in the facts and circumstances of the case, the second Appellate Authority as well as the High Court were justified in allowing the Input Tax Credit?” H 656 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R.