4. Being aggrieved by the said dated 31.07.2017, the petitioner filed the writ petition being SWP No. 1766 of 2017 seeking reinstatement with consequential benefits. The said writ petition came to be dismissed H 168 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A by the Single Bench vide the and dated 14.05.2018, whereby the Single Bench placing reliance on the decision of Union Territory, Chandigarh Administration And Others Vs. Pradeep Kumar And Another1, held that the decision of the Director General of Police, the highest functionary in the hierarchy of police department, to consider the suitability of the appellant for induction into police force, B could not be called into question. The aggrieved petitioner therefore filed the LPA, which came to be dismissed by the Division Bench vide the impugned . 5. Though the matter was argued at length by the learned counsels for the parties, the precise question that falls for consideration before C this Court is whether the Director General of Police, Jammu & Kashmir, Srinagar, who after examining the record of the petitioner had come to the conclusion that the petitioner was not a fit person to hold the post into the police force in view of his criminal background, could be compelled to reinstate the petitioner on his acquittal in the criminal case. D 6. It was sought to be submitted by the learned counsel for the petitioner that in the criminal trial proceeded against the petitioner, the prosecution had failed to examine the investigating officer and also failed to bringhome the charges levelled against him, and therefore his acquittal in the said case was required to be treated as an honorable acquittal. He E further submitted that the very basis for presuming that the petitioner had a criminal background was no more available to the respondents, on his having been acquitted by the competent criminal court. 7. In to appreciate the said submission made by the learned counsel for the petitioner, it would be relevant to reproduce the relevant part of the dated 26.04.2011 passed by the Court of Chief F Judicial Magistrate, Handwara, whereby the petitioner was acquitted from the charges levelled against him. “That the I.O. has not been produced and examined which is legal infirmity in the prosecution case as material contradictions have not been answered nor the site plan has been proved. Further, G the seizure of timber has not been proved by the witnesses. None of witnesses has deposed that accused committed theft in the forest and willow trees were found in possession of the accused persons. On the basis of contradictory evidence accused cannot H 1(2018) 1 SCC 797 IMTIYAZ AHMAD MALLA v. THE STATE OF JAMMU AND 169 KASHMIR AND OTHERS [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] be convicted, as benefit of doubt goes to the accused. Prosecution A has miserably failed to fulfill the ingredients of section 379 RPC, 6 F.Act against the accused persons. So, prosecution case fails. Challan is dismissed. Accused are acquitted of the charges for the commission of offence under section 379 RPC 6 F.Act.