The H character and content of parliamentary democracy in the ultimate ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 129 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] analysis depends upon the quality of persons who man the A Legislature as representatives of the people. It is said that “elections are the barometer of democracy and the contestants the lifeline of the parliamentary system and its set-up”.” “33. Constitutional provisions are required to be understood and interpreted with an object-oriented approach. A Constitution must B not be construed in a narrow and pedantic sense. The words used may be general in terms but, their full import and true meaning, has to be appreciated considering the true context in which the same are used and the purpose which they seek to achieve. Debates in the Constituent Assembly referred to in an earlier part of this clearly indicate that a non-member’s inclusion in C the Cabinet was considered to be a “privilege” that extends only for six months, during which period the member must get elected, otherwise he would cease to be a Minister. It is a settled position that debates in the Constituent Assembly may be relied upon as an aid to interpret a constitutional provision because D it is the function of the court to find out the intention of the framers of the Constitution. We must remember that a Constitution is not just a document in solemn form, but a living framework for the Government of the people exhibiting a sufficient degree of cohesion and its successful working depends upon the democratic spirit underlying it being respected in letter and in spirit. The debates E clearly indicate the “privilege” to extend “only” for six months.”” (Emphasis supplied) 148. In B.R. Kapur v. State of T.N. and Another,45 interpreting Article 164 again a Constitution Bench which also relied upon Constituent Assembly Debates held that a non-legislator could become a Chief F Minister or Minister under Article 164 only if he had the qualification for membership of the legislative body and was also not disqualified within the meaning of Article 191. Of relevance to the cases before us are the following observations of Justice G.B. Pattanaik which are as follows: - “In a democracy, constitutional law reflects the value that people G attach to ly human relations, to individual freedom under the law and to institutions such as Parliament, political parties, free elections and a free press. xxxx xxxx xxxx 45(2001) 7 SCC 231 H 130 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A The said Constitution occupies the primary place. Notwithstanding the fact, we have a written constitution, in course of time, a wide variety of rules and practices have evolved which adjust operation of the Constitution to changing conditions. xxxx xxxx xxxx B Many important rules of constitutional behaviour, which are observed by the Prime Minister and Ministers, members of the Legislature, Judges and civil servants are contained neither in Acts nor in judicial decisions. But such rules have been nomenclatured by the constitution-writers to be the rule of “the positive morality C of the constitution” and sometimes the authors provide the name to be “the unwritten maxims of the constitution” — rules of constitutional behaviour, which are considered to be binding by and upon those who operate the Constitution but which are not enforced by the law courts nor by the presiding officers in the House of Parliament.” D (Emphasis supplied) 149.