The Revenue cannot be allowed to blow hot and cold in the same F breath by relying upon IL’s case on merits while at the same time arguing that the same had no relevance for the purposes of examining the plea for a bonafide belief. [Para 22][1298-B-F] 1.4 The finding of the tribunal that during the period in dispute it was holding a bonafide belief that it was correctly G discharging its duty liability is concurred with. The mere fact that the belief was ultimately found to be wrong by the of this Court does not render such belief of the assessee a malafide belief particularly when such a belief was emanating from the view taken by a division bench of tribunal. The issue of valuation H THE COMMISSIONER, CENTRAL EXCISE AND CUSTOMS v. 1289 M/S RELIANCE INDUSTRIES LTD. involved in this particular matter is indeed one where two plausible A views could co-exist. In such cases of disputes of interpretation of legal provisions, it would be totally unjustified to invoke the extended period of limitation by considering the assessee’s view to be lacking bonafides. In any scheme of self–assessment it becomes the responsibility of the assessee to determine his B liability of duty correctly. This determination is required to be made on the basis of his own and in a bonafide manner. [Para 23][1298-G-H; 1299-A-B] 1.5. The extent of disclosure that an assessee makes is also linked to his belief as to the requirements of law. In the C instant case, the assessee who was required to self–assess his liability determined the assessable value on the basis of an interpretation given by CESTAT. It could not have foreseen that the view taken by CESTAT would be upset and overturned by the Supreme Court as it happened on 9.8.2005. The assessee’s conduct during the material period, between 2000 to 2005 cannot D be considered to be malafide when it merely followed the view taken by the tribunal in IFGL’s case. On the question of disclosure of facts, the assessee had disclosed to the department its pricing policy by giving separate letters. It is also not disputed that the returns which were required to be filed were indeed filed. In these E returns, there was no separate column for disclosing details of the deemed export clearances. Separate disclosures were required to be made only for exports under bond and not for deemed exports, which are a class of domestic clearances, entitled to certain benefits available otherwise on exports. There was thus, nothing wrong with the assessee’s action of including the F value of deemed exports within the value of domestic clearances. [Para 24][1299-B-E] 1.6. In the show cause notice itself it has been accepted by the revenue that the self–assesment procedure did not require an assessee to submit copies of all contracts, agreements and G invoices. This being the admitted position in the notice there is no basis for agreeing with the findings of the Commissioner that certain relevant documents had not been filed and thereby suppressed from the scrutiny of the revenue officers.