Even if for the sake of argument, it is accepted that the principle of irrevocability runs through Article 357(2), this principle cannot be imported to limit the scope of the exercise of executive power when the Proclamation is in force; and c. Article 357(2) encapsulates the working of the Indian federal model by providing that though the division of powers between the Union and the State legislatures which is a core component of the federal structure is capable of being altered during the subsistence of the proclamation under Article 356, the federating units would have the power to reverse or modify the changes which were brought by the Union during the subsistence of the Proclamation. In that sense, Article 357(2) enables the restoration of federal principles. 213. The petitioners also relied on Krishna Kumar Singh (supra) to argue that irrevocable actions cannot be taken after a Proclamation under Article 356 is issued. In Krishna Kumar Singh (supra), one of the issues before this Court was whether the legal eff ects or consequences of an Ordinance stand obliterated upon the lapsing of an Ordinance or upon 132 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. the Legislative Assembly passing a resolution disapproving the Ordinance. Constitution Benches of this Court in Bhupendra Kumar Bose v. State of Orissa197 and T Venkata Reddy v. State of Andhra Pradesh198 had held that the rights created by an Ordinance have an enduring eff ect even after the Ordinance ceases to exist. The premise of the decision was that the eff ects of an Ordinance must be assessed on the basis of the same yardstick that applies to temporary enactments. One of us (Justice DY Chandrachud as he then was) writing for the majority held that there is a fundamental fallacy in equating an Ordinance with a temporary enactment because an Ordinance, though deemed to be a law in view of the deeming fi ction in Article 213 comes into force through an executive action. This Court held that when an Ordinance ceases to exist, the rights and other consequences created by the Ordinance also cease to exist for three reasons: fi rst, Article 213 unlike other provisions of the Constitution (such as Articles 358(1) and 359(1)) does not have a savings clause which saves the actions or things done when the Ordinance was in force; second, the theory of enduring rights attributes a degree of permanence to the power to promulgate Ordinances which derogates from the principle of parliamentary supremacy; and third, in SR Bommai (supra), this Court held that irrevocable actions cannot be taken until the Proclamation issued under Article 356 is approved by Parliament. This principle was held to be applicable to Ordinance making power as well. 214. A subsequent issue which arose before this Court in Krishna Kumar Singh (supra) was on the question of relief. That is, what relief could the Court grant where restoration of status quo ante was not possible. This Court held that while deciding on the relief, this Court must decide if “undoing what had been done under the Ordinance would manifestly be contrary to public interest”.