Further M/s. Gujarat Composite Limited, has agreed that first charges will be released by Bank of Baroda only with the consent of M/s. A Infrastructure Limited even after repayment of the said loan. Bank of Baroda further agreed to release the first charge G only with the consent of M/s. A Infrastructure Limited. However in case M/s. Gujarat Composite Ltd. will make payment of this corporate loan of Rs.500 lacs directly to Bank of Baroda. Bank of Baroda will release the first charges without the consent of M/ s. A Infrastructure Limited” 3 Hereinafter also referred to as ‘the bank’. H 112 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 3.5. An amendment was introduced to the aforementioned tripartite agreement on 23.01.2008, so as to restrict the transfer of title deeds of the land of appellant during the term of licence agreements. The amended condition reads as follows: - “Further M/ s. Gujarat Composite Limited, has agreed that First B Charge will be released by Bank of Baroda only with the consent of M/s. A Infrastructure Limited even after repayment of the said loan. Bank of Baroda further agreed to release the First Charge only with the consent of M/s. A Infrastructure Limited. However, in case M/s. Gujarat Composite Ltd. will make payment of dues against this corporate loan of Rs.500 lacs directly to Bank of C Baroda, Bank of Baroda will release the First Charge without the consent of M/s. A Infrastructure Limited. But M/s Gujarat Composite agrees that the title Deeds of the land will not be transferred to any other party during the currency of Licence Agreements executed between M/s. A Infrastructure Limited and D M/s. Gujarat Composite Ltd. “ 3.6. The dispute in the present matter arose after respondent No. 1, by means of representation dated 22.02.2012, invoked clause 3 of the original licence agreement and called upon the appellant to extend the term of the licence agreement by a further period of 84 months. This E extension was sought because appellant was unable to pay certain dues owed to respondent No. 1 and sought time to arrange for payment. In response to this representation, the appellant, through letter dated 29.02.2012, denied the proposal of respondent No. 1 to extend the term of licence agreement as also the projected outstanding dues. Later, on 06.04.2012, which was the date of completion of tenure of the original F licence agreement, respondent No. 1 did not hand over possession and instead, declared its intention to continue with possession. Between April 2012 and March 2015, according to the appellant, certain attempts were made to resolve the dispute, but to no avail. It is also a part of the case of respondent No. 1 that certain parcels of land were transferred to G respondent Nos. 3 to 5 in January 2015. 3.7. Then, on 07.04.2015, the appellant issued notice to respondent No. 1 claiming recovery of possession of the manufacturing units as well as certain monetary dues. In the notice, the appellant stated that the licence had expired by efflux of time without any extension, hence possession by respondent No.