In simpler terms, this would mean F that the mandate to not wait for the decision of the Advisory Board is effectively not for the central Government, but only for the detaining officer. In the COFEPOSA Act, since the detaining authority is separate from the Government, both, the Pankaj Kumar and the Abdullah Kunhi would apply, but in different spheres. The Pankaj Kumar , since it G was rendered in the context of the Government being the detaining authority, would be applicable only to the detaining authority/specially empowered officer under the COFEPOSA Act. The Abdullah Kunhi however, since it was rendered in the context of the COFEPOSA Act, the mandate thereunder would H 796 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A squarely apply only to the Government, and not the detaining authority. In simpler terms, this would mean that the mandate to not wait for the Advisory Board would be applicable only to the detaining authority. The Government, however, as per the Abdullah Kunhi Case, must wait for the decision of the Advisory Board. Since these two s exist symbiotically and apply B to two separate authorities within the COFEPOSA Act, there exists no friction between the s, and hence there is no necessity for this point of law to be referred to a Larger Bench since the same is already settled. Any apparent conflict, as contended by the appellant, stands resolved, and both sets of C s operate symbiotically and harmoniously within the said Act, without there existing any tension between them. The mandate to wait for the decision of the Advisory Board, as per the Pankaj Kumar , would apply to the central Government, however, the detaining authority, being independent of the Government, can pass its decision without the decision of D he Advisory Board. Since no conflict exists, the need to refer the point of law to a Larger Bench also ceases. [Paras 31, 33-35][811- G-H; 813-F-G; 814-A-D; 815-B-D] Pankaj Kumar Chakraborty And Ors. v. State of West Bengal (1969) 3 SCC 400 : [1970] 1 SCR 543; K.M. E Abdulla Kunhi & B.L. Abdul Khader v. Union Of India & Ors. (1991) 1 SCC 476 : [1991] 1 SCR 102 – discussed. 3. If there exists no friction between the two Constitutional s of this Court, can the impugned detention be F quashed on grounds of the 60-day delay in consideration of the representation made by the appellant? In the present case at hand, the appellant-detenue, availing his rights sent a representation to both, the specially empowered officer and the Government. The detaining authority in the G present case decided on the representation expeditiously and without waiting for the decision of the Advisory Board, and hence, did not violate the Pankaj Kumar . The Government in the present case at hand, did decide to wait for the decision of the Advisory Board. This was also done in accordance with the decision of the Abdullah Kunhi case, since the Government, being H PRAMOD SINGLA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS.