The Petitioner, as such, is rightly disqualified for deviating from F the material requirements stipulated in the tender.” (Emphasis supplied) 23. The High Court, after holding as above proceeded further to discuss as to why the bid of EVEY also should have been rejected. The High Court noted EVEY’s contention that Annexure Y submitted along G with the technical bid was an incidental document, however, rejected such contention. The High Court while referring to Clause 16 of Schedule I held that once the final date for the submission of the bid expires, there can be no additions/corrections/ submissions of documents by the bidders. Clause 16 of Schedule I of the Tender is produced hereinbelow: H 704 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A “SCHEDULE I Invitation for Proposal … 16. Interested Bidders are advised to study this Tender document B carefully before submitting their proposal in response to this Tender document. Submission of a proposal in response to this tender shall be deemed to have been after careful study and examination of this document with full understanding of its terms, conditions and implications. No addition / correction, submission of documents will C be allowed after opening of technical bid” 24. The High Court as a result, held that the email dated 06.05.2022 ought not to have been entertained, and the technical bid evaluation, which was released on the same day did not depict fairness in the actions D of BEST. The High Court in paragraphs 20 – 22 respectively held as under: “20.It has been contended by Respondent No.1 that letter issued by Respondent No.2 on 6th morning did not influence the decision to hold the bid of Respondent No.2 responsive in E the afternoon of 6th May 2022. The same is not borne-out from the facts and circumstances of the case. Clause-16, as stated above specifically and categorically prohibits additions / corrections / submission of documents after opening of technical bid. Technical bids have been opened on 4th May 2022. Thereafter no such letter could have been entertained. F The proximity of the time i.e. 6th May at 11.35 am. the letter issued by Respondent No. 2 along with the modified Annexure- Y and after two hours, the bid of Respondent No.2 held responsive, does not support the contention of Respondent No.1 that the said revised Annexure-Y and the letter written G on 6th May morning did not weigh in holding Respondent No.2’s bid responsive. First of all, accepting the letter from Respondent No.2 by Respondent No.1 on 6 May morning itself was against the specific terms of the tender (clause 16). It is further the case of Respondent No.1 that on 6thmorning revised Annexure-Y forwarded by Respondent No.2 was sou H TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE BRIHAN MUMBAI ELECTRIC SUPPLY 705 & TRANSPORT UNDERTAKING (BEST) [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] motu and not at the instance of Respondent No.1, may not be A relevant here. The fact remains that Respondent No.2 was allowed to submit the letter and revised Annexure-Y after two days of the opening of technical bids.