LTD. & ANR. 663 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] under” the parent company. In City of London v. Sancheti,31 the Court of Appeal overturned Roussel-Uclaf (supra) on the ground that an entity cannot be considered to be claiming through or under merely because there is a “legal or commercial connection” between them. 52. Section 5 of the English Arbitration Act, 1996 requires an arbitration agreement to be in writing. Further, Section 5(2)(a) provides that it is not necessary for the parties to sign the arbitration agreement. In such situations, the critical question that arises before the English courts is whether a non-signatory party is bound by an arbitration agreement. The English law position is that “contracts are not to be lightly implied” and the court “must be able to conclude with confi dence both that the parties intended to create contractual relations and that the agreement was to the eff ect contended for.”32 However, in limited situations, a contract is implied if the parties conducted themselves in a manner as if they have formally entered into a contract.33 53. In Dallah Real Estate and Tourism Holding Company v. The Ministry of Religious Aff airs, Government of Pakistan34, the Government of Pakistan entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with Dallah Real Estate and Tourism Holding Company35 for construction of housing facilities in Mecca, Saudi Arabia. Subsequently, an agreement was executed between Dallah and the Awami Hajj Trust, which was established by the Government through an Ordinance. However, the trust ceased to exist as a legal entity because the Ordinance was not laid before Parliament and no further ordinance was promulgated. Dallah commenced arbitral proceedings against the Government. The UK Supreme Court had to determine whether there was a common intention on behalf of the Government and Dallah to make the former a party to the agreement. The Court observed that the “common intention of the parties means their subjective intention derived 31 The Mayoralty and Commonalty & Citizens of the City of London v. Ashok Sancheti, [2008] EWCA Civ 1283 32 Blackpool and Fylde Aero Club Ltd. v. Blackpool Borough Council, [1990] 1 WLR 1195 33 Chitty on Contracts, Hugh Beale (ed), (32nd edn, Sweet and Maxwell, 2015) para 2-169. 34 [2010] UKSC 46 35 “Dallah” 664 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. from the objective evidence.” It was held that there was no evidence to conclude that the Government’s behavior showed that it always considered itself to be a true party to the agreement. v. Singapore 54. In Manuchar Steel Hong Kong Limited v. Star Pacifi c Line Pte Ltd,36 the Singapore High Court expressly rejected the group of companies doctrine to bind non-signatories to arbitration agreement. The High Court reasoned that the group of companies doctrine was: fi rst, anathema to the logic of consensual basis of an agreement to arbitrate; and second, ing of companies within a broader group did not mean one could dispense with separate legal entity. The Singapore High Court relied on position of law taken in Peterson Farms INC (supra) to observe that enforceable obligations cannot be imposed on “strangers” to an arbitration agreement.