25. The PPA provides for the tariff s to be paid in two parts: capacity charges i.e. fi xed charges corresponding to the declared capacity and energy 12 Clause 1.1(b), PPA. 13 Clause 2.2.1, PPA. 772 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. charges i.e. variable charges corresponding to the actual electricity delivered. The relevant clauses are extracted below: 5.2 “Capacity Charge The Annual Capacity Charge (ACC) of Power Block for supply of power from the station worked out to Rs. 1446.451 Cr. per annum based on capacity charge of 96p/KWH fi nalized at the time of asset takeover by RGPPL. This Capacity Charge of 96p/KWH is increased to 98.5p/KWH pursuant to discussions under the aegis of Gd. This Capacity Charge of 98.5p/KWH is subject to further review and fi nalization by GoT and GOM pursuant to the ongoing restructuring exercise under consideration by GoI to ensure project viability based on above capacity charges on levelized basis of 98.5p/KWH, the total Annual Capacity Charges work out to Rs 1484.12 Cr. per annum. Full capacity charges shall be payable at 80% of 2150MW (i.e.1720MW) declared capacity lower than this shall be recovered on pro-rata basis after COD of Block(s)/Station. MSEDCL shall pay capacity charges in proportion to the allocation of power from RGPPL. … 5.3 Energy Charges: The Energy Charge for supply of power from the Station shall be worked out based on the gross heat rate and auxiliary Power Consumption as given below: … 5.4 For the purpose of Tariff computation all values of price, quantity, etc. would be considered up to eight decimal point accuracy. 5.5 Energy Charges shall be worked out on the basis of ex-bus energy scheduled to be sent out from the Station as per the following formula: Energy Charges (Rs) = REC9 * SG on Gas + REC * SG on liquid fuel 5.6 Provisional Billing: RGPPL shall be billing provisionally MSEDCL based on the above rate calculated for Capacity Charges and Energy Charges and MSEDCL agrees to pay based on the above billing till MSEDCL. v. RATNAGIRI GAS AND POWER PVT. LTD. 773 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] such time it is approved by CERC or other competent authority. Provisional Billing shall be adjusted after fi nal approval of tariff by CERC or other competent authority. 5.9 Gas Supply Agreement (GSA)/ Gas Transportation Agreement (GTA) Gas supply agreement is presently for 1.5 MMTPA R-LNG upto September 2009 after being sourced through Petronet LNG Ltd and regasifi ed at their Dahej terminal with supply though GAIL/off - takers. The conditions of GSA/GTA having commercial implications (for example bearing on Plant availability, contracted quantity, price components, Take or Pay provisions, penalties and damages etc.) shall be signed separately with MSEDCL as a supplementary agreement. The total required Gas/LNG is envisaged to be procured through short-term contracts/long-term contracts through GAIL and under the directions of GoI, the details of which shall be furnished in due course. RGPPL shall be required to obtain approval of MSEDCL on contracting terms and price before entering into the GSA/GTA contract.” 26.