5. The statement made by the deceased Hukum Singh was recorded by P.W.20 at the place of occurrence. He died subsequently E on 28.07.1992, after three days in the hospital. It is to be noted that no attempt was made to record the statement either before the Jurisdictional Magistrate or in the presence of a doctor. On a perusal of the records, we find that the thumb impression of the deceased was affixed in the middle of Dehati Nalishi, and words have been written over it, thus F giving an impression that it was an after-thought. 6. The appellants namely, Sardar Singh and Dhola Ram, were convicted along with the other accused for the offences punishable under Sections 148, 302/149 and 324/149 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (hereinafter referred to as “IPC”), by the Trial Court for committing the G murder of two persons. However, the High Court, while confirming the life imprisonment for the death of the deceased Kishori Kachi, modified the same qua the deceased Hukum Singh, to one punishable under Section 304 Part II IPC. Three of the accused convicted by the Trial Court died during the pendency of the present proceedings, while five of them had completed their sentence, and were therefore released. The appellants H have undergone incarceration for a period of nine years. RANVIR SINGH ETC. ETC. v. THE STATE OF MADHYA 847 PRADESH [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] 7. Before the Trial Court, the prosecution examined 21 witnesses, A out of which 6 of them were eye witnesses. One eye witness, Bhogiram, died during the pendency of the proceedings, and hence not examined as a witness. 8. We now proceed to discuss the depositions of the prosecution witnesses. B P.W.1: 9. This witness is the wife of the deceased Hukum Singh. She identified the accused persons only in the Court. Admittedly, no test identification parade was done. Her deposition was recorded three years C after the incident. Though, she asserted that she was an eye witness, it was obviously contrary to the Dehati Nalishi of the deceased Hukum Singh. In her deposition, she has also stated that there were others who egged on the accused persons to continue with the assault. It was her evidence that the accused carried both the deceased and Bhogiram to their place. A further deposition has been given that she was not told D about the names of the accused, and therefore she did not know any of them by name. It is her further evidence that the accused persons present in the Court cannot be named. She admits that there are number of contradictions between the statement made by her under Section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as “CrPC”) E and her deposition. One of her statements is to the effect that the village watchman was present, but he was also prevented from reporting the incident to the police. Both the deceased and Bhogiram were in a state of unconsciousness. At the time of the assault, about 60 to 70 persons belonging to the group of the accused were present.