The more recent case is P.V. Jagannath Rao v. State of Orissa [AIR 1969 SC 215 : (1968) 3 SCR 789] . It hardly needs any authority to state that the inquiry will be ed not by the Minister against himself but by someone else. Where a Ministry goes out of offi ce, its successor may consider any glaring charges and may, if justifi ed, an inquiry. Otherwise, each Ministry will become a law unto itself and the corrupt conduct of its Ministers will remain beyond scrutiny.” These observations aff ord a complete answer to the contention urged on behalf of Dr. Jagannath Mishra that this Court should not interfere with the withdrawal of the prosecution because the successor government of Karpoori Thakur or Sheonandan Paswan was actuated by political motivation or vendetta.” 9. Ms. Garima Prasad brought to the notice of this Court that the investigation has been completed and charge sheet is ready to be fi led against the appellants and other co-accused, however, due to the interim passed by this Court on 28.11.2022, the Investigation Offi cer has not been able to fi le the charge sheet before the concerned trial court. ANALYSIS 10. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the following questions fall for the consideration by this Court:- 1. Whether the plain reading of the FIR discloses commission of the off ence of dacoity punishable under Section 395 of the IPC? To put it MOHAMMAD WAJID AND ANR. v. STATE OF U.P. 333 AND ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] in other words, even if the entire case of the prosecution is believed to be true, whether the ingredients to constitute the off ence of dacoity punishable under Section 395 of the IPC are disclosed? 2. Whether any case of criminal intimidation punishable under Sections 504 and 506(2) of the IPC is made out? 3. Whether the allegations levelled in the FIR inspire any confi dence considering the fact that the FIR was lodged in the year 2022 for the alleged off ence of the year 2021 and more particularly, without furnishing any details as regards the date and time of the alleged incident? 4. Whether the case on hand falls within any one of the parameters laid down by this Court in the case of State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal, AIR 1992 SC 604, for the purposes of quashing the criminal case? DISCUSSION OFFENCE OF DACOITY:- 11. The off ence of dacoity falls within Chapter XVII of the IPC which relates to Off ences Against Property. Section 390 explains what is “robbery”. It explains, when theft is robbery and when extortion is robbery. Section 390 along with illustrations reads thus:- “Section 390. Robbery.—In all robbery there is either theft or extortion. When theft is robbery.—Theft is “robbery” if, in to the committing of the theft, or in committing the theft, or in carrying away or attempting to carry away property obtained by the theft, the off ender, for that end voluntarily causes or attempts to cause to any person death or hurt or wrongful restraint, or fear of instant death or of instant hurt, or of instant wrongful restraint.