364 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. provided by the State Commission under Section 42(2), on payment of transmission charges or surcharge thereon. The fourth proviso to Section 38(2) reads: “38. Central Transmission Utility and functions.— ×× ×× ×× Provided also that such surcharge shall not be leviable in case open access is provided to a person who has established a captive generating plant for carrying the electricity to the destination of his own use.” Thus, the Act prohibits levy of surcharge, cross or additional surcharge, even when open access is provided to a person who has established a CGP for carrying the electricity to the destination of their own use. 21. This brings us to the core issue which relates to interpretation of Rule 3 of the Rules. Three issues arise for our specifi c consideration in view of the confl icting s of the APTEL. These are: I. Eligibility criteria for a CGP/captive user under Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules. II. Interpretation of the second proviso under Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules and in particular the words “association of persons”. III. Whether a company set up as a Special Purpose Vehicle32 for generating electricity is an, “association of persons”, in terms of the second proviso to Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules. Issue I Eligibility criteria for a CGP/captive user specifi ed under Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules. 22. Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules was interpreted by this Court in Chhattisgarh State Power33. In the said case, M/s. Shri Bajrang Power and Ispat Ltd.34 had established a CGP. SBPIL had submitted a petition to provide open access for wheeling of power through the transmission 32 For short, “SPV”. 33 Supra note 18. 34 For short, “SBIPL”. M/S. DAKSHIN GUJARAT VIJ COMPANY LTD. v. M/S. GAYATRI 365 SHAKTI PAPER AND BOARD LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] system of Chhattisgarh State Power35, for the captive use by SBPIL’s sister concern, Shri Bajrang Metallics and Power Limited36. SBMPL held 27.6% equity shares in SBPIL. However, the judgement also states that SBMPL directly held 26.67% shares in the CGP.37 The petition was resisted by CSPDCL on the ground that the consumption of electricity by SBPIL and SBMPL independently/individually was not in proportion to their respective ownership of the CGP. SBPIL, while holding 72% shares in the CGP, was to consume 14.16% of the electricity generated, whereas, SBMPL, which was holding 26.67% shares in the CGP, was to consume 57.87% of the electricity generated. 23. This Court did not agree with the plea and contention of the distribution licensee. The plant was held to be a CGP and SBMPL a captive user. The requirement under Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules is twofold. First, the captive user should not hold less than 26% of the ownership in the CGP. Secondly, the captive user should consume not less than 51% of the aggregate electricity generated by such CGP. The second proviso to Rule 3(1)(a)(ii) of the Rules states that in case of an association of persons, the captive user(s) shall not hold less than 26% of ownership of the plant in aggregate and the captive user(s) shall not consume less than 51% of the electricity generated, determined on an annual basis, in proportion to their shares in ownership of the CGP within a variation not exceeding +10%.