Item 101.2: M/s Navyug Steel Cast and Anr. v. Paschim Gujarat Vij Co.; Civil Appeal No. 7303 of 2005 244. On 10 August 1998, a petition for winding up of Anik Steel Ltd. was filed wherein an for winding up of the company was F passed and an Official Liquidator was appointed. By an advertisement dated 21 December 2001, the Official Liquidator invited tenders for the auction sale of the property of the previous owner. The appellant submitted an offer of Rs. 35.5 lakhs for purchase of the property on an “as is where is” basis. The offer letter specified that the petitioner “shall G not be responsible for any of the past dues of the Gujarat Electricity Board, Excise and Customs Department, Sales Tax and Income Tax Department and of any outsiders whether it is Government, Semi- Government Corporations and/ or Board, Bank or of any private parties”. After inter se bidding, the appellant’s offer of Rs. 45.5 lakhs was found to be highest. On 23 July 2022, the Official Liquidator submitted H 750 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A a report before the Gujarat High Court for confirmation of the sale in favour of the appellant for Rs. 45.5 lakhs. The High Court accepted the sale in favour of the appellant subject to certain terms and conditions. One such condition was: “10. The purchaser shall be liable to pay all statutory dues, B if any, due and payable on the properties of the company for the period after the date of winding up. The payment of such dues for pre-liquidation period shall be settled as per the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956. However, dues, taxes, cess, if any applicable on the sale of assets shall be paid by the purchaser.” C (emphasis supplied) 245. In accordance with the auction terms laid down by the High Court, the consideration was paid and possession of the assets was handed over to the appellant. When the appellant applied for a fresh connection, the respondent insisted on payment of outstanding dues of the previous D owner before granting a fresh connection. The appellant filed a writ petition challenging Clause 2(j) of the Conditions of Supply. The Single Judge allowed the writ petition and struck down clause 2(j) of the Conditions of Supply for being arbitrary and inconsistent with statutory provisions of the law. The respondent preferred special appeals against E the of the Single Judge before the Division Bench. The Division Bnech by dated 18 July 2005 upheld the validity of Clause 2(j) on the ground that it fell within the ambit and scope of Section 49(1) of the 1948 Act. 246. On 10 August 2001, Gujarat Electricity Board issued a F notification under Section 49 of the 1948 Act incorporating Condition 2(j) in the ‘Condition and Miscellaneous Charges for Supply of Electrical Energy’. Condition 2(j) empowered the Board to insist on payment of arrears of electricity dues of the former consumer as a condition precedent to the restoration of the earlier connection or release of a fresh connection in favour of the new owner/occupier of the premises.