It is a latin maxim which literally means “it is not the deed.” A plea of non est factum is a defence available in Contract Law allowing a person to escape the eff ect of a document which she/he may have executed/signed. 18. As already noted above, the plea of non est factum basically means, “it is not my deed.” The said plea has been a subject matter of consideration of this court in the case of Bismillah v Janeshwar Prasad (supra). In the said case, the plaintiff /appellant therein had claimed herself to be a Pardanashin lady and on the representation of the defendant/respondents, had appointed them as agent to manage the estate under a written document which was drafted in Hindi, a language not known to her. Later on, she discovered that it contained an unauthorized clause empowering sale of properties. Taking advantage of the same, the said agents had executed fraudulent and elusive sale of the said property. The said case set up the plaintiff /appellant was considered and dealt with in paras 12 and 13 of the report. A further issue which this Court considered in the said case was a distinction between fraudulent mis-representation as to the character of the document and fraudulent misrepresentation as to the contents thereof. Such defense of non est factum was held to be available only where the mistake was as to the very nature or character as to the transaction. This Court also relied upon an earlier decision in the case of Ningawwa v. Byrappa12. This Court further placed reliance upon the judgement of the House of Lords in case of Saunders v Anglia Building Society13 to fi ne tune the distinction between the document being void or voidable. Paras 11 to 15 of Bismillah (supra) are reproduced hereinunder: “11. The assumption underlying the reasoning of the High Court is that if the action had really been one based on the need for the cancellation of the deeds, without which possession could not be granted, the civil court would have had jurisdiction. The cause of action in the appellant’s suit does admit of being brought within this class of cases. 12 AIR 1968 SC 956 13 (1970) 3 ALL ER 961 RAMATHAL AND ORS. v. K. RAJAMANI (DEAD) 359 THROUGH LRS. AND ANR. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] 12. The common law defence of non est factum to actions on specialities in its origin was available where an illiterate person, to whom the contents of a deed had been wrongly read, executed it under a mistake as to its nature and contents, he could say that it was not his deed at all. In its modern application, the doctrine has been extended to cases other than those of illiteracy and to other contracts in writing. In most of the cases in which this defence was pleaded the mistake was induced by fraud; but that was not, perhaps, a necessary factor, as the transaction is “invalid not merely on the ground of fraud, where fraud exists, but on the ground that the mind of the signor did not accompany the signature; in other words, that he never intended to sign, and therefore, in contemplation of law never did sign, the contract to which his name is appended” 13.