However, this Court is not rendering any finding with C regard to any potential conflict of the provisions of the Assam Act of 2015 with the National Medical Commission Act, 2019. We also wish to refer to the Directive Principle of State Policy. The framers of the Constitution, in Article 47 have directed the Union and State Governments to regard the ‘improvement of public health’, as D its primary duty. It follows from this directive that the State shall make all possible efforts to ensure equitable access to healthcare services. These efforts must be made to progressively realize the right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health, as acknowledged in international conventions and agreements. E While the State has every right to devise policies for public health and medical education, with due regard to peculiar social and financial considerations, these policies ought not to cause unfair disadvantage to any class of citizens. The citizens residing in rural areas have an equal right to access healthcare services, by duly qualified staff. Policies for enhancing access to rural healthcare must not shortchange the citizens F residing in rural areas or subject them to direct or indirect forms of unfair discrimination on the basis of their place of birth or residence. Any variation between the standards of qualification required for medical practitioners who render services in rural areas qua the medical practitioners rendering services in urban or metropolitan areas must G prescribe to constitutional values of substantive equality and non- discrimination. We may hasten to add that deciding the particular qualifications for medical practitioners practising in disparate areas and in disparate fields, providing different levels of primary, secondary or tertiary medical services, is within the mandate of expert and statutory authorities entrusted with the said mandate by the Parliament. H 1016 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A The above ought to be considered in the spirit of constitutional goals and statesmanship subserving, as it does, the common good of the citizenry of our Country. Conclusion: 25. In the result, we arrive at the following conclusions: B (i) Entry 25 of List III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India deals with the subject education which is in the Concurrent List under which both the Parliament or the Union Legislature as well as the State Legislatures have legislative competence to legislate. However, Entry C 25 of List III is subject to, inter alia, Entry 66 of List I which is the Union List. Entry 66 of List I deals with coordination and determination of standards in institutions for higher education or research and scientific and technical institutions. Thus, when any law is made under Entry 25 of List III by a State Legislature, the same is always subject D to Entry 66 of List I. In other words, if any law made by the Parliament comes within the scope of Entry 66 of List I, then the State Legislation would have to yield to the Parliamentary law.