The Court will not regard itself as being bound by the said statement in the statute itself, but will proceed to analyse the C nature of the amendment and then conclude whether it is in reality a clarificatory or declaratory provision or whether it is an amendment which is intended to change the law and which applies to future periods.” This position of the law has also been subscribed to in Union of D India vs. Martin Lottery Agencies Ltd., (2009) 12 SCC 209 wherein it was stated that when a new concept of tax is introduced so as to widen the net, the same cannot be said to be only clarificatory or declaratory and therefore be made applicable retrospectively, even though such a tax was introduced by way of an explanation to an existing provision. It was further held that even though an explanation begins E with the expression “for removal of doubts,” so long as there was no vagueness or ambiguity in the law prior to introduction of the explanation, the explanation could not be applied retrospectively by stating that it was only clarificatory. 9.2. From the aforesaid authorities, the following principles could F be culled out: i) If a statute is curative or merely clarificatory of the previous law, retrospective operation thereof may be permitted. ii) In for a subsequent /provision/amendment to be considered as clarificatory of the previous law, the pre- G amended law oughtto have been vague or ambiguous. It is only when it would be impossible to reasonably interpret a provision unless an amendment is read into it, that the amendment is considered to be a clarification or a declaration of the previous law and therefore applied retrospectively. H 386 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A iii) An explanation/clarification may not expand or alter the scope of the original provision. iv) Merely because a provision is described as a clarification/ explanation, the Court is not bound by the said statement in the statute itself, but must proceed to analyse the nature of B the amendment and then conclude whether it is in reality a clarificatory or declaratory provision or whether it is a substantive amendment which is intended to change the law and which would apply prospectively. 10. Applying the law as discussed hereinabove to the facts of the C present case, we are of the view that the subsequent Government dated 29th March, 2001 cannot be declared as a clarification and therefore be made applicable retrospectively. The said has substantively modified the Government dated 21st December, 1999 to the extent of stating that teachers who had already got the benefit of advance increments for having a Ph.D. degree, would not be eligible for advance D increments at the time of their placement in the selection grade. As noted above, the law provides that a clarification must not have the effect of saddling any party with an unanticipated burden or withdrawing from any party an anticipated benefit. However, the Government dated 29th March, 2001 has restricted the eligibility of lecturers for E advance increments at the time of placement in the selection grade, only to those who do not have a Ph.D. degree at the time of recruitment and subsequently acquire the same.