together with a penalty of fi ve rupees, or, when ten times the amount of the proper duty or defi cient portion thereof exceeds fi ve rupees, of a sum equal to ten times such duty or portion; (b) where any person from whom a stamped receipt could have been demanded, has given an unstamped receipt and such receipt, if stamped, would be admissible in evidence against him, then such receipt shall be admitted in evidence against him on payment of a penalty of one rupee by the person tendering it; (c) where a contract or agreement of any kind is effected by correspondence consisting of two or more letters and any one of the letters bears the proper stamp, the contract or agreement shall be deemed to be duly stamped; (d) nothing herein contained shall prevent the admission of any instrument in evidence in any proceeding in a Criminal Court, other than a proceeding under Chapter XII or Chapter XXXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898); (e) nothing herein contained shall prevent the admission of any instrument in any Court when such instrument has been executed by or on behalf of the Government or where it bears the certifi cate of the Collector as provided by Section 32 or any other provision of this Act.” 4. Section 33 of the Stamp Act is cautiously worded,to not over expand its ambit and scope. The section applies on production of an instrument before a person who by law or consent of the parties has the authority to receive evidence.6 It also applies when an instrument is produced before a person in charge of a public offi ce. Production of the instrument must be during the course of performance of functions by such person orpublic offi cer. The proviso states that Section 33 shall not be deemed to require any Magistrate or Judge of a criminal court to examine or impound an instrument if he does not think fi t to do so, except in proceedings under Chapter XII or Chapter XXXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Chapter X(D) and Chapter IX of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973).Police offi cers are not public offi cers under Section 33 of the Stamp Act. 6 Hereinafter also referred to as ‘such person’. 119 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 5. Sub-section (3) to Section 33 states that in case of doubt, the State Government may determine which offi ces shall be deemed to be public offi ces and who shall be deemed to be persons in charge of the public offi ces. 6. Sub-section (2) to Section 33 states that for the purpose of sub- section (1), such person or public offi cer shall examine the instrument so chargeable and so produced or coming before him,in to ascertain whether it is duly stamped as per the law in force in India when the instrument was executed or fi rst executed. 7. Section 35 states that an instrument not duly stamped and chargeable with duty shall not be admitted in evidence by any person having by law or by consent of the parties the authority to receive evidence.