206. In addition to the ‘reading in’ of the provisions of other statutes such as ISA and HSA, the petitioners argue that the Court must also read into the following provisions of the SMA: a. The words “widow” and “widower” in Schedules II and III of SMA must be read as “widow or widower” and “widower or widow”; and b. Section 4(c) of SMA may be interpreted in the following way: i. For same-sex couples, the provision may be read as prescribing eighteen years as the minimum age for both parties in a lesbian relationship, and twenty-one years for both parties in a gay relationship; ii. For transgender persons, the minimum age requirement would depend on whichever gender/sex they identify as. So, a trans- man would be eligible to marry at twenty one years of age while a trans-woman would be eligible to marry at eighteen years; and iii. For those who do not identify either as a man or a woman, the following approach shall be adopted to ensure the inclusion of non-binary and intersex individuals: A. The silence of the SMA on the minimum age qualifi cation for persons other than ‘men’ and ‘women’ may be read as imposing SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1349 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] no restriction other than the restriction imposed by other laws that stipulate the age at which persons are capable of making decisions for themselves, which is eighteen years; and B. Alternatively, the Court may lay down guidelines as an interim measure and until Parliament fi lls the legislative vacuum. 207. If the Court fi nds that a provision is contrary to Part III of the Constitution, it shall declare that it is void,179 or read it down (by deleting phrases) or read words in (by adding or substituting phrases) to save it from being declared void. If, in the present batch of petitions, this Court holds that Section 4 is unconstitutional because it is underinclusive to the extent that it excludes, by implication, the marriage between same-sex couples, the court could either strike down Section 4 of the SMA or follow the workability model submitted by the petitioners. If the Court follows the fi rst approach, the purpose of a progressive legislation such as the SMA would be lost. The SMA was enacted to enable persons of diff erent religions and castes to marry. If the SMA is held void for excluding same- sex couples, it would take India back to the pre-independence era were two persons of diff erent religions and caste were unable to celebrate love in the form of marriage. Such a judicial verdict would not only have the eff ect of taking the nation back to the era when it was clothed in social inequality and religious intolerance but would also push the courts to choose between eradicating one form of discrimination and prejudice at the cost of permitting another. 208. If this Court takes the second approach and reads words into the provisions of the SMA and provisions of other allied laws such as the ISA and HSA, it would in eff ect be entering into the realm of the legislature.