In the apparent view of this Court in judicial citation i.e. Kedarnath (above), the Hon’ble Supreme Court established the principle, such principle completely clarified in the judicial citation D i.e. Rajkumar Makhija (above) by the Bench of Hon’ble High Court. If it is any previously established legal principle contrary to above both legal principles, in such circumstances, it cannot be given preference to established principle in the same. It is mandatory and prior to considering the revision application, the E Learned Trial Court must satisfy by this fact that whether the above section 17 has been complied or not? and Such kind of satisfaction cannot be left for later stage. In the present case, it was presented the application i.e. document no. 28C under section 17 of Provincial Small Cause Act, in fact till date, it is not passed any on the same and on 23.09.2015 the application dismissed F on the ground that it has already been passed on the application i.e. document no. 34C. The application i.e. document no. 34C had been presented only with the intention that the surety is to be taken on record, which was admitted by Court, it means the surety had been taken on record, but this cannot be G considered that the surety was admitted by considering/ inferring sufficient. Thereafter again, when on the direction of Court, it was presented the applications i.e. document nos. 90C and 102C on behalf of defendant, in such circumstances; it was not passed 1AIR2002 SC 582 H 738 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A any appropriate on such applications. If it is observed in these circumstances, it is not placed any for admitting surety, in absence of the same, it cannot be inferred/ considered to not complyin any condition to the provisions of section 17 of Provincial Small Cause Act, but as the principle established by Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Kedarnath that in the condition of B causing delay in passing on the part of Court, the defendant cannot be declared guilty/ defaulter, in the present case also, this Revision Court cannot declare guilty/ defaulter to the defendants. 27. Whether the defendant complied the provisions of section 17 of Provincial Small Cause Court Act or not? It is the question of C one fact and it can only be decided/ adjudicated by Learned Trial Court accordingly. In such circumstances, it was not in accordance of stipulated provisions of law toadmitted revision petitioner without concrete conclusion in relation of compliance of above section 17 and the impugned is liable to be set aside.” D (Emphasis supplied) 8. It was thereafter ed as follows: “The revision is admitted. The impugned dated 07.12.2016 and s dated 23.09.2015 and 04.10.2016 respectively are dismissed and it is direction to Learned Trial E Court that firstly, in the light of objections of plaintiff, pass the decree after compliance of section 17 of Provincial Small Cause Act or non-compliance in relation its report on deposited amount and presented surety i.e.