We shall deal with each of these affi davits in a subsequent part of this . 11 Mr Mukul Rohatgi, Dr AM Singhvi, Mr Neeraj Kishan Kaul and Mr Ranjit Kumar, senior counsel appear on behalf of the appellant. Mr Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India appears on behalf of the NCLAT and the Member (Technical). Mr PS Patwalia, senior counsel appears on behalf of the Member (Judicial). Mr Darius Khambata, senior counsel appears on behalf of the Scrutiniser. 12 An affi davit has been fi led by the Member (Technical) unconditionally tendering an apology before this Court. The Member (Technical) has, inter alia, stated that control over the procedure during the course of the proceedings before the Bench, particularly the procedure of mentioning, is with the Member (Judicial) on account of his judicial training and experience in the functioning of the courts. The Member (Technical) has stated that on 13 October 2023, when the Presiding Judge and he entered the courtroom in the post-lunch session, the courtroom was overcrowded with an unusually large number of advocates. Once the mentioning process was over, the Member (Judicial) asked him to pronounce the which he thereafter proceeded to pronounce. It has been stated that none of the advocates from any of the parties made any eff ort to bring on record and place before the Bench on 13 October 2023 the actual which was passed by this Court in the pre-lunch session and that it was much after the pronouncement of the in the post-lunch session at around 6.27 p.m. that the NCLAT Registry received an email containing a copy of the after the proceedings for the Tribunal had been concluded for ORBIT ELECTRICALS PRIVATE LIMITED v. 1037 DEEPAK KISHAN CHHABRIA & ORS. the day. The Member (Technical) has referred to the CCTV footage of the proceedings of the NCLAT and to a pen drive which has been received. 13 The Member (Judicial), on the other hand, has fi led an affi davit in which the following averments appear in Paragraph 10 : “10 … The bench presided by the deponent and the Technical Member Shri Alok Shrivastava assembled a few minutes after 2 PM, at about 2.05 PM, on 13.10.2023, when some counsel tried to mention the matter. However, neither any of this Hon’ble Court was fi led with the Registry or Court Maste3r nor was any even handed over to the bench by the parties before assembling of the bench. Rule 38 of NCLAT Rules, 2016 authorises the parties or their authorised representatives to furnish any document to the Court Master which he wishes to place on record for reference by the Bench, before the commencement of the proceedings for the day. However, no such attempt was even made by the counsel of either of the parties.” 14 Paragraphs 13 and 14 of the affi davit of the Member (Judicial) are set out below : “13 That it is further submitted that the procedure followed in the NCLAT, like in this Hon’ble Court and many other courts is that when a matter is listed for pronouncement of , mentioning by counsel for any case is permitted only after pronouncement of and not before that.