We have noticed that as per the agreement it is clear that what was agreed to be sold is the entire business of fertilizer on an “as is where is” basis including the land, building thereon, plant and machinery relating to fertilizer business — description of which is D found in the definition of the term “fertilizer business” in the agreement itself which has been extracted by us hereinabove. It is not the case of the appellant when it contends that the possession of plant and machinery was handed over separately to the appellant by the vendor, that these machineries were dismantled and given E to the appellant, nor is it possible to visualise from the nature of the plant that is involved in the instant case that such a possession dehors the land could be given by the vendor to the appellant. It is obviously to reduce the market value of the property the document in question is attempted to be drafted as a conveyance deed regarding the land only. The appellant had embarked upon a F methodology by which it purported to transfer the possession of the plant and machinery separately and is contending now that this handing over possession of the machinery is dehors the conveyance deed. We are not convinced with this argument. Apart from the recitals in the agreement of sale, it is clear from the G recitals in the conveyance deed itself that what is conveyed under the deed dated 9-6-1994 is not only the land but the entire fertilizer business including plant and machinery. A perusal of clauses 10, 11 and 13 of the said deed shows that it is the fertilizer factory which the vendor had agreed to transfer along with its business H 1132 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A as a going concern and to complete the same the conveyance deed in question was being executed. There is implicit reference to the sale of fertilizer factory as a going concern in the conveyance deed itself….” 11. Learned counsel for the appellant has placed for our B consideration a of this Court in the case of Himalaya House Co. Ltd. v. Chief Controlling Revenue Authority [(1972) 1 SCC 726] to contend that a mere reference to an earlier agreement does not amount to incorporation of the terms and conditions of an earlier transaction or the intention of the parties. We have carefully considered the said and, in our opinion, C that does not in any manner lay down the law in absolute terms that a court cannot look into prior agreements while considering the intention of the parties for finding out what actually is the property that is conveyed under the deed under consideration. It is again based on facts of that case that this Court came to the D conclusion therein that the so-called terms and conditions which were found in an earlier agreement were not intended to be incorporated in the subsequent document…. 13. For the reasons stated above, we are of the considered opinion that the vendor as per the conveyance deed dated 9-6-1994 has E conveyed the title it had not only in regard to the land in question but also to the entire fertilizer business on “as is where is” condition including the plant and machinery standing on the said land.