It is further held that the respondent No.6 being ineligible for applying to the subject post, his application ought to have been rejected outright and therefore, his appointment is hereby quashed. This leaves us with four posts of PTI’s in four constituent colleges under the respondent No.1 - University that are required to be fi lled up. For this purpose, it is deemed appropriate to direct the University to constitute a Selection Committee, which shall consider the candidature of the appellant and the respondents No.5, 7 and 8. The Selection Committee shall conduct a single interview in respect of the aforesaid candidates irrespective of the number of applications that they may have been fi led for the subject posts. While conducting the interview, no separate marks shall be assigned for the diff erent qualifi cations possessed by the candidates inasmuch as the advertisement issued by the respondent No.1 - University did not contain any such stipulation. 19. A common merit list shall be prepared by the Selection Committee, keeping in mind the qualifi cations of each of the aforesaid candidates as also the marks allocated to them in the interview to be conducted. Thereafter, a seniority list shall be drawn and the candidates shall be assigned to the respective colleges, in accordance with the said list. The entire exercise shall be completed within eight weeks from the date of constitution of the Committee and the results shall be declared under intimation to the appellant and the respondents No. 5, 7 and 8. 718 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 20. It is further directed that in view of the past history of the matter where serious allegations were levelled against the Vice-Chancellor and the Registrar of the respondent No.1 - University and the report submitted by the Inquiry Committee constituted by the Vice-Chancellor has indicted the aforesaid offi cers, we leave it to the discretion of the Chancellor to constitute a Selection Committee in accordance with law within four weeks from the date a copy of this is placed before him. 21. It is made clear that since no other candidate had approached the High Court except for the appellant herein and the respondents No.5 to 8, the selection process shall be confi ned to the said parties alone. 22. The civil appeals are allowed and disposed of on the above terms. There shall be no s as to costs. Headnotes prepared by: Appeals disposed of. Nidhi Jain