E 20. Considering the status of the parties and the fact that it is a petition filed by the wife seeking transfer of case filed by the husband from Mangaluru, Karnataka to Mumbai, Maharashtra, in our view no case is made out for transfer of the petition from Mangaluru, Karnataka to Mumbai, Maharashtra. The wife is a permanent resident of Canada. She must be travelling abroad regularly. As is evident from the observations F in the Mediation Report dated 08.02.2023 submitted by Justice S.J. Vazifdar, the petitioner was in Canada throughout the mediation process and attended the proceedings online. There is no child born out of wedlock to be taken care of. Both the parties are well educated and engaged in their own jobs and professions. She can travel to Mangaluru to attend G the hearing of the case and can also seek exemption from appearance whenever required. Though, at present, considering the financial condition of the parties on the basis of material which has come on record, we do not find that any ground is made out for issuing direction to the respondent to pay the expenses to the petitioner for travelling to Mangaluru. However, still in case she feels like seeking reimbursement of expenses, H DELMA LUBNA COELHO v. EDMOND CLINT FERNANDES 479 [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] she shall be at liberty to file application before the court concerned, A which may be examined on its own merits. 21. We do not find this to be a fit case for exercise of power under Article 142 of the Constitution of India as good sense may prevail on the parties. They had lived together only for 40 days. It takes time to settle down in marriage. The s relied upon by the learned counsel B for the respondent are distinguishable as in those cases proceedings had travelled up to this Court after decision by the Courts below in divorce proceedings, where the parties had led evidence in old matrimonial dispute. There was sufficient material on record and the ground on which the marriage was dissolved in exercise of power under Article 142 of C the Constitution of India, was irretrievable breakdown of marriage which otherwise is not a ground in the Hindu Marriage Act,1955 for dissolution of marriage. 22. As far as appearance of the parties through video conferencing is concerned, sufficient guidance has been given by this Court in the D case of Santhini v. Vijaya Venketesh (2018) 1 SCC 1. 23. For the reasons mentioned above, we do not find any merit in the present petition. The same is accordingly dismissed. Divya Pandey Petition dismissed. E (Assisted by : Shraddha Singh and Shevali Monga, LCRAs) F G H