The defendant disclaimed liability on the ground that it usually asked customers to sign a risk note which contained certain terms and conditions regarding its liability for damage to the goods shipped by customers. No such risk note was signed by the plaintiff’s agent in this case, but he had signed risk notes on previous occasions when he had used the defendant’s shipping services. B The defendant argued that it would not be liable for the loss of the car because the plaintiff’s agent was aware of the terms and conditions in the course of their dealings with one another. In this case, too, the question which arose for the court’s consideration was whether the defendant could be held liable for the loss of the plaintiff’s car. C 14. Finally, in Thornton’s case (supra), the plaintiff drove to an automatic car park owned by the defendant. The charges for availing of this service were displayed outside the car park. The plaintiff drove to the entrance and a machine dispensed a ticket which said, “This ticket is issued subject to the conditions of issue as displayed on the D premises.” The plaintiff parked his car in the car park. When he later returned there to collect his car, he suffered an accident and was severely injured. He instituted proceedings against the defendant seeking damages for his injuries. The question before the court was whether the defendant would be liable for the injuries sustained by the plaintiff. E 15. All four cases concern the issue of whether liability can be affixed on one of the parties based on the terms and conditions of the contract in question. Each of the decisions addresses when the contract was entered into and what the terms of the contract were. The court considered whether a particular term which was intended by one of the F parties to form a part of the contract, would in actuality form a part of the contract and bind the other party, thereby exempting the first party from liability for the loss suffered. 16. The case before us differs from the four cases relied upon by the respondents in that the original petitioners before the High Court did G not file a suit for damages or other relief for a loss or injury suffered by them. They instituted a Public Interest Litigation and invoked the High Court’s jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution. They claimed the following relief in their petition before the High Court: “(ii) Writ of prohibition prohibiting Respondents No. 3 – 6 from H restraining the movie goers for taking with them outside eatables K C CINEMA (CORRECT NAME K C THEATRE) v. STATE OF JAMMU 583 AND KASHMIR [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] inside Cinema Halls required to be consumed during the time they A see the feature film in the cinema hall” 17. By instituting a writ petition, Respondents 3 and 4 have invited an adjudication on whether the terms of entry determined and enforced by theatre owners are just and fair.