The High Court has entered these fi ndings despite the fact that by a process of engineered drafting, the fi rst respondent sought no reliefs in regard to the proceedings under the ULCRA (to obviate bar to the maintainability of the suit) and did not implead either the State or the Competent authority who would have been in a position to answer the challenge.” (Emphasis supplied) 27 (1977) 4 SCC 467 28 LL 2021 SC 354 URBAN IMPROVEMENT TRUST, BIKANER v. GORDHAN 577 DASS (D) THROUGH LRS. [MANOJ MISRA, J.] 64. No doubt, in the instant case, the land was transferred by the State to the Trust after acquisition, and the Trust was a party in the suit. But it was the State which had acquired the land for the benefi t of the Trust and by virtue of Section 52 (4) of the 1959 Act the land vested in the State pursuant to the notifi cation issued by it under Section 52(1). Therefore, in my view, when the relief of injunction was dependent on validity of the acquisition notifi cation, the State was a necessary party as it alone could have appropriately produced all the records about the steps taken for acquisition of the land. Institution of the suit without challenging the acquisition notifi cation and without impleading the State is a clever ploy to avoid crucial questions. Such an exercise is akin to approaching the Court with unclean hands. This alone, in my view, as also observed by the trial court, disentitles the plaintiff to obtain discretionary relief of injunction. Thus, in my considered view, in respect of the land covered by the acquisition notifi cation, the Suit as framed was not maintainable, not only for not seeking a declaratory relief but also for not impleading the State as a party. The issue no. (ii) is decided accordingly. Issue no. (iii)-- Whether the civil suit of the plaintiff was barred by section 207 (2) of the Rajasthan Tenancy Act? 65. To appropriately address the issue as to whether the suit in the Civil Court was barred by Section 207 (2) of the 1955 Act, it would be useful to examine the scheme of the 1955 Act as also whether the reliefs claimed in the suit were within the scope of the reliefs which could be sought for under the 1955 Act. 66. The preamble of the 1955 Act provides that it is an Act to consolidate and amend the law relating to tenancies of agricultural lands, and to provide for certain measures of land reforms and matters connected therewith. 67. Section 5(24) of the 1955 Act defi nes “land” as “land” shall mean land which is let or held for agricultural purposes or for purposes subservient thereto or as grove land or for pasturage including land occupied by houses or enclosures situated on a holding, or land covered with water which may be used for the purpose of irrigation or growing Singhara or other similar produce but excluding abadi land; it shall include benefi ts to 578 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R.