E 14. The learned 13th Additional District Judge, Pune, affirmed these findings of the Trial Court and dismissed Civil Appeal No. 1030 of 1987 filed by the tenant. The Bombay High Court, however, reversed the findings of both the Courts below. While accepting that there was material to show that the tenant had assigned his business in favour of F Krishna B Shetty, the High Court took recourse to the proviso to Section 15(1) of the Act of 1947 and held that it was permissible thereunder for a statutory tenant to transfer his tenancy rights even though the lease agreement prohibited such a transfer. Further, the High Court took note of the fact that Civil Suit No. 623 of 1986 filed by Krishna B Shetty G against the tenant for specific performance had been dismissed. According to the High Court, so long as the legal possession remained with the tenant, mere creation of a partnership agreement by the tenant for the purpose of jointly carrying on business in the leased premises would not amount to sub-letting. Holding so, the High Court set aside the decree of eviction/possession and dismissed the suit. By its later H 1142 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A dated 09.09.2009, the High Court dismissed the Review Petition filed by the appellants herein, reiterating that the tenant had never parted with or left the premises and, being a partner, he was also involved in the business. Observing that the dominant purpose of the agreement executed by the tenant was not to sub-let the premises, the High Court opined that there was no error on the face of the record warranting exercise of review B jurisdiction. 15. At this stage, we may note that neither of the parties thought it appropriate to place on record all the documents that they considered relevant. The original lease deed dated 22.01.1975 (Exh.55), relied upon by Mr. Vinay Navare, learned senior counsel, is not available for scrutiny. C Similarly, the in Civil Suit No. 623 of 1986, filed against the tenant by Krishna B Shetty, relied upon by the High Court and Mr. Sudhanshu S. Choudhari, learned counsel, was not produced prior to conclusion of the hearing of these appeals. However, the learned counsel deemed it fit to enclose a copy of the said along with D his Written Submissions, after this was reserved. As the said document was not placed on record in keeping with due procedure and at the appropriate time, it is liable to be eschewed from consideration. More so, as the sole respondent entered appearance through counsel as long back as in January, 2011, and had ample opportunity to do the needful even if the said did not form part of the record before the High E Court. This Court is, therefore, constrained to adjudicate on the strength of the material available on record. 16. The issue for consideration is whether the tenant committed breach of the lease condition with regard to assignment of his business in the leased premises, warranting his eviction under Section 13(1)(e) of F the Act of 1947.