2. THE SNJPC’S REPORT AND THE S OF A THIS COURT 4. Ten years later, the 7th Central Pay Commission submitted its report and its recommendations were accepted by the Central Government with effect from 01.01.2016. Correspondingly, in the present writ petition, once again at the instance of the All India Judges Association, B this Court has been called upon to intervene and update/upgrade the service conditions of the judicial officers. 5. This Court by the dated 09.05.2017 in W.P. (C) No. 643/ 2015 appointed the Second National Judicial Pay Commission headed by Justice P.V. Reddi (Retd.) as its Chairman with Senior Advocate R C Basant (Former Judge) as its Member5. Pursuant to the of this Hon’ble Court, the Government of India, by its Resolution dated 10.11.20176, constituted the Second National Judicial Pay Commission (“Commission/SNJPC”). As per the Resolution, the terms of reference of the Commission are as follows: D (a) To evolve the principles which should govern the structure of pay and other emoluments of judicial officers belonging to the subordinate judiciary all over the country. (b) To examine the present structure of emoluments and conditions of service of judicial officers in the States and UTs taking into account the total packet of benefits available E to them and make suitable recommendations including post- retirement benefits such as pension, etc. having regard among other relevant factors, to the existing relativities in the pay structure between the officers belonging to subordinate judicial services vis-à-vis other civil servants and mechanism F for redressal of grievances in this regard. (c) To examine the work methods and work environment as also the variety of allowance and benefits in kind that are available to judicial officers in addition to pay and to suggest rationalisation and simplification thereof with a view to G promoting efficiency in judicial administration, optimising the size of judiciary, etc. and to remove anomalies created in implementation of earlier recommendations. 5 All India Judges Association. v. Union of India, (2019) 12 SCC 314. 6 Notified vide Notification No. 19018/01/2017 dated 16.11.2017 by the Department of Justice. H 44 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A (d) To consider and recommend such interim relief as it considers just and proper to all categories of judicial officers of all the States/Union Territories. The interim relief, if recommended, shall have to be fully adjusted against and included in the package which may become admissible to the judicial officers on the final recommendations of the B Commission. (e) To recommend the mechanism for setting up of a permanent mechanism to review the pay and service conditions of members of subordinate judiciary periodically by an independent commission exclusively constituted for the C purpose and the composition of such commission should reflect adequate representation on behalf of the judiciary. 6. It is seen from the Report of the Commission that it held region- wise consultative conferences in the cities of Guwahati, Mumbai, Kolkata, Kochi, Delhi, Chandigarh, Chennai, Lucknow, Bhopal, Visakhapatnam D and Srinagar where long deliberations took place with the representatives of the All India Judges’ Association, All India Retired Judges’ Association, State Associations, officials of the Registry and deputed officers of High Courts and senior government officers.