the plaintiff ; and (2) the defendant must continue to remain in possession for a period of 12 years thereafter. Animus possidendi as is well known is a requisite ingredient of adverse possession. It is now a well-settled principle of law that mere possession of the land would not ripen into possessory title for the said purpose. Possessor must have animus possidendi and hold the land adverse to the title of the true owner. For the said purpose, not only animus possidendi must be shown to exist, but the same must be shown to exist at the commencement of the possession...” (b) In Des Raj and Others v. Bhagat Ram19 (two- Judge Bench) this Court observed - “21. In a case of this nature, where long and continuous possession of the plaintiff -respondent stands admitted, the only question which arose for consideration by the courts below was as to whether the plaintiff had been in possession of the properties in hostile declaration of his title vis-à-vis his co-owners and they were in know thereof.” (c) This court in L.N. Aswathama v. P. Prakash20 (two- Judge Bench) had observed that permissive possession or possession in the absence of Animus possidendi would not constitute the claim of adverse possession. (d) It was also held in the case of Chatti Konati Rao v. Palle Venkata Subba Rao21 (two-Judge Bench)- “15. Animus possidendi as is well known is a requisite ingredient of adverse possession. Mere possession does not ripen into possessory title until the possessor holds the property adverse to the title of the true owner for the said purpose.The person who claims adverse possession is required to establish the date on which he came in possession, nature of possession, the factum of possession, 19 (2007) 9 SCC 641 20 (2009) 13 SCC 229 21 (2010) 14 SCC 316 GOVERNMENT OF KERALA & ANR. v. 279 JOSEPH AND OTHERS [SANJAY KAROL, J.] knowledge to the true owner, duration of possession and that possession was open and undisturbed…” (Emphasis supplied) Referring to the above judgement Subha Rao (supra) this Court has reiterated the cardinality of the presence of Animus possidendi in a case concerning adverse possession in Brijesh Kumar & Anr. v. Shardabai (dead) by LRs.22 (two- Judge Bench). 21.5 Such a plea is available not only as a defence when title is questioned, but is also available as a claim to a person who has perfected his title; The prior position of law as set out in Gurudwara Sahab v. Gram Panchayat Village Sirthala23 (two-Judge Bench) was that the plea of adverse possession can be used only as a shield by the defendant and not as a sword by the plaintiff . However, the position was changed later by the decision of this Hon’ble Court in the case of Ravinder Kaur (supra) had held that-”…Title or interest is acquired it can be used as a sword by the plaintiff as well as a shield by the defendant within ken of Article 65 of the Act and any person who has perfected title by way of adverse possession, can fi le a suit for restoration of possession in case of dispossession…” The position in Ravinder Kaur (supra) was followed in Narasamma & Ors.