30. The learned counsel further submitted that the issue of IX Rule 9 of the CPC has nothing to do with the question of whether the Plaintiff should be permitted to amend the plaint under the provisions of H VI Rule 17 of the CPC. GANESH PRASAD v. RAJESHWAR PRASAD AND ORS. 913 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 31. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel A prays that there being no merit in the present appeal the same may be dismissed. ANALYSIS 32. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties B and having gone through the materials on record the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the High Court committed any error in passing the impugned . 33. There cannot be any doubt or dispute that the courts should be liberal in allowing applications for leave to amend pleadings but it is C also well settled that the courts must bear in mind the statutory limitations brought about by reason of the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Acts; the proviso appended to VI Rule 17 being one of them. In North Eastern Railway Administration, Gorakhpur v. Bhagwan Das reported in (2008) 8 SCC 511, the law has been laid down by this Court in the following terms: (SCC p. 517, para 16) D “16. Insofar as the principles which govern the question of granting or disallowing amendments under 6 Rule 17 CPC (as it stood at the relevant time) are concerned, these are also well settled. 6 Rule 17 CPC postulates amendment of pleadings at any stage of the proceedings. In E Pirgonda Hongonda Patil v. Kalgonda Shidgonda Patil [AIR 1957 SC 363] which still holds the field, it was held that all amendments ought to be allowed which satisfy the two conditions: (a) of not working injustice to the other side, and (b) of being necessary for the purpose of determining the real questions in controversy between the parties. Amendments F should be refused only where the other party cannot be placed in the same position as if the pleading had been originally correct, but the amendment would cause him an injury which could not be compensated in costs. (Also see Gajanan Jaikishan Joshi v. Prabhakar Mohanlal Kalwar [(1990) 1 G SCC 166]. )” 34. In the case of P.A. Jayalakshmi v. H. Saradha and Others reported in (2009) 14 SCC 525, the above observations were reiterated by this Court and in the light of the same, this Court in para 9 held as under: H 914 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A “9. By reason of the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1976, measures have been taken for early disposal of the suits. In furtherance of the aforementioned parliamentary object, further amendments were carried out in the years 1999 and 2002. With a view to put an end to the practice of filing applications for amendments of pleadings belatedly, a proviso B was added to 6 Rule 17 which reads as under: “17.