240. Courts, while analysing a case under Section 8, may choose to identify the issues which require adjudication pertaining to the D validity of the arbitration agreement. If the court cannot rule on the invalidity of the arbitration agreement on a prima facie basis, then the court should stop any further analysis and simply refer all the issues to arbitration to be settled. **** **** **** E 244: Before we part the conclusions reached, with respect to Question 1 are: 244.1. Sections 8 and 11 of the Act have the same ambit with respect to judicial interference. 244.2. Usually, subject-matter arbitrability cannot be decided at F the stage of Section 8 or 11 of the Act, unless it is a clear case of deadwood. 244.3. The court, under Sections 8 and 11, has to refer a matter to arbitration or to appoint an arbitrator, as the case may be, unless a party has established a prima facie (summary findings) case of G non-existence of valid arbitration agreement, by summarily portraying a strong case that he is entitled to such a finding. 244.4. The court should refer a matter if the validity of the arbitration agreement cannot be determined on a prima facie basis, as laid down above i.e. “when in doubt, do refer”. H 134 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 244.5. The scope of the court to examine the prima facie validity of an arbitration agreement includes only: 244.5.1. Whether the arbitration agreement was in writing? or 244.5.2. Whether the arbitration agreement was contained in exchange of letters, telecommunication, etc.? B 244.5.3. Whether the core contractual ingredients qua the arbitration agreement were fulfilled? 244.5.4. On rare occasions, whether the subject-matter of dispute is arbitrable?” C 13. In the case of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (supra), another 3-Judge Bench of this Court essentially dealt with the group companies doctrine and application of alter ego principle in arbitration making a party not assenting to a contract containing arbitration clause to be nevertheless bound by the clause if that party is ‘alter ego’ of an entity who is a party to the arbitration agreement. The observations D relied upon by learned counsel for the appellant from that case could also be usefully extracted as under:- “38. Explaining the application of the alter ego principle in arbitration, Born also notes: E “Authorities from virtually all jurisdictions hold that a party who has not assented to a contract containing an arbitration clause may nonetheless be bound by the clause if that party is an ‘alter ego’ of an entity that did execute, or was otherwise a party to, the agreement. This is a significant, but exceptional, departure from the fundamental principle … that each company in a group of F companies (a relatively modern concept) is a separate legal entity possessed of separate rights and liabilities. * * * “the group of companies doctrine is akin to principles of G agency or implied consent, whereby the corporate affiliations among distinct legal entities provide the foundation for concluding that they were intended to be parties to an agreement, notwithstanding their formal status as non-signatories.” 39.