7. The dual system is stated to be causing ‘total destruction of a justice delivery system’. 8. The test of Constitutional validity of law is stated to be actual impact and reality. Petitioner no.1 does not stop at blaming successful lawyers or, for that matter, the Judges but seems to paint everybody with the same brush, alleging even powerful politicians and high-ranking bureaucrats have the clout to get their kith and kin appointed as Judges and Senior Advocates. 9. In fact, during the course of arguments, petitioner no.1 sought to submit that the petition fi led for judicial transparency and reforms by an NGO sought to hijack the proceedings initiated by the petitioner. This is in reference to the petition of Mrs. Indira Jai Singh and even attributing motives to her as it was said that what she sought was legislation. 10. One may say that petitioner no.1 goes on and on ranting and raving about these issues, completely ignoring the purpose of the provisions he seeks to assail and the narrow compass of challenge to legislations. For convenience of reference, the relevant provisions are reproduced as under: 3 (2019) 19 SCC 454 118 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. “16. Senior and other advocates.— (1) There shall be two classes of advocates, namely, senior advocates and other advocates. (2) An advocate may, with his consent, be designated as senior advocate if the Supreme Court or a High Court is of opinion that by virtue of his ability [standing at the Bar or special knowledge or experience in law] he is deserving of such distinction. (3) Senior advocates shall, in the matter of their practice, be subject to such restrictions as the Bar Council of India may, in the interest of the legal profession, prescribe. (4) An advocate of the Supreme Court who was a senior advocate of that Court immediately before the appointed day shall, for the purposes of this section, be deemed to be a senior advocate: [Provided that where any such senior advocate makes an application before the 31st December, 1965, to the Bar Council maintaining the roll in which his name has been entered that he does not desire to continue as a senior advocate, the Bar Council may grant the application and the roll shall be altered accordingly.] …. …. …. …. …. …. 23. Right of pre-audience.— (5) Subject as aforesaid— (i) senior advocates shall have pre-audience over other advocates, and (ii) the right of pre-audience of senior advocates inter se and other advocates inter se shall be determined by their respective seniority.” 11. There are multifarious prayers seeking to strike down the provisions mentioned aforesaid of the said Act and to declare the in Indira Jaising4 case as unconstitutional as also the relevant Supreme Court Rules as they seek to provide an unjust classifi cation including robes. 12. There is no doubt that petitioner No.1 has had more than one brush with the law, though he claims to have become an advocate in the pursuit 4 supra MATHEWS J. NEDUMPARA & ORS.