Words and Phrases – Expression “national security” – Meaning of – Held: The expression national security does not have a fixed meaning – While courts have attempted to conceptually distinguish national security from public , it is impossible (and D perhaps unwise) to lay down a text-book definition of the expression which can help the courts decide if the factual situation is covered within the meaning of the phrase – The phrase derives its meaning from the context . Allowing the appeals, the Court E HELD: 1. The appeals are allowed and the of the MIB dated 31 January 2022 and the of the High Court dated 2 March 2022 are set aside. The findings are summarized as follows: (i) Security clearance is one of the conditions required to be fulfilled for renewal of permission under Uplinking and F Downlinking Guidelines; (ii) The challenge to the of the MIB and of the High Court on procedural grounds is allowed for the following reasons: (a) The principles of natural justice were constitutionalised by the judgement of this Court in Maneka Gandhi. The effect is that the courts have recognised that there is an inherent value in securing compliance with the G principles of natural justice independent of the outcome of the case. Actions which violate procedural guarantees can be struck down even if non-compliance does not prejudice the outcome of the case. The core of the principles of natural justice breathes reasonableness into procedure. The burden is on the claimant to H MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 601 INDIA & ORS. prove that the procedure followed infringes upon the core of A procedural guarantees; (b) The appellants have proved that MBL’s right to a fair hearing has been infringed by the unreasoned of the MIB dated 31 January 2022, and the non-disclosure of relevant material to the appellants, and its disclosure solely to the court. The burden then shifts on the respondents to prove B that the procedure that was followed was reasonable and in compliance with the requirements of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution. The standard of proportionality has been used to test the reasonableness of the procedure. (c) The s of this court in Ex-Armymen’s Protection Services and Digi Cable Network held that the principles of natural justice may be excluded C when on the facts of the case, national security concerns overweigh the duty of fairness; (d) Though confidentiality and national security are legitimate aims for the purpose of limiting procedural guarantees, the state has been unable to prove that these considerations arise in the present factual scenario. A D blanket immunity from disclosure of all investigative reports cannot be granted; (e) The validity of the claim of involvement of national security considerations must be assessed on the test of (i) whether there is material to conclude that the non-disclosure of information is in the interest of national security; and (ii) whether a reasonable prudent person would draw the same E inference from the material on record; (f) Even assuming that non-disclosure is in the interest of confidentiality and national security, the means adopted by the respondents do not satisfy the other prongs of the proportionality standard.