8.3 Under the circumstances as such the respondent no.1 misused B the solvency certificate dated 07.12.2017 which as such was illegally issued in his individual capacity/name as though the same was required to be issued in the name of Gurukrupa Charitable Trust. At this stage it is required to be noted that subsequently the solvency certificate dated 07.12.2017 has been cancelled by the Tehsildar vide dated 08.03.2021 which has attained the finality. C 8.4 Now so far as the submission on behalf of respondent no.1 that subsequently respondent no.1 obtained the fresh solvency certificate which was sought to be substituted/exchanged is concerned, it is required to be noted that what is required to be considered is the solvency certificate produced along with the bid and not the subsequent solvency D certificate. 9. Now so far as the submission on behalf of respondent no.1 that thereafter pursuant to the impugned and passed by the High Court a fresh lease deed has been issued is concerned, at the outset, it is required to be noted that in the dated 18.05.2022 it is E observed by this Court that the fresh lease deed, pursuant to the impugned and shall be subject to the ultimate outcome of the present SLP/appeal and/or further s that can be passed by the court in the proceedings. 10. In view of the above and for the reason stated above, we are F of the opinion that the High Court has committed a very serious error in quashing and setting aside the dated 24.03.2021 passed by the Collector, Cuttack cancelling the lease deed which was in favour of respondent no.1. Consequently, the impugned and passed by the High Court deserves to be quashed and set aside and is accordingly quashed and set aside. The passed by the Collector, Cuttack dated G 24.03.2021 cancelling the lease deed which was in favour of respondent no.1 is hereby restored. On the impugned and being set aside the fresh lease deed in favour of respondent no.1 also deserves to be set aside and is accordingly set aside. H DEBIDUTTA MOHANTY v. RANJAN KUMAR PATTNAIK & 83 ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] Present appeal is accordingly allowed. However, in the facts and A circumstances of the case, there shall be no as to costs. Ankit Gyan Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Abhishek Agnihotri and Mahendra Yadav, LCRAs) B C D E F G H