The salutary purpose behind Section 197 of the Cr.P.C. is protection being accorded to public servants. D (28) The State functions through its officers. Functions of the State may be sovereign or not sovereign. But each of the functions performed by every public servant is intended to achieve public good. It may come with discretion. The exercise of the power cannot be divorced from the context in which and the time at which the power is exercised or if it is a case of an omission, when the omission takes place. E (29) The most important question which must be posed and answered by the Court when dealing with the argument that sanction is not forthcoming is whether the officer was acting in the exercise of his official duties. It goes further. Even an officer who acts in the purported exercise of his official power is given the protection under Section 197 F of the Cr.P.C. This is for good reason that the officer when he exercises the power can go about exercising the same fearlessly no doubt with bona fides as public functionaries can act only bona fide. In fact, the requirement of the action being bona fide is not expressly stated in Section 197 of the Cr.P.C., though it is found in many other statutes G protecting public servants from action, civil and criminal against them. (30) Once we bear this cardinal principle in mind and judge the action or omission on the part of the appellant, we would think that it cannot be found that, having regard to the admitted facts, the appellant 1 Sushil Ansal v. State through CBI 2014(6) SCC 173 H AMOD KUMAR KANTH v. ASSOCIATION OF VICTIM OF 691 UPHAAR TRAGEDY AND ANR. was not acting in the discharge of his official functions. All that happened, A under his oversight starting with his notice which he issued on 28.07.1979, to the counter affidavit which he filed in the writ petitions, the subsequent show cause notice which he issued, and thereafter, finally on 24.12.1979, wherein he directed the removal of a total of 62 additional seats, all these acts were done in the exercise of his official duties. As we have B already noted, even if it were to be treated as done in the purported exercise of his official duties, he would still stand protected from prosecution without sanction. This must not be confused with the question as to whether the appellant had committed any offence with which he appears to have been indicted by the Magistrate issuing summons and the High Court upholding it. The fact that the appellant had taken a C certain stand in the counter affidavit would not make his subsequent act of acting upon the recommendations of a committee, an act which is not in the discharge of his official functions. The findings of this Court which we have referred to in the decision (supra) would not mean that, if they are offences committed by the persons including the appellant, they would D not require sanction within the meaning of Section 197 of the Cr.P.C.