9. COMPLAINT COMMITTEES Complaint Committees at two levels will exist in SSB i.e. Central Complaint Committee at the Directorate and Frontier Complaint Committee at the Frontier level. (a) The Central Complaint Committee will consist of the following: i) Chairperson One lady offi cer of the rank of DIG/Commandant rank to be appointed by IG (Pers). ii) Member-I One lady Gazetted Offi cer to be appointed by IG (Pers). UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 529 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] iii) Member-II Nomination from an NGO recognized by NCW or One Counsellor from NGO (nomination from an NGO recognized by NCW) to be solicited by the Chairperson of the Committee. iv) Member-III AD (Legal) Force Headquarters or the senior most Law Offi cer. (b) Frontier level Complaint Committee will be constituted as follows: - i) Chairperson One Gazetted rank lady offi cer to be appointed by the Frontier IG. ii) Member-I One counsellor from an NGO (Nomination from an NGO recognized by NCW to be solicited by the Chairperson of the Committee) iii) Member-II Legal Offi cer of Frontier (Ex- offi cio member) 1. Chairman of committee should be senior to the offi cer / offi cial against whom the complaint is made. 2. Wherever Frontier IG does not have a higher rank woman offi cer to be appointed in the Frontier level committee (i.e., there is no SSB, offi cer of commensurate rank available, in case where complaints are against senior offi cers) IG shall immediately get in touch with IG (Pers) and seek placement of an offi cer from any Central Govt. organization. 3. Where the required number of senior offi cers are not available within the organization, member should be co- opted from other Central Government Departments. 4. In case complaint is against the Frontier IG himself, the matter will be viewed / looked into at the level of Central Complaint Committee. 5. Proper safety and security of the complainant and witnesses shall be ensured by the concerned unit / offi ce. 530 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. (c) The charter of the Central Complaint Committee and the Frontier Complaint Committee would, inter alia, include: - CENTRAL COMPLAINT FRONTIER COMPLAINT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE 1. Enquiry into any matter 1. Enquiry into any matter of sexual abuse in the of sexual abuse under the organization – Suo moto Frontier. or on complaint with the option to enquire at its own level or assign the task to Frontier Committee. 2. Monitoring all such 2. Keeping Central Complaint cases including reports Committee informed of received from Frontiers. all such matters coming to light and work in close liaison with the Central Complaint Committee seeking proper guidance as required. 3 Ensuring follow up action 3. Submitting enquiry report to its logical end. to the Frontier IG and to solicit further required action. 4. Submitting annual report 4. Submission of periodical to MHA, other bodies as reports to central required. complaint committee as may be prescribed by the Central Committee from time to time.