The very same argument was canvassed before a three-Judge Bench that the Inquiry Offi cer could not have put his own questions to the prosecution witnesses and could also have not cross-examined the witnesses. In the said case, it was argued that the same would amount to making the prosecutor the judge. This argument was negatived by the Court observing in para 31 as under: “31. Signifi cant emphasis has been placed by the appellant on the fact that the enquiry offi cer put his own questions to the prosecution witness and that he cross-examined the witnesses brought forth by the defence. This, it is claimed, amounts to making the prosecutor the Judge, in violation of the natural justice principle of “nemo judex in sua causa”. However, such a plea is misplaced. It must be recognised that, under Section 165, Evidence Act, Judges have the power to ask any question to any witness or party about any fact, in to UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 559 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] discover or to obtain proper proof of relevant facts. While strict rules of evidence are inapplicable to disciplinary proceedings, enquiry offi cers often put questions to witnesses in such proceedings in to discover the truth. Indeed, it may be necessary to do such direct questioning in certain circumstances. Further, the learned counsel for the appellant, except for making a bald allegation that the enquiry offi cer has questioned the witnesses, did not point to any specifi c question put by the offi cer that would indicate that he had exceeded his jurisdiction. No specifi c malice or bias has been alleged against the enquiry offi cer, and even during the enquiry no request had been made to seek a replacement, thus, evidencing how these objections are nothing but an afterthought.” (Emphasis supplied) 77. If Section 165 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 permits a Judge to put questions to the parties or to the witnesses in to discover or obtain proper proof of relevant facts and this provision being widely used by the judges throughout the country, we fail to understand as to how the complaints committee after being equated with a judge in a judicial proceeding be denied that privilege. However, it would be a diff erent situation if a specifi c case of personal bias is made out against the members of the committee. After all, the very purpose of the disciplinary proceedings is to reach to the bottom of the fact while aff ording adequate opportunities to the aff ected party. 78. Thus, the High Court was not correct in taking the view that the proceedings stood vitiated because the Central Complaints Committee put questions to the prosecution witnesses. E.4 Whether the Central Complaints Committee based its fi ndings on conjectures and surmises? Whether the case on hand is one of “no evidence”? i) Principle of “No Evidence” in Service Jurisprudence 79. It is well settled that the fi ndings of fact recorded in the course of any domestic inquiry, unless they are collateral or jurisdictional, are exempt from judicial review and that the court exercising writ jurisdiction should not sit in appeal over the ultimate decision based on such fi ndings and review it on merits.