The copies of register produced by the Police Officer have been certified by the Tahasildar Shridungargarh, District Bikaner. As such, the certificates of documents at serial nos.4 and 5 can be said to have been issued by the Tahasildar Shridungargarh, District Bikaner. As such, the source is genuine making those documents H NARAYAN CHETANRAM CHAUDHARY v. THE STATE OF 1079 MAHARASHTRA [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] genuine and authentic. Admittedly, the name thereon is A “Niranaram s/o Chetanram” and not “Narayan”. 48) With regard to document at serial no.9 (Annexure- ‘L- 2’), it is a certificate in the name of “Andaram s/o Chetanram”. The Police Officer had visited the Rajkiya Madhyamik Vidyalaya Udrasar to examine the T.C. Form of B “Andaram”. He also recorded statement of a Lecturer named Poonam Jairam Singh from the said school. She was Incharge Head Mistress of the school. According to her, the certificate of T.C. Form i.e. document at serial no.9 was issued by her school. As such, merely for the reason that it’s copy was not C there, the said T.C. Form cannot be discarded. The T.C. Form was given on the basis of school register. Copy of such school register was collected and the same has been produced by the Police Officer with his report. At Serial No.1269 thereon, there is the entry of the name of “Andaram s/o Chetanram”. Thus, the certificate of document at serial no. 9 is also genuine D and authentic. 49) With regard to document at serial no.10 (Annexure- ‘L- 3’), no claim is made by the advocate for petitioner and he expressed that he would not be in a position to comment as to how the original record corresponding thereto was found to E be of some other student. As such, the document at serial no.10 cannot be relied on. The document at serial no.8 (Annexure- ‘L-1’) is the Pariwar Card. With regard to such document, the Police Officer recorded statement of Gramsevak, who has stated that, the record of the year 1989 F was not available in the Grampanchayat Office. The inquiry made by the Police Officer was misdirected since he was required to make inquiry with the Development Officer, Panchayat Samiti Shridungargarh regarding Pariwar Card i.e. the document at serial no.8. Since, no such inquiry was made, it can be said that, the State did not seriously search G for the authenticity of the Pariwar Card. As discussed earlier, the document at serial no.9 is genuine and it is in the name of “Andaram”. The name of his father is “Chetanram”. The documents at serial nos.1 to 5 show the name of father to be “Chetanram”. The school records similarly indicate. H 1080 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Moreover, the name of the village and District besides the name of father of “Niranaram” and “Andaram” is the same. As such, there is ground to believe that “Chetanram” is the father of “Niranaram” and “Andaram”. The Pariwar Card i.e. document at serial no.8, is in the name of “Chetanram”.