That is to say, once the action has been completely carried out, and there is no element of such action which is left to be carried out, can there still be a subsequent declaration by this Court as to the validity of such act, having regard to the interpretation accorded to the provisions of the relevant statute. D 20.5 As discussed hereinabove, this Court has acknowledged on several occasions that it has the competence to declare the law on a subject for posterity, even though no substantive relief may be given under the circumstances of a given case, vide S.R. Bommai. The effect of such declaration E would apply prospectively. That is, in the present case if a declaration is made to the effect that the impugned action was unlawful, such declaration would only have the effect of deterring future measures from being carried out in a like manner, in to save such measures, from the vice of unlawfulness. Such declarations as to validity or invalidity F of a measure, may be made by this Court in exercise of its power under Article 141 of the Constitution, and the effect of such declaration may be moulded or restricted by exercising the power vested with this Court under Article 142. G 20.6 Reference may also be had to the decision of this Court in JayantilalRatanchand Shah, Devkumar Gopaldas Aggarwal vs. Reserve Bank of IndiaAIR 1997 SC 370. The said case pertains to the challenge to the Constitutional validity of the High Denomination Bank Notes (Demonetisation) Act, 1978. Although the enactment related H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 227 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] to the year 1978 and its effects were immediate, as in the A present case, the validity of the same was conclusively declared by this Court only in the year 1997. This Court, while upholding the validity of the legislation impugned therein, authoritatively clarified and declared the law on the Parliamentary power to enact such a legislation. A B declaration of a similar nature, i.e., as to the validity or invalidity of the impugned actions and Notification, is what is sought for in the present petitions. Conclusions: 21. In view of the aforesaid discussion, the following conclusions C are arrived at: (i) According to sub-section(1) of Section 26 of the Act, every bank note shall be legal tender at any place in India in payment or on account for the amount expressed therein and shall be guaranteed by the Central Government. This provision is subject to sub-section(2) of Section 26 of the D Act. (ii) Sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act applies only when a proposal for demonetisation is initiated by the Central Board of the Bank by way of a recommendation being made to the Central Government. The said recommendation E can be in respect of any series of bank notes of any denomination which is interpreted to mean any specified series of bank notesof any specified denomination. (iii) The expression any series of bank notes of any denomination has been givenits plain, grammatical meaning, having regard F to the context of the provision and not a broad meaning.