… If the decision is otherwise illegal as being contrary to law or any constitutional provision, the persons affected like the workmen, can impugn the same, but not giving a pre-decisional hearing cannot be a ground for quashing the decision.” G (emphasis supplied) Although the decision in BALCO Employees’ Union (Regd.) (supra) was rendered in the context of a policy decision with economic implications, it would be applicable in the present case. The principle H 34 (2002) 2 SCC 333 ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 791 UNION OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] enunciated in that case is equally applicable to other categories of policy A decisions. This is because it is impractical to hear every member of the class impacted by a policy decision. 88. The absence of a right to be heard before the formulation or implementation of a policy does not mean that affected parties are precluded from challenging the policy in a court of law. What it means is B that a policy decision cannot be struck down on the ground that it was arrived at without offering the members of the public at large (or some section of it) an opportunity to be heard. The challenge to a policy may be sustainable if it is found to vitiate constitutional rights or is otherwise in breach of a mandate of law. C 89. For the reasons discussed above, the decision to abolish the OAT cannot be assailed on the ground that there was a violation of the principles of natural justice. Article 14 of the Constitution has not been violated. vi. The Union Government did not become functus officio after D establishing the OAT 90. P Ramanatha Aiyer’s The Law Lexicon (1997 edition) defines the term functus officio as: “A term applied to something which once has had a life and power, but which has become of no virtue whatsoever … One who has E fulfilled his office or is out of office; an authority who has performed the act authorised so that the authority is exhausted” 91. Black’s Law Dictionary (5th edition) defines the term as follows: F “Having fulfilled the function, discharged the office, or accomplished the purpose, and therefore of no further force or authority … an instrument, power, agency, etc. which has fulfilled the purpose of its creation, and is therefore of no further virtue or effect.” G 92. The doctrine of functus officio gives effect to the principle of finality. Once a judge or a quasi-judicial authority has rendered a decision, it is not open to her to revisit the decision and amend, correct, clarify, or reverse it (except in the exercise of the power of review, conferred by law). Once a judicial or quasi-judicial decision attains finality, it is subject to change only in proceedings before the appellate court. H 792 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 93. For instance, Section 362 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973 provides that a court of law is not to alter its once it is signed: “362.