H 1216 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A (b) In the case of acquittal the shall be passed to that effect in the main case and then proceed afresh against summoned accused. 27. In Brijendra Singh, after referring to Hardeep Singh, this Court considered the question as to the degree of satisfaction that is B required for invoking the powers under Section 319 Cr.P.C. and the related question, namely, as to, in what situations, this power should be exercised in respect of a person named in the FIR but not charge-sheeted. This Court held that once the trial court finds that there is some “evidence” against such a person on the basis of which it can be gathered that he appears to be guilty of the offence, there can be exercise of power C under Section 319 Cr.P.C. It was observed that the evidence in this context means the material that is brought before the court during trial. Insofar as the material or evidence collected by the Investigating Officer (IO) at the stage of inquiry is concerned, it can be utilised for corroboration and to support the evidence recorded by court to invoke D the power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. This Court distinguished between the degree of satisfaction arrived at while exercising power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. which is greater than the degree which is warranted at the time of framing of charges against others in respect of whom charge- sheet was filed. Only where strong and cogent evidence occurs against a person from the evidence led before the court, that such power should E be exercised. Such power should not be exercised in a casual or a cavalier manner. The prima facie opinion which is to be formed requires stronger evidence than mere probability of a person’s complicity were the observations of this Court. Holding that in the said case there was no satisfaction, the F passed under Section 319 Cr.P.C. summoning the appellant therein was set aside by this Court. 28. It is in light of the aforesaid s, we have to consider the of this Court in Jogendra Yadav which is the basis of the arguments of SriNagamuthu, learned senior counsel appearing for the G appellants. As already noted, in the said case, the Additional Sessions Judge had issued notice to the appellants therein under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C. to show cause as to why they should not be added as accused and an opportunity was provided to the appellants therein to file their reply and after being heard, the summoned appellants therein were added as accused to the proceedings. It was nobody’s case that they were not H YASHODHAN SINGH & ORS. v. THE STATE OF UTTAR 1217 PRADESH & ANR. heard before such summoning was passed. Despite that, the said A was challenged and ultimately the matter came up before this Court. This Court in the course of its referred to the object and purpose of Section 319 of the Cr.P.C. and distinguished it fromSection 227, which provides for discharge by observing as under – “6.