v. BRAHM PRAKASH & ORS. 647 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 25. 7 Rule 11(d) of CPC provides that the plaint shall be A rejected “where the suit appears from the statement in the plaint to be barred by any law”. Hence, in to decide whether the suit is barred by any law, it is the statement in the plaint which will have to be construed. The Court while deciding such an application must have due regard only to the statements in the plaint. Whether the suit is barred by any law B must be determined from the statements in the plaint and it is not open to decide the issue on the basis of any other material including the written statement in the case. Before proceeding to refer to precedents on the interpretation of 7 Rule 11(d) CPC, we find it imperative to refer to Section 11 of CPC which defines res judicata:- C “11. Res judicata.—No Court shall try any suit or issue in which the matter directly and substantially in issue has been directly and substantially in issue in a former suit between the same parties, or between parties under whom they or any of them claim, litigating under the same title, in a Court competent to try such subsequent suit or the suit in which such issue has been subsequently raised, D and has been heard and finally decided by such Court.” 26. Section 11 of the CPC enunciates the rule of res judicata : a court shall not try any suit or issue in which the matter that is directly in issue has been directly or indirectly heard and decided in a ‘former suit’. Therefore, for the purpose of adjudicating on the issue of res judicata it E is necessary that the same issue (that is raised in the suit) has been adjudicated in the former suit. It is necessary that we refer to the exercise taken up by this Court while adjudicating on res judicata, before referring to res judicata as a ground for rejection of the plaint under 7 Rule 11. Justice R C Lahoti (as the learned Chief Justice then was), F speaking for a two Judge bench in V. Rajeshwari v. T.C. Saravanabava, (2004) 1 SCC 551, discussed the plea of res judicata and the particulars that would be required to prove the plea. The Court held that it is necessary to refer to the copies of the pleadings, issues and the of the ‘former suit’ while adjudicating on the plea of res judicata:- G “11. The rule of res judicata does not strike at the root of the jurisdiction of the court trying the subsequent suit. It is a rule of estoppel by based on the public policy that there should be a finality to litigation and no one should be vexed twice for the same cause. H 648 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A x x x x 13. Not only the plea has to be taken, it has to be substantiated by producing the copies of the pleadings, issues and in the previous case.