This principle has already been recognized by this Court in Navtej.21 Second, the duties under an anti-discrimination law can be proportionately distributed between diff erent actors depending on factors such as the nature of functions discharged, their control over access to basic resources, and the impact on their negative liberty.22 Third, an anti-discrimination statute must also enumerate methods to redress existing discrimination and bridge the advantage gap. This could be through policies that distribute benefi ts to disadvantaged groups.23 Equal rights to equal love 29. The principle of equality mandates that non-heterosexual unions are not excluded from the mainstream socio-political framework. However, the 20 Shreya Atrey, Intersectional discrimination (Oxford University Press, 2019), p. 41. 21 (supra). 22 Tarunabh Khaitan, A Theory of Discrimination Law (Oxford University Press, 2015), p. 212-213. 23 Khaitan (supra), p. 39. 143 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. next step would be to examine the framework itself, which cannot be said to be neutral. On the contrary, it is inherently value-laden. One particularly pernicious value is patriarchy, which manifests in various oppressive ways. Gendered stereotypes and sex-based violence are lived realities of many. This is something both society and law recognize. 30. I believe that the legal recognition of non-heterosexual unions can challenge culturally ordained gender roles even in heterosexual relationships. For a long period of time, marriage has been viewed in gendered terms. That is to say, one’s status as husband or wife determines their duties and obligations towards each other, their family, and society. Marriage enforces and reinforces the linkage of gender with power by husband/wife categories, which are synonymous with social power imbalances between men and women.24 This is notwithstanding the fact that there has been progressive awareness of these issues. Non-heterosexual unions can make an important contribution towards dismantling this imbalance while emphasizing alternative norms. As Eskridge puts it: “In a man-man marriage where tasks are divided up along traditional lines, a man will be doing the accustomed female role of keeping house. It is this symbolism that represents the deeper challenge to traditional gender roles. The symbolism can be expressed in the argot of normalization. Once female-female and male-male couples can marry, the wife-housekeeper/husband-breadwinner model for the family would immediately become less normal, and perhaps even abnormal over time. The wife as someone who derives independent satisfaction from her job outside the home would immediately become a little bit more normal.”25 31. In a non-heterosexual union, duties and obligations are not primarily dictated by culturally ordained gender norms. In other words, both partners are not limited by extant gender norms to shape their relationship, including the division of labour. For instance, studies have found that partners in non- heterosexual relationships share unpaid labour more equally than those in 24 Nan. D. Hunter, ‘Marriage, Law and Gender: A Feminist Inquiry’ in Sex Wars: Sexual Dissent and Political Culture (Lisa Duggan and Nan. D. Hunter eds, Routledge, 2006) p. 109 – 110. 25 William Eskridge, Equality Practice: Civil Unions and the Future of Gay Rights, (Routledge, 2002) p. 322.