In such cases, though the value of D the goods is added to the income of the assessee, but the assessee has no option of redeeming the goods for its onward trade. Thus, there is an evident distinction between a case where deduction is sought of any penalty and/or fine as allowable expenditure and a case where business loss is claimed on account of absolute confiscation of the goods which E results in loss of stock in trade. It is submitted that present one is a case where the set off is claimed as business loss on account of absolute confiscation of the silver bars and not of any penalty and/or fine. The s cited during the course of hearing by the Petitioner are therefore rendered on distinct and distinguishable facts and would not be applicable to the facts of the present case. F 4.7 It is submitted that the said distinction has also been statutorily recognized. As highlighted by the appellant, Section 37 which deals with allowance and deduction of expenditure, was amended vide Finance Act, 1998 w.e.f. 01.04.1962 whereby Explanation 1 was added to clarify that any expenditure incurred by an assessee for any purpose which is G an offence or which is prohibited by law shall not be deemed to have been incurred for the purpose of business or profession and no deduction or allowance shall be made in respect of such expenditure. In contrast thereto, consciously no such restriction has been brought in law with regard to set off of the value of the unaccounted stock in trade which have been absolutely confiscated. H 98 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 4.8 Making above submissions it is prayed to dismiss the present appeals. 5. Heard learned counsel for the respective parties at length. 6. The short question which is posed for consideration before this Court is whether the High Court has erred in law in allowing the B respondent – assessee the loss of confiscation of silver bars by DRI officials as a business loss, relying upon the decision of this Court in the case of CIT Patiala vs. Piara Singh, 1980 Supp SCC 166? 6.1 While considering the aforesaid question, at the outset, it is required to be noted that the provisions of Section 37(1) under the Act C has been amended by Finance (No.2) Act, 1998 by introducing Explanation 1 thereto w.e.f. 01.04.1962 wherein any expenditure incurred by the assessee for any purpose which is an offence or prohibited by law is not an allowable business expense. It is true that in the present case the respondent - assessee did not claim value of silver bars confiscation as business expenses thus claimed as business loss. However, D the amendment to Section 37 might have some bearing on the issue involved. 6.2 On going through the impugned and passed by the High Court, it appears that the High Court has simply relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of Piara Singh (supra).