After referring to several earlier s of this Court including the s of this Court in Uday Mohanlal Acharya (supra) and Rakesh Kumar Paul(supra), this Court had laid down that the provisions of the CrPC do not empower E anyone to extend the period within which the investigation must be completed. This Court held that no court either directly or indirectly can extend such period. Following are the observations of this Court in para 20 of Achpal (supra): “20. We now turn to the subsidiary issue, namely, whether F the High Court could have extended the period. The provisions of the Code do not empower anyone to extend the period within which the investigation must be completed nor does it admit of any such eventuality. There are enactments such as the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1985 G and the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, 1999 which clearly contemplate extension of period and to that extent those enactments have modified the provisions of the Code including Section 167. In the absence of any such similar provision empowering the Court to extend the period, no court could either directly or indirectly extend such period. H JUDGEBIR SINGH @ JASBIR SINGH SAMRA @ JASBIR 25 v. NATIONAL INVESTIGATION AGENCY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] In any event of the matter all that the High Court had recorded A in its dated 3-7-2018 [Mahaveer v. State of Rajasthan, 2018 SCC OnLine Raj 1] was the submission that the investigation would be completed within two months by a gazetted police officer. The does not indicate that it was brought to the notice of the High Court that the period B for completing the investigation was coming to an end. Mere recording of submission of the Public Prosecutor could not be taken to be an granting extension. We thus reject the submissions in that behalf advanced by the learned counsel for the State and the complainant.” C 31. The scheme of the CrPC as noticed above clearly delineates that the provisions of Section 167 of the CrPC give due regard to the personal liberty of a person. Without submission of chargesheet within 60 days or 90 days as may be applicable, an accused cannot be detained by the police. The provision gives due recognition to the personal liberty. However, as explained by this Court in Dinesh Dalmia v. CBI reported D in (2007) 8 SCC 770, such a right of default bail although a valuable right, yet the same is a conditional one, the condition precedent being pendency of the investigation. Therefore, once the investigation is complete with the filing of the police report, containing the details specified under Section 173(2) of the CrPC, the question of a claim or grant for E default bail does not arise. 32. However, Section 43D of the UAPA operates as a special provision vis a vis the applicability of rights granted under Section 167(2)(a) of the CrPC. Section 43D is reproduced hereinbelow: “43D. Modified application of certain provisions of the F Code.—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code or any other law, every offence punishable under this Act shall be deemed to be a cognizable offence within the meaning of clause (c) of section 2 of the Code, and “cognizable case” as defined in that clause shall be construed accordingly.