Rule 2 applies when an adjournment has been generally granted and not for any special purpose. On the other hand, Rule 3 operates where the adjournment has been given for one of the purposes mentioned in the rule. While Rule 2 speaks of disposal of the suit F in one of the specified modes, Rule 3 empowers the court to decide the suit forthwith. The basic distinction between the two rules, however, is that in the former, any party has failed to appear at the hearing, while in the latter the party though present has committed any one or more of the enumerated defaults. Combined G effect of the Explanation to Rule 2 and Rule 3 is that a discretion has been conferred on the court. The power conferred is permissive and not mandatory. The Explanation is in the nature of a deeming provision, when under given circumstances, the absentee party is deemed to be present. H 658 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 10. The crucial expression in the Explanation is “where the evidence or a substantial portion of the evidence of a party”. There is a positive purpose in this legislative expression. It obviously means that the evidence on record is sufficient to substantiate the absentee party’s stand and for disposal of the suit. The absentee party is deemed to be present for this obvious purpose. The court B while acting under the Explanation may proceed with the case if that prima facie is the position. The court has to be satisfied on the facts of each case about this requisite aspect. It would be also imperative for the court to record its satisfaction in that perspective. It cannot be said that the requirement of substantial C portion of the evidence or the evidence having been led for applying the Explanation is without any purpose. If the evidence on record is sufficient for disposal of the suit, there is no need for adjourning the suit or deferring the decision.” (Emphasis supplied) D 43. The Full Bench decision of the Madras High Court in Prativadi Bhayankaram Pichamma v. K. Sreeramulu, AIR 1918 Mad 143 (FB) and the decision of the Calcutta High Court in Mariannissa v. Ramkalpa Gorsin, ILR 34 Cal 235 fell for consideration of the Full Bench of the Rajasthan High Court in Gopi Kishan v. Ramu, AIR E 1964 Raj 147, and Bombay High Court in Shidramappa Irappa Shivangi v. Basalingappa Kushnapa Kumbhar, AIR 1943 Bom 321 : 1943 SCC Online Bom 16 : ILR 1944 Bom 1 (FB). 44. The full Bench of the Rajasthan High Court in the case of Gopi Kishan (supra) observed as under:- F “8. In Prativadi Bhayankaram Pichamma v. Kamisetti Sreeramulu, AIR 1918 Mad 143 (FB), the Full Bench of the Madras High Court has held that Rules 2 and 3 of XVII of the Code, of Civil Procedure are mutually exclusive. Where the conditions of Rule 2 are fulfilled even if the circumstances envisaged by Rule 3 are existent and applicable, Rule 2 should be G applied.