That in case of the developer is unable to hand over the possession of Villa in stipulated time then the developer is liable to pay the purchaser compensation Rs.5/- per sq. ft., per month for any delay in completing the construction of the Villa.” 7. It is therefore, absolutely clear that the builders/owners had to hand over the fully constructed house/villa to the buyer, within three years from the date of the agreement i.e., 27.08.2013, with a six months grace period. In other words, this constructed house/villa had to be handed over to the buyer/consumer on or before February 27, 2017. This has admittedly not been done. What happened instead is that in 2020, i.e., after three years from the date when the constructed house/villa had to be handed over to the buyer, the builder sends a “Termination Notice” to the buyer and terminates the agreement, ostensibly on the ground that the buyer had not signed “the Construction Agreement”. It is not disputed that at the time of signing the SMT. M. HEMALATHA DEVI & ORS. v. B. UDAYASRI 267 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] agreement in the year 2013, the buyer in terms of the agreement (Clauses 9.1, 9.2 and 9.3) had handed over the fi rst instalment of Rs. 4,94,200/- (Rupees Four Lakh Ninety Four Thousand and Two Hundred Only) to the builders/ owners. The remaining amount of Rs.44,47,800/- (Rupees Forty Four Lakh Forty Seven Thousand and Eight Hundred Only) was to be paid at the time of registration of Sale Deed and handing over of the constructed house to the buyer/consumer. This event, as we have already stated above, never took place. 8. Meanwhile, the builders/owners after sending notice to the consumer/buyer moved an application under sub-sections 5 and 6 of Section 11 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 before the High Court for appointment of an Arbitrator, in terms of the arbitration clause which is admittedly there in the agreement. The buyer, who was also a consumer, as defi ned under the 2019 Act, moved a complaint before the District Consumer Forum. At the same time, having received notice of Section 11 application, the respondent fi led her reply before the Court. In her reply, the respondent apprised the High Court that she being a consumer has moved a complaint before a Judicial Authority, which is District Consumer Forum, where an application under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 for appointment of Arbitrator is always available to the appellants. Vide the impugned dated 19.05.2022, the application of the present appellants was dismissed by the High Court, and the appellants were granted liberty to move a Section 8 application of the Arbitration Act, 1996 before the District Consumer Forum. This application (under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996), as we have already referred to above, was later dismissed by the District Consumer Forum on the ground that the legislature had purposely provided a remedy under the 2019 Act in addition to any other remedy which may be available to the consumer and although there is an Arbitration clause between the parties but that itself will not oust the jurisdiction of a Consumer Court for the reason that it is a remedy available to the consumer in a public fora.