[2023] 8 S.C.R. 857 857 SUBHASH DESAI A v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF MAHARASHTRA & ORS. (Writ Petition (C) No. 493 of 2022) B MAY 11, 2023 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI, M. R. SHAH, KRISHNA MURARI, HIMA KOHLI AND PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, JJ.] C Constitution of India: Art.191(2) – Maharashtra Legislative Assembly Rules – r.95 – Coalition Government – Split in Political Party – Losing Confidence of the House – Power of the Governor to call for Floor Test – After the State elections in 2019, a coalition government of Maha Vikas Agadi (MVA) [a post-poll alliance of Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Indian National D Congress (INC) and some independent MLAs] was formed in Maharashtra, with Mr. Thackeray of Shiv Sena as the Chief Minister – However, certain events transpired in mid-2022 which led to split in Shiv Sena into two factions, one led by Mr. Thackeray and the other led by Mr. Shinde – 34 Shiv Sena MLAs (of Shinde Group) E issued notice to Deputy Speaker stating that he no longer enjoyed their support and calling upon him to move a motion for his own removal – In the meanwhile, notices were issued by the Deputy Speaker on petition filed by the Chief Whip of petitioners (Thackeray Group) under Tenth Schedule to the Constitution for disqualification of MLAs of Shinde Group – Governor, pursuant to letter addressed F by the Opposition Party, called upon the Thackeray Group to prove majority on the floor of the House – Thackeray resigned on the very next day and thereafter a new Govt. was formed by a coalition consisting of BJP MLAs and rebel MLAs of Shiv Sena, with Mr. Shinde as the Chief Minister –Discretion and power of governor to G invite a person to form the Government – Extent of – Held: The discretion to call for a floor test is not an unfettered discretion but one that must be exercised with circumspection, in accordance with the limits placed on it by law – The Governor had no objective material on the basis of which he could doubt the confidence of the H 857 858 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A incumbent government – The resolution on which the Governor relied did not contain any indication that the MLAs wished to exit from the MVA government – Communication expressing discontent on the part of some MLAs is not sufficient for the Governor to call for a floor test – The Governor ought to apply his mind to the communication or other material before him to assess whether the B Government seemed to have lost the confidence of the House – The 34 Shiv Sena MLAs did not express their desire to withdraw support from the MVA Government in the resolution – The floor test cannot be used as a medium to resolve internal party disputes or intra party disputes – In the present case, the Governor did not have any C objective material before him to indicate that the incumbent government had lost the confidence of the House and that he should call for a floor test – Hence, exercise of discretion by the Governor in this case was not in accordance with law – The Governor was not justified in calling upon Mr. Thackeray to prove his majority on the floor of the House because he did not have reasons based on D objective material before him, to reach the conclusion that Mr. Thackeray had lost the confidence of the House – However, the status quo ante cannot be restored because Mr. Thackeray did not face the floor test and tendered his resignation – The Governor was justified in inviting Mr. Shinde to form the government.