Therefore, when the benefit of Section 4 of the Arbitration Act is not available, the appellant cannot seek to take recourse to Section 10 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 which embodies the H same principle. BHIMASHANKAR SAHAKARI SAKKARE KARKHANE NIYAMITA v. 375 WALCHANDNAGAR INDUSTRIES LTD. (WIL) [M. R. SHAH, J.] 5.13 It is further submitted that just like Section 4 of the Limitation A Act, Section 10 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 also uses the term “prescribed period”. Section 10 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 provides that where any act is directed to be done on a certain day, or any proceeding is allowed to be done in any Court or office within prescribed period, if the Court or office is closed on that certain day, or the last day B of the prescribed period, it may be done or taken on the next working day. Accordingly, if Section 10 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 was to be applicable, the term “prescribed period” must be given the same meaning as that in the Limitation Act. Thus, Section 10 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 will also only then apply for the prescribed period of three months under Section 34(3) of the Arbitration Act and not to the C discretionary period of 30 days under the proviso to Section 34(3) of the Arbitration Act. Making above submissions and relying upon the decision of this Court in the case of Assam Urban (Supra) and Sagufa Ahmed (Supra), it is prayed to dismiss the present appeal. D 6. Having heard learned Counsel appearing for the respective parties, a short question which is posed for consideration of this Court is whether in the facts and circumstances of the case, the learned trial Court was justified in not condoning the delay in preferring the application under Section 34(3) of the Arbitration Act, which was filed after the E expiry of 120 days but filed on the first day of reopening after the winter / Christmas vacation and in a case where the condonable period of 30 days under Section 34(3) of the Arbitration Act had fallen during the winter / Christmas vacation ? The question is with respect to applicability of Section 4 of the Limitation and Section 10 of the General Clauses F Act, 1897 in the facts and circumstances of the case. Therefore, the central question in the present appeal is whether when the last day of condonable period of 30 days (under Section 34(3) of the Arbitration Act) falls on holiday or during the Court vacation, would the benefit of Section 10 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 be G available? 7. While considering the aforesaid issues/ questions, Section 34 of the Arbitration Act is required to be referred to, which reads as under: “34. Application for setting aside arbitral award.- (3) An application for setting aside may not be made after three H 376 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A months have elapsed from the date on which the party making that application had received the arbitral award or, if a request had been made under section 33, from the date on which that request had been disposed of by the arbitral Tribunal: Provided that if the Court is satisfied that the applicant B was prevented by sufficient cause from making the application within the said period of three months it may entertain the application within a further period of thirty days, but not thereafter.” The relevant provisions of the Indian Limitation Act and the General C Clauses Act, 1897 are also required to be referred to which are as under: “2.