(vi) Such a distinction also falls foul of substantive law i.e., Indian Evidence Act, 1872 which makes no distinction between a party taking on the role of a witness and a witness simpliciter. Reference is made to Sections 120, 137 and 155-160. (vii) The consequence of the principle laid down by the High Court would be to extinguish the possibility of eff ective cross-examination as it takes away the ability to surprise or confront a witness in the stand and it instead amounts to forcing parties to disclose their arguments, defenses and evidence entirely in the pleadings which may, in turn, go against the fundamental rule of pleadings which is to stipulate only material facts therein. In furtherance of the above submissions, reference is made to s passed by the High Courts of Madras, Gujarat, Kerala, Delhi and Bombay. 9. Learned counsel Dr. R.S. Sundaram, appearing for Respondent No.1 made the following submissions: - (i) s I to XX of the CPC have defi ned a party in specifi c terms as plaintiff and defendant. A witness, in distinction, is for supporting and/or proving a particular plea set out by the parties. (ii) The phrase “insofar as applicable” as it appears in XVI Rule 21 regulates the conduct of a party when he testifi es as a witness. This phrase when construed in the light cast by other provisions of the Code sets out a clear distinction between the parties and a witness. Reference is made to VII Rule 14 (4), 8 Rule 1(A), (4) (a) and XIII Rule 1 (3). (iii) It is submitted that XIII Rule 1(3) is clear and poses no ambiguity and does not require interpretation as argued by the appellant. The clause suggests that the document can be produced and put to a witness to test its veracity and the words can in no way be suggested to include the parties to the suit. MOHAMMED ABDUL WAHID v. NILOFER & ANR. 879 (iv) The element of surprise as against a party being cross-examined, is absent under the Code. Various provisions mandate that any documents on which the suit relies or the defense depends be fi led at the fi rst instance. Reference is made to VI Rule 9 which requires that contents of all documents produced be material and be stated in the pleadings, explicitly thereby negating the elements of surprise. (v) The expressions “plaintiff ’s witness and defendant’s witness” are unambiguous and therefore the literal meaning, as is apparent, must be given to them. (vi) Having considered the various provisions mentioned above, the Division Bench of the High Court has correctly applied the principles of interpretation to answer the three questions framed by the referring court. THE OPINION OF THE COURT 10. A party to the suit is one on whose behalf or against whom a proceeding in a court has been fi led. A witness is a person, either on behalf of the Plaintiff or the defendant, who appears before a Court to substantiate a statement or claim made by either side.