7. Learned counsel for the assessee urges that this court should not intervene given that the Appellate Commissioner as well as the ITAT and the High Court have concurrently upheld its claim for exemption on the ground that it is a charitable trust entitled to be treated as such thereby C eligible for exemption. It was submitted that the activity of generating income through advertisement is only incidental and income from advertisement cannot be called part of the main object of the trust but rather necessary for it to attain its charitable objectives. D Analysis and Findings 8. During the relevant assessment year, the assessee society claimed exemption, inter alia, in respect of income from newspapers, which included advertisement revenue, to the extent of ` 9,52,57,869/- E and surplus of ` 2,16,50,901 from its activities in Delhi. 9. The of this court, in Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority had examined various kinds of activities to determine whether they are charitable in nature, relatable to trusts or societies with general public utility objectives. The court then recorded its findings, regarding F the true interpretation of “charitable objects” under Section 2 (15) and summarized the findings as follows: “IV. Summation of conclusions G 267. In view of the foregoing discussion and analysis, the following conclusions are recorded regarding the interpretation of the changed definition of “charitable purpose” (w.e.f. 01.04.2009), as well as the later amendments, and other related provisions of the IT Act. H PR. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX (EXEMPTIONS) DELHI V. 869 SERVANTS OF PEOPLE SOCIETY [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] A. General test under Section 2(15) A A.1. It is clarified that an assessee advancing general public utility cannot engage itself in any trade, commerce or business, or provide service in relation thereto for any consideration (“cess, or fee, or any other consideration”); B A.2. However, in the course of achieving the object of general public utility, the concerned trust, society, or other such organization, can carry on trade, commerce or business or provide services in relation thereto for consideration, provided C that (i) the activities of trade, commerce or business are connected (“actual carrying out…” inserted w.e.f. 01.04.2016) to the achievement of its objects of GPU; and (ii) the receipt from such business or commercial activity or service in relation thereto, does not exceed the quantified limit, D as amended over the years (Rs. 10 lakhs w.e.f. 01.04.2009; then Rs. 25 lakhs w.e.f. 01.04.2012; and now 20% of total receipts of the previous year, w.e.f. 01.04.2016); A.3. Generally, the charging of any amount towards E consideration for such an activity (advancing general public utility), which is on cost-basis or nominally above cost, cannot be considered to be “trade, commerce, or business” or any services in relation thereto. It is only when the charges are markedly or significantly above the cost incurred by the F assessee in question, that they would fall within the mischief of “cess, or fee, or any other consideration” towards “trade, commerce or business”. In this regard, the Court has clarified through illustrations what kind of services or goods provided on cost or nominal basis would normally be excluded from G the mischief of trade, commerce, or business, in the body of the .