18. We do not fi nd the said argument is acceptable. As observed hereinabove, the amended defi nition of the term ‘business’ includes within the scope of the term, not only the business of carrying passengers and goods, but also any other trade, commerce, manufacture or concern, whether or not the same is carried on with a motive to earn profi t. Further activities incidental and ancillary to such trade, commerce, manufacture or concern are also included within the ambit of ‘business’. As per the amended defi nition, it is not necessary for either the primary business, trade or manufacture, or the ancillary activity to be related to the business of carrying passengers and goods. That is the very purpose of the amendment. The defi nition of ‘business’ as amended has the widest amplitude and includes any trade, commerce, manufacture, adventure or concern. 19. Learned counsel for the appellants have contended that defi nitions of ‘passenger’, ‘business’, ‘fare’ and ‘road’ are artifi cial and unnatural, as also contrary to the purpose and object of the Act and hence, ultra-vires. However, no reasons have been cited to demonstrate how the said defi nitions are artifi cial. Therefore, we fi nd no merit in the said contention. 50 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 20. It is also submitted, with respect to the term ‘passenger’ that fundamentally, ‘passenger’ means a person who travels by paying a fare to the owner or operator of the vehicle, vide M/s Tata Engineering and Locomotive Co. (supra). Therefore, a non-fare paying employee of the operator, or a school going child of such employee, is not a passenger. The said submission would also not come to the aid of the appellants. The meaning of the term ‘passenger’ would have to be gathered in every case, having regard to the defi nition of the said term in the relevant statute. The decision of this Court in M/s Tata Engineering and Locomotive Co. (supra) would be of no assistance to the appellants in this regard, as the said turns on its own facts. In the said case, this Court while referring to the charging provision contained in the Bombay Motor Vehicles (Taxation of Passengers) Act, held that non-fare paying passengers would not fall within the purview of the said Act. The said decision would not be relevant in the facts of the present case, as an interpretation of the charging provision in the Act of 1955 as amended, would not give rise to a conclusion that a non-fare paying employee of the operator, or a school going child of such employee, is not a passenger. The term ‘passenger’, in the present case, has been defi ned under Section 2(g) of the Act in a broad sense to mean any person travelling in a motor vehicle, but shall not include the driver, conductor, or any employee of the owner of the vehicle travelling in the bonafi de discharge of his duties in connection with the vehicle. The only three categories of persons who are excluded from the defi nition of ‘passenger’ are: (a) driver of the motor vehicle; (b) conductor; and (c) any employee of the owner of the vehicle travelling in the bonafi de discharge of his duties in connection with the vehicle.