21. On the point of withholding the appellant’s pension, gratuity and other benefits, it was submitted that having already superannuated on 31.08.1995, there was no authority vested in the Force to withhold C the same and due to such arrogant and arbitrary action, the appellant, now aged about 82 years and having superannuated about almost 28 years back, is in a very poor financial condition and is unable to sustain himself, having no means for his daily needs and medical expenses. 22. Learned counsel submitted that neither the BSF Act nor the D Rules envision withholding pension, gratuity, leave encashment and other dues/benefits of any retiree, after retirement without there being a specific under Section 48(1)(k) & 48(1)(l) of the BSF Act, which in the present case has admittedly, not been passed. Even otherwise it was contended that withholding pension is violative of Rule 9 of the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972 (hereinafter referred to as “the E Pension Rules”) which provide that only Hon’ble the President of India can withhold pension of an employee. 23. In support of such contention, reliance was placed on the decisions of this Court in State of Jharkhand v Jitendra Kumar Srivastava, (2013) 12 SCC 210, the relevant being at Paragraph No. 16 F holding that a person cannot be deprived of his pension without the authority of law, which is the constitutional mandate enshrined in Article 300A of the Constitution of India, and further, in Veena PandeyvUnion of India, (2022) 2 SCC 379, the relevant being at Paragraph No. 10 where it was held that pension is the deferred portion of compensation for rendering long years of service and is a hard-earned benefit accruing G to an employee and has been held to be in the nature of property. We note that the appellant had addressed representations to different authorities seeking release of his dues or a copy of the by which the same have been withheld, filed alongwith the application seeking early hearing i.e. Crl. M.P. No. 74756/2021 at Pages 16-17. H 440 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 24. It was also submitted that as far as Acetic Anhydride is concerned, it is neither a narcotic drug nor a psychotropic substance, but only a controlled substance under Section 9A of the NDPS Act, punishable under Section 25A of the NDPS Act. 25. Summing up, it was submitted by learned counsel for the B appellant that there have also been violations of other statutory provisions of the BSF Act and the Rules and the principles of natural justice were not conformed to during trial. SUBMISSIONS OF THE RESPONDENTS: 26. Per contra, learned senior counsel for the respondents C supported the under challenge. It was submitted that there was no infirmity in the appellant being tried separately as he was charged under the NDPS Act and under Sections 40 & 46 of the BSF Act read with Section 25 of the NDPS Act. 27. It was urged that Subedar Didar Singh was tried and convicted D by GSFC and sentence of forfeiture of ten years of service for the purpose of pension and severe reprimand were handed out; Sub.