63. Similarly, Clause (2) is worded expansively and enlarges the scope of the powers of this Court to enforce fundamental rights. This is evident from two parts of the clause: a. First, Clause (2) provides this Court with the power to issue “directions, s, or writs,” which indicates that this Court may mould the relief according to the requirements of the case before it and that it is not constrained to a particular set of cases in which a particular relief or set of reliefs may be granted. This expression indicates that the power of this Court is not limited to striking down an off ending statute, rule, or policy. Rather, it extends to issuing directions or s or writs for the enforcement of fundamental rights. Put diff erently, this means that the power of this Court is not only ‘negative’ in the sense that it may restrain the state from doing something which infringes upon the fundamental rights of people but is also ‘positive’ in the sense that it may compel the state to do something or act in a manner which gives eff ect to such rights; and b. Second, the word “including” in Clause (2) indicates that the fi ve writs mentioned in that clause are illustrative. The word “including” is used as a word of enlargement. This Court may issue directions, s, or writs other than the fi ve writs specifi ed.62 61 Daryao v. State of U.P, (1962) 1 SCR 574 62 State of W.B. v. Committee for Protection of Democratic Rights, (2010) 3 SCC 571 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1287 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Therefore, the manner in which Article 32 has been drafted does not limit the powers of this Court. To the contrary, it clearly and unambiguously vests this Court with the power to conduct judicial review and give eff ect to the fundamental rights enumerated in Part III. 64. The extent of the powers vested in this Court by Article 32 as envisaged by the framers of the Constitution can be understood from the Constituent Assembly’s discussion of the provision which was eventually adopted as Article 32.63 Mr. H V Kamath was of the opinion that it was unwise to particularize the writs which this Court ought to issue, and that this Court should have the power to issue any directions it considered appropriate in a case.64 In service of this idea, he moved an amendment to substitute clause (2) of the provision which is now Article 32. The substituted clause was to read: “The Supreme Court shall have power to issue such directions or s or writs as it may consider necessary or appropriate for the enforcement of any of the rights conferred by this part.”65 65. Responding to this proposal, Dr. B R Ambedkar underscored that this Court had been endowed with wide powers of a general nature: “…what has been done in the draft is to give general power as well as to propose particular remedies.