If two views are possible on the same evidence, the court should lean in favour of holding the accused to be a juvenile in bline cases. This is in to ensure that the benefi t of the JJ Act, 2015 is made applicable to the juvenile in confl ict with law. At the same time, the court should ensure that the JJ Act, 2015 is not misused by persons to escape punishment after having committed serious off ences. 32. Even if the medical report which shows the age of the appellant as 19 years is taken to be correct even then in a case where an exact assessment of age was not possible, considering the confl icting reports and documents in our considered opinion, the provision given in sub-rule 3(b) of Rule 12 would come into play and the Court ought to have given the appellant a benefi t of one year in the present case. Consequently, we accept the report of the Additional Sessions Judge, Barabanki dated 28.09.2022 and declare that the appellant was a juvenile on the date of the commission of crime i.e., on 01.12.1995. 33. The other two co-accused i.e., Gaya Prasad Mishra and Gulab Chandra have been convicted and sentenced inter alia to life imprisonment. Although both of them have been prematurely released by the State 3 Para 13 PAWAN KUMAR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 279 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] Government under its remission policy, yet the fact remains that they were convicted (along with the appellant), for the off ences under Sections 302/34 and 307/34 by the Trial Court in trial as well as by the High Court in appeal after examining the entire evidence in detail. The role assigned to the present appellant is no diff erent than the role assigned to the other two accused who were convicted under Sections 302 and 307 read with Section 34 IPC. It is exactly the same role and clearly section 34 of the Indian Penal Code is also attracted. We have already declared the appellant as a juvenile, but there is also an of conviction against the appellant, which is based on the evidence placed by the prosecution against the other two accused and the present appellant, which is common. It is not possible therefore to take a diff erent view for the present appellant than what has been taken by the Trial Court and the Appellate court against the other two accused regarding their conviction. Therefore, we sustain the conviction of the appellant under Sections 302 and 307 IPC read with Section 34 IPC, but all the sentences which have been awarded to him are hereby quashed as such sentences cannot be given to a juvenile, in view of Section 16 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2000. 34. The appeal is partly allowed on the question of juvenility as indicated hereinabove, and the of the High Court will stand modifi ed to this extent. The appellant is presently in jail. He should be around 43 years of age as of now.