In terms of the clauses in the agreement, it was pleaded that there was dispute pending amongst the family members of the vendor. After the same is decided and right of the vendor is crystalized, he will get the sale deed registered. The rights of the vendor were fi nally crystalized when the issue was decided by this Court in Shreya Vidyarthi’s case (supra) on 16.12.1995. Suit for specifi c performance was fi led on 03.08.2017 stating that the appellant-plaintiff came to know about the disposal of the litigation amongst the family members just before fi ling the suit. Earlier suit for injunction was fi led on 22.01.2009 pleading that the appellant-vendee came to know that the vendor was trying to create third party rights in the property while agreeing to sell the same to same to some other parties. At that stage cause of act to fi le suit for specifi c performance had not arisen. 24. The cause of action as contained in paragraph No. 9 of the plaint in question is extracted below: “9. That the cause of action for the present suit arose on 13.1.2009 when the plaintiff came to know that the defendant is intending to sell the property to others and in this connection, he is negotiating with the interested parties and on coming to know about the said news, the plaintiff made contact to the defendant and refrained the defendant from transferring, selling or alienating the property in suit in favour of any other person except to the plaintiff as there is an agreement in between the parties and the parties are bound by the said agreement and the plaintiff further said to the defendant that the plaintiff was ever ready and willing to perform their part of contract and is still ready and willing to perform their part of the contract and the plaintiff are having money of sale consideration to pay the same to the defendant and to meet out the registry expenses and they are ready to purchase the property at the price and sale consideration, as may be mutually agreed between the parties but the defendant did not pay any heed on the plaintiff ’s request and said to the plaintiff that he will sell the property to others for a high price and will not sell the property to the plaintiff and further given threat to the plaintiff that he will execute ELDECO HOUSING AND INDUSTRIES LIMITED v. ASHOK 887 VIDYARTHI AND OTHERS [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] the document in favour of others within a day or two and whatever action the plaintiff want to take, they are free to take and continues to every day within the jurisdiction of this learned court and this learned court has got jurisdiction to try the present suit.” 25. The application for rejection of the plaint was fi led by the respondent claiming that prior to MoU dated 31.8.1995 (registered on 01.09.1998), the MoU was entered into between the parties on 15.04.1998 and subsequent to the aforesaid MoUs, an agreement was executed on 02.09.1998.