We admit that in many places and in ordinary times the defendants, in saying E all that was said in the circular, would have been within their constitutional rights. But the character of every act depends upon the circumstances in which it is done.… The most stringent protection of free speech would not protect a man in falsely shouting fire in a theatre, and causing a panic. It does not even protect a F man from an injunction against uttering words that may have all the effect of force…. The question in every case is whether the words used are used in such circumstances and are of such a nature as to create a clear and present danger that they will bring about the substantive evils that Congress has a right to prevent. It is a question of proximity and degree. G 27. Whatever may be the position in the United States it seems to us clear that anticipatory action of the kind permissible under Section 144 is not impermissible under clauses (2) and (3) of Article 19. Both in clause (2) (as amended in 1951) and in clause (3), power is given to the legislature to make laws placing H ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 539 [M. R. SHAH, J.] reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the rights conferred by A these clauses in the interest, among other things, of public . Public has to be maintained in advance in to ensure it and, therefore, it is competent to a legislature to pass a law permitting an appropriate authority to take anticipatory action or place anticipatory restrictions upon particular kinds of acts in an B emergency for the purpose of maintaining public . We must, therefore, reject the contention.” 12.3 In the case of Madhu Limaye vs. Sub-Divisional Magistrate, (1970) 3 SCC 746, while reconsidering and affirming the of Babulal Parate (supra), this Court considered in a C combination of seven Hon’ble Judges, speaking through Mr. Justice Hidayatullah, J., has observed and held in paragraphs 16 & 17 as under: “16. We may here observe that the overlap of public and public tranquillity is only partial. The terms are not always D synonymous. The latter is a much wider expression and takes in many things which cannot be described as public dis. The words “public ” and “public tranquillity” overlap to a certain extent but there are matters which disturb public tranquillity without being a disturbance of public . A person playing loud music in his own house in the middle of the night may disturb public E tranquillity, but he is not causing public dis. “Public ” no doubt also requires absence of disturbance of a state of serenity in society but it goes further. It means, what the Frunch designate publique, defined as an absence of insurrection, riot turbulence, or crimes of violence. The expression “public ” F includes absence of all acts which are a danger to the security of the State and also acts which are comprehended by the expression “ publique” explained above but not acts which disturb only the serenity of others.