He has also deposed that deceased was in a good speaking condition. In the teeth of aforesaid medical evidence available on record, the testimony of eye-witness, namely, mother of the deceased-PW-1 requires to be examined. A perusal of the same would indicate she has deposed that on 19.06.2010 at 10:30 pm when she and her deceased daughter were at home, accused had visited their house and questioned her daughter as to why she was talking to the neighbour Sudhakar and not talking to him. She further deposes that after saying so, he punched on her daughter’s face and held both her ears and dashed her hard against the kitchen wall and immediately her daughter fell down and her head was broken and right ear was cut. It is thereafter she is said to have shifted her daughter to Geetanjali hospital and next day to KMC Hospital. The testimony of the uncle of the deceased – PW-2 which is on record would disclose that he was returning from work at 10:45 pm on 19.06.2010 and he saw the accused coming out of his mother in law’s house and heard her cry and as such he rushed to her house and saw the N. RAMKUMAR v. THE STATE REP. BY INSPECTOR 851 OF POLICE [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] deceased lying in a fainted condition. On enquiry, PW-1 is said to have informed him (PW2) about the attack made by the accused. 13. Having given our anxious consideration as regards the genesis of the incident and the role attributed to the appellant herein and testimony of the doctors who treated her and also who performed the post-mortem of the deceased, discloses that doctor has noted two injuries on the deceased: (i) cut injury in the left ear measuring 3 centimetres and; (ii) Two wounds in left head roughly measuring 7 centimetres and near to that another small injury. The injuries, as noted in Post-Mortem Report Ex.P-9 are as under: “(i) Sutured wounds: - On the lobule of right ear 2 cm in length. On removal of the sutures, edges are irregular, 0.5 cm in breadth and muscle deep, on the left temporal region of the scalp, 7 cm in length. On removal of the sutures, edges are irregular, 2 cm in breadth and bone deep, on the left parietal region of the scalp, 2 cm in length. On removal of the sutures, edges are irregular, 1 cm in breadth and bone deep. (ii) Resolving bruising of left temporal, left parietal and left side of occipital regions of scalp. Sub-dural haemorrhage and Sub arachnoid haemorrhage on both cerebral and cerebellar hemi-spheres. Fracture base of skull-left middle cranial fossa present.” 14. The cause of death assigned in the post-mortem report as already noticed is “died of head injury”. It is a trite law that “culpable homicide” is a genus and “murder” is its species and all “murders” are “culpable homicides, but all “culpable homicides” are not “murders” as held by this court in Rampal Singh Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh (2012) 8 SCC 289.