21 of the Constitution of India and since the concept of access to justice is extended to such a situation and bearing in mind Art 14 thereof it would be necessary to give a constitutional imprimatur to the evolving provision of transit anticipatory bail – Otherwise, in a deserving case, there is likelihood of denial of personal liberty as well as access to justice for, by the time the person concerned approaches the Court of competent jurisdiction to seek anticipatory bail, it may well be too late as he may be arrested – If a rejection of the plea for limited/transitory anticipatory bail is made solely with reference to the concept of territorial jurisdiction it would be adding a restriction to the exercise of powers u/s 438 – This, would result in miscarriage and travesty of justice, aggravating the adversity of PRIYA INDORIA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA AND ORS. 527 ETC. the accused who is apprehending arrest and would be against the principles of access to justice. [Para 45, 46] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – ss. 438, 177 – Ordinary place of inquiry and trial, if would be inclusive of the place where the complainant-wife resides after being separated from her husband: Held: As per s. 177 especially in matrimonial cases alleging cruelty and domestic violence by the wife, if none of the ingredients constituting the off ence can be said to have occurred within the local jurisdiction, that jurisdiction cannot be the ordinary place of investigation and trial of a matrimonial off ence – Adverse eff ects on mental health of the wife even while residing in her parental home on account of the acts committed in the matrimonial home would amount to commission of cruelty within the meaning of s. 498A at the parental home – At the place where the wife takes shelter after leaving or being driven away from the matrimonial home on account of acts of cruelty committed by the husband or his relatives, would, also have jurisdiction to entertain a complaint – On facts, the complainant- wife claims to have received death threats and harassment over the phone even after her return to her parental home in Chirawa, Rajasthan the ordinary place of trial may be Chirawa – By the impugned s, the accused- husband and his family members were granted extra-territorial anticipatory bail without issuing notice to the investigating offi cer and public prosecutor in Police Station, Rajasthan wherein the complainant had lodged the FIR – Impugned s set aside – Accused to approach the jurisdictional Court in Chirawa for anticipatory bail. [Paras 48, 49] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s. 438 – Grant of anticipatory bail – Salient features – Stated. [Para 9.6] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s. 438 – Grant of anticipatory bail – Expression “the High Court” or “the Court of Session” – Construction: Held: On a reading of s. 438 it is not found that the expression “the High Court” or “the Court of Session” is restricted vis-à-vis the local limits or any particular territorial jurisdiction – However, this does not mean that if an FIR is lodged in one State then the accused can approach the Court in another State for seeking anticipatory bail – He can do so, if at the time 528 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R.