20. Even if the Ex-communication Act has been repealed, the issue remains whether the power of the head of Dawoodi Bohra H 308 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Community to ex-communicate its members is non-justiciable being protected under the umbrella of clause (b) of Article 26. This issue requires examination in the present day context. Therefore, the argument that nothing survives on merits in the petition, cannot be accepted. APPROACH TO BE ADOPTED B 21. While interpreting the Constitutional provisions, we must remember that the Constitution is a living instrument. In paragraph 262 of the decision of this Court in the case of K. S. Puttaswamy & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors.10, this Court observed thus: C “262. …………………………………………………. Hence, it would be an injustice both to the draftsmen of the Constitution as well as to the document which they sanctified to constrict its interpretation to an originalist interpretation. Today’s problems have to be adjudged by a vibrant application of constitutional doctrine and cannot be D frozen by a vision suited to a radically different society. We describe the Constitution as a living instrument simply for the reason that while it is a document which enunciates eternal values for Indian society, it possesses the resilience necessary to ensure its continued relevance. Its continued relevance lies precisely in its E ability to allow succeeding generations to apply the principles on which it has been founded to find innovative solutions to intractable problems of their times. In doing so, we must equally understand that our solutions must continuously undergo a process of re- engineering.” F (emphasis added) The originalist interpretation rendered to the provisions of the Constitution decades back, cannot continue to be valid for all times to come if the Constitution is to continue as a living instrument with continued relevance. G 22. In paragraph 26 of the decision of this Court in the case of Central Inland Water Transport Corporation Ltd. & Anr. v. Brojo Nath Ganguly & Anr.11, this Court held thus. : 102017 (10) SCC 1 H 11 1986 (3) SCC 156 CENTRAL BOARD OF DAWOODI BOHRA COMMUNITY 309 v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] “26. The law exists to serve the needs of the society which is A governed by it. If the law is to play its allotted role of serving the needs of the society, it must reflect the ideas and ideologies of that society. It must keep time with the heartbeats of the society and with the needs and aspirations of the people. As the society changes, the law cannot remain immutable. B The early nineteenth century essayist and wit, Sydney Smith, said: “When I hear any man talk of an unalterable law, I am convinced that he is an unalterable fool.” The law must, therefore, in a changing society march in tune with the changed ideas and ideologies. Legislatures are, however, not best fitted for the role of adapting the law to the C necessities of the time, for the legislative process is too slow and the legislatures often divided by politics, slowed down by periodic elections and overburdened with myriad other legislative activities.