12.4. According to the learned counsel, the High Court has rightly drawn analogy from Khadi Boards of different States as also from other H 1070 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Orissa Government institutions, where the employees are entitled to pension; and the direction for granting pension to the employees of the Board is neither unjust nor unreasonable nor unfair. 12.5. Learned counsel for the Board has again referred to the statistics to submit that only a small number of employees are to be B benefitted by grant of pension in the present case and that the Board employees are essentially appointed in Group B and Group C posts. Thus, the pension in their relation would not be of an astronomical figure; and, the contention of alibi based on lack of financial resources deserves to be rejected. C 12.6. As regards the question of challenge to the provision by virtue of which pension has been denied to the employees of the Board, it has been argued that the employees of the Board have been fighting for grant of pension for a long period of time and the instant litigation is not the first round of litigation. The very fact of demanding pension on the part of these employees in itself is a direct challenge to the provision D denying pension to them; and in the backdrop of the present case, it cannot be construed that the employees of the Orissa Khadi Board have not raised a direct grievance against the provision denying pension to them. 12.7. Learned counsel for the Board has reiterated the plea that E in this matter of grant of pension to employees who are direct State functionaries in terms of Article 43 of the Constitution of India, a broad view is required to be taken and the grievance cannot be stiffened on a narrow technicality. It has, thus, been submitted that in the broader interest of justice and for doing complete justice, this Court could invoke Article 142 of the Constitution of India to maintain the direction for grant of F pension to the employees concerned. 13. We have given anxious considerations to the rival submissions and have examined the record with reference to the law applicable. 14. It may be observed in the first place that the principles G enunciated in the decisions cited by the learned counsel for respondents, that pension is neither a charity nor a bounty nor a gratuitous payment but, is earned for past services rendered; and that non-availability of financial resources cannot be a defence by the Government or any of its agencies or instrumentalities in taking away vested right accrued to the employees, are neither of any doubt nor of any dispute. However, while H STATE OF ORISSA v. ORISSA KHADI AND VILLAGE INDUSTRIES 1071 BOARD KARAMCHARI SANGH [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] adverting to the question about applicability of these principles to the A case at hand, we may examine the relevant observations and expositions in the cited decisions as infra.