Even if the slated business was not transacted inthe meeting dated 23.06.2022, all that had happened in that meeting could not have C been ignored. It remains undeniable that the plaintiff OPS and the persons standing with him were also very much present in the said meeting. The General Council is said to be consisting of 2665 members. If 2190 members out of these 2665 gave a requisition on 23.06.2022 for convening the General Council meeting and the Presidium Chairman D announced the date of this requisitioned meeting as 11.07.2022, in the given set of facts and circumstances, such announcement, at least at the present stage, cannot be dubbed as wholly redundant. At that point of time, when Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator were shown to be not functioning jointly (for whatsoever reason), a functional deadlock came E into existence for the party and a workable solution was required to be found. In the given scenario, the actions and steps taken by the requisitioning members as also by the Presidium Chairman cannot be declared as unwarranted or illegal at this stage. That being the position, convening of meeting dated 11.07.2022 could not have been taken as an F act unauthorised. The learned Single Judge while passing the dated 17.08.2022 seems to have fallen in serious error and said was clearly suffering from perversity when convening of the meeting dated 11.07.2022 was taken as an act unauthorised. The Division Bench of the High Court, in our view, has rightly looked at the substance of the G matter and realities of the situation. 28.2.The other alleged infirmityabout want of clear 15 days’ notice has also been rightly dealt with by the Division Bench of the High Court in the impugned dated 02.09.2022. In our view, in such an internal matter of the party, approach of the Court and that too, while considering H the prayer for interim relief, cannot beof finding technical faults and THIRU K. PALANISWAMY v. M. SHANMUGAM & ORS. 1193 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] flaws detached from the substance of the matter. Even as regards A technicalities, the Division Bench appears to have rightly analysed the frame of the said Rule 19(vii), where the requirement of 15 days’ notice is referable to the regular meeting and not as such to a requisitioned or special meeting. B 29. The considerations of the learned Single Judge as regards the question of prima facie case had been suffering from basic flaws, as noticed above; and interference by the Division Bench was but warranted looking to the subject-matter of the litigation and its implications. This apart, and even if it be assumed that the plaintiffs were able to project some arguable case before the Court and some elements of prima facie C case, in our view, the approach of the learned Single Judge while examining the questions of balance of convenience and irreparable injury had been from an altogether wrong angle. As noticed, the learned Single Judge took the view that by not granting injunction, EPSwould be in a more convenient position for having allegedly removed the plaintiff OPS and D few others from the party membership and they could not have even participated in the proposed General Secretary elections.