208 (new number 158). “Further, “In view of what has been discussed above, I arrived at the irresistible conclusion that Bhola had 1;sth share in Plot No. 208 (Old 227), 1/32nd share into trees of plot No. 213 and 214 (232 and 233 old) and 1/16th share B in tree of Doharighat - Ghazipur Road.” In the above judicial , partition of trees with land and shares finds mention, but balance of convenience is falling in favour of the Respondent Vinod. In my view, all the people who are present in the joint tenureship/co- tenureship their share is to be decided on the basis of pedigree. Therefore, when the pedigree C has been decided by a competent Civil Court against which the Defendants have never appealed, hence judicial estoppel also in the same. Accordingly, the claim of Mr. suresh Gupta is not justified. Even earlier also, report was sought from Tehsil Ghosi in the present case in regard to objection on the D determination of the share, on which while granting sufficient opportunity of hearing to both the parties, same was furnished by Tehsildar Ghosi while determining the share. Even by appearing before the Court, both the parties have expressed the consent in regard to this fact that Suraj, Ganga, Baldev Salik and Radhakrishan were the children of Shri Brijmohan, E in which Baldev died without children and thus, all of them shall have 1/4th share in the property of Brijmohan. Ganga had two children namely Bholanath and Sukt1dev. Applicant Suresh is the heir of Shri Dwarika, son of Parag, who had bought the property from Bholanath in the auction. F Accordingly, Bholanath can auction out that much only of which he is an owner lawfully. It shall also be pertinent to mention this fact also that consolidation proceedings have already been conducted in village Ahirani Buzurg, only after which, present records CH Form 11, 23, 41 and 45 have been prepared and Khatauni has been formed on their basis. G Applicant Suresh Gupta or any member of his family has neither raised any objection in this regard before the Court nor has produced any evidence of initiating any proceedings in the Court, therefore, he is barred by Section 49 of the Consolidation of Holding Act. H 396 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Thus, in pursuance of the evidence available on the file, present Khatauni, report of the then Tehsildar, Ghosi and of Hon’ble Court of Additional Civil Judge, share produced on the file are satisfactory and correct. Accordingly, B by preparing file for payment of compensation, same be produced. After doing needful, file be consigned to Record Room. Sd/- illegible (Atul Vats) C Competent Authority/ SLAO Mau 11.12.2019" 8. The respondents, being dissatisfied with the dated D 11.12.2019 passed by the SLAO referred to above, challenged the same by filing a petition before the District Magistrate, Mau invoking Section 3G(5) of the Act 1956. It is the case of the appellants herein that the District Magistrate, Mau without any jurisdiction and further without giving any opportunity of hearing to the appellants proceeded to pass an E dated 16.01.2020 granting higher shares in favour of the respondents towards compensation.