The State of Himachal Pradesh, exercising the powers drawn from Entries 56 and 57 of List II of the Seventh Schedule enacted the Himachal Pradesh Motor Vehicles Taxation Act 1972. Section 3 of the 1972 Act provided for levy and collection of taxes E on all motor vehicles which were to be used or kept for use in the State of Himachal Pradesh. By the Amending Act of 1999, Section 3A was introduced which carries a heading: Levy of Special Road Tax. This special road tax was in addition to the tax levied under Section 3. The special road tax was also levied and charged on all transport vehicles used or kept for use in Himachal F Pradesh specified in column 2 of Schedule 3 and the rate of tax was to be not exceeding the rates specified in column 3 of Schedule 3 of the Act. The High Court declared sub-section (3) of Section 3A as ultra vires opining that the tax imposed by Section 3A(3) was in the nature of penalty and for which the State Legislature G had no power to make laws. According to the High Court it was penalty because a further special road tax was leviable where a transport vehicle was plied without any valid permit or in any manner not authorized by the permit to be plied. The High Court opined that imposition of such an additional special road tax for a default or a wrong committed with respect to a transport vehicle H would amount to a penalty and not a tax. THE STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH v. GOEL BUS SERVICE 881 KULLU ETC. ETC. Allowing the appeals, the Court A HELD : 1. A: SCOPE OF INTERFERENCE IN FISCAL STATUTES: 1. It is by now well settled that any tax legislation may not be easily interfered with. The Courts must show judicial restraint B to interfere with tax legislation unless it is shown and proved that such taxing statute is manifestly unjust or glaringly unconstitutional. Taxing statutes cannot be placed or tested or viewed on the same principles as laws affecting civil rights such as freedom of speech, religion, etc. The test of taxing statutes C would be viewed on more stringent tests and the law makers should be given greater latitude. [Para 25][904-H; 905-A] SPECIAL ROAD TAX IS REGULATORY OR COMPENSATORY IN NATURE 2.1. The appellant State being a hilly State, the roads and D bridges are its lifeline. The State has to allocate sizeable part of its budget for the construction, development, repair, upkeep and maintenance of roads and bridges. It was with this object in the background that the offending provisions were brought in by way of amendments in 1999 and 2001 which are described as special road tax. This Court in a number of cases dealing with similar E provisions has upheld the same. It has withheld that tax charged for non-fulfilment of any obligation would also be compensatory and regulatory in nature. Distinction was carved out between a penalty imposed for breach of statutory duty and penalty imposed being a subject matter of a complaint that would require F adjudication.