1268 SUP[R20E2M3]E 1C0O SU.CR.TR .R 1E2P6O8R :T 2S023 INSC [5230323] 10 S.C.R. A M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. B (Civil Appeal No. 1822 of 2007) MAY 15, 2023 [K. M. JOSEPH, B. V. NAGARATHNA AND AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, JJ.] Sales Tax – Credit Note – Warranty Agreement – Whether, a C credit note issued by a manufacturer to a dealer of automobiles in consideration of the replacement of a defective part in the automobile sold pursuant to a warranty agreement being collateral to the sale of the automobile is exigible to sales tax under the sales tax enactments of the respective States – Observations made by D Supreme Court in Mohd. Ekram Khan case wherein three other s of the Delhi High Court, Madhya Pradesh High Court and Kerala High Court in Prem Nath Motors; Prem Motors and Geo Motors respectively were considered and the latter two s were overruled – Correctness of – Held: The of in Mohd. Ekram Khan is applicable to a situation where a manufacturer issues E a credit note to a dealer acting under a warranty given by the manufacturer pursuant to a sale of an automobile in the following situations – The dealer replaces a defective part of the automobile by a spare part maintained in the stock of the dealer or when the same is purchased by the dealer from the open market – In such F situations, the credit note issued in the name of the dealer is a valuable consideration for a transfer of property in the spare part made by the dealer to the customer and hence a sale within the meaning of the sales tax legislations of the respective States under consideration – The value in the credit note is thus exigible to sales tax under the respective sales tax enactments under consideration G – The in Mohd. Ekram Khan does not apply to a case where the dealer has simply received a spare part from the manufacturer of the automobile so as to replace a defective part therein under a warranty collateral to the sale of the automobile – In such a situation also, the dealer may receive a consideration for H the purpose of the service rendered by him as a dealer under a 1268 M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER 1269 OF COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. dealership agreement or any other agreement akin to an agent of A the manufacturer which is not a sale transaction – On the above understanding of the in Mohd. Ekram Khan, the same does not call for any interference – In light of the above, overruling of the s in the case of Prem Motors and Geo Motors in Mohd. Ekram Khan, is just and proper – A credit note issued by a B manufacturer to the dealer, in the situations explained above, is a valuable consideration within the meaning of the definition of sale and hence, exigible to sales tax under the respective State enactments of the States under consideration – Appellants-dealers/assessees liable to pay sales tax under the respective State enactments under consideration – Sale of Goods Act, 1930 – Central Sales Tax Act.