Clause (b) requires it to regulate the tariff of generating companies other than those owned or controlled by the Central Government specified in clause (a), if such generating companies enter into or otherwise have a composite scheme G for generation and sale of electricity in more than one State. 102. Similarly, Section 82 of the Electricity Act deals with constitution of a State Commission. Section 83 of the Electricity Act permits a Joint Commission to be constituted by an agreement between two or more Governments of States. It also permits the Central Government to constitute a Joint Commission in respect of one or more H 132 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Union Territories, and one or more Governments of States. Under Section 84, the persons to be appointed as the Chairperson and the Members of the State Commission are required to have adequate knowledge of, and have shown capacity in, dealing with problems relating to engineering, finance, commerce, economics, law or management. Sub-section (2) of Section 84 of the Electricity Act permits the State Government to appoint B any person as the Chairperson from amongst persons who is, or has been, a Judge of a High Court. However, such an appointment can be made only after consultation with the Chief Justice of that High Court. A high-level Selection Committee under the Chairmanship of a person who has been a Judge of the High Court, the Chief Secretary of the concerned C State and the Chairperson of the CEA or the Chairperson of the CERC selects the Chairperson and the Members of the State Commission. Analogous to Section 79, Section 86 of the Electricity Act defines the functions of the State Commission. Clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 86 of the Electricity Act requires the State Commission to regulate electricity purchase and procurement process of distribution licensees D including the price at which electricity shall be procured from the generating companies or licensees or from other sources through agreements for purchase of power for distribution and supply within the State. 103. Section 110 of the Electricity Act provides for establishment E of the Appellate Tribunal. Section 111 of the Electricity Act provides for appeal to Appellate Tribunal by any person aggrieved by an made by an adjudicating officer under the said Act (except under Section 127) or an made by the Appropriate Commission. Section 112 deals with composition of the Appellate Tribunal. It provides that it shall consist F of a Chairperson and three other Members. Section 113 provides for qualifications for appointment of Chairperson and Members of Appellate Tribunal. Only a person who is, or has been a Judge of the Supreme Court or the Chief Justice of a High Court is entitled to be the Chairperson of the Appellate Tribunal. For being a Member of the Appellate Tribunal, following three categories have been provided for: G (i) A person is, or has been, or is qualified to be, a Judge of a High Court; or (ii) A person is, or has been, a Secretary for at least one year in the Ministry or Department of the Central Government dealing with economic affairs or matters or infrastructure; H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 133 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.]