(xx) It is submitted that perusal of Regulation 2(2)(a) of the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Terms and Conditions of Tariff) Regulations, 2019 would reveal that they are not applicable where the tariff has been discovered F through tariff based competitive bidding in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Central Government and adopted by the Commission under Section 63 of the Electricity Act. (xxi) It is submitted that when admittedly there is bid assumed SHR as per bidding conditions, the learned APTEL cannot G ignore the same on the purported ground of equity and provide for an alternate parameter for computational purpose of actual SHR with the ceiling as under the Tariff Regulations. It is submitted that this will result in changing the bidding terms and conditions after the bid was accepted and became final. H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 103 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] (xxii) It is further submitted that the finding that the GCV A computation is to be made on ‘as received’ basis, is also patently erroneous. It is submitted that the real purpose behind relying on the said methodology of computation is to recover the grade slippage in the coal grade actually supplied as against the coal grade billed by the Coal Company and B all the losses in the heat value of the coal during the time period when the coal is taken delivery from the coal mines and transported to the Power Plant and unloading at the Power Plant site. (xxiii) It is submitted that the evaluation of GCV on air dried basis C by Coal Company was well known/existing even prior to bidding and the Generators were very much aware of it. Accordingly, the same has already been factored into while the Generators submitted their bids. As such, if the computation of GCV is permitted on ‘as received’ basis, the Generators will be doubly compensated. In any case, it D is submitted that if the Generators had any issues with regard to the grade of coal i.e. GCV range and quantum, then that is an issue between the Generators and the respective Coal Companies, which is required to be resolved under the FSA between them. The DISCOMS cannot be E roped into for the resolution of such disputes between the Generators/Generating Companies and the Coal Companies. (xxiv)Lastly, it is submitted that since the letter of the MoP, which has been considered as a Change in Law event, is dated 31st July 2013, the learned APTEL could not have given effect to the same from 1st April 2013. It is submitted that F this would permit giving the benefit of compensation with retrospective effect. (xxv) Insofar as the reliance placed by the Generating Companies on the of this Court in Adani Rajasthan case is concerned, it is submitted that the said would not G be applicable to the facts of the present case. It is submitted that in the said case, there was no FSA and the State Government had undertaken to supply the entire coal quantum.