“ 7 . On perusal of aforesaid provision (Sec. 167 CrPC), it may be seen that sub-Section (1) is the mandatory provision, governing what a police officer should do, when the person F is arrested and detained in custody and when it appears that the investigation cannot be completed within the period of Twenty Four hours fixed by Section 57. Sub-Section (2) pertains to the powers of remand available to a Magistrate and the manner in which, such powers should be exercised. The term of Sub- Section (1) of Section 167 have to be read G in conjunction with Section 57. It is clear that Section 57 interdicts a police officer from keeping in custody a person without warrant for a longer period then Twenty Four hours 12 (2011) 10 SCC 445 13 (2020) SCC Online SC 529 H 14 MANU/MH/0843/2020; LD/VC Criminal Bail Application 197/2020. ENFORCEMENT DIRECTORATE, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA v. 933 KAPIL WADHAWAN & ANR. ETC. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] without production before the Magistrate, subject to the A exception that the time taken for performing the journey from the place of arrest to the Magistrate Court, can be excluded from the prescribed period of Twenty Four hours. Since, Sub- Section (1) provides that, if the investigation cannot be completed, within the period of Twenty Four hours, fixed by B Section 57, the accused has to be forwarded to the Magistrate along with the entries in the diary, it follows that a police officer is entitled to keep an arrested person in custody for a maximum period of Twenty Four hours for the purposes of investigation. Hence, the initial period of custody of an arrested person, till he is produced before a Magistrate is C neither referable to nor in pursuance of an of remand passed by a Magistrate. The powers of remand given to a Magistrate, become exercisable after an accused is produced before him in terms of Sub-Section (1) of Section 167. Sub- section (1) of Section 167 covers this procedure and also D state that the police officer while forwarding the accused to the nearest Magistrate should also transmit a copy of entries in the diary relating to the case. The entries in the diary are meant to afford to the Magistrate the necessary information upon which he can take the decision whether the accused should be detained in the custody or not. The law enjoins E upon the investigating agency to carry out the investigation, in a case where a person has been arrested and detained, with utmost urgency and complete the investigation promptly in prescribed period. The proviso to sub-section (2) fixes the outer limit within which investigation must be completed and F in case the same is not completed within the prescribed period, the accused would acquire a right to be released on bail and if he is prepared to and does furnish bail, the Magistrate shall release him on bail and such release shall be deemed to be grant of bail under chapter XXXIII of Cr.P.C.