There is no fi nding as to how Section 149 of IPC gets attracted. 11. Thus, the only conclusion which can be drawn is that the High Court, as an Appellate Court, while hearing the appeal against acquittal, has not done its duty. 12. However, we cannot take recourse to the of remand since the subject off ence has taken place about twenty-three and half years back. We have perused the evidence of the eyewitnesses, namely PW-1, PW-2, PW-3, PW-6 and PW-7, and the Trial Court fi ndings. We fi nd that the Trial Court has made a very detailed analysis of the depositions of the witnesses. The incident was of 9:00 p.m. The Trial Court noted that at 11:40 p.m. on the date of the incident, PW-1 was examined by a doctor in a hospital. FIR was not lodged immediately thereafter. It was registered at 1:30 a.m. on the next date. The Trial Court noted that the appellant no.1’s thumb was disfi gured. For this grievous injury suff ered by the appellant no.1 - accused no.1, there was no explanation by the prosecution. 13. The Trial Court found that the failure to investigate the cause of injury suff ered by the accused no.1 is a serious lacuna in a prosecution case. On facts, it is further noted by the Trial Court that on the basis of prior complaint fi led by the accused no.1 - appellant no.1 alleging commission of assault by PW-1, PW-2, PW-7, and PW-12, all of them got anticipatory bail from the competent court. 14. There was a fi ght over property between the accused and the family of the complainant. After in-depth scrutiny of the testimony of the eyewitnesses, for the reasons recorded, the Trial Court was unable to accept their testimony. After having examined the evidence of the material prosecution witnesses and fi ndings of the Trial Court, we must hold that the conclusions recorded by the Trial Court were possible conclusions which could have been recorded on the basis of the evidence on record. 54 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 15. Therefore, the appeal succeeds, and we set aside the impugned dated 21st September 2010. We direct that unless the appellants are required to be detained in custody in connection with some other case, they shall be forthwith set at liberty. 16. The Appeal is accordingly allowed. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal allowed. Nidhi Jain