ii. Adopting a pragmatic approach to consent 90. In the context of arbitration law, the intention of the parties has to be derived from the words used in the arbitration agreement. While construing the arbitration agreement, it is the duty of the court to not delve deep into the intricacies of the human mind, but only consider the expressed intentions of the parties.81 The words used in the contract refl ect the commercial 79 [1976] 1 WLR 852 (2) 80 Bank of Tokyo v. Karoon, (1986) 3 All ER 468 81 Kamla Devi v. Takhatmal Land, AIR 1964 SC 859; Bangalore Electricity Supply Co Ltd v. E S Solar Power (P) Ltd, (2021) 6 SCC 718 682 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. understanding between the parties. The intention of the parties has to be ascertained from the words used in the contract, considered in light of the surrounding circumstances and the object of such contract.82 91. An arbitration agreement encapsulates the commercial understanding of business entities as regards to the mode and manner of settlement of disputes that may arise between them in respect of their legal relationship. In most situations, the language of the contract is only suggestive of the intention of the signatories to such contract and not the non-signatories. However, there may arise situations where a person or entity may not sign an arbitration agreement, yet give the appearance of being a veritable party to such arbitration agreement due to their legal relationship with the signatory parties and involvement in the performance of the underlying contract. Especially in cases involving complex transactions involving multiple parties and contracts, a non-signatory may be substantially involved in the negotiation or performance of the contractual obligations without formally consenting to be bound by the ensuing burdens, including arbitration. 92. Modern commercial reality suggests that there often arise situations where a company which has signed the contract containing the arbitration clause is not always the one to negotiate or perform the underlying contractual obligations. In such situations, emphasis on formal consent will lead to the exclusion of such non-signatories from the ambit of the arbitration agreement, leading to multiplicity of proceedings and fragmentation of disputes. In A Ayyasamy v. A Paramsivam,83 this Court observed that it is the duty of the courts “to impart to that commercial understanding a sense of business effi cacy.” The courts must interpret contracts in a manner that would give them a sense of effi cacy rather than invalidating the commercial interests of the parties. The meaning of the contract must be gathered by adopting a common sense approach, which should “not be allowed to be thwarted by a narrow, pedantic and legalistic interpretation.”84 Therefore, there is a need to adopt a modern approach to consent, which takes into 82 Bank of India v. K Mohandas, (2009) 5 SCC 313; M Dayanand Reddy v. A P Industrial Infrastructure Corporation Ltd, (1993) 3 SCC 137 83 (2016) 10 SCC 386 84 Union of India v. D N Revri, (1976) 4 SCC 147 COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT.