ETC. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] shall be levied, charged and paid to the State Government further A special road tax in addition to the tax payable under sub-section (1), on such vehicles at the rates as may be specified by the State Government, by notification, but not exceeding the rates specified in column (3) of Schedule-III of this Act. (4) Where a transport vehicle is registered in a State other B than the State of Himachal Pradesh, enters and is used on any public road, or kept for use, in the State of Himachal Pradesh, the special road tax shall become chargeable, on such entry in the prescribed manner. Explanation.- For the purpose of special road tax levied under C this Act, transport vehicles shall include non-transport vehicles when used as transport vehicles by the owner. “ 22. Challenge before the High Court was also to the validity of a few other provisions. However, the High Court upheld the validity of all other provisions and it only declared sub-section (3) of Section D 3A as ultra vires. What is, thus, required to be decided in this reference is whether the High Court was right in declaring Section 3A(3) as ultra vires. 23. The High Court was of the opinion that the tax imposed by Section 3A(3) was in the nature of penalty and for which the State E Legislature had no power to make laws. According to the High Court it was penalty because a further special road tax was leviable where a transport vehicle was plied without any valid permit or in any manner not authorized by the permit to be plied. The High Court opined that imposition of such an additional special road tax for a default or a wrong committed with respect to a transport vehicle would amount F to a penalty and not a tax. Thefinding recorded by the High Court is reproduced hereunder: “Further, the powers of State Legislature under the entry aforesaid being subject to Entry 35 of List III, if there is an existing law made by the Parliament laying down the principles G on which taxes on mechanically propelled vehicles should be levied, then any State Legislation enacted under this entry must conform to these principles as laid down in the existing laws or the earlier law made by the Parliament. If the provisions of the State Laws are repugnant to those principles, the Law made H 904 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A by the State Legislature must fail to the extent of repugnancy, unless reserved for the consideration of and assented to by the President. The tax under this entry is leviable by the State Legislature or all vehicles suitable for use on roads, which are kept in the State, but such tax must have some nexus with the vehicles using the public roads of the State because it is B compensatory in nature, even though registered under the Motor Vehicles Act. Contra the State Legislature is not competent to levy, under the present entry, an impost which is not in substance a regulatory or compensatory tax for the transport of the vehicle along the road, but a fine , for example using a vehicle without C a valid permit or for issuing it in a manner not authorized by the permit, is beyond the competence of the State Legislature, thus ultra vires.