1 was in communication or contact with other accused persons. Consequently, Respondent No. 1 was directed to be released on bail. A.2. EVENTS SUBSEQUENT TO THE GRANT OF BAIL AND FILING OF PRESENT SLP: 14. The aggrieved Appellant is in appeal before us. During the pendency of these proceedings, some disturbing events have taken place which are briefl y noticed hereinafter: (a) Notice was issued in the Special Leave Petition on 16.04.2021, but the matter could be taken up for effective hearing on 27.03.2023 only when it was informed that some complaints had been received against Respondent No. 1 after his enlargement on regular bail. Consequently, the Appellant was granted time to fi le an additional affi davit. (b) On 24.04.2023, this Court was apprised that though the charges had been framed, the trial was yet to commence. The State counsel informed that there were 109 prosecution witnesses to be examined. We, thus, directed the Trial Court to commence the examination of prosecution witnesses. Respondent No.1 was directed to cooperate with the trial and remain present in the Court on the date of hearing. 106 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. (c) On 31.07.2023, an dated 24.04.2023 passed by the Trial Court was brought to our notice, which revealed that CW-1 to CW-3 (Appellant and her family members) did not appear for their depositions and they were again served with non- bailable warrants. A fresh status report from the Trial Court was accordingly sought with a further direction that necessary steps, including coercive action be taken to ensure the presence of the witnesses. 15. What has transpired thereafter is quite disheartening, and it pricks the conscience of this Court. Our attention has been drawn to the fact that there was a gap of around 20 days between the examination-in-chief and the cross-examination of the key witnesses, who are none else than the Appellant (PW-1), her daughter-Vidhya (sister of the Deceased, PW-4), and Muniraju (father of the Deceased, PW-5). They all have turned hostile and retracted from their earlier statements. B. CONTENTIONS: 16. Learned Counsel for the Appellant, regardless of her contradiction in the cross-examination, vehemently contended that the High Court committed a grave error in overlooking the well-established principles which guide the Courts to exercise their discretion in the matter of granting or refusing a bail. He urged that prima facie there is suffi cient material gathered by the prosecution to indicate the involvement of Respondent No. 1 in a criminal conspiracy hatched for killing his wife. He also made a pointed reference to the complaints alleging gross misuse of concession of bail by Respondent No.1. 17. Learned State Counsel has supported the Appellant reiterating that Respondent No. 1 had been harassing the Deceased and was compelling her to concede for divorce, with the intention to marry someone else. His family members and relatives also continued to humiliate the Deceased by demanding dowry and even attempted to kill her by pouring kerosene over her. He further submitted that Respondent No.