[2023] 2 S.C.R. 529 529 UNION OF INDIA A v. INDIAN NAVY CIVILIAN DESIGN OFFICERS ASSOCIATION AND ANR. (Civil Appeal No. 8329 of 2011) B FEBRUARY 22, 2023 [AJAY RASTOGI AND BELA M. TRIVEDI, JJ.] Service Law : Pay scale – Grant of – Respondent association seeking pay scale of Rs.7500-12000 to the Junior Design Officers C as allowed to the Civilian Technical Officers (Design), consequent to the implementation of the Fifth Central Pay Commission – Allowed by the tribunal and the High Court, by equating the posts of JDOs with CTOs, and in fixing the pay scales of JDOs equivalent to that of CTOs – Justification of – Held: Equation and classification of posts and determination of pay scales is the primary function of the D Executive and not of the Judiciary – Courts should not enter upon the task of job evaluation which is generally left to the expert bodies like the Pay Commissions – Wisdom and advisability of the Courts in the matters concerning the finance, are ordinarily not amenable to judicial review unless a gross case of arbitrariness or unfairness E is established by the aggrieved party –Though the doctrine equal pay for equal work is not an abstract doctrine and is capable of being enforced in a Court of Law, the equal pay must be for equal work of equal value – On facts, the probation period in case of CTOs is longer than that of JDOs –Duties and responsibilities of both the posts are different and the promotional avenues also have F different duration and different criteria – Tribunal and the High Court erred in interfering with the pay scales recommended by the Fifth Central Pay Commission and accepted by the appellant for the posts of JDOs and CTOs, and in upgrading the pay scale of JDOs making it equivalent to the pay scale of CTOs – Thus, the G s passed by the High Court and the tribunal quashed and set aside – Doctrine of equal pay for equal work. Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 The power of judicial review of the High Courts in the matter of classification of posts and determination of pay H 529 530 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A scale is no more res integra. Equation of posts and equation of salaries is a complex matter which is best left to an expert body unless there is cogent material on record to come to a firm conclusion that a grave error had crept in while fixing the pay scale for a given post and the interference of the Court was absolutely necessary to undo the injustice. [Para 9][536-G-H; 537- B A] 1.2 Though the doctrine “equal pay for equal work” is not an abstract doctrine and is capable of being enforced in a Court of Law, the equal pay must be for equal work of equal value. The equation of posts and determination of pay scales is the primary C function of the Executive and not of the Judiciary.