The doctrine is premised on the notion that public authorities, while performing their public duties, ought to honor their promises or past practices. The legitimacy of an expectation can be inferred if it is rooted in law, custom, or established procedure.7 19. The origin of the doctrine in the modern sense could be authoritatively traced to the opinion of Lord Denning in Schmidt v. Secretary of State for Home Aff airs.8 In that case, the Home Secretary granted a limited permit to the petitioners to enter the United Kingdom for the purposes of study at the College of Scientology. After the expiration of the time period, the petitioners applied to the Home Secretary for an extension of their permits. The Home Secretary refused to grant the extension. Although the Court rejected the claim brought by the petitioners, Lord Denning observed that the petitioner would have a legitimate expectation of being allowed to stay for the permitted time. In such situation, it was observed that the petitioner ought to have been given an opportunity of making a representation if his permit was revoked before the expiration of the time period. Lord Denning’s conception of the doctrine of legitimate expectation was a procedural protection – a legitimate expectation could not be denied without providing an opportunity of hearing to the aff ected person. 20. In O’Reilly v. Mackman,9 the House of Lords was called upon to decide the validity of the passed by the Board of Visitors to impose a penalty against the plaintiff s in breach of the prison rules and principles of natural justice. Lord Diplock observed that the doctrine of legitimate expectation gave the aff ected party a right to challenge the legality of the 7 Salemi v. Mackellar, [1977] HCA 26 8 [1969] 2 WLR 337 9 [1983] 2 AC 237 688 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. adverse actions on the ground that the authority had acted beyond the powers conferred upon it by the legislation including the failure to observe the principles of natural justice. Lord Diplock reiterated the doctrine of legitimate expectation in terms of the duty of public authorities to act fairly in their dealings with individuals. 21. The doctrine of legitimate expectation received further impetus in the decision of the Privy Council in Attorney General of Hong Kong v. Ng Yuen Shiu.10 In that case, a senior immigration officer announced that each illegal entrant from China would be interviewed before passing deportation s against them. The respondent, an illegal entrant from China, was detained and removal s were passed against him without any opportunity of hearing. Therefore, the issue was whether the respondent had a legitimate expectation of the grant of a hearing before repatriation by the immigration officer. It was held that a public authority is bound by its undertakings. Lord Fraser explained the contours of legitimate expectations in the following terms: “The expectations may be based upon some statement or undertaking by, or on behalf of, the public authority which has the duty of making the decision, if the authority has, through its officers, acted in a way that would make it unfair or inconsistent with good administration for him to be denied such an inquiry.” According to Lord Fraser’s opinion, the primary justification for the doctrine of legitimate expectation is that a public authority should implement its promise in the interests of fairness and good administration.