Not only that, when we perused the cross- examination part of the testimony, we found his version to be uninspiring in confi dence. He does not remember as to whether the police have carried out an investigation on the spot where his brother was lying. He does not remember the police having visited the village. Does such an unexplained denial render the witness unreliable and unworthy of credit? It appears that the witness was not present on the spot and was introduced by the prosecution with suggestions, in fact, as put to him by the accused. 21.10 We notice that the testimony of PW-5 is on similar lines as that of PW-4. He added that the accused persons came armed and started shouting “catch hold them, and we shall kill them”. He also states that seeing the accused all the members of the victim party fl ed away from the spot, while the deceased was fl eeing, and the assailants attacked him with rod, stick and sickle. Signifi cantly, in his cross-examination, he admits several improvements made by him; he does not remember having informed the police of the accused moving towards the village holding the weapons they had brought. In fact, not only is his version self-contradictory but also in contradiction to that of other witnesses. He states that persons other than the assailants were also present and were part of their group. The whereabouts of such persons are undisclosed and, signifi cantly, this witness does not state as to which one of the accused was carrying which weapon and which one of them had actually assaulted or infl icted injuries on the body of the deceased. MANJUNATH & ORS. v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 753 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] He admits to having run to a distance of about a furlong and hidden under/behind the trees for about 10 minutes and returned to the spot only after the accused had left the spot and since long. 21.11 PW-19 admits that “on 06.08.1997, the AW2 to 10, 12 to 17 did not inform me as to who assaulted the deceased, where and how. All the said persons were not available for giving statement”. 21.12 Having noted the above aspects of the testimonies of the prosecution witnesses we fi nd them to be unreliable, unworthy of credence. The testimonies diff er on essential material facts, such as the number of persons, how the accused came to lay where he did, when discovered etc. 22. For an eye-witness to be believed, his evidence, it has been held, should be of sterling quality. It should be capable of being taken at face value. The principle has been discussed in Rai Sandeep @ Deepu alias Deepu v. State (NCT of Delhi)35 as follows- “22. In our considered opinion, the “sterling witness” should be of very high quality and caliber whose version should, therefore, be unassailable. The court considering the version of such witness should be in a position to accept it for its face value without any hesitation.