[Para 22][1147-D-G; 1148-A-B] F 1.4 For award of compound interest, relevant factors shall have to be taken into account which would include uncertainties of market and several other imponderables. If at all by way of compensation, the Consumer Forum considers it proper to examine the time value for money, an in–depth and thorough G analysis would be required while taking into account all the facts and the material surrounding factors, including those of realities as also uncertainties of market. [Para 23][1148-C-D] 1.5 Awarding of compound interest with reference to Dr. Monga’s case and without examining any other factor has led to H M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR. v. ANITA 1095 MERCHANT serious inconsistencies; and if the award as made is approved, it A could only lead to unjust enrichment of the respondent in the name of disgorgement of benefits purportedly derived by the appellants. The State Commission and the National Commission have passed rather assumptive s on the basis of the decision in Dr. Monga’s case that compound interest was required to be B allowed. Various factors recounted on behalf of the respondent, including excessive harassment and denial of the fruits of her investment could all lead to a reasonable amount of compensation but, there appears absolutely no reason that compound interest be allowed in this matter. [Para 24][1148-D-F] C 1.6 Having regard to the proposed to be passed, the minute calculations and variety of alternatives presented by the parties are not entered into but, on a broad consideration of the matter, it is clear that even as per the exemplar sale deeds relating to the same area and similar flats, the cost of 3 flats booked by the respondent, as at present, is in the range of 2.25 crore, whereas D the amount payable under the award in question would be above Rs. 7.35 crore. The respondent has attempted to compare the circle rates of the land in the area in question with the submissions that there were no circle rates of the flats in the year 1989 and the attempt on her part was to make “apples–to–apples” E comparison and then factorising on the cost of flats. In the first place, no such efforts of calculation and assessment were made before the State Commission or the National Commission by the respondent. Secondly, the said Consumer Fora have not returned cogent and convincing findings on the loss or injury of the respondent with reference to the relevant factors. These aspects F are referred only to indicate that award of compound interest in the instant case had neither any foundation in the record nor any backing in law nor the Consumer Fora took care to examine the contours of their jurisdiction and the requirements of proper assessment, if at all any compensation and/or punitive damages G were sought to be granted. The impugned s are difficult to be sustained. [Para 25][1148-F-H; 1149-A-C] 1.7 The State Commission merely referred to the decision of COMPAT in Dr. Monga’s case and then referred to the prayer of the respondent for award of compound interest coupled with H 1096 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R.