Because one clause5 uses the word assignment and at the same time it also states that the amounts i.e. receivables are pledged and will be set aside for that purpose. This clearly indicates that the plain meaning of the term pledge and that the intention of the parties was that this amount was to be treated as a security. The expression assigned is clarifi ed later, in the words “shall be set aside for that purpose”. When used in conjunction with the expression “pledge”, what was contemplated was the creation of a security of the property and not its transfer. 14. It is highlighted that the charge is a kind of security, whether the creditor obtains possession of ownership of the assets or not; it is appropriated to the satisfaction of the debt. From the provisions of the AA and the facility agreement, it is absolutely clear that receivables were charged in favour of HDFC Ltd, the lender, only for securing the obligations of the appellant IL&FS under the Facility agreement and facilitation of repayment and it did not amount to a transfer of the legal title over such receivables which continues to vest with IL&FS. It is submitted that in these circumstances, the holistic reading of all documents as resorted to by former judge of this court was the correct approach. Lastly, it is pointed out that the receivables or the rent paid into the account was to be held in trust by the escrow agent which had to secure compliance with the tribunal’s dated 15.08.2018 and the judgement dated 12.03 2020. 5 Clause 1 of the Assignment and Administration Agreement dated 25.06.2018 – Assignment and Pledge of Receivables. 104 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 15. Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, learned Sr. Advocate appeared for HDFC Ltd. and refuted the submissions of the learned senior counsel for IL&FS. It was argued that a plain analysis of the transaction documents makes it clear that the facility extended to the borrower is a Lease Rental Discounting (LRD) loan transaction, which is materially diff erent from a traditional loan transaction. An LRD loan transaction involves the assignment/sale of the rent receivables by the landlord to the fi nancing entity at a discounted value in terms of the transaction documents. A certain component of lease rentals arising from the use of the TIFC Property (or Secured Property) i.e., suffi cient for repayment of the facility, has been irrevocably assigned in favour of the lender till repayment of the said Facility. Clause 5(c)6 of Schedule I of the Facility Agreement recognizes that the assigned receivables are the exclusive property of HDFC Ltd. The assigned receivables are clearly the property of HDFC Ltd. The borrower has no right/title or interest in the monies/receivables/amount deposited in the Escrow Account. The relief of release/refund/reversal of amounts debited from the Escrow Account stating that the same is in line with the dated 03.07.2020 issued by former judge of this court is misplaced since the same has not attained fi nality and was under scrutiny by the tribunal in the applications fi led by the lender.