Hence, appellant was called upon to showcase as to why sales tax @15% should not be levied on the sale of the said goods. The notice issued for the tax assessment year 1996-97 came to be adjudicated and an assessment came to be passed on 12.9.2002 which is the subject matter of Civil Appeal No. 3773 of 2011. The notices demanding tax @15% for the tax assessment years 1992-93 to 1996-97 came to be challenged in Writ Petition No. 283 of 2001 before the High Court of judicature at Allahabad which writ petition came to be dismissed in the light of said issue having already been laid to rest in appellant’s case itself, in the light of assessment for the tax assessment year 1996-97 having been passed by rejecting the similar contentions. Hence, in all these appeals the common question of law has arisen and as such they are taken up together for consideration, adjudication and determination thereof. 6. We have heard the arguments of Shri S.K. Bagaria, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant and Shri R.K. Raizada, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent. 7. Shri S.K. Bagaria, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant- assessee has contended that tinted glass is also sheet glass and as such attracts 10% tax and not 15% as claimed by the revenue. He would contend that the only diff erence between both the glasses is colour. He would urge that tinted glass and simple glass are same commodities and both do not fall under the category of “goods and wares made of glass”. By placing reliance on several s noted hereinbelow he would submit that tinted glass is glass in its primary sense and no material diff erence in the manufacturing process of tinted sheet glass and plain glass exists. He would elaborate his submissions 110 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. by contending that tinted glass is liable to be excluded as it is nothing but “plain glass panes” and he drew our attention to the dictionary meaning of the word “plain” and “panes” to contend that there is no distinction between these two commodities. He submits that adding of colour will not take away the tinted glass sheet out of the ambit of exclusion clause of Entry No. 4 of Notifi cation No.5784 dated 07.09.1981. 8. He would rely upon the description of the expression “glass” and “glass sheet” given in Indian Standard Specification for Flat Transparent Sheet Glass (Third Revision) March, 1988 to substantiate his contention. He would also submit that the revenue has failed in its attempt to discharge the burden and demonstrate that a particular item falls in a particular entry. He would submit that in the earlier assessment year the assessing authority itself had treated the “tinted glass sheet” as plain glass sheet and as such for the assessment year in question it should be accordingly treated. 9. In these factual circumstances the recourse to tax by treating the commodity in question as falling within the residuary entry has to be resorted to is also his contention.