With respect, we are of the view that enunciation of this Court ought to have E been examined by the Division Bench of the High Court while dealing with the matter at hand, rather than relying on the analysis by a learned Single Judge of the High Court. We say no more in this regard, essentially because the latter decisions of this Court like those in Delhi Airport Metro Express and Haryana Tourism Limited were not available before the High Court at the time of passing of the impugned F and dated 08.03.2021. Nevertheless, the principles expounded by this Court in Associate Builders and Ssangyong Engineering (supra) were available and the matter was required to be dealt with in reference to those principles. Leaving this aspect at that, suffice it would be to observe for the present purpose that the impugned and G dated 08.03.2021, insofar it interferes with the findings and the conclusions of the award in question, cannot be sustained and is required to be set aside. 38. For what has been discussed hereinabove, a few other submissions made by the learned Attorney General in regard to the H calculation of the awarded amount and ancillary aspects do not require RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 451 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] elaborate discussion. Fact of the matter remains that nothing of a patent A illegality apparent on the face of the award has been pointed out. The submissions essentially are of indicating some alleged errors on the merits of the case which, as noticed, do not fall within the parameters of Section 34 of the Act of 1996. 39. Hence, that part of the impugned and dated B 08.03.2021 as passed by the High Court, which modifies the award dated 16.02.2018 and the of the Commercial Court dated 12.09.2019, is set aside and consequently, the award in question is restored in its entirety. 40. The appeal filed by the claimant is allowed accordingly and that filed by the State is dismissed. No costs. C Nidhi Jain Appeals disposed of. (Assisted by : Shevali Monga and Shashwat Jain, LCRAs) D E F G H