In terms of Section 1(1) of the Act, two independent Dominions – India and Pakistan were to be established from 15 August 1947. Section 7(1)(b) stipulated that following independence, the sovereignty of the British monarch over Indian States would lapse and return to the Rulers of those States. Consequently, as sovereign States, 562 Princely States had the choice to remain independent or to accede to either of the two Dominions established by the Act. Section 8 enunciated that as a transitional measure, the provisions of the Government of India Act 1935 would continue to apply to the two Dominions subject to IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 141 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] conditions. In pursuance of the provisions of Section 9 of the Indian Independence Act 1947, the Governor-General of India issued the India (Provisional Constitution) 1947 which made certain provisions of the Government of India Act 1935 applicable to India until other provisions were made applicable by the Constituent Assembly. Section 6 of the Government of India Act 1935 became applicable through the which dealt with the accession of Princely States to India through the execution of IoA. 232. Jammu and Kashmir had not executed a IoA when India had attained independence. Soon after which on 27 September 1947, a letter was addressed by Nehru to Sardar Patel noting that he had received many reports of a dangerous and deteriorating situation in Kashmir. Nehru stated that with the onset of the winter, Kashmir would be cut-off from the rest of India. Nehru stated that “the Muslim League in the Punjab and the NWFP are making preparations to enter Kashmir in considerable numbers”, stating further that: “I understand that the Pakistan strategy is to infi ltrate into Kashmir now and to take some big action as soon as Kashmir is more or less isolated because of the coming winter.” 233. The letter stated that once the State acceded to India, it would become diffi cult for Pakistan to invade it offi cially or unoffi cially without coming into confl ict with the Indian Union. If, however, there was to be delay in accession, Pakistan would go ahead without much fear of consequences “specially when the winter isolates Kashmir”. Nehru concluded his letter stating: “I would again add that time is [of] the essence of the business and things must be done in a way so as to bring about the accession of Kashmir to the Indian Union as rapidly as possible with the co- operation of Sheikh Abdullah.” 234. On 26 October 1947, Maharaja Hari Singh addressed a communication to Lord Mountbatten, the Governor-General noting that “a grave emergency has arisen” in his State leading him to “request immediate assistance” of the Government. The letter noted that the Maharaja had “wanted to take time to decide to which Dominion” he should accede or 142 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. whether it would be in the best interest of both the Dominions as well as Jammu and Kashmir for the State to “stand independent”.