The cut-off marks have been fixed with a distinct clarification that it would not be tinkered with by facilitating anyone to be considered, if the candidate acquired lesser E marks. There is a difference between qualification for making an application, and the eligibility to be determined in the process of selection. We are not concerned with the qualification for making an application in the present case, but rather an eligibility after the examination is conducted. 23. Another unique feature of the present case is that the Selection F Committee has reduced the marks to facilitate the horizontal reservation by treating it as a vertical reservation. Admittedly, the rules do not provide for such reservation to be treated as a vertical one. Likewise, the rules do not fix any cut-off marks. An advertisement, made pursuant to a notification, binds the parties. It has got all the trappings of a statutory prescription, unless it becomes contrary to either a rule or an Act. A G change, if any, can only be brought forth by way of an amendment and nothing else. Such an amendment even if it is permissible can be tested on the touchstone of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. It cannot be introduced to give an entry to a special reservation, in a case where a right becomes accrued to a candidate, under a policy decision reduced H in the form of an advertisement, to be considered for a post in the absence SURESHKUMAR LALITKUMAR PATEL v. STATE OF 553 GUJARAT [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] of any eligible candidate from the horizontal category. A 24. It is true that a candidate may not have a vested right to the post, however, it cannot be confused with a right to be considered in accordance with law. A law which enables a candidate to get a post cannot be changed to facilitate another group of persons, since the candidate acquires a vested right to be considered in accordance with B law, as held by this Court in N.T. Devin Katti v. Karnataka Public Service Commission, (1990) 3 SCC 157, “11. There is yet another aspect of the question. Where advertisement is issued inviting applications for direct recruitment to a category of posts, and the advertisement expressly states C that selection shall be made in accordance with the existing rules or government s, and if it further indicates the extent of reservations in favour of various categories, the selection of candidates in such a case must be made in accordance with the then existing rules and government s. Candidates who apply, D and undergo written or viva voce test acquire vested right for being considered for selection in accordance with the terms and conditions contained in the advertisement, unless the advertisement itself indicates a contrary intention. Generally, a candidate has right to be considered in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in the advertisement as his right crystallises on the date of E publication of advertisement, however he has no absolute right in the matter.