… However, if some inconsistencies are noticed between one dying declaration and the other, the court has to examine the nature of the inconsistencies, namely, whether they are material or not [and] while scrutinising the contents of various dying declarations, in such a situation, the court has to examine the same in the light of the various surrounding facts and circumstances.” 17 (2008) 4 SCC 265 [2 Judge Bench] 18 (2002) 6 SCC 710 [5 Judge Bench] 19 Criminal Appeal No. 1078 of 2010 [2 Judge Bench] 20 (2008) 5 SCC 468 [2 Judge Bench] MANJUNATH & ORS. v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 743 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] 11.7.1 Faced with multiple dying declarations, this Court in Lakhan v. State of M.P21 observed- “21. …. In such an eventuality no corroboration is required. In case there are multiple dying declarations and there are inconsistencies between them, generally, the dying declaration recorded by the higher offi cer like a Magistrate can be relied upon, provided that there is no circumstance giving rise to any suspicion about its truthfulness. In case there are circumstances wherein the declaration had been made, not voluntarily and even otherwise, it is not supported by the other evidence, the court has to scrutinise the facts of an individual case very carefully and take a decision as to which of the declarations is worth reliance.” 11.7.2 This Court, in Jagbir Singh v. State (NCT of Delhi)22, in this respect, concluded as under: – “32. We would think that on a conspectus of the law as laid down by this Court, when there are more than one dying declaration, and in the earlier dying declaration, the accused is not sought to be roped in but in the later dying declaration, a somersault is made by the deceased, the case must be decided on the facts of each case. The court will not be relieved of its duty to carefully examine the entirety of materials as also the circumstances surrounding the making of the diff erent dying declarations. If the court fi nds that the incriminatory dying declaration brings out the truthful position particularly in conjunction with the capacity of the deceased to make such declaration, the voluntariness with which it was made which involves, no doubt, ruling out tutoring and prompting and also the other evidence which support the contents of the incriminatory dying declaration, it can be acted upon. Equally, the circumstances which 21 (2010) 8 SCC 514[2 Judge Bench] 22 (2019) 8 SCC 779 [2 Judge Bench] 744 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. render the earlier dying declaration, worthy or unworthy of acceptance, can be considered.” 11.8 The presence of a Magistrate in recording of a dying declaration, is not a necessity but only a rule of Prudence. To this eff ect in Jayamma (supra), this Court observed : “…law does not compulsorily require the presence of a judicial or executive Magistrate to record a dying declaration or that a dying declaration cannot be relied upon as the solitary piece of evidence unless recorded by judicial or executive Magistrate.