He complains of reduced mobility; the IAF itself has characterised his disability, though assigned it a fi gure of 30% disability; that was, however, suffi cient for them to dispense with his service. As time progresses, he would need the assistance of a helper. Even conservatively calculated, such a helper would have to be paid about ₹ 10,000/- to ₹ 15, 000/- per month. If a calculation of average of ₹ 10,000/- to ₹ 15,000/- (i.e., ₹ 12,500/-) for twelve years is taken into account, the total sum would be ₹ 18,00,000/- (Rupees eighteen lakhs only). Future medical care 90. The respondents, through the available medical facilities, have till date provided medical assistance. Repeatedly during the hearing, the appellant had been complaining of obstruction and delay, and denial of his requests. The court had intervened. Oftentimes, the appellant – perhaps due to his condition, and repeated feeling of exclusion, might have overreacted. Yet, it is undeniable that the respondents owe a duty to ensure that the appellant’s requests are met in a compassionate and timely manner. To avoid any future friction, this court hereby directs the respondents to extend fullest co-operation to the appellant, in regard to his future medical treatment. Furthermore, the appellant shall be entitled to bi-monthly medical check-ups at the relevant departments, in the Research and Referral Centre (R&R) in New Delhi; for that purpose, the respondents shall ensure that the necessary travel expenses, in accordance with the appellant’s entitlement are disbursed. It is also clarifi ed that the appellant should fi ll out whatever forms are necessary for the timely disbursement of his pension, and entitlement, on a monthly basis. CPL ASHISH KUMAR CHAUHAN (RETD.) v. COMMANDING 661 OFFICER & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 91. Before issuing concluding directions, this court would like to record some relevant observations. People sign up to join the armed forces with considerable enthusiasm and a sense of patriotic duty. This entails a conscious decision to put their lives on the line and be prepared for the ultimate sacrifi ce of their lives. A corresponding duty is cast upon all state functionaries, including echelons of power within the armed forces to ensure that the highest standards of safety (physical/mental wellbeing, medical fi tness as well as wellness) are maintained. This is absolutely the minimum required of the military/air force employer for not only assuring the morale of the forces but also showing the sense of how such personnel matter and their lives count, which reinforces their commitment and confi dence. Any fl agging from these standards – as the multiple instances in the present case have established, only entails a loss of confi dence in the personnel, undermines their morale and injects a sense of bitterness and despair not only to the individual concerned but to the entire force, leaving a sense of injustice. When a young person, from either sex (as is now a days the case) enrols or joins any armed forces, at all times, their expectation is to be treated with dignity and honour.