112. It will also be relevant to refer to Clause 12 of the said Settlement Deed dated 2nd May 2013, which reads thus: G “12. That from now on all the parties shall hereafter peacefully hold, use and enjoy their respective portions as their own property without any hindrance, interruption, claim or demand whatsoever from each other. But as the parties are owners of different portions in one common house, they will be dependent upon each other in H 658 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A many ways in their day to day lives. So they should try to co-exist amicably with each other as brothers and sisters and family members, always keeping in mind the necessities, comforts, rights and feelings of each other and try to sort out any differences, discomforts and dissatisfactions in a peaceful and dignified manner.” B 113. It is thus clear that the MoU clearly states that all the parties, after entering into such a document, would peacefully hold, use and enjoy their respective portions as their own property without any hindrance, interruption, claim or demand whatsoever from each other. No doubt, it states that since the parties are owners of different portions C and would be dependent upon each other in many ways, they should try to co-exist amicably with each other as brothers and sisters and family members. 114. According to the High Court, the said does not amount to fragmentation, which is prohibited by Rule 16 of the 2007 Rules. The D High Court has held that fragmentation will take place only where there is a division of the plot or division of the building with an element of exclusive ownership that is by partition by metes and bounds. 115. It will be relevant to refer to the meaning of “fragment” and “fragmentation”, as per Webster’s Encyclopedic Unabridged Dictionary E of the English Language, which reads thus: “Frag.ment (frag’ment), n. – 1. a part broken off or detached: scattered fragments of rock. 2. a portion that is unfinished or incomplete: Fragments of his latest novel were penciled in odd places. 3. an odd piece, bit, or scrap. – v.i. 4. to disintegrate; F collapse or break into fragments: The chair fragmented under his weight. – v.t. 5. to break (something) into pieces or fragments; cause to disintegrate: The vase was fragmented in shipment. Outside influences soon fragmented the culture. 6. to divide into fragments; disunify. [ME < L fragment (um) a broken piece, remnant, equiv. to frag – (s. of frangere to break) + - mentum – G MENT] Frag.men.ta.tion (frag’men’ta’shen), n. – 1. act or process of fragmenting; state of being fragmented. 2. the disintegration, collapse, or breakdown of norms of thought, behavior, or social relationship.3. the pieces of an exploded fragmentation bomb or grenade. [FRAGMENT + - ATION]” H RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 659 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 116. A perusal of the aforesaid clauses from the settlement deeds, A which have been reproduced hereinabove, it is clear that the understanding between the parties is that they are independent owners of different floors.