33(60) “State Government”,— (a) as respects anything done before the commencement of the Constitution, shall mean, F in a Part A State, the Provincial Government of the corresponding Province, in a Part B State, the authority or person authorised at the relevant date to exercise executive government in the corresponding Acceding State, and in a Part C State, the Central Government; 1*** (b) as respects anything done 2[after the commencement of the Constitution and before the commencement of the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956] , shall mean, in a Part A State, the Governor, in a Part B State, the Rajpramukh, and in a Part C State, G the Central Government; (c) as respects anything done or to be done after the commencement of the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, shall mean, in a State, the Governor, and in a Union territory, the Central Government; and shall, in relation to functions entrusted under article 258A of the Constitution to the Government of India, include the Central Government acting within the scope of the authority given to it under that article” 34Shrikant v. Vasantrao &Ors ., 2006 (1) SCR 496 H 1260 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A the States and the local and other authorities, makes it clear that a ‘State Government’ and a local or other authorities, are different and that they fall under a common definition only for the purpose of Part-III of the Constitution. This Court has consistently refused to apply the enlarged definition of ‘State’ given in Part-III (and Part-IV) of the Constitution, for B interpreting the words ‘State’ or ‘State Government’ occurring in other parts of the Constitution. While the term “State” may include a State Government as also statutory or other authorities for the purposes of part-III (or Part- IV) of the Constitution, the term “State Government” in its ordinary sense C does not encompass in its fold either a local or statutory authority”. 45. The of this court, in Municipal Commissioner of Dum Dum Municipality & Ors. v. Indian Tourism Development Corporation & Ors.,35 noticed that, “In the case of major public D utilities, statutory corporations were created under different enactments”, and went on to enumerate some examples such as Road Transport Corporations, Electricity Boards under the Electricity Supply Act, 1948 and so on. The court observed that: “With a view to enable these statutory corporations and E companies to carry on the activity which was hitherto carried on by the governments, the relevant properties, assets and liabilities were transferred to such new corporations. They were supposed to operate on business lines, pay taxes and justify their creation and constitution. These corporations, whether created under the statute or registered under the F Companies Act are distinct juristic entities owning their own properties, having their own fund, capable of borrowing and lending monies and entering into contracts like any other corporation. In many cases, the entire share capital of these corporations is owned by the Government whether Central G or State. In some cases, the major share holding is of the Government with some private share holding as well.