4. Shri Sanjay Poddar, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf E of the Government of NCT of Delhi and other learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Delhi Development Authority have vehemently submitted that while dismissing/disposing off all the respective Civil Appeals and holding and/or confirming the s of the respective High Courts declaring that the acquisition of the lands in question have lapsed in view of Section 24(2) of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in F Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘2013 Act’), reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation v. Harakchand Misirimal Solanki, (2014) 3 SCC 183. It is the case on behalf of the applicants that the decision of this Court in the case of Pune Municipal G Corporation (supra), which was relied upon while dismissing/disposing off all the respective appeals has been specifically overruled by a Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Indore Development Authority v. Manohar Lal & others, (2020) 8 SCC 129. It is submitted on behalf of the respective applicants that by specifically overruling the decision rendered in Pune Municipal Corporation (supra), the H Constitution Bench of this Court has specifically observed and held that GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI THR. THE SECRETARY, LAND AND BUILDING 217 DEPT. v. M/S. K.L. RATHI STEELS LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] not only the decision rendered in Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) A is overruled, but all other decisions in which Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) has been followed are also overruled. Heavy reliance is placed upon para 365 of the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Indore Development Authority (supra). 4.1 It is further submitted on behalf of the applicants that this B Court in the earlier decision in the case of Indore Development Authority v. Shailendra (dead) through Lrs. & Others, (2018) 3 SCC 412, while holding that the decision in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) and other decisions following the view taken in Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) are per incuriam, it was observed C that the decisions rendered on the basis of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) are open to be reviewed in appropriate cases on the basis of the said decision. It is submitted that pursuant to the liberty reserved in the said decision, the present applications/petitions have been preferred. 4.2 It is further submitted that power to review flows from Article D 137 of the Constitution of India. It is contended that once the law has been laid down by a Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Indore Development Authority v. Manohar Lal & Others (supra) and specifically overruling the decision in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) which was the basis to dispose of/dismiss the respective appeals, the principle of res judicata shall not be applicable E on the question of law. 4.3 Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective applicants have also submitted that as such the and passed by this Court in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) has been subsequently recalled by a three Judge Bench of this Court vide F dated 16.07.2020 passed in Civil Appeal No.