To form particular statement as part of the same transaction utterances must be simultaneous with the incident or substantial contemporaneous that is made either during or immediately before or after its occurrence. E 50. Sections 6 and 7 resply of the Act 1872 in the facts and circumstances of the case, in so far as, the admissibility of a statement of the PW 3 Nasir Rajjak Khan coming to know about incident, immediately from the PW 1 Asgar Shaikh that Abbas Baig had been seriously assaulted and that Asgar Shaikh had also suffered injuries and F admitted by the PW 1 Asgar Shaikh in his evidence would be attracted with all its rigour. EXCEPTION 4 TO SECTION 300 OF THE IPC 51. We shall now deal with the submission as regards the G applicability of the fourth Exception to Section 300 of the IPC. However, before we proceed to deal with the submission, it would be appropriate to look into the oral evidence of PW 7, Dr. Shrikant Suresh Chandekar, Medical Officer who carried out the post mortem of the dead body of the deceased and also prepared the post mortem report. H BALU SUDAM KHALDE & ANR. v. THE STATE OF 879 MAHARASHTRA [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 52. The examination-in-chief of PW 7 Dr. Shrikant, Exh. 18, reads A thus: “1. On 02.04.2001 I was on duty when a dead body of Abbas Sanaulla Baig was brought to mortuary by Khadak police alongwith inquest panchnama. Accordingly, I carried out the postmortem examination between 6.30 a.m. to 7.30 B a.m. on the same day. 2. On examination I noticed following external injuries: - 1) Incised injury-left hand 3 c.m. distal to wrist transverse oblique and out into total thickness, metacarpus shows C clean cut fractures; 2) Incised injury-left wrist medically transverse oblique 4x1 c.m. underlying ulna shows clean cut fracture involving its total thickness; 3) Linear abrasion-left wrist dorsum 2 c.m. transverse; D 4) Incised jury over fight forearm flex or aspect middle third transvers; 3.5 c.m. gaping-tailing medically skin deep; 5) Incised injury over right hand dorsum-transverse oblique mid proximal region, 2.5 c.m. gaping skin deep; E 6) Linear abrasion right and infraclavicular region 4 c.m. oblique.” 7) Linear Abrasion-left mid scapular region vertical oblique- 5c.m. 8) Abrasion right shoulder back, 0.5 x 4 c.m. oblique. F 9) Stab injury, vertical situated adjacent and below right mid clavicle, measuring 7.5 c.m. x 0.8 to 2.5 c.m. Lower and of injury with curved margin, upper and angle clean cut, margins clean cut. Injury opening in right thoracic cavity. G Corresponding internal injuries:- Chest muscles and pleura shows corresponding injuries. Right 2nd rib partially cut cleanly along its long 3rd right rib upper margin shown clean cut. Stab injury involving right 2nd intercostal muscles 1 to 1.5 x 3 c.m. H 880 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Right upper lobe of lung shows incised injuries. Vertical oblique 1.2 c.m. and 3.5 c.m. Right middle lobe through and through injury near anterior margin, 1.5 c.m.