mtrs. in respect of Basement -1, Basement -2, Ground Floor, First Floor F and Second Floor was completed for which, a partial completion certificate was issued by respondent No. 2 on 07.05.2011. 3.5. In the chronology of relevant events, it so happened that in the year 2013, respondent No. 1 formulated a policy for growth of tourism sector in the State of Uttar Pradesh by setting up theme parks/amusement G parks. The aforesaid policy dated 06.11.2013 laid down conditions and incentives, including exemption from stamp duty, exemption from tax on construction goods/materials imported into the State etc., which were available to the theme parks/amusement parks with minimum area of 300 acres and minimum capital investment of Rs. 500 crores. The said H 1066 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A policy of the respondent No. 1, essentially to promote tourism in the State, as spelt out in the communication dated 06.11.2013 from the Secretary concerned to all the Principal Secretaries and other officers of the Government of Uttar Pradesh, reads as under: - “Subject: To promote tourism in the state To decide the B policy for setting up theme park/amusement park etc. Sir, tourism industry is not covered by the State’s Establishment and Industrial Investment Policy-2012. In this sequence, I have been directed to say that in view of the need to set up an amusement park in the state for the purpose of Encourage the Tourism, a C policy has been laid down for the establishment of theme park/ amusement park etc. after dueconsideration, It has been decided. The above policy is as follows: 1. Theme Park I Amusement Park etc. will be set up under the Uttar Pradesh Town Planning and Development Act, 1973 and various planning Acts in accordance with the prescribed procedure D for agricultural land use. For this, necessary provisionsIamendments will be made in the Zoning Regulations for the establishment of theme parks I amusement parks in the proposed agricultural land use in the master plans of the notified areas under various planning acts. E 2. Large projects like theme parks/amusement parks have high initial capital investment and become profitable only after a long period of time and a large number of local people are employed in such projects, so incentives are given to encourage such projects, decision has been taken. In the light of the above, the following F incentives are allowed in respect of large projects of theme park /amusement park etc. : (1) Purchase or lease of land for the project from the StateI Central Government or its owned corporation, council, company, institution 100% exemption in stamp duty will be given on taking it. G (2) For the construction period or 10 years (whichever is less) for the establishment of the project, 100% exemption will be given in the tax on the construction goods/materials imported into the state. (3) From the date of operation of the project, 100% exemption in entertainment tax will be provided for 10 years. H BHASIN INFOTECH AND INFRASTRUCTURE PRIVATE LTD. 1067 v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.]