The question would arise, as to whether the appellant could be treated as the owner of the bitumen; C II. The further question would arise, as to whether bitumen could be treated as other valuable articles; III. Thirdly, the question arises, as to how the value of the bitumen is to be ascertained; IV. Whether the ITAT erred in passing contradictory s D qua the Assessment Years 1995-1996 and 1996-1997, by s passed on the same day and whether the facts were the same? 29. As regards the first question, viz., whether the appellant could be treated as the owner of the bitumen is concerned, it is indisputable E that the appellant was engaged as a carrier to deliver the bitumen, after having lifted the same from the Oil Companies to the various Divisions of the Road Construction Department of the Government of Bihar. Before the Court proceeds to deal with this aspect, we may bear in mind, what this Court held in the decision reported in Chuharmal S/O Takarmal F Mohnani v. Commissioner of Income Tax, M.P., Bhopal5. In the said case, the Court was dealing with wrist watches being seized from the assessee during a search conducted by the Customs Authorities from the bedroom of the assessee. The question fell for consideration, as to whether the principles underlying Section 110 of the Evidence Act, 1872, would assist the Revenue to conclude that a person, in possession, could G be treated as the owner. This Court held, inter alia, as follows: “6. … In other words, it follows from well settled principle of law that normally, unless contrary is established, title always follows 5 (1988) 3 SCC 588 H 552 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A possession. In the facts of this case, indubitably, possession of the wrist-watches was found with the petitioner. The petitioner did not adduce any evidence, far less discharged the onus of proving that the wrist-watches in question did not belong to the petitioner. Hence, the High Court held, and in our opinion rightly, that the value of the wrist-watches is the income of the assessee.” B 30. After referring to the of the High Court of Bombay reported in J.S. Parkar v. V.B. Palekar6, which dealt with seizure of gold, the Court, held as follows: “6. … There a contention was raised that the provision in Section 110 of the Evidence Act where a person was found in possession C of anything, the onus of proving that he was not the owner was on the person who affirmed that he was not the owner, was incorrect and inapplicable to taxation proceedings. This contention was rejected. The High Court of Bombay held that what was meant by saying that the Evidence Act did not apply to the proceedings D under the Act was that the rigour of the rules of evidence contained in the Evidence Act, was not applicable but that did not mean that the taxing authorities were desirous in invoking the principles of the Act in proceedings before them, they were prevented from doing so.