It espouses the rule of law. However, the sealed cover practice places the process by which the decision is arrived beyond scrutiny. F The sealed cover procedure affects the functioning of the justice delivery system both at an individual case to - case level and at an institutional level.” 60. Upon a perusal of the material in sealed cover, the Single Judge of the High Court observed that the files submitted by MHA G indicate that the Committee of Officers took note of the inputs provided by intelligence agencies and “found that the inputs are of a serious nature and fall under the security rating parameters.” The Single judge observed that “in those circumstances, the Committee of Officers advised not to renew the licence”. The Single Judge does not provide any clarity on the H 646 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A nature of the ‘inputs that were of a serious nature’. Additionally, there is no mention of the security rating parameters that have been relied on. A non-reasoned perpetuates the non-application of judicial mind in assessing the veracity of the inputs. The nexus of the reasons to the cannot be adjudicated upon if the reasons are not disclosed. B 61. On appeal, the Division Bench of the High Court observed that though the nature and gravity of the issue is not discernible from the files, there are clear indications that the security of the state and public would be impacted if the permission granted to MBL to operate the channel is renewed. The Division Bench has also not disclosed the reasons for the denial of security clearance. There is no explanation of C what weighed in the mind of the court leading it to hold that the denial of clearance was justified despite observing that the nature and gravity of the issue is not discernible. The sealed cover procedure followed by the Single Judge and the Division Bench have necessarily rendered the appellant’s right to writ remedies, which has been described as the ‘heart D and soul’ of the Constitution53 and a basic feature of the constitution54, a dry parchment. The non-disclosure of reasons for the denial of security clearance which is the sole ground for denying the permission to renew the license and the disclosure of relevant material only to the court in a sealed cover has rendered the appellant’s procedural guarantees under the Constitution otiose. The appellants’ right to writ remedies has been E denied through a formalistic by the High Court. The procedure that was followed by the High Court has left the appellants in a maze where they are attempting strenuously to fight in the dark. The non- disclosure of reasons for denial of security clearance to the appellants and the disclosure solely to the Court in a sealed cover has restricted the F core of the principles of the natural justice - the right to a fair and reasonable proceeding. G. Whether the infringement of MBL’s right to a fair hearing is justified 62.