For the prosecution to decline to produce DNA evidence would be a little unfortunate particularly when the facility of DNA profi ling is available in the country. The prosecution would be well advised to take advantage of this, particularly in view of the provisions of Section 53-A and Section 164-ACrPC. We are not going to the extent of suggesting that if there is no DNA profi ling, the prosecution case cannot be proved but we are certainly of the view that where DNA profi ling has not been done or it is held back from the trial court, an adverse consequence would follow for the prosecution.” 81. It is necessary at this stage to note that by the very same Amendment Act 25 of 2005, by which Section 53-A was inserted, Section 164-A was also inserted in the Code. While Section 53-A enables the medical examination of the person accused of rape, Section 164-A enables medical examination of the victim of rape. Both these provisions are somewhat similar and can be said approximately to be a mirror image of each other. But there are three distinguishing features. They are: 1034 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 81.1 Section 164-A requires the prior consent of the woman who is the victim of rape. Alternatively, the consent of a person competent to give such consent on her behalf should have been obtained before subjecting the victim to medical examination. Section 53-A does not speak about any such consent. 81.2 Section 164-A requires the report of the medical practitioner to contain among other things, the general mental condition of the woman. This is absent in Section 53-A. 81.3 Under Section 164-A(1), the medical examination by a registered medical practitioner is mandatory when, “it is proposed to get the person of the woman examined by a medical expert” during the course of investigation. This is borne out by the use of the words, “such examination shall be conducted”. In contrast, Section 53-A(1) merely makes it lawful for a registered medical practitioner to make an examination of the arrested person if “there are reasonable grounds for believing that an examination of his person will aff ord evidence as to the commission of such off ence”. 82. In cases where the victim of rape is alive and is in a position to testify in court, it may be possible for the prosecution to take a chance by not medically examining the accused. But in cases where the victim is dead and the off ence is sought to be established only by circumstantial evidence, medical evidence assumes great importance. The failure of the prosecution to produce such evidence, despite there being no obstacle from the accused or anyone, will certainly create a gaping hole in the case of the prosecution and give rise to a serious doubt on the case of the prosecution. We do not wish to go into the question whether Section 53-A is mandatory or not. Section 53-A enables the prosecution to obtain a signifi cant piece of evidence to prove the charge.