It is not necessary to prove that the mental cruelty is such as to cause injury to the health of the petitioner. While arriving at such conclusion, regard must be had to the social status, educational level of the parties, the society they move in, the possibility or otherwise of the parties ever living H 202 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A together in case they are already living apart and all other relevant facts and circumstances which it is neither possible nor desirable to set out exhaustively. What is cruelty in one case may not amount to cruelty in another case. It is a matter to be determined in each case having regard to the facts and circumstances of that case. If it is a case of accusations and allegations, regard must also be B had to the context in which they were made.” The Division Bench of this Court in V. Bhagat (supra) has also observed that while irretrievable breakdown of marriage is not a ground for divorce, specific circumstances may have to be borne in mind while ascertaining the type of cruelty contemplated by Section 13(1)(i-a) of C the Hindu Marriage Act. These observations, with which we agree, give a different connotation to the ‘fault theory’, as to dilute the strict legal understanding of the term ‘cruelty’ for the purpose of Section 13(1)(i-a) of the Hindu Marriage Act. This interpretation is situation, case and person specific. D 27. In Ashok Hurra v. Rupa Bipin Zaveri44, decided in 1997, this Court was confronted with a situation where the marriage had fallen apart and the couple had separated in 1983. They did not have any specific issue, but difference of opinion had cropped up between the parties. Further, even after residing separately for thirteen years, the E parties were not agreeable to a divorce by mutual consent. This was in spite of the fact that the husband had remarried and had a child. This Court was of the view that considering the cumulative effect of various factors and the marriage being dead, no useful purpose, both emotionally and practically, would be served in postponing the inevitability and prolonging the agony of the parties or their marriage and, therefore, the F curtain should be rung down. This Court, therefore, exercised the power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India to grant a decree of divorce, though the conduct of the husband, it was observed, was blameworthy as he had remarried and conceived a child during the pendency of the proceedings. This decree of divorce by mutual consent G was made conditional on payment of Rs.10,00,000/- by the husband to the wife. Only on payment or deposit of the amount in the Court, all proceedings, including those under Section 494 of the I.P.C., were to stand terminated. H 44 (1997) 4 SCC 226. SHILPA SAILESH v. VARUN SREENIVASAN 203 [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] 28. In Naveen Kohli v. Neelu Kohli45, a three judges’ bench of A this Court referred to the opinion of Lord Denning, L.J.