Under the scheme of the RTI Act, any person aggrieved by the denial of information under Section 7 can approach the SICs to seek redressal. In more than one way, the SICs are authorities empowered to redress and remedy the grievances of citizens. 19. Access to justice is a right of constitutional purport which signifi es that individuals have eff ective means to approach legal institutions to seek appropriate legal remedies. The ability to access legal institutions empowers individuals to understand and exercise their legal and constitutional rights. Access to justice enhances the quality of human life and, therefore, is an important facet of right to life under Article 21. In Anita Kushwaha v. Pushap Sadan,15 a Constitution Bench of this Court held that access to justice is also a facet of Article 14, which guarantees equality before law and equal protection of laws to both the citizens and 11 Secretary, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India v. Cricket Association of Bengal, (1995) 2 SCC 161 12 Reliance Petrochemicals Ltd v. Proprietors of Indian Express Newspapers, Bombay Pvt Ltd, (1988) 4 SCC 592 13 (2019) 18 SCC 246 14 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1021 15 (2016) 8 SCC 509 KISHAN CHAND JAIN v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS 489 non-citizens alike. As a result, the inability of any person to access courts or any other adjudicatory mechanism provided for determination of rights and obligations due to institutional inadequacy is bound to result in a denial of right to equality. 20. Article 39A of the Constitution recognizes the rights of citizens to equal justice and free legal aid. Reading Articles 14, 21, and 39A harmoniously, it is evident that is the constitutional duty of the organs of the state to provide individuals with the means of access to justice in an eff ective and effi cient manner.16 Particularly, it is duty of the Government to raise the standards of infrastructure by adopting technology to make our institutional processes accessible and inclusive. 21. The recent technological advancements in terms of video- conferencing must be used to promote inclusion of people living in remote areas within the fold of the justice delivery mechanism. Physical courts require the litigants and parties living in remote areas to travel long distances to appear before the court. With increasing costs of travel and other related expenses, video-conferencing solutions provide a cost-eff ective and effi cient alternative to the physical courts. Technology allows us to create and use a “virtual courtroom” which is as real as any physical courtroom. In more than one-way, virtual courts democratize our legal processes by expanding the courtroom area beyond the walls of the courtroom. In Swapnil Tripathi v. Supreme Court of India, it was observed that technological solutions can be a tool to actualize the right of access to justice by providing virtual entry to the litigants in the courtroom.17 However, virtual courtrooms are not just restricted to allowing litigants to virtually enter courtrooms; they also allow citizens to participate eff ectively in the court proceedings.