10. It is common knowledge that recourse to preventive detention can be taken by the executive merely on suspicion and as a precaution to prevent activities by the person, sought to be detained, prejudicial to certain specifi ed objects traceable in a validly enacted law. Since an of preventive detention has the eff ect of invading one’s personal liberty merely on suspicion and is not viewed as punitive, and the facts on which the subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority is based for ing preventive detention is not justiciable, meaning thereby that it is not open to the Constitutional Courts to enquire whether the detaining authority has erroneously or correctly reached a satisfaction on every question of fact and/or has passed an of detention which is not justifi ed on facts, resulting in narrowing down of the jurisdiction to grant relief, it is only just and proper that such drastic power is not only invoked in appropriate cases but is also exercised responsibly, rationally and reasonably. Having regard to the circumstance of loss of liberty by reason of an of 4 AIR 1974 SC 2154 AMEENA BEGUM v. THE STATE OF TELANGANA 969 & ORS. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] preventive detention being enforced without the detenu being extended any opportunity to place his case, the Constitutional Courts being the protectors of Fundamental Rights have, however, never hesitated to interdict s of detention suff ering from any of the vices on the existence whereof such limited jurisdiction of judicial reviewability is available to be exercised. 11. At this stage, a survey of certain authorities outlining the contours of judicial reviewability of an of preventive detention may not be inapt. 12. Reading of paragraph 2 of the authored by Hon’ble H.J. Kania, CJ., reveals that A.K. Gopalan vs. State of Madras5 was the fi rst case where the diff erent articles on Fundamental Rights came up for discussion before the Supreme Court. Detention was ed under the Preventive Detention Act, 1950 (“the Detention Act”, hereafter). The petitioner therein challenged the vires of the enactment as well as the detention . The decision of the Supreme Court by its full complement of 6 (six) Hon’ble Judges rendered within 4 (four) months of India becoming a Republic, revealed an approach of circumscribing Article 21 by a literal interpretation. Since then, this Court in Rustomjee Cawasjee Cooper vs. Union of India6 has held that “the assumption in A.K. Gopalan case that certain articles in the Constitution exclusively deal with specifi c matters and in determining whether there is infringement of the individual’s guaranteed rights, the object and the form of the State action alone need be considered, and eff ect of the laws on fundamental rights of the individuals in general will be ignored cannot be accepted as correct”, and it being settled law that the new needs of a person for liberty in the diff erent spheres of life can now be claimed as a part of personal liberty under Article 21 and these personal liberties cannot be restricted either by legislation or law not satisfying Articles 14 and 19, we need not at all be guided by the view expressed in A.K.