Sesh Nath Singh and Another vs. Baidyabati Sheoraphuli Co-Operative Bank Limited and Another25. 8. We have considered submissions advanced by learned counsels for the parties as also the materials placed on record. 22 (2022) 9 SCC 364 23 (2021) 6 SCC 366 24 (2021) 10 SCC 330 25 (2021) 7 SCC 313 AXIS BANK LIMITED v. NAREN SHETH & ANR. 593 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] 9. Before dealing with the arguments advanced, it would be appropriate to refer to the statutory provisions. Section 3(1) of the Limitation Act creates bar for the institution of any suit, appeal, or application made after the prescribed period of limitation to be dismissed, even though limitation has not been set up as a defence. The said Section reads as follows: “3. Bar of limitation.—(1) Subject to the provisions contained in sections 4 to 24 (inclusive), every suit instituted, appeal preferred, and application made after the prescribed period shall be dismissed, although limitation has not been set up as a defence. ” 10. Section 5 of the Limitation Act provides for an extension for the prescribed period in certain cases where suffi cient cause for not preferring the appeal or where the application could not be made within the prescribed time. Section 5 reads as follows: “5. Extension of prescribed period in certain cases.—Any appeal or any application, other than an application under any of the provisions of XXI of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), may be admitted after the prescribed period if the appellant or the applicant satisfi es the court that he had suffi cient cause for not preferring the appeal or making the application within such period. Explanation.—The fact that the appellant or the applicant was misled by any , practice or of the High Court in ascertaining or computing the prescribed period may be suffi cient cause within the meaning of this section.” 11. Section 18 of the Limitation Act provides that where acknowledgment in writing of the liability is made by a party against whom any right is claimed, a fresh period of limitation shall be computed from the time when the acknowledgment is so signed. The said Section is reproduced hereunder: “18. Eff ect of acknowledgment in writing.— (1) Where, before the expiration of the prescribed period for a suit or application in respect of any property or right, an acknowledgment of liability in respect of such property or right has been made in writing signed by the party against whom such property or right is claimed, or by any person through whom he derives his title 594 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. or liability, a fresh period of limitation shall be computed from the time when the acknowledgment was so signed. (2) Where the writing containing the acknowledgment is undated, oral evidence may be given of the time when it was signed; but subject to the provisions of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872), oral evidence of its contents shall not be received.