B. Submissions 10. During the course of the hearing, we have heard arguments on behalf of the petitioners by Mr V Chitambaresh, senior counsel, Mr P V Dinesh, Ms Haripriya Padmanabhan, Mr Raghen Basant and Mr Kuriakose Verghese, counsel. Principally, the modalities which have been followed by the High Court of Kerala for the selection of candidates have been assailed on four grounds: (i) In specifying a cut off for the viva-voce, the High Court has acted in a manner contrary to Rule 2(c)(iii) of the 1961 Rules; (ii) The scheme which was notified by the High Court on 13 December 2012 had expressly provided that there shall be no cut off for the purposes of the viva-voce; (iii) According to the notifi cation, the only criteria for the purpose of shortlisting candidates would be length of practice rendered by candidates at the Bar which was to operate in a situation where the number of candidates was found to be unusually large; and (iv) The decision of the Full Court to prescribe a cut off for the viva-voce was notifi ed much after the viva-voce was held, as a consequence of which, candidates had no notice that such a requirement would be introduced at the inception of the process. 4 (2008) 3 SCC 512 5 (1974) 3 SCC 220 684 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 11. Mr Dama Seshadri Naidu, senior counsel has appeared on behalf of the High Court of Kerala, while Mr K P Kylasnatha Pillay, senior counsel for respondent No 11 argued in support of the dismissal of the writ petitions on the basis of the following grounds: (i) Article 233 of the Constitution vests a discretionary power with the High Court in matters of selection of judicial offi cers which cannot be curtailed by statutory rules; (ii) The Selection Committee constituted by the High Court is an expert body best placed to understand the suitability of the candidates, the needs of the judicial institution, and the larger public interest; (iii) The decision of the High Court in specifying minimum cut-off marks for the viva voce was applied across the board to select suitable candidates and does not suff er from arbitrariness; and (iv) Since the viva voce is an essential component to determine the suitability of candidates, it is within the discretion of the High Court to determine the weightage to be assigned to it. C. Analysis i. The decision of the High Court was contrary to the 1961 Rules 12. The 1961 Rules specify that 25% of the aggregate posts which are to be fi lled in by direct recruitment from the Bar would comprise of the list of candidates selected on the basis of the aggregate marks obtained in the written examination and the viva-voce. These rules, as already noted earlier, have been framed in exercise of the power conferred by Articles 233 and 309 of the Constitution. After the statutory rules were notifi ed on 11 July 1961, the High Court of Kerala published the scheme of the examination for recruitment of members of the Bar to the Kerala Higher Judicial Service on 13 December 2012.