7. The appeal of the defendant was examined by the Division Bench of the High Court and on considering a large body of authorities, the High Court found no reason to interfere with the of the Trial Court. The appeal was dismissed.It was the view of the High Court that the agreement M/S PAUL RUBBER INDUSTRIES PVT. LTD. v. AMIT 35 CHAND MITRA [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] being unregistered, the same could not be looked into for determining the rights and liabilities of the parties and for its duration. On the question as to whether the purpose of the lease was “manufacturing” or not, the High Court held that it was for the appellant to establish that factor. The appellant not having adduced any evidence in that regard, the High Court drew adverse inference on that count and the Trial Court was not interfered with. 8. For the purpose of adjudicating the present appeal, we need to look into the provisions of Sections 105, 106 and 107 of the 1882 Act and the provisions of Sections 17 and 49 of the Registration Act, 1908 (hereinafter “1908 Act”). The said provisions of the 1882 Act stipulate:- “105. Lease defi ned.—A lease of immoveable property is a transfer of a right to enjoy such property, made for a certain time, express or implied, or in perpetuity, in consideration of a price paid or promised, or of money, a share of crops, service or any other thing of value, to be rendered periodically or on specifi ed occasions to the transferor by the transferee, who accepts the transfer on such terms. Lessor, lessee, premium and rent defi ned.—The transferor is called the lessor, the transferee is called the lessee, the price is called the premium, and the money, share, service or other thing to be so rendered is called the rent. [106. Duration of certain leases in absence of written contract or local usage.—(1) In the absence of a contract or local law or usage to the contrary, a lease of immovable property for agricultural or manufacturing purposes shall be deemed to be a lease from year to year, terminable, on the part of either lessor or lessee, by six months’ notice; and a lease of immovable property for any other purpose shall be deemed to be a lease from month to month, terminable, on the part of either lessor or lessee, by fi fteen days’ notice. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, the period mentioned in sub-section (1) shall commence from the date of receipt of notice. (3) A notice under sub-section (1) shall not be deemed to be invalid merely because the period mentioned therein falls short of the period 36 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. specifi ed under that sub-section, where a suit or proceeding is fi led after the expiry of the period mentioned in that sub-section. (4) Every notice under sub-section (1) must be in writing, signed by or on behalf of the person giving it, and either be sent by post to the party who is intended to be bound by it or be tendered or delivered personally to such party, or to one of his family or servants at his residence, or (if such tender or delivery is not practicable) affi xed to a conspicuous part of the property.]