Out of the wedlock a boy and a girl were born. The custody of the boy is with the respondent whereas the appellant is living with the mother. A divorce petition was fi led by the respondent-husband in January 2018 before the Family Court. In May 2018 the appellant and her mother- Shikha Sharma fi led an application under Section 125 Cr.P.C. before the Family Court. The divorce petition fi led by the respondent-husband was allowed by the Family Court on 10.09.2022. Vide dated 30.11.2022, the Family Court partly allowed the application fi led by the appellant and her mother under Section 125 Cr.P.C. and awarded maintenance of ₹ 20,000/- per month for the appellant-minor daughter. The wife was denied any maintenance. The qua that became fi nal. 5. The High Court vide impugned cryptic has reduced the amount of maintenance from ₹ 20,000/- to ₹ 7,500/-. Despite service the respondent has not chosen to appear before this Court. He is shirking to take care of the appellant (minor daughter) who is 6-7 years of age at present. Prayer is that the impugned passed by the High Court be set aside and that the of the Family Court be restored. 6. We have heard learned counsel for the appellant and perused the paper book. 7. From a perusal of the passed by the Family Court awarding maintenance of ₹ 20,000/- per month to the appellant (minor daughter), it is evident that the court had considered the material placed before it. However, the High Court in revision, fi led against the aforesaid by the respondent, recorded that earlier the respondent was doing private work and at present he is fi nancially distressed. 8. The manner in which maintenance payable under Section 24 of the Hindu Mariage Act, 1955 or Section 125 Cr.P.C. is to be assessed, was considered by this Court in its celebrated in Rajnesh v. Neha and Another, (2021) 2 SCC 324. Detailed guidelines were issued. It was noticed that the terms of maintenance are decided on the basis of pleadings of parties and on the basis of some amount of guess work. It is often seen that both the parties submit scanty material and do not disclose correct 250 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. details. The tendency of the wife is to exaggerate her needs, whereas the husband tends to conceal his actual income. Keeping that in view, this Court laid down the procedure to streamline grant of maintenance. The s of various courts were referred to and response from various State Legal Services Authorities was sought. This Court even requested the National Legal Services Authority to submit a report on the suggestions received from the State Legal Services Authorities for framing guidelines on the affi davit of disclosure of assets and liabilities to be fi led by the parties. Guidelines were issued in exercise of powers under Article 136 read with Article 142 of the Constitution of India, prescribing a uniform format of Affi davit of Disclosure of Assets and Liabilities to be fi led in maintenance proceedings.