We realise that the proviso would prevent the Court from using statements made by a person to a police offi cer in the course of investigation for any other purpose than that mentioned in the proviso but it does not in any other way aff ect the power that lies in the Court to look into documents or put questions to witnesses suo motu. It seems to us to be absurd to suggest that MUNNA PANDEY v. STATE OF BIHAR 1045 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] a Judge cannot put a question to a witness which a party may put. In this connection we would refer to the provisions of Section 165 of the Evidence Act, where the necessity of clothing the Judge with very wide powers to put questions to witnesses and to look into documents is recognised and provided for. This is what Section 165 of the Evidence Act says:— “Section 165. Judge’s power to put questions or production.─ The Judge may, in to discover or to obtain proper proof of relevant facts, ask any question he pleases, in any form, at any time, of any witness, or of the parties about any fact relevant or irrelevant; and may the production of any document or thing; and neither the parties nor their agents shall be entitled to make any objection to any such question or , nor, without the leave of the Court, to cross-examine any witness upon any answer given in reply to any such question: …” 47. There is in our opinion nothing in Section 162 of the CrPC which prevents a Trial Judge from looking into the papers of the chargesheet suo motu and himself using the statement of a person examined by the police recorded therein for the purpose of contradicting such person when he gives evidence in favour of the State as a prosecution witness. The Judge may do this or he may make over the recorded statement to the lawyer for the accused so that he may use it for this purpose. We also wish to emphasise that in many sessions cases when an advocate appointed by the Court appears and particularly when a junior advocate, who has not much experience of the procedure of the Court, has been appointed to conduct the defence of an accused person, it is the duty of the Presiding Judge to draw his attention to the statutory provisions of Section 145 of the Evidence Act, as explained in Tara Singh v. State reported in AIR 1951 SC 441 and no Court should allow a witness to be contradicted by reference to the previous statement in writing or reduced to writing unless the procedure set out in Section 145 of the Evidence Act has been followed. It is possible that if the attention of the witness is drawn to these portions with reference to which it is proposed to contradict him, he may be able to give a perfectly satisfactory explanation and in that event the portion in the previous statement which would otherwise be contradictory would no longer go to contradict or challenge the testimony of the witness.