Reliance was placed on National Legal Services Authority (supra); g. Queerness or homosexuality is not an urban, elite conception or expression. Numerous queer or homosexual couples from villages and towns in India have expressed their sexuality, chosen their partner, and entered into the institution of marriage; and h. There is no traditional bar on marriage between non-heterosexual persons. Excerpts from various scriptures support this proposition. 26. Ms. Jayna Kothari, learned senior counsel, made the following submissions: a. The SMA ought to be read to include the words “spouse” and “person” so as to include transgender persons within its ambit. Failure to do so amounts to a violation of the right of transgender persons to equality and to equal protection of the laws under Article 14 of the Constitution; 126 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. b. The SMA discriminates on the basis of sex, gender identity, and sexual orientation, thereby violating Article 15 of the Constitution; c. The denial of the right to marry to persons based on their gender identity is a denial of the right to dignity, personal autonomy, and liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution; d. Inter-sex persons have the same rights as all other persons in India, including the right to marry; and e. The right to a family is available under Article 21, and this right includes the right to marry. The SMA is violative of the right of transgender persons to have a family. Reliance was placed on Oliari v. Italy Applications nos. 18766/11 and 36030/11. 27. Dr Menaka Guruswamy, learned senior counsel, made the following submissions: a. The Indian Parliament is a creature of the Constitution and does not enjoy unfettered sovereignty. The supremacy of the Constitution is protected by this Court by interpreting laws in consonance with constitutional values; b. This Court’s power of judicial review over legislative action is part of the basic structure of the Constitution; c. Constitutional courts are empowered to review statutory law to ensure its conformity with constitutional values. The courts do not need to wait for the legislature to enact/amend law to recognize same-sex marriage; d. The provisions of SMA, insofar as they do not recognize same- sex marriages, are unconstitutional as being violative of Articles 14, 15, 19, 21 and 25 of the Constitution. Hence, to save it from the vice of unconstitutionality, the SMA must be read up to recognise same-sex marriages; e. Recognition of same-sex marriages under the SMA is consistent with the evolving conception of the institution of marriage; f. Same-sex marriage is a time honoured tradition in the Indian society; SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1261 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] g. The gendered references in the SMA are capable of being read to recognize same-sex marriages; h. The State has no legitimate interest in restricting the institution of marriage to heterosexual couples alone; and i. The codifi cation of Hindu personal laws commenced in 1941 with the colonial Government appointing the Hindu Law Committee, which prepared the fi rst draft of the Hindu Code Bill.