It states that any person may construct, maintain or operate a CGP and dedicated transmission lines. The second proviso to Section 9(1)states that no licence is required under the Act for supply of electricity generated from a CGP to any licensee in accordance with the provisions of the Act, rules and regulations made thereunder. However, supply to any consumer is subject to regulations made under Section 42(2) of the Act. The fi rst proviso to Section 9 states that the supply of electricity from the CGP through the grid shall be regulated in the same manner as the generating station of a generating company. 10. Section 9(2) of the Act states that a person who has constructed a CGP and maintains and operates the CGP, shall have right to open access for the purpose of carrying electricity from his CGP to the destination of his use. The fi rst proviso to Section 9(2) states that such open access shall be subject to the availability of adequate transmission facility and such availability of transmission facility shall be determined by the Central Transmission Utility or the State Transmission Utility, as the case may be. Any dispute regarding availability of transmission facility is to be adjudicated by the appropriate commission. 11. Therefore, in terms of Section 9(2) of the Act, a person who has constructed a CGP, and maintains and operates such plant,11 subject to 11 As explained and elucidated below the word ‘and’ in Section 9(2) of the Act, when read harmoniously with Section 9(1) and on purposive interpretation would include a subsequent owner who maintains and operates a CGP. Captive generation as per M/S. DAKSHIN GUJARAT VIJ COMPANY LTD. v. M/S. GAYATRI 357 SHAKTI PAPER AND BOARD LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] availability constraints, can ask the distribution licensee to open access for the purpose of carrying electricity from his CGP to the destination of his use. This right under Section 9(2) to open access to the transmission facilities, must be contrasted with the right referred to in Section 9(1), which states that any person may construct, maintain or operate a CGP and use dedicated transmission lines for self-use. 12. The third aspect to be noticed with reference to Section 9(1) is that the second proviso permits a person who has constructed, maintains or operates a CGP, to supply electricity generated from a CGP to any licensee. However, as stated above, this supply is subject to the provisions of the Act, and rules and regulations made thereunder. Thus, the supply to any consumer, other than a captive user, is subject to regulations made under Section 42(2) of the Act. Equally, the fi rst proviso permits supply of electricity from the CGP through the grid, in which case the supply is to be regulated in the same manner as in generating station of a generating company. 13. Section 9 read with the relevant provisions of the Act, therefore, postulates three situations. First, when the person who constructs, maintains or operates a CGP for their own use and supplies electricity to himself through dedicated transmission lines.