Waiver is an intentional relinquishment of a known right or advantage, C benefit, claim or privilege….”. In paragraph 13 of the said decision, this Court put the law pithily in the following words: “13…. There can be no waiver of a non-existent right. Similarly, one cannot waive that which is not one’s as a right at the time of waiver. ...” D 16. Irrespective of whether the respondents concede or not, the Circular dated 09.04.1996 curtailed the rights of the owners to have additional TDR in certain circumstances. The Circular came under challenge before this Court and the decision of this Court in Godrej and Boyce Manufacturing Company Limited was delivered on 06.02.2009. E As we have stated earlier, the decision in Godrej and Boyce Manufacturing Company Limited was in the case of the very appellant No.1 herein though in respect of some other property. 17. To put it differently, what was cited by the Municipal Corporation in their of rejection dated 27.11.1998 as an impediment for the grant of additional TDR was the subject matter of challenge in F the first round. It was made by the very appellant No.1 herein, though in respect of another property. If the said decision in the first round had gone against appellant No.1 herein, the rejection of the claim of the appellants for additional TDR on the basis of “prevailing policy” would have become final and unquestionable. G 18.In other words, during the period from 1996 to 2009, the right to claim additional TDR was in suspended animation. Therefore, the appellants had to necessarily wait till the cloud over their right got cleared. To say that the wait of the appellants during the period of this cloudy 9 (1974) 2 SCC 725 H 70 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A weather, tantamount to abandonment, is clearly unjustified and unacceptable. Therefore, the finding recorded by the High Court on question No.1 is not in tune with the law or the facts of the present case and hence question No.1 has to be answered in favour of the appellants herein. B Question No.II: Whether the finding of fact arrived at by the High Court that the appellants did not and could not have developed the amenity, calls for any interference, especially in the light of the statutory provisions and the facts that unfold from the correspondence exchanged between the parties? C 19. The answer to question No.2 revolves both around factual aspects and around certain statutory provisions. Let us first take note of the statutory provisions, out of which the right to claim additional TDR arose. 20.Section 126(1) of the Act reads as follows: D “126. Acquisition of land required for public purposes specified in plans (1) When after the publication of a draft Regional Plan, a Development or any other plan or town planning scheme, any E land is required or reserved for any of the public purposes specified in any plan or scheme under this Act at any time, the Planning Authority, Development Authority, or as the case may be, any Appropriate Authority may, except as otherwise provided in section 113A acquire the land,— F (a) by agreement by paying an amount agreed to, or (b) in lieu of any such amount, by granting the land-owner or the lessee, subject, however, to the lessee paying the lessor or depositing with the Planning Authority, Development Authority or Appropriate Authority, as the case G may be, for payment to the lessor, an amount equivalent to the value of the lessor’s interest to be determined by any of the said Authorities concerned on the basis of the principles laid down in the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, Floor Space Index (FSI) or H GODREJ AND BOYCE MANUFACTURING COMPANY LTD. THR.