Public auction is one of the modes of sale B intending to get highest competitive price for the property. Public auction also ensures fairness in actions of the public authorities or the sale officers who should act fairly and objectively. Their action should be legitimate. Their dealing should be free from suspicion. Nothing should be suggestive of bias, favouritism, nepotism or C beset with suspicious features of underbidding detrimental to the legitimate interest of the debtor…” 27. Before we proceed to consider the submissions made, it will be apposite to summarize the admitted facts for better appreciation of the submissions made. D (i). M/s Bharat Commerce &Industries Limited (BCI) was established in 1964. However, it later became sick and by an dated 22nd January, 2004 passed by the BIFR in case HP/2000, IDBI was directed to become the Operating Agency to take up sale of assets of BCI under Section 20(4) of SICA in terms of ASC guidelines. E (ii). Advertisement came to be published by IDBI (Operating Agency) for sale of land of Block IV Staff Colony of Rajpura unit of BCI admeasuring 26,750 sq. meters (approx. 5 acres) on 24thMay, 2004. (iii). The appellant (Rajiv Kumar Jindal and others) was the F solitary bidder who submitted their bid for purchase of Block IV for Rs.2,84,00,000/- on 22nd June, 2004 and paid earnest money of Rs.6 lakhs. (iv). The Operating Agency accepted the bid by letter dated 12th August, 2004, subject to the condition that the successful G bidder has to comply with the terms and conditions of the ASC, as advised to all the bidders on 8th August, 2004. The extract of the acceptance of the bid by the Appellants is reproduced hereunder: 5 (1992) 1 SCC 91 H 92 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A “The above sale is on the terms and conditions of Asset Sale Committee (ASC) advised to all the bidders by the ASC on August 08, 2004 for which you may be required to execute a tripartite Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with IDBI, Selling Agency & BCIL, the draft of which would be sent to you shortly.” B 28. It will be apposite at this stage to refer to the relevant terms and conditions of the ASC which the bidder was supposed to comply and the same are referred hereunder: “Procedure and Guidelines to be followed by Asset Sale C Committee (ASC) appointed by BIFR for sale of assets of sick companies – (a) to (g) xxx xxx xxx (h) Where a bid has been finally accepted the purchaser shall be required to pay the balance of the purchase consideration D in two installments of 50% and 48% of the total selling price, payable respectively, before the end of 45 days and 90 days from the date on which intimation regarding the final acceptance of t.he bid is dispatched to him by registered Post (A.D.)/Special Post at his notified address. E (i) The successful purchaser shall within 15 days of the receipt of intimation regarding the acceptance of his bid, furnish a bank guarantee, valid for one year, as many as considered satisfactory by the OA/MA, to secure full and timely payment of consideration for the assets purchased.” F (j) to (r) xxx xxx xxx.” 29.