…. Section 61. Appeals and Appellate Authority. – E (3) An appeal against an approving a resolution plan under section 31 may be filed on the following grounds, namely: — (i) the approved resolution plan is in contravention of the provisions of any law for the time being in force;.” F 109. The argument of the 2nd Respondent that the Trust had submitted their EOIs independently and both of them were aware that the other was submitting their EOIs is purely mischievous. Admittedly, the 2nd Respondent is the Managing Director of the said Trust, and the fact remains that two EOIs were submitted by G 22"Section 88. Advantage gained by fiduciary. Where a trustee, executor, partner, agent, director of a company, legal adviser, or other person bound in a fiduciary character to protect the interests of another person, by availing himself of his character, gains for himself any pecuniary advantage, or where any person so bound enters into any dealings under circumstances in which his own interests are, or may be, adverse to those of such other person and thereby gains for himself a pecuniary advantage, he must hold for the H benefit of such other person the advantage so gained.” M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 827 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] the 2nd Respondent, one for himself and the other on behalf of A the Trust. 110. However, the said facts have been suppressed from the CoC, and the CoC did not have an occasion to consider that the 2nd Respondent had submitted two EOIs. Therefore, it is also false to claim that the 2nd Respondent had complied with the provisions B of the RFRP and the IBC. The 2nd Respondent suppressed material facts and gave false declarations about his ineligibility and the conflict of interest. 111. The argument of IInd Respondent that a conflict of interest would arise in case the Trust were allowed to submit a Resolution C Plan is incorrect and misleading. The purported Explanation of conflict of interest’ stated in the RFRP would not absolve the duty cast upon the IInd Respondent under Section 88 of the Indian Trusts Act. Further, it is incorrect to state that a conflict of interest could arise only between two Resolution Applicants. Such an D interpretation is contrary to the explicit provisions of Section 88 of the Indian Trusts Act. Therefore, it is incorrect to say that the 2nd Respondent has not gained any advantage from the charitable Trust. 112. The case on hand squarely falls within the ambit of Section E 88 of the Indian Trusts Act, and as such, the Resolution Plan is illegal. Since the said ‘Sri Balaji Vidyapeeth’ has already been declared as ineligible, the 2nd Respondent cannot act as its alter ego in implementing the Resolution Plan and attain any financial advantage or gain is barred by Section 88 of the Indian Trusts Act. F 19.4.3. As to the question of disqualification under Section 164(2)(b), the Appellate Tribunal observed that Mr. M.K.