The fi rst proviso to clause (c) makes it clear that the ineligibility can only be removed if the person submitting a resolution plan makes payment of all overdue amounts with interest thereon and charges relating to the non-performing asset in question before submission of a resolution plan. The position in law is thus clear. Any person who wishes to submit a resolution plan acting jointly or in concert with other persons, any of who may either manage, control or be a promoter of a corporate debtor classifi ed as a non-performing asset in the period abovementioned, must fi rst pay off the debt of the said corporate debtor classifi ed as a non-performing asset in to become eligible under Section 29-A(c).” 12. Thus, in a sense what is to be tested is whether the Tribunal’s view in Digambar Anand Rao Pingle’s case (supra) sets forth the correct position of law. HARI BABU THOTA 925 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] 13. In the factual scenario of that case, the application for MSME certifi cate was made after the commencement of the CIRP and it was opined that such unauthorized application cannot be considered and cannot tide over the ineligibility under Section 29A. In to appreciate the provision in question, we reproduce Section 240 A as under: Section 240A: Application of this Code to micro, small and medium enterprises. 240A. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Code, the provisions of clauses (c) and (h) of section 29A shall not apply to the resolution applicant in respect of corporate insolvency resolution process or pre-packaged insolvency resolution process of any micro, small and medium enterprises. (2) Subject to sub-section (1), the Central Government may, in the public interest, by notifi cation, direct that any of the provisions of this Code shall— (a) not apply to micro, small and medium enterprises; or (b) apply to micro, small and medium enterprises, with such modifi cations as may be specifi ed in the notifi cation. (3) A draft of every notifi cation proposed to be issued under sub- section (2), shall be laid before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions. (4) If both Houses agree in disapproving the issue of notifi cation or both Houses agree in making any modifi cation in the notifi cation, the notifi cation shall not be issued or shall be issued only in such modifi ed form as may be agreed upon by both the Houses, as the case may be. (5) The period of thirty days referred to in sub-section (3) shall not include any period during which the House referred to in sub-section (4) is prorogued or adjourned for more than four consecutive days. (6) Every notifi cation issued under this section shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is issued, before each House of Parliament. 926 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.