130 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 3P OS.RCT.RS. 130 [2023] 3 S.C.R. A AMAN SEMI-CONDUCTORS (PVT.) LTD v. HARYANA STATE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION LTD. & ANR. B (Civil Appeal No(s). 572-573 of 2010) FEBRUARY 27, 2023 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT AND DIPANKAR DATTA, JJ.] Consumer Protection – Industrial plot was alloted in favour of the appellant by respondent-Corporation – However, the C allotment was cancelled and the respondent resumed the plot stating that the appellant was not serious in implementing the proposed project and that the plot was lying vacant – Justification of – Held: The idea behind development of industrial plots and allotting them to deserving applicants is to act as a catalyst to promote economic D growth – In the present case, the development of industrial areas was part of the State’s overall project for promoting industries and growth of its economy with the objective of providing livelihood – Agreement entered into between the respondent and the appellant stipulated that the allottee would enjoy the right of possession as long as he complied with all terms and conditions of allotment E contained in the agreement – The stipulation in the allotment letter requiring allottees to construct their respective projects and start it, was essential – However, the appellant was always insincere and perhaps never intended to follow up and set up the industrial project, which he proposed to the respondent, as the basis for allotment of F his plot – Impugned of NCDRC holding that the respondent was justified in resuming the plot does not call for interference. Dismissing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 The allotment made in favour of the appellant by HSIDC contains several conditions. The HSIDC and the G appellant entered into an agreement. Clause 4 (iii) of the agreement stipulates that the allottee would enjoy the right of possession as long as he complied with all terms and conditions of allotment contained in the agreement. Besides this, there were other mandatory stipulations. The development of industrial areas, H was part of the state’s overall project for promoting industries 130 AMAN SEMI- CONDUCTORS (PVT.) LTD v. HARYANA STATE 131 INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORP. LTD. and growth of its economy, with the objective of providing A livelihood. The HSIDC therefore, correctly contends that the stipulation in the allotment letter, requiring allottees to construct their respective projects and start it, was essential. The appellant too had furnished a project report, proposing to set up an FM radio and audio component manufacturing unit. This project was B appraised, he was interviewed and after satisfying itself about its feasibility, HSIDC allotted the plot. There is no denial of the fact that the allottee did not take any step towards setting up the unit he proposed. His pleading, before the District Consumer Forum, was that the infrastructural facilities, such as road and external development had not come up. He claims to have applied for C electricity connection. On the other hand, there is nothing on the record- even till date- pointing to any plan to construct a factory or industrial unit.