): Corporate structures may take the form of groups based on equity, joint ventures, and informal alliances – In the context of arbitration law, the challenge arises when 624 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. only one member of the group signs the arbitration agreement, to the exclusion of other members – Should the non-signatories be excluded from the arbitration proceedings, even though they were implicated in the dispute which forms the subject matter of arbitration? – As a response to this challenge, arbitration law has developed and adopted the group of companies doctrine, to allow or compel a non-signatory party to be bound by an arbitration agreement – The group of companies doctrine is applied to ascertain the intentions of the parties by analysing the factual circumstances surrounding the contractual arrangements. [Paras 96 and 97] Arbitration – Group of companies doctrine – International perspectives – Precedents on applicability of the doctrine in France, England, Switzerland, Singapore and the USA – Discussed: Held (per Dr. Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, Hrishikesh Roy, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ. ): The international jurisdictions, in some form or the other, have moved beyond the formalistic requirement of consent to bind a non-signatory to an arbitration agreement – The issue of binding a non-signatory to an arbitration agreement is more of a fact-specifi c aspect – In jurisdictions such as France and Switzerland, there is a broad consensus that consent or subjective intention of a non-signatory to arbitrate may be proved by conduct – Such subjective intention could be derived from the objective evidence in the form of participation of the nonsignatory in the negotiation, performance, or termination of the underlying contract containing the arbitration agreement – However, the group of companies doctrine has not been universally accepted by all jurisdictions – In jurisdictions such as France where the doctrine has gained acceptance, group of companies is one of the several factors that a court or tribunal considers to determine the mutual intention of all the parties to join the nonsignatory to the arbitration agreement. [Para 58] Arbitration – Group of companies doctrine, a fact based doctrine: Held (per Dr. Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, Hrishikesh Roy, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ. ): The existence of a group of companies is a factual element that the court or tribunal has COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 625 to consider when analysing the consent of the parties – It inevitably adds an extra layer of criteria to an exercise which at its core is preponderant on determining the consent of the parties in case of complex transactions involving multiple parties and agreements. [Para 102] Arbitration – Group of companies doctrine – Mutual intention of all the parties to bind the non-signatory to the arbitration agreement – The determination of mutual intention: Held (per Dr. Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, Hrishikesh Roy, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ. ): The primary test to apply the group of companies doctrine is by determining the intention of the parties on the basis of the underlying factual circumstances – The application of the group of companies doctrine will serve to stymie satellite litigation by non-signatory members of the corporate group, thereby ensuring the effi cacy of the agreement between the parties – Avoiding multiplicity of proceedings and fragmentation of disputes is certainly in the interests of justice –However, it can never be the sole consideration to invoke the group of companies doctrine.