Respondent 2, has been denied similar protection by the trial E court even though the allegation is of really conspiring with his superior officers. Neither the State nor the complainant appealed against the protection granted under Section 197 CrPC qua these two other officers. 12. We are, thus, not able to appreciate why a similar protection F ought not to be granted to Respondent 2 as was done in the case of the other two officials by the trial court and High Court, respectively. The sanction from the competent authority would be required to take cognizance and no sanction had been obtained in respect of any of the officers. It is in view thereof that in respect G of the other two officers, the proceedings were quashed and that is what the High Court has directed in the present case as well.” (7) Next, the learned senior counsel for the appellant would contend that the Court must not be oblivious to the facts of the case as well. The appellant’s acts or omissions are traceable to the year 1979-1980. The incident in question took place a good 17 years thereafter. Annual H AMOD KUMAR KANTH v. ASSOCIATION OF VICTIM OF 677 UPHAAR TRAGEDY AND ANR. inspections took place. Other officers have had powers of oversight and A exercised it from time to time. Several theaters apart from Uphaar theater had extra seats. It is only in this unfortunate case that the occurring of the fire in 1997 has led to the entire proceedings. He would submit that following the principle in State of Haryana and Others v. Bhajan Lal and Others 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335, it is a fit case where no criminality B can be attached to the alleged acts and omissions. (8) Thirdly, he would also submit that, as noticed, in this narration above, though an application was filed to take action under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C. pending the trial against the original accused, no s were passed thereon. It received final attention of the Court only when C the matter was finally disposed of by way of the convicting the original accused. (9) The Court, he would point out, departed from the requirement of the law by directing investigation under Section 173(8) after the trial was concluded and was pronounced. This is according to him, D not permissible in law. He drew our attention to Sukhpal Singh Khaira v. State of Punjab (2023) 1 SCC 289: “39. (I) Whether the trial court has the power under Section 319CrPC for summoning additional accused when the trial with respect to other co-accused has ended and the of E conviction rendered on the same date before pronouncing the summoning ? The power under Section 319 CrPC is to be invoked and exercised before the pronouncement of the of sentence where there is a of conviction of the accused. In the case of acquittal, the power should be exercised before the of acquittal is F pronounced. Hence, the summoning has to precede the conclusion of trial by imposition of sentence in the case of conviction.