E (g) In State of West Bengal vs. Kamal Sengupta (2008) 8 SCC 612, Section 22(3) of the Administrative Tribunal Act, 1985 came up for consideration in the context of the power of review. While dealing with the said question, it was held that a Tribunal established under the aforesaid Act is entitled to review its or decision if either of the F grounds enumerated in XLVII Rule 1 CPC was available. In that case, the question, whether, the subsequent contra by the same or a superior Court on a point of law can be treated as an error apparent on the face of the record for the purpose of review of an earlier , G was considered as there was a divergence of opinion among the High Courts on the said question. It was observed that in view of there being a dichotomy of opinion on the issue, the Law Commission took cognizance of the same and suggested an amendment to XLVII Rule 1 CPC which led to the insertion of the Explanation after H GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI THR. THE SECRETARY, LAND AND BUILDING 253 DEPT. v. M/S. K.L. RATHI STEELS LTD. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] XLVII Rule 2 CPC. The following cases were referred to A in the aforesaid : (i) Hari Sankar Pal vs. Anath Nath Mitter 1949 FCR 36, a Five-Judge Bench decision of the Federal Court was alluded to, wherein it was observed that if a decision is erroneous in law, the same is certainly no ground for B ing review. Moreover, if the case had been decided erroneously, the error could not be construed as being one apparent on the face of the record justifying the Court to exercise its power of review under XLVII Rule 1 CPC. C (ii) Reliance was also placed on Parison Devi vs. Sumitri Devi (1997) 8 SCC 715 and it was observed that there is a clear distinction between an erroneous decision and an error apparent on the face of the record. While the first can be corrected by the higher forum, the latter only can be D corrected by exercise of the review jurisdiction. A review petition has a limited purpose and cannot be allowed to be “an appeal in disguise”. (iii) In Nalagarh Dehati Coop. Transport Society Ltd. vs. Beli Ram AIR 1981 HP 1, a Full Bench of the Himachal E Pradesh High Court considered the Explanation and held that a subsequent of the Supreme Court or a Larger Bench of the same Court taking a contrary view on the point covered by the does not amount to a mistake or error apparent on the face of the record of the sought to be reviewed. F (iv) Reference was also made to Gyan Chandra Dwivedi vs. nd 2 ADJ, Kanpur AIR 1987 All 40, in which it was observed that almost all the High Courts except Kerala High Court were unanimous in their opinion of the fact that if a point of law in a has been altered by a G subsequent decision of the superior Court in another case, the same could not afford a valid ground for the review of the .