We are in agreement with Ms. Bhati that at least the High Court, having regard to the disclosure of the Amendment Rules in the Writ Petition as well as the ground urged in the Review Application, was clearly wrong in not rectifying the error which was apparent on the face of the record. 13. However, the aforesaid observations of ours do not advance the cause of the appellant in view of the contention advanced on behalf of the third respondent referring to the certifi cate which was issued to him by the said Board. Such certifi cate enumerates the subjects which he read during his intermediate education. Out of a total of four subjects, two of them (Hindi and English) are described as vocational subjects. Importantly, the certifi cate which is partly in vernacular also bears at its foot the remark ‘Regular’ in English. It has been contended on behalf of the third respondent that ‘Regular’ in the certifi cate signifi es regular stream and not vocational stream. 14. Normally, it is not the function of the court to determine equivalence of two qualifi cations and/or to scrutinise a particular certifi cate and say, on the basis of its appreciation thereof, that the holder thereof satisfi es the eligibility criteria and, thus, is qualifi ed for appointment. It is entirely the prerogative of the employer, after applications are received from interested candidates or names of registered candidates are sponsored by the Employment Exchanges for public employment, to decide whether any such candidate intending to participate in the selection process is eligible in terms of the statutorily prescribed rules for appointment and also as to whether he ought to be allowed to enter the zone of consideration, i.e., to participate in the selection process. It is only when evidence of a sterling quality is produced before the court which, without much argument or deep 5 (2006) 9 SCC 507 6 (2018) 3 SCC 55 UNION OF INDIA v. UZAIR IMRAN & ORS. 1145 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] scrutiny, tilts the balance in favour of one party that the court could decide either way based on acceptance of such evidence. 15. Notwithstanding this settled legal position, the stage when ineligibility is cited for not off ering employment also assumes importance. It is indeed indisputable that none has any legal right to claim public employment. In terms of Article 16 of the Constitution, a candidate has only a right to be considered therefor. Once a candidate is declared ineligible to participate in the selection process at the threshold and if he still wishes to participate in the process perceiving that his candidature has been arbitrarily rejected, it is for him to work out his remedy in accordance with law. However, if the candidature is not rejected at the threshold and the candidate is allowed to participate in the selection process and ultimately his name fi gures in the merit list - though such candidate has no indefeasible right to claim appointment - he does have a limited right of being accorded fair and non-discriminatory treatment.