16. In terms of sub-section (3), the debtor is not entitled to dispute the validity of debts which are registered with the information utility and form the subject matter of the application for the insolvency resolution process. Section 99(4) enables the resolution professional to seek further information or an explanation “in connection with the application”, as may be required from the debtor or the creditor or any other person for the purposes of examining the application. The person from whom such a request is made is under an obligation to supply it within seven days. Sub-section (6) clarifi es the limited ambit entrusted to the resolution professional. In terms of the provision, the resolution professional has to examine the application and ascertain that: (i) The application satisfi es the requirement of Section 94 or Section 95; and (ii) The applicant has provided information and furnished an explanation which has been sought from him under sub-section (4). 17. After carrying out this process, the resolution professional may recommend the acceptance or rejection of the application in a reasoned report. A copy of the report is provided to the debtor or creditor, as the case may be, under sub-section (10). The jurisdiction of the adjudicating authority, upon the submission of the report, is stipulated in Section 100.11 11 “100. Admission or rejection of application.—(1) The Adjudicating Authority shall, within fourteen days from the date of submission of the report under section 99 pass DILIP B JIWRAJKA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS 581 18. In terms of Section 100, the adjudicating authority has a time line of fourteen days from the submission of the report to either admit or reject the application for insolvency resolution process. In the event that the adjudicating authority admits an application, it is empowered, on the request of the resolution professional to require that negotiations be conducted between the debtor and the creditor for the purpose of arriving at a repayment plan. The adjudicating authority is required to provide a copy of its together with the report of the resolution professional and the application to the creditors within seven days from the . If the application is rejected by the adjudicating authority on the ground that it was made with an intent to defraud the creditors or the resolution professional, the of the adjudicating authority is to record that the creditor is entitled to fi le for a bankruptcy under Chapter IV. 19. The interim moratorium under Section 96 commences from the application fi led under Sections 94 or 95, and ceases to have eff ect on the date of the admission of the application. Consequently, Section 10112 contains an either admitting or rejecting the application referred to in section 94 or 95, as the case may be. (2) Where the Adjudicating Authority admits an application under sub-section (1), it may, on the request of the resolution professional, issue instructions for the purpose of conducting negotiations between the debtor and creditors and for arriving at a repayment plan.