We respectfully concur with these conclusions. Any other interpretation of the provision would make the valuable right conferred on the suspect illusory and a farce. x x x x 29. In view of the foregoing discussion, we are of the fi rm opinion that the object with which the right under Section 50(1) of the NDPS Act, by way of a safeguard, has been conferred on the suspect viz. to check the misuse of power, to avoid harm to innocent persons and to minimise the allegations of planting or foisting of false cases by the law enforcement agencies, it would be imperative on the part of the empowered offi cer to apprise the person intended to be searched of his right to be searched before a gazetted offi cer or a Magistrate. We have no hesitation in holding that insofar as the obligation of the authorised offi cer RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 359 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] under sub-section (1) of Section 50 of the NDPS Act is concerned, it is mandatory and requires strict compliance. Failure to comply with the provision would render the recovery of the illicit article suspect and vitiate the conviction if the same is recorded only on the basis of the recovery of the illicit article from the person of the accused during such search. Thereafter, the suspect may or may not choose to exercise the right provided to him under the said provision.” (Emphasis supplied) 106. The Court went on to hold that Section 50 would be applicable only to the personal searches and not to the searches of vehicles or bags. This was in line with the ratio laid down in Pawan Kumar (supra) and Baldev Singh (supra). This Court held that:- “15. As regards applicability of the requirements under Section 50 of the Act are concerned, it is well settled that the mandate of Section 50 of the Act is confi ned to “personal search” and not to search of a vehicle or a container or premises. 16. The conclusion (3) as recorded by the Constitution Bench in Para 57 of its in Baldev Singh clearly states that the conviction may not be based “only” on the basis of possession of an illicit article recovered from personal search in violation of the requirements under Section 50 of the Act but if there be other evidence on record, such material can certainly be looked into. 17. In the instant case, the personal search of the accused did not result in recovery of any contraband. Even if there was any such recovery, the same could not be relied upon for want of compliance of the requirements of Section 50 of the Act. But the search of the vehicle and recovery of contraband pursuant thereto having stood proved, merely because there was non-compliance of Section 50 of the Act as far as “personal search” was concerned, no benefi t can be extended so as to invalidate the eff ect of recovery from the search of the vehicle.