530 SUPREME CO[U2R02T3 ]R 7E PSO.CR.RT.S 530 [2023] 7 S.C.R. A M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER B (Civil Appeal No(s). 3738-3739 of 2023) MAY 16, 2023 [K. M. JOSEPH AND HRISHIKESH ROY, JJ.] Income Tax Act, 1961 – s.69A – Scope and applicability of – s.69A deals with unexplained money, bullion, jewellery or other C valuable articles – Deeming effect of the provision – When applicable – Ambit of the word ‘owner’ in s.69A – Held (per K.M. Joseph, J.) : To apply s.69A of the Act, it is indispensable that the Officer must find that the other valuable article is owned by the assessee – A bailee who is a common carrier is not the owner of the D goods – A bailee who is a common carrier would necessarily be entrusted with the possession of the goods – The purpose of bailment is the delivery of the goods by the common carrier to the consignee or as per the directions of the consignor – During the subsistence of the contract of carriage of goods, the bailee would not become E the owner of the goods – In the case of an entrustment to the carrier otherwise than under a contract of sale of goods also, the possession of the carrier would not convert it into the owner of the goods – The full rights of an owner include the power of enjoyment which further includes the power to destroy; the right to possession which further includes the right to exclude others; the power to alienate F inter vivos or to charge as security and the power to bequeath the property – A carrier has none of these rights or powers – Sale by a carrier does not pass title except when it is immunised by the conduct of the owner of the good which would in turn estop the owner from impugning the title of the buyer – Held (per Hrishikesh Roy, J.) G (concurring): s.69A provides as a rule of evidence that for the deeming effect to apply- the assessee must be the owner of money, bullion, jewellery and other valuable articles on which he is unable to proffer a satisfactory explanation – Determining ownership of goods is an important factor to impute tax liability – Someone having mere possession and without legal ownership or title over the goods H 530 M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 531 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER will not be covered within the ambit of s.69A – An assessee may A nevertheless be also regarded as deemed owner if possession is imputed on the assessee and no other person having a better claim is contesting the assessee’s claim – In the present case, the assessee was certainly not the owner of the bitumen - but was the carrier who was supplying goods from the consignor- oil marketing B companies to the consignee-Road Construction Department – Notably, due to short delivery of goods, the possession of the assessee was unlawful – The inevitable conclusion therefore is that the assessee is not the owner, for the purposes of s.69A – Contract Act, 1872 – ss.148, 151 – Sale of Goods Act, 1930 – ss.