The bidder was also required to submit the details of the movable properties. The auction notice referred to the Orissa Minor Minerals Concession Rules, 2016 (hereinafter referred to as ‘OMMC Rules, 2016’). The respondent no.1 – original writ petitioner G participated in the tender process and submitted his application along with a Solvency Certificate dated 07.12.2017 issued by the Tehsildar, Narasinghpur. The above solvency certificate was issued despite the above passed by the Sub-Collector, Athagarh on 06.12.2017. At this stage, it is required to be noted that an was passed by the Sub- H Collector, Athagarth on 06.12.2017 specifically stating that a solvency DEBIDUTTA MOHANTY v. RANJAN KUMAR PATTNAIK & 75 ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] certificate be issued in favour of “Gurukrupa Charitable Trust, Chairman A of Village Kendupali”. However, the Tehsildar issued the solvency certificate in favour of the original writ petitioner individually who at the relevant time was the Chairman of the Trust. The said solvency certificate was enclosed with the original writ petitioner’s bid. 2.2 When the bids were opened, the highest bid was of one Sukanti B Sahoo, the original writ petitioner was the second highest bidder and the appellant herein – original respondent no.5 - Debidutta Mohanty was the third highest bidder. The bid of the first highest bidder Sukanti Sahoo was cancelled as she was found to be a defaulter. Since the original writ petitioner was the second highest bidder a letter dated 08.05.2019 was C issued to him asking him to communicate his willingness to operate the sand sairat at Rs.142 per cubic meter which was the rate quoted by the highest bidder. On the same date, the original writ petitioner submitted his willingness. He was then asked to execute a lease deed. The original writ petitioner then deposited Rs.26,28,450/- and complied with the requirements. That Sukanti Sahoo filed the Writ Petition (C) No.9023 of D 2019 before the High Court questioning the cancellation of her bid and the selection of the original writ petitioner. Initially the High Court granted the of status quo which came to be vacated subsequently. Thereafter the present original writ petitioner filed Writ Petition (C) No.22660 of 2019 in the High Court for a direction to the competent E authority i.e. the Tehsildar, Sadar for execution of the lease deed in his favour. Thereafter on 01.01.2020, a lease deed came to be executed in his favour. That thereafter a second writ petition came to be filed by Sukanti Sahoo against the grant of lease in favour of the present original writ petitioner being Writ Petition (C) No.951 of 2020. Initially the High Court stayed the operation of the lease deed executed in favour of the F original writ petitioner. However, thereafter the stay came to be vacated clarifying that the operation of the lease would be subject to the final outcome of the pending writ petition. 2.3 That thereafter the appellant herein Debidutta Mohanty filed the Writ Petition (C) No.3326 of 2021 in the High Court questioning the G solvency certificate issued in favour of respondent no.1 herein – original writ petitioner.