Words and Phrases– “cause of action”; “right to apply” – Meaning of – Discussed. Rejecting the petition, the Court F HELD: 1.1 Ordinarily on the completion of the work, the right to receive the payment begins. A dispute arises when there is a claim on one side and its denial/repudiation by the other. A person cannot postpone the accrual of cause of action by repeatedly writing letters or sending reminders.‘Bilateral G discussions’ for an indefinite period of time would not save the situation so far as the accrual of cause of action and the right to apply for appointment of arbitrator is concerned. What is important for the Court is to find out what was the “Breaking Point” at which any reasonable party would have abandoned efforts at H M/S B AND T AG v. MINISTRY OF DEFENCE 601 arriving at a settlement and contemplated referral of the dispute A for arbitration. What was the “Breaking Point” is a question of fact. [Paras 37, 44 and 45][618-D-E; 623-C-D] Major (Retd.) Inder Singh Rekhi v. Delhi Development Authority AIR 1988 SC 1887; Geo Miller and Company Private Limited v. Chairman, Rajasthan Vidyut Utpadan B Nigam Limited (2020) 14 SCC 643 : [2019] 11 SCR 1108 – relied on. 1.2 There is a fine distinction between the plea that the claims raised are barred by limitation and the plea that the application for appointment of an arbitrator is barred by limitation. C [Para 52][633-C] 1.3 “Cause of action” means the whole bundle of material facts, which it is necessary for the plaintiff to prove in to entitle him to succeed in the suit. Cause of action becomes important for the purposes of calculating the limitation period for D bringing an action. It is imperative that a party realises when a cause of action arises. If a party simply delays sending a notice seeking reference under the Act 1996 because they are unclear of when the cause of action arose, the claim can become time- barred even before the party realises the same. The period of E limitation for commencing an arbitration runs from the date on which the “cause of arbitration” accrued, that is to say, from the date when the claimant first acquired either a right of action or a right to require that an arbitration take place upon the dispute concerned. The period of limitation for the commencement of an arbitration runs from the date on which, had there been no F arbitration clause, the cause of action would have accrued. Even if the arbitration clause contains a provision that no cause of action shall accrue in respect of any matter agreed to be referred to until an award is made, time still runs from the normal date when the cause of action would have accrued if there had been no G arbitration clause. An application under Section 11 of the Act 1996 is governed by Article 137 of the Schedule to the Act 1963 and must be made within 3 years from the date when the right to apply first accrues.