x) Norms of Journalistic Conduct, 2010 issued by the Press Council of India (constituted under the Press Council Act, 1978) contain extensive guidelines G on the reporting of communal incidents. The content of speech is sought to be controlled in all the aforesaid statutes when the same is made not only by public functionaries but any ordinary citizen also through whatever medium of H dissemination. KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 753 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 16.6. One of the recommendations of the 267th Law Commission A was to insert Sections 153C and 505A and associated provisions in the CrPC to deal with ‘Hate Speech’. As per the Law Commission report, the proposed provisions would read as under: “153-C- Whoever on grounds of religion, race, caste B or community, sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, place of birth, residence, language, disability or tribe– (a) uses gravely threatening words either spoken or written, signs, visible representations within the C hearing or sight of a person with the intention to cause, fear or alarm; or (b) advocates hatred by words either spoken or written, signs, visible representations, that causes incitement to violence shall be punishable with D imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, and fine up to Rs 5000, or with both.” “505-A- Causing fear, alarm, or provocation of violence in certain cases: Whoever in public E intentionally on grounds of religion, race, caste or community, sex, gender, sexual orientation, place of birth, residence, language, disability or tribe uses words, or displays any writing, sign, or other visible representation which is gravely threatening, or derogatory; F (i)within the hearing or sight of a person, causing fear or alarm, or; (ii) with the intent to provoke the use of unlawful violence, against that person or another,shall be G punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year and/or fine up to Rs 5000, or both”. The proposed provisionunder Section 505-A, seeks to control not only speech that could potentially incite violence H 754 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A or hurt the feelings of a community or dampen national integrity, but also seeks to check threatening or derogatory remarks, made on grounds of religion, race, caste or community, sex, gender, sexual orientation, place of birth, residence, language, disability or tribe, and which cause fear or alarm. While speech of the former category has been B traditionally regarded as ‘hate speech,’ generally vitriolic or ‘derogatory’ statements, which are made on the grounds of religion, race, caste or community, sex, gender, sexual orientation, place of birth, residence, language, disability or tribe, have traditionally not been considered to qualify as C ‘hate speech,’ no matter how unwarranted or disparaging such statements may be. 16.7. Traditionally, ‘hate speech’ is the term used to describe speech that can potentially cause actual material harmthrough potential social, economic and political D marginalisation of a community as declared by this Court in Pravasi Bhalai Sangathan. However, in the present case, in my opinion, we are concerned with a more overarching area of derogatory, vitriolic and disparaging speech, which is actually not ‘hate speech’ simplicitor as has been traditionally sought to be defined and understood.I E am concerned with speech that may not belinked to systematic discrimination and eventual political marginalisation of a community, but which may nonetheless have insidious effects on the societal perception of human dignity, values of social cohesion, F fraternity and equality cherished by “We the people” of India.