The provision does not make a distinction between the Chief Secretary serving in NCTD and the Chief Secretaries serving in other States though the procedure for the appointment of the Chief Secretary of NCTD is diff erent from the procedure for the appointment of Chief Secretaries in other States in terms of the 1954 Rules read with the Transaction of Business Rules. The post of Chief Secretary in the GNCTD is a post entrusted with signifi cant functional responsibilities including overall administrative control and supervision over subjects which stand excluded from the legislative domain and the executive powers of the GNCTD. In relation to Chief Secretaries who are appointed to the States, Rule 16 of the 1958 Rules contemplates that an extension can be granted with the prior approval of the State Government on the recommendation by the State Government with a “full justifi cation” and in “public interest”. This provision has been made in relation to the role of the State Government where the Chief Secretaries perform functions in relation to the States. The position of the Chief Secretary of the GNCTD is signifi cantly distinct in that the Chief Secretary performs delegated executive functions which straddle both subjects which fall within the executive and legislative competence of GNCTD as well as those which lie outside. Consequently, the restrictions which operate in relation to the grant of extension under Rule 16 of the 1958 Rules in relation to the Chief Secretary of one of the State Governments would not stricto senso apply in relation to the GNCTD. Rule 16 undoubtedly would, however, apply in relation to the extension of service of such other offi cers of GNCTD whose functions do not extend to any of the subjects which are excluded, namely, Entries 1, 2 and 18 of List 2 and Entries 64, 65 and 66 insofar as thy are relatable to Entries 1, 2 and 18. 33. For the above reasons, we have come to the conclusion that at this stage, bearing in mind the principles which have been enumerated in the of this Court in 2023 Constitution Bench , and the GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 483 & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI] subsequent developments which have taken place resulting in the enactment of the amendment to the GNCTD Act 1991, the decision of the Union Government to extend the services of the incumbent Chief Secretary for a period of six months cannot be construed to be violative of law. 34. We, however, clarify that the analysis in this is confi ned to the evaluation of the case at the present stage without entering into any conclusive determination of the issues which are pending for adjudication before the Constitution Bench. 35. We also deem it appropriate to record a few observations on the role of the Chief Secretary. As observed by this Court in Royappa (supra), the post of the Chief Secretary is a “post of great confi dence- a lynchpin in the administration.” This Court in the 2023 Constitution Bench observed that civil servants are required to be politically neutral and must abide by the directions of the elected arm to give eff ect to the principle underlying the triple-chain of collective responsibility.