The right to equality in a situation like this is that of the Indian polity and not merely of a few individuals. The powers conferred on this Court G by the Constitution are ample to remedy this defect and to ensure enforcement of the concept of equality.” 50. This Court, therefore, issued following directions: “58. As a result of the aforesaid discussion, we hereby direct as under: H DR. JAYA THAKUR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 551 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] I. CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (CBI) AND CENTRAL A VIGILANCE COMMISSION (CVC) 1. The Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) shall be given statutory status. 2. Selection for the post of Central Vigilance Commissioner shall be made by a Committee comprising the Prime Minister, B Home Minister and the Leader of the Opposition from a panel of outstanding civil servants and others with impeccable integrity, to be furnished by the Cabinet Secretary. The appointment shall be made by the President on the basis of the recommendations made by the Committee. This shall be done immediately. C 3. The CVC shall be responsible for the efficient functioning of the CBI. While Government shall remain answerable for the CBI’s functioning, to introduce visible objectivity in the mechanism to be established for overviewing the CBI’s working, the CVC shall be entrusted with the responsibility of superintendence over D the CBI’s functioning. The CBI shall report to the CVC about cases taken up by it for investigation; progress of investigations; cases in which charge-sheets are filed and their progress. The CVC shall review the progress of all cases moved by the CBI for sanction of prosecution of public servants which are pending with the competent authorities, specially those in which sanction has E been delayed or refused. 4. The Central Government shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the CBI functions effectively and efficiently and is viewed as a non-partisan agency. 5. The CVC shall have a separate section in its Annual F Report on the CBI’s functioning after the supervisory function is transferred to it. 6. Recommendations for appointment of the Director, CBI shall be made by a Committee headed by the Central Vigilance Commissioner with the Home Secretary and Secretary G (Personnel) as members. The views of the incumbent Director shall be considered by the Committee for making the best choice. The Committee shall draw up a panel of IPS officers on the basis of their seniority, integrity, experience in investigation and anti- corruption work. The final selection shall be made by the H 552 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) from the panel recommended by the Selection Committee. If none among the panel is found suitable, the reasons thereof shall be recorded and the Committee asked to draw up a fresh panel. 7. The Director, CBI shall have a minimum tenure of two B years, regardless of the date of his superannuation. This would ensure that an officer suitable in all respects is not ignored merely because he has less than two years to superannuate from the date of his appointment.