36. Explanation to sub-clause (ii) to clause (b) to Section 34(2) of the A&C Act, as quoted above and before its substitution by Act No.3 of 2016, had postulated and declared for avoidance of doubt that an award is ‘in 470 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. confl ict with the public policy of India’, if the making of the award is induced or aff ected by fraud or corruption, or was in violation of Sections 75 or 81 of the A&C Act. Both Sections 75 and 81 of the A&C Act fall under Part III of the A&C Act, which deal with conciliation proceedings. Section 75 of the A&C Act relates to confi dentiality of the settlement proceedings and Section 81 deals with admissibility of evidence in conciliation proceedings. Suffi ce it is to note at this stage that while ‘fraud’ and ‘corruption’ are two specifi c grounds under ‘public policy’, these are not the sole and only grounds on which an award can be set aside on the ground of ‘public policy’. 37. Act No. 3 of 2016 with retrospective eff ect from 23.10.2015 has substituted the explanation referred to above, by two new explanations that are diff erently worded.25 Sub-section (2-A) to Section 34 of the A&C Act, which was instituted by Act No. 3 of 2016 with retrospective eff ect from 23.10.2015, states that the arbitral award arising out of arbitrations other than international commercial arbitrations can be set aside by the court, if it is vitiated by patent illegality appearing on the face of the award. The proviso to sub-section (2-A) to Section 34 of the A&C Act also states that the award shall not be set aside merely on the ground of erroneous application of law or by reappreciation of evidence. The aforesaid sub-section need not be examined in the facts of the present case, as we are not required to 25 Explanations 1 and 2 to sub-clause (ii) to clause (b) to Section 34(2) of the A&C Act substituted videAct No. 3 of 2016 read as under: Explanation 1.—For the avoidance of any doubt, it is clarifi ed that an award is in confl ict with the public policy of India, only if,— (i) the making of the award was induced or aff ected by fraud or corruption or was in violation of Section 75 or Section 81; or (ii) it is in contravention with the fundamental policy of Indian law; or (iii) it is in confl ict with the most basic notions of morality or justice. Explanation 2.—For the avoidance of doubt, the test as to whether there is a contravention with the fundamental policy of Indian law shall not entail a review on the merits of the dispute. Sub-section 2A to Section 34(2) of the A&C Act inserted vide Act No. 3 of 2016 reads as under: (2-A) An arbitral award arising out of arbitrations other than international commercial arbitrations, may also be set aside by the court, if the court fi nds that the award is vitiated by patent illegality appearing on the face of the award: Provided that an award shall not be set aside merely on the ground of an erroneous application of the law or by reappreciation of evidence.