(b) “registered medical practitioner” means a medical practitioner who possess any medical qualifi cation as defi ned in clause (h) of Section 2 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1956) and whose name has been entered in a State Medical Register.” 27. Simultaneously with the substitution of a new Explanation under Section 53, Act 25 of 2005 also inserted a new provision i.e. Section 53A. Section 53A reads as follows:- “Section 53A. Examination of person accused of rape by medical practitioner.—(1) When a person is arrested on a charge of committing an off ence of rape or an attempt to commit rape and there are reasonable grounds for believing that an examination of his person will aff ord evidence as to the commission of such off ence, it shall be lawful for a registered medical practitioner employed in a hospital run by the Government or by a local authority and in the absence of such a practitioner within the radius of sixteen kilometers from the place where the off ence has been committed by any other registered medical practitioner acting at the request of a police offi cer not below the rank of a Sub-Inspector, and for any person acting in good faith in his aid and under his direction, to make such an examination of the arrested person and to use such force as is reasonably necessary for that purpose. (2) The registered medical practitioner conducting such examination shall, without delay, examine such person and prepare a report of his examination giving the following particulars, namely— (i) the name and address of the accused and of the person by whom he was brought, (ii) the age of the accused, (iii) marks of injury, if any, on the person of the accused, (iv) the description of material taken from the person of the accused for DNA profi ling, and (v) other material particulars in reasonable detail. (3) The report shall state precisely the reasons for each conclusion arrived at. MUNNA PANDEY v. STATE OF BIHAR 1033 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] (4) The exact time of commencement and completion of the examination shall also be noted in the report. (5) The registered medical practitioner shall, without delay, forward the report to the investigating offi cer, who shall forward it to the Magistrate referred to in Section 173 as part of the documents referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (5) of that section.” 28. A three-Judge Bench of this Court in Chotkau v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (2023) 6 SCC 742, had the occasion to consider Sections 53, 53A and 164 of the CrPC in details. This Court observed in para 80 to 83 as under:- “80. After saying that Section 53-A is not mandatory, this Court found in para 54 of the said decision that the failure of the prosecution to produce DNA evidence, warranted an adverse inference to be drawn. Para 54 reads as follows : (Rajendra Pralhadrao Wasnik case [Rajendra Pralhadrao Wasnik v. State of Maharashtra, (2019) 12 SCC 460 : (2019) 4 SCC (Cri) 420], SCC p. 485) “54.