In the absence of such contractual relationship, the liability of the embarking passengers to pay development fees has to be based on a statutory provision and for this reason Section 22A has been enacted empowering the Airports Authority to levy and collect from the embarking G passengers the development fees for the purposes mentioned in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of Section 22A of the Act. In other words, the object of Parliament in inserting Section 22A in the 2004 Act by the Amendment Act of 2003 is to authorize by law the levy and collection of development fees from every embarking passenger de hors the facilities that the embarking H CENTRAL GST DELHI - III v. DELHI INTERNATIONAL 339 AIRPORT LTD [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] passengers get at the existing airports. The nature of the levy A under Section 22A of the 2004 Act, in our considered opinion, is not charges or any other consideration for services for the facilities provided by the Airports Authority. This Court has held in Vijayalakshmi Rice Mills &Ors v Commercial Tax Officers, Palakot&Ors (supra) that a cess is a tax which B generates revenue which is utilized for a specific purpose. The levy under Section 22A though described as fees is really in the nature of a cess or a tax for generating revenue for the specific purposes mentioned in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of Section 22A. C 15. Once we hold that the development fees levied under Section 22A is really a cess or a tax for a special purpose, Article 265 of the Constitution which provides that no tax can be levied or collected except by authority of law gets attracted and the decisions of this Court starting from The Trustees of the Port of Madras v M/s Aminchand Pyarelal D (supra), cited on behalf of the Union of India and DIAL and MIAL on the charges or tariff levied by a service or facility provided are of no assistance in interpreting Section 22A. It is a settled principle of statutory interpretation that any compulsory exaction of money by the Government such as a E tax or a cess has to be strictly in accordance with law and for these reasons a taxing statute has to be strictly construed. As observed by this Court in Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority v Sharadkumar Jayantikumar Pasawalla & Ors. (supra), it has been consistently held by this Court that whenever there is compulsory exaction of money, there should F be specific provision for the same and there is no room for intendment and nothing is to be read or nothing is to be implied and one should look fairly to the language used. Looking strictly at the plain language of Section 22A of 1994 Act before its amendment by the 2008 Act, the development fees were to G be levied on and collected from the embarking passengers “at the rate as may be prescribed”. 29. The observations and findings extracted above are decisive about the nature of development fee, collected under Section 22A; they are statutory exactions and not fees or tariffs, as was contended by the H 340 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R.