3407(E), dated the 8th November, 2016, issued under sub-section (2) of section 26 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, shall cease to be liabilities of the Reserve Bank under section 34 and shall cease to have the D guarantee of the Central Government under sub-section (1) of section 26 of the said Act. 4. Exchange of specified bank notes.— (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 3, the following persons holding specified bank notes on or before the 8th day of November, 2016 E shall be entitled to tender within the grace period with such declarations or statements, at such offices of the Reserve Bank or in such other manner as may be specified by it, namely:— (i) a citizen of India who makes a declaration that he was outside India between the 9th November, 2016 to 30th December, 2016, F subject to such conditions as may be specified, by notification, by the Central Government; or (ii) such class of persons and for such reasons as may be specified by notification, by the Central Government. G (2) The Reserve Bank may, if satisfied, after making such verifications as it may consider necessary that the reasons for failure to deposit the notes within the period specified in the notification referred to in section 3, are genuine, credit the value of the notes in his Know Your Customer compliant bank account in such manner as may be specified by it. H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 139 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] (3) Any person, aggrieved by the refusal of the Reserve Bank to A credit the value of the notes under sub-section (2), may make a representation to the Central Board of the Reserve Bank within fourteen days of the communication of such refusal to him. Explanation.— For the purposes of this section, the expression “Know Your Customer compliant bank account” means the B account which complies with the conditions specified in the regulations made by the Reserve Bank under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949).” 291. The effect of Section 3 of the 2017 Act is that the SBNs, which have ceased to be legal tender, in view of the impugned Notification, C shall cease to be liabilities of the RBI under Section 34 of the RBI Act and shall cease to have the guarantee of the Central Government under sub-section (1) of Section 26 of the RBI Act. The legislative intent under Section 3 of the 2017 Act is to provide clarity and finality to the liabilities of the RBI and the Central Government arising from such bank notes D which have ceased to be legal tender with effect from 9th November 2016. 292. Sub-section (1) of Section 4 of the 2017 Act provides that notwithstanding anything contained in Section 3 of the 2017 Act, a class of persons would be entitled to tender within the grace period with such E declarations or statements, at such offices of the RBI or in such other manner as may be specified by it.