[See: Bhupendra Singh (supra)] 60. In Jumman (supra), this Court explained the aforestated position in the following words:- “10. … but there is a diff erence when a reference is made under Section 374 of the Criminal Procedure Code (Section 366 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973), and when disposing of an appeal under Section 423 of the Criminal Procedure Code (Section 386 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973) and that is that the High Court has to satisfy itself as to whether a case beyond reasonable doubt has been made out against the accused persons for the infl iction of the penalty of death. In fact the proceedings before the High Court are a reappraisal and the reassessment of the entire facts and law in that the High Court should be satisfi ed on the materials about the guilt or innocence of the accused persons. Such being the case, it is the duty of the High Court to consider the proceedings in all their aspects and come to an independent conclusion on the materials, apart from the view expressed by the Sessions Judge. In so doing, the High Court will 1056 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. be assisted by the opinion expressed by the Sessions Judge, but under the provisions of the law above-mentioned it is for the High Court to come to an independent conclusion of its own.” 61. The same principle was recognised in Ram Shankar Singh (supra):- “12. … The High Court had also to consider what should be passed on the reference under Section 374, and to decide on an appraisal of the evidence, whether the of conviction for the off ences for which the accused were convicted was justifi ed and whether, having regard to the circumstances, the sentence of death was the appropriate sentence. …” 62. In Masalti v. State of U.P., (1964) 8 SCR 133, this Court was dealing with an appeal under Article 136 of the Constitution and, in that appeal, on behalf of the persons who were under sentence of death, a point was sought to be urged which was taken before the trial court and was rejected by it, but was not repeated before the High Court. This Court held:- “11. …it may, in a proper case, be permissible to the appellants to ask this Court to consider that point in an appeal under Article 136 of the Constitution; after all in criminal proceedings of this character where sentences of death are imposed on the appellants, it may not be appropriate to refuse to consider relevant and material pleas of fact and law only on the ground that they were not urged before the High Court. If it is shown that the pleas were actually urged before the High Court and had not been considered by it, then, of course the party is entitled as a matter of right to obtain a decision on those pleas from this Court. But even otherwise no hard and fast Rule can be laid down prohibiting such pleas being raised in appeals under Article 136.” 63.