The object is to save the acquisition as far as possible. Possibly taking a cue from the proviso, this Court in the impugned s reserved liberty to the petitioners herein to initiate acquisition proceedings afresh within one year in some of the cases failing which the land was to be returned to the B land owners if in possession of the review petitioners herein. Thus, if no fresh acquisition proceedings are initiated within the said period of one year by issuing a notification under Section 11 of the L.A. 2013 Act and if the review petitioners herein are in possession of the land, the physical possession thereof shall be returned to original land owners. C 53. In the circumstances, the only relief that can be granted to the review petitioners/applicants is to extend the period for initiation of acquisition under the provisions of L.A. Act, 2013 to a period of one year from today. Till then, in those cases where physical possession of the land has already been taken over by the acquiring body or has been D handed over to the beneficiary the same shall continue to remain with the acquiring body or the beneficiary, as the case may be. 54. Thus, only a limited relief is being given to the review petitioners/ applicants and impugned s/s of this Court are not being reviewed in the review petitions. There is a delay in filing the same in E certain cases. This is owing to the passage of time from the date of passing the s/s sought to be reviewed and the uncertainty in the interpretation of Section 24 (2) of L.A. Act, 2013 and due to Covid-19 and one year time being granted to initiate fresh acquisition, in the impugned itself. Hence, the said delay is condoned. 55. Where no such direction has been issued in the impugned F s and the Special Leave Petitions have been dismissed, the petitioners are at liberty to initiate fresh acquisition proceedings under the L.A. Act, 2013, if so advised. 56. In the result, the review petitions are disposed of in the above terms. G No costs. Nidhi Jain Matter be placed before Hon’ble CJI. (Assisted by : Tamana, LCRA) H