On completion of investigation the charge-sheet came to be filed against the accused for the offences punishable under Sections 302, 201, 404 and 419 of IPC for committing a cognizable offence. Charge came to be framed against the accused and same having been C deniedresulted in trial being held and in to drive home the guilt of the accused prosecution got examined 25 witnesses as PW-1 to PW-25 and got exhibited material evidence as per Ex.P-1 to P-51 and the material objects as MO1 to MO47. On conclusion of prosecution evidence, the statement of the accused person under Section 313 of Code of Criminal D Procedure, came to be recorded and accused pleaded not being guilty and also reiterated his stand of being innocent.Learned Sessions Judge after having heard the arguments on both the sides formulated six points/ issues of determination. The learned Trial Judge acquitted the accused by arriving at a conclusion that prosecution had failed to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt, by dated 08.08.2013. State being E aggrieved by the same filed Criminal Appeal No.-335 of 2014 assailing the said of acquittal contending inter alia that Sessions Judge had failed to appreciate the evidence and/or there is erroneous appreciation of evidence and as such the accused had to be convicted.It was also contended that though recoveries of the articles, namely, material object F was at the instance of the accused and the testimony of the witnesses clearly supported the case of the prosecution, yet learned Sessions Judge had erroneously disbelieved the case of the prosecution. It was also canvassed that on account of non-consideration of the evidence of the doctor PW-22 in proper perspective it had resulted in an erroneous of acquittal being passed by Sessions Court. On these amongst other G grounds as urged in the appeal memorandum the State sought for reversal of the of acquittal passed by the Trial Court. After considering the arguments advanced by the respective learned advocates appearing for the prosecution as well as the accused the High Court reversed the finding recorded by the Trial Court and convicted the accused for the H 406 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A offence punishable under Sections 302, 201, 404 and 419 of IPC and sentenced him to life imprisonment as already noticed herein supra.Hence this appeal. 4.We have heard the arguments of Shri. Renjith B.Mararlearned counsel appearing for the appellant along with Mr. Zulfiker Ali P.S, B Ms. Lakshmi Sree P., Ms. Lebina Baby, Advocates for the appellant/ accused and Shri V.N.Raghupathy, learned standing counsel appearing for the State. 5. It is the contention of Shri Renjith B. Marar,learned counsel appearing for the appellant that there is no direct evidence attributable C to the role of the accused and High Court has based the of conviction on circumstantial evidence.He has contended that prosecution has not been able to establish the chain of events on the basis of circumstantial evidence, all leading to the one and only conclusion namely the guilt of the accused.