In our opinion, this view cannot be held to be good law having regard to the specific provisions contained in the proviso to Section 9(2) of the 2015 Act. Moreover, there is a subsequent decision from a Bench of same strength in the case of Ashwani Kumar H NARAYAN CHETANRAM CHAUDHARY v. THE STATE OF 1091 MAHARASHTRA [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] Saxena (supra)in which this Court has examined the manner in which A the documents pertaining to establishment of juvenility ought to be examined and we shall deal with this authority later in this . Another two-Judge Bench of this Court, in the case of Ajay Kumar - vs- State of Madhya Pradesh [(2010) 15 SCC 83], referring to Section 7A of the 2000 Act has held that an inquiry is to be conducted by the B Court before whom such a plea is raised and the Court has to render a finding as to whether or not the claimant was a juvenile. As per this , in case the claimant is found to be juvenile, Court has to refer the matter to the Board for passing appropriate and in such a situation, sentence passed by the Court shall have no effect. C 23.In Pawan (supra) a Bench of Coordinate strength opined that in a case where plea of juvenility is found unscrupulous or the materials in support of such plea lack credibility and do not inspire confidence and even prima facie satisfaction of the Court is not made out, a further exercise to examine such a claim would be unnecessary. In that , this Court reflected upon the documents based on which the juvenility D claim was being raised and came to such a finding. So far as this case is concerned, in the passed on 29th January 2019, the context in which inquiry was directed has been expressed. The relevant part of this has been quoted earlier in this . Thus, the observations made in the case of Pawan (supra) do not apply in the facts of this case, E where inquiry has already been directed. 24.In Mohd. Anwar (supra) and Surajdeo (supra), (in the latter case, author of this was a party), two Coordinate Benches of this Court opined that mitigating circumstances like juvenility of age ordinarily ought to be raised in trial itself and belated raising of such plea F may also underline the lack of genuinity of the defence case. In the case of Surajdeo (supra), plea of juvenility was raised for the first time before this Court on the basis of school leaving certificate alongwith admit card issued by the Bihar School Examination Board. The Court found that the name of the juvenile claimant did not appear on the documents. But these were decisions rendered in the facts of the respective cases and G neither of these two cases lay down absolute proposition of law that the juvenility plea cannot be raised at the stage the applicant has filed his petition under Section 9(2) of the 2015 Act.