824 SUPR[2E0M23E] C10O SU.RCT.R R. E8P2O4 R: T2S023 INSC 6[200923] 10 S.C.R. A TRUST ESTATE KHIMJI KESHAWJI & ANR. v. THE KOLKATA MUNICIPAL CORPORATION & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 4230 of 2023) B JULY 05, 2023 [B. R. GAVAI AND VIKRAM NATH, JJ.] Kolkata Municipal Corporation Act, 1980 – s. 238 and s.271 – Validity of notice under – A Notice was issued to the apellant- owner (occupying ground and sixth floor) of the building consisting C ground plus six floors, which stated that appellant had contravened s. 238 of the Act by using water supplied for domestic purpose, for purpose other than domestic – It also stated that s. 271 prohibits use of water supply for domestic purpose for any other purpose – High Court held notice to be valid – On appeal, held: Impugned D notice does not mention any reason or specific violation committed by the appellant – Law is settled that where notice is vague and non-speaking, the same deserve to be quashed – As per the scheme of the Act, Sub-section 4 to s.272 starts with a non-obstante clause and it states that wholesome water may be used in lieu of unfiltered water for non-domestic purposes where supply of unfiltered water E is not available – In the instant case, it is admitted position that there was no supply of unfiltered water in the locality/area where building in question was situated – As such, the filtered water or the wholesome water could be used for purposes other than domestic by the owner/occupier of the building in question – Thus, it cannot F be said that there was any violation of s.238 or 271 of the Act – Further, KMC had issued trade licenses to all the occupiers of the 1st to 5th Floor of the building – The statute primarily lays down the liability on the occupier of the building to pay water charges – It was therefore mandatory for the Corporation to first give notice to the occupiers and make an attempt to recover the charges from G them – However, KMC having failed to initiate any proceedings against the occupiers committed serious error in initiating the proceedings only against the owner – Therefore, the impugned notices are quashed. H 824 TRUST ESTATE KHIMJI KESHAWJI & ANR. v. THE KOLKATA 825 MUNICIPAL CORPORATION & ORS. Allowing the appeal, the Court A Held : 1. Sub-Section 4 of Section 272 of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation Act, 1980 starts with a non-obstante clause and it states that wholesome water may be used in lieu of unfiltered water for non-domestic purposes where supply of unfiltered water is not available. In the present case, it is admitted position that B there is no supply of unfiltered water in the locality/area where building in question is situated. As such, the filtered water or the wholesome water could be used for purposes other than domestic by the owner/occupier of the building in question. Thus, it cannot be said that there was any violation of Section 238 or 271 of the C Act.