The expression “dealer” is defined in Section 2(b) of the Central Sales Tax Act and, accordingly, under D the respective State Acts to mean any person who carries on (whether regularly or otherwise) the business of buying, selling, supplying or distributing goods, directly or indirectly, for cash or for deferred payment, or for commission, remuneration or other valuable consideration. [Para 43][1333-C-D] E 13. The expression “valuable consideration” is not defined either under the Central Sales Tax or under the respective State Acts under consideration. “Price” is the amount of consideration which a seller charges the buyer for parting with the title to the goods. The price would include not only the price of the goods but also the expenditure incurred for transporting the goods, F duties levied, etc. The entire amount of consideration including the sales tax component which the purchaser pays, constitutes the price of goods. The expression “price” under the Sale of Goods Act is limited to a money consideration, cash or deferred payment but under the definition of “sale” under the Sales Tax G legislations, the expression used is not just cash or deferred payment but also a valuable consideration. The expression valuable consideration has a wider connotation but must be read ejusdem generis to cash and deferred payment. The expression valuable consideration takes colour from the preceding H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER 1275 OF COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. expressions cash or deferred payment, therefore, it means A payment in monetary terms i.e. in the nature of cash or deferred payment such as cheque, bank draft, promissory note, etc. Cash and deferred payment are relatable to the expression “money”. In other words, a transaction could amount to a sale if consideration is in terms of money. Thus, money is a genus of B which cash or deferred payment in the form of cheque, bank draft, promissory note, etc. are species. Money has a wider connotation to include a valuable consideration in the form of money or a payment in monetary terms which is the price for the transfer of property paid. Thus, a valuable consideration is also a species of money which is the consideration for the transfer of goods under C the sales tax enactments. [Para 44][1333-E-H; 1334-A-B] 14. When the dealer uses one of the spare parts from his stock for the replacement of a defective part in an automobile under a warranty, he is given a monetary benefit in the form of a credit note. A perusal of the definition of “credit note” from D various dictionaries and Law Lexicons would clearly indicate that a credit note issued by a manufacturer in favour of a dealer is a valuable consideration within the meaning of the definition of “sale” under both, Central Sales Tax Act as well as the respective State enactments under consideration. The object and purpose E of including the expression valuable consideration within the definition of sale apart from cash and deferred payment is to enlarge the scope of the expression price than what is enunciated under the Sale of Goods Act which is an enactment of 1930.