E 3.6 It is further contended that as such the present case is squarely covered by the decision of this Court in the case of Mahaveer Kumar Jain v. CIT, Jaipur, reported in (2018) 6 SCC 527, wherein this Court considered a question whether the appellant, who was a resident of Rajasthan and had won a lottery from Sikkim during the Assessment Year 1986-87 was liable to be taxed in India where Income Tax Act, F 1961 was in force, notwithstanding that the said income had accrued or arisen to him at a place where Income Tax Act, 1961 was not in force, i.e., Sikkim, more particularly when the said income had already been taxed in the State of Sikkim under the Sikkim Manual, 1948. Reliance is placed on certain observations made in paragraphs 13 to 15 of the said G decision. 3.7 It is next submitted that the assessee companies filed income tax returns before the appropriate authority as per Sikkim Manual, 1948 and a demand was raised by the said authority, which was paid. That the fact that the appropriate Income Tax Authority under the Sikkim Manual, H 466 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 1948 accepted the income tax returns filed by the assessee companies and raised demand based on such returns establish the bona fides of the assessee companies beyond reproach. Therefore, the allegation that the assessee companies have no real business in Sikkim is absolutely baseless, unfounded and untenable. B 3.8 Making above submissions, it is urged that the Income Tax Act, 1961 shall not be made applicableso far as the assessee companies are concerned for the relevant assessment years. 3.9 It is further submitted that as such the ACIT, Delhi had no territorial jurisdiction to assess the assessee companies and therefore C clearly exceeded in his jurisdiction in issuing notices under section 148 of the Act on the assumption that the assessee companies were carrying on business in India, on the basis of availability of books of accounts of the assessee companies at the premises of the Chartered Accountant of the assessee companies, i.e., M/s Rattan Gupta & Co. It is submitted that such an approach is wholly untenable in law, besides being perverse. D 3.10 It is further submitted that as observed and held by this Court in the cases of Ajay Kumar v. State of Uttarakhand, 2021 SCC OnLine SC 48 and Kiran Singh v. Chaman Paswan, AIR 1954 SC 340, an passed by the authority without jurisdiction is a nullity. 3.11 It is contended that the exercise of territorial jurisdiction by E CIT, Delhi is also wholly untenable in law in view of section 6(3) of the Act as it was at the relevant point of time. That Mr. Rattan Gupta was a practising Chartered Accountant and providing accounting and auditing services to several corporates and individuals and could have never been the “head and brain” behind the assessee companies. F 3.12 It is further contended that even otherwise the re-assessment was impermissible in law in the absence of any original s passed under section 143(3) of the Act.