G. The standard of determination at the referral stage – Sections 8 and 11 154. The last but not the least issue that arises for our consideration pertains to the stage of applicability of the group of companies doctrine under the Arbitration Act. In Cox and Kings (supra), Chief Justice Ramana observed that there is a need to have a relook at the scope of judicial reference at the stage of Sections 8 and 11 of the Arbitration Act considering the ambit of the unamended Section 2(1)(h). Section 5 of the Arbitration Act provides that “no judicial authority shall intervene except where so provided in this Part.” The context for “so provided” is contained in Sections 8 and 11 which mandate the courts to refer the parties to arbitration. Under Section 8, the court has to “prima facie” ascertain the existence of a valid arbitration agreement before referring the parties to arbitration. Section 11 empowers the Supreme Court and High Courts to appoint arbitrators on the failure of the parties to comply with the agreed arbitration procedure. Section 11 could be invoked in situation where a dispute has arisen and one of the parties to 710 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. the arbitration agreement unsuccessfully invoked the agreed procedure for the appointment of an arbitrator due to the non-cooperation of the other party. 155. In SBP & Co v. Patel Engineering Ltd,122 a seven-Judge Bench of this Court was called upon to determine the scope of the powers of the Chief Justice or their designate under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act. It was held that the Chief Justice or the designated judge will have the powers to determine the jurisdiction to entertain the request, the existence of a valid arbitration agreement, the existence of a live claim, the existence of the condition for the exercise of their powers, and the qualifications of the arbitrators. Furthermore, it was held that the Chief Justice has to decide whether there is an arbitration agreement as defined under the Arbitration Act and whether the person who has made a request is party to such an agreement. 156. In 2015, the Arbitration Act was amended to insert Section 11(6-A). The said provision reads as follows: “(6A) The Supreme Court, or as the case may be, the High Court, while considering any application under sub-section (4) or sub-section (5) or (sub-section (6), shall, notwithstanding any , decree, or of any Court, confine to the examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement.” By virtue of non-obstante clause, Section 11(6A) has set out a new position, which takes away the basis of the position laid down in Patel Engineering (supra). In 2019, the Parliament passed the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2019 omitting Section 11(6-A). However, the amendment to Section 11(6-A) is yet to be notified. Till such time, Section 11 as amended in 2015 will continue to remain in force. 157. When deciding the referral issue, the scope of reference under both Sections 8 and 11 is limited.