Thus, in view of the aforesaid discussion, we reject the submission canvassed on behalf of the respondent No. 1 as regards the interpretation of the Clause 34 of the Bye-Laws. In this context, we may only say that the governing body of the Council is not obliged to take a decision in tune with the decision of the Ministry of AYUSH regarding superannuation more particularly having made it clear that enhancement of retirement age is not applicable to an autonomous body like CCRAS. 35. We are also not impressed by the submission canvassed on behalf of the respondent No. 1 that as the terms and conditions of the services of the employees of the Council on all other aspects like the Provident Fund/ GPF, Pension, Gratuity, Leave Rules, Scales of Pay, Conduct Rules and other conditions of services are the same as applicable to the employees of the Central Government as set out in Clauses 31, 32, 33, 42, 44 and 47 respectively of the Bye-Laws, the matter of age of superannuation of the respondent No. 1 should not be treated diff erently. What should be the age of superannuation is a matter of policy. It is not within the domain of the court to legislate. It is only if a policy decision or a notifi cation is arbitrary it may invite the frowns of Article 14 of the Constitution. In any case, the question of age of retirement stands on a diff erent footing from the service conditions relating to pay and allowances and revision of pay. 36. We may at this stage, refer to the following decision in Tamil Nadu Education Department Ministerial and General Subordinate Services 766 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. Association and Others v. State of Tamil Nadu and Others reported in (1980) 3 SCC 97 : [ SCC pp. 99 SCC (L&S) p. 296, para 7] “7. In Service Jurisprudence integration is a complicated administrative problem where, in doing broad justice to many, some bruise to a few cannot be ruled out. Some play in the joints, even some wobbling, must be left to government without fussy forensic monitoring, since the administration has been entrusted by the Constitution to the executive, not to the court. All life, including administrative life, involves experiment, trial and error, but within the leading strings of fundamental rights, and, absent unconstitutional ‘excesses’, judicial correction is not right. …..” 37. It is too late in the day for the respondent No. 1 to raise all such issues including infringement of Article 14 of the Constitution on the ground of artifi cial distinction between the Research Assistant and AYUSH Doctors. The respondent No. 1 knew from day one i.e., from the date of his appointment that he was being appointed as a Research Assistant. His service conditions and mode of recruitment are diff erent compared to the AYUSH Doctors. It is a diff erent thing that he might have treated the patients but that by itself would not entitle him to claim that his age of superannuation should be at par with the AYUSH Doctors.