Deputy Commissioner was granted only on 06.12.1948 which is more than a year later than the Sale Deed. On the contrary, as per the recitals contained in the Sale Deed, it E is mentioned that due permission was obtained and the consequent mutation was effected in the office of Superintendent, Tarai and Bhabar, Nainital before its execution. Hence, this above- mentioned recital leads to immense confusion as to whether any approval was ever granted at the first instance. Even if such F approval was granted, no indication is given as such to actually who granted the approval and if it is assumed that a subordinate authority granted the approval, no statutory instrument is produced to highlight whether this delegation was possible or not. The subordinate courts as well as the High Court have merely relied on the dated 07.08.1980 passed by the Commissioner, G Kumaon to come to a sweeping conclusion that a valid approval existed in favor of the predecessor of the respondents despite glaring contradictions which were on the face of the record. Consequently, on this issue of breach of the conditions of the 1924 Lease Deed, this Court fails to arrive at a decisive conclusion H as neither the original record nor its true copies have been placed STATE OF UTTARAKHAND AND ANR. v. RAVI KUMAR 939 (DECEASED) THROUGH LRS AND OTHERS on record of this Court or the High Court as well as the other A forums. Finally, while the respondents argued that until there existed an express refusal by the Deputy Commissioner for sale of leasehold rights, the sale was valid especially in light of post facto approval granted by the Deputy Commissioner as has been recorded in dated 07.08.1980 passed by the B Commissioner. [Paras 43-45][968-H; 969-A-F] 1.5 It is settled law that any contractual term or condition is to be interpreted as per the natural and ordinary meaning appended to the language used by the parties unless the same leads to absurdity. In the present case, condition (e) of the 1924 C lease deed makes it clear that no rights in the Suit Land are allowed to be transferred or created “without the written approval of the Deputy Commissioner of Nainital” which bears the crystal clear requirement of the prior assent needed from the Deputy Commissioner. This interpretation is also supported from the fact that leases under the Government Grants Act of 1985 are to D be strictly constructed as per the terms of the grant, regardless of any other provisions of the law. Even otherwise, the High Court and other authorities have proceeded on the premise of a valid approval. They are completely silent on whether the post facto approval could be granted and if so, who granted such approval. E Again, no records are produced and its not known whether any approval was ever actually granted and when or by whom. [Paras 46 and 48][970-F-G; 971-A, E-F] 1.6 A reasoned finding on both the nature of Sale Deed as well as whether the same was violative of conditions of the 1924 F Lease Deed goes to the heart of the present dispute, because of which the issue of determination of lease remains unanswered.