When B a child is born during the subsistence of lawful wedlock, it would mean that the parents had access to each other. Therefore, the Section speaks of “conclusive proof” of the legitimate birth of a child during the period of lawful wedlock. The latter part of the Section is with reference to proof of the C non-access of the parents of the child to each other. Thus, the presumption of legitimacy of the birth of the child is rebuttable by way of strong evidence to the contrary. The principle underlying Section 112 is to prevent an unwarranted enquiry as to the paternity of the child whose parents, at the relevant D time had “access” to each other. In other words, once a marriage is held to be valid, there is a strong presumption as to the children born from that wedlock as being legitimate. This presumption can be rebutted only by strong, clear and conclusive evidence to the contrary. Section 112 of the Evidence Act is based on the presumption of public morality and public policy vide Sham Lal vs. Sanjeev Kumar, (2009) 12 SCC 454. E Since Section 112 creates a presumption of legitimacy that a child born during the subsistence of a marriage is deemed to be legitimate, a burden is cast on the person who questions the legitimacy of the child. 8.2. Further, “access” or “non-access” does not mean actual co- habitation but means the “existence” or “non-existence” of opportunities F for sexual relationship. Section 112 refers to point of time of birth as the crucial aspect and not to the time of conception. The time of conception is relevant only to see whether the husband had or did not have access to the wife. Thus, birth during the continuance of marriage is “conclusive proof” of legitimacy unless “non-access” of the party who questions the G paternity of the child at the time the child could have been begotten is proved by the said party. 8.3. It is necessary in this context to note what is “conclusive proof” with reference to the proof of the legitimacy of the child, as stated in Section 112 of the Evidence Act. As to the meaning of “conclusive proof” reference may be made to Section 4 of the Evidence H APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 705 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Act, which provides that when one fact is declared to be conclusive A proof of another, proof of one fact, would automatically render the other fact as proved, unless contra evidence is led for the purpose of disproving the fact so proved. A conjoint reading of Section 112 of the Evidence Act, with the definition of “conclusive proof” under Section 4 thereof, makes it amply clear that a child proved to be born during a valid marriage B should be deemed to be a legitimate child except where it is shown that the parties to the marriage had no access to each other at any time when the child could have been begotten or within 280 days after the dissolution of the marriage and the mother remains unmarried, that fact is the conclusive proof that the child is the legitimate son of the man.