There were some major changes in the 2000 Act. The fi rst and foremost was the defi nition of juvenile itself. Section 2(k) defi ned the “juvenile” as follows: “(k) “juvenile” or “child” means a person who has not completed eighteenth year of age” The defi nition of “juvenile in confl ict with law” under Section 2(l), which stood amended1in 2006 is as follows: “(l) “juvenile in confl ict with law” means a juvenile who is alleged to have committed an off ence and has not completed eighteenth year of age as on the date of commission of such off ence” 1 Prior to the 2006 amendment, it reads as follows: (l) “juvenile in confl ict with law” means a juvenile who is alleged to have committed an off ence. (w.e.f. 22.08.2006) PAWAN KUMAR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 271 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] The 1986 Act made a distinction between a boy and a girl as to their claim of juvenility. In the case of boys, it was 16 years, whereas for girls it was 18 years. The 2000 Act, not only removed this distinction but also raised the age of juvenility from 16 years to 18 years. 21. The majority opinion of 4:1 in a Constitution Bench decision of this Court in the case of Pratap Singh v. State of Jharkhand and Another (2005) 3 SCC 551, held as follows: “(a) The reckoning date for the determination of the age of the juvenile is the date of the off ence and not the date when he is produced before the authority or in the court. (b) The 2000 Act would be applicable in a pending proceeding in any court/authority initiated under the 1986 Act and is pending when the 2000 Act came into force and the person had not completed 18 years of age as on 01.04.2001.” Subsequent to the decision in Pratap Singh (supra) certain amendments were made in the 2000 Act. Section 7A was introduced which reads as follows: “[7-A. Procedure to be followed when claim of juvenility is raised before any court.—(1) Whenever a claim of juvenility is raised before any court or a court is of the opinion that an accused person was a juvenile on the date of commission of the off ence, the court shall make an enquiry, take such evidence as may be necessary (but not an affi davit) so as to determine the age of such person, and shall record a fi nding whether the person is a juvenile or a child or not, stating his age as nearly as may be: Provided that a claim of juvenility may be raised before any court and it shall be recognised at any stage, even after fi nal disposal of the case, and such claim shall be determined in terms of the provisions contained in this Act and the rules made thereunder, even if the juvenile has ceased to be so on or before the date of commencement of this Act.