However, the submission on behalf of the HSIIDC and the State of Haryana that once with respect to the landowners/writ petitioners, the F possession of the land in question is already taken over and even the compensation has been paid/deposited, the acquisition/acquisition proceedings under the Act, 1894 is/are not required to be quashed and set aside. However, the said aspect is required to be considered by the High Court while considering the other issues on merits, more particularly challenge to the acquisition proceedings under the Act, 1894. G 7. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, all the civil appeals as per para 3 of this , arising out of the impugned common s and s passed by the High Court of Punjab and Haryana at Chandigarh in CWP No. 4015/2006 and other allied writ petitions are allowed. The impugned (s) and (s) passed H HARYANA STATE INDUSTRIAL AND INFR. DEV. CORP. LTD. (HSIIDC) v. 389 M/S HONEYWELL INTL. (INDIA) PVT. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] by the High Court declaring that the acquisition with respect to the lands A in question is deemed to have lapsed under Section 24(2) of the Act, 2013 is/are hereby quashed and set aside. However, the matters are remitted back to the High Court to decide and dispose of the main writ petitions afresh in accordance with law and on their own merits on other issues except the applicability of Section 24(2) of the Act, 2013. We B request the High Court to finally decide and dispose of the writ petitions on remand at the earliest and preferably within a period of nine months from the date of receipt of the present . All contentions and defences which are available to the respective parties are kept open to be considered by the High Court in accordance with law and on their own merits (except the submission of applicability of Section 24(2) of the C Act, 2013). 8. Insofar as civil appeals mentioned at para 4 of this are concerned, all these appeals are allowed. The impugned s and s passed by the High Court declaring that the acquisition with respect to the lands in question are deemed to have lapsed under section D 24(2) of the Act, 2013 are hereby quashed and set aside. There shall not be deemed lapse of acquisition in those cases also as observed and held by the High Court. 9. The present appeals stand disposed of in terms of the above. E Divya Pandey Appeals disposed of. (Assisted by : Abhishek Agnihotri and Roopanshi Virang, LCRAs) F G H