A the concurrence of the Finance Department and cannot be finalized merely at the level of the Minister in charge…” 83. Learned Senior Counsel, Mr. Nadkarni, has emphasized on Schedule I of the Rules of Business, under which the matters related to RIICO would be addressed by the Industries Department. By extension, B the Minister for Industries would be the nodal authority responsible for finalizing decisions that impact RIICO’s functioning. Since the Minister for Industries was not included in the Cabinet Committee and was not involved while taking the final decision, his absence vitiates the decision taken on 03.08.2019. C 84. The relevant portions of the Rules of Business relief upon by Respondent No.1 are as follows: “PART-II ALLOCATION AND DISPOSAL OF BUSINESS … 4. The Business of the Government shall be transacted in the D Secretariat Departments specified in the First Schedule and shall be classified and distributed between those departments as laid down therein. … E 7. The Council shall be collectively responsible for all advice tendered to the Governor and also for all executive s issued in the name of the Governor in accordance with these Rules, whether such advice is tendered or such s are authorised by an individual minister on a matter appertaining to his portfolio or as a result of discussion at a meeting of the Council or a sub- F committee thereof or howsoever otherwise. 9. Without prejudice to the provisions of Rule 7, the minister-in- charge or the minister of State-in-charge of a department, shall be primarily responsible for the disposal of the business pertaining to that Department.” G 85. We are, however, unable to agree with the contentions placed by Respondent No. 1. It appears to us that the Rules of Business have been substantially complied with. The entire Cabinet was called on 29.12.2018 to consider various decisions taken by RIICO during the previous regime. Among these were the supplementary leases and H BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 301 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] connected permissions to Respondent No. 1 by RIICO. The Cabinet, A which included the Minister for Industries, then proceeded to constitute three sub-committees to investigate these alleged irregularities, along with an inter-departmental committee. The Minister for Industries is not expected to look into each individual matter pertaining to RIICO as this would render the entire working of government unviable. The intention B behind Article 166(3) under which the Rules of Business are framed, have been succinctly set out by this Court in Gulabrao Keshavrao Patil & Ors. v. State of Gujarat 24: “7…Article 166(1) and (2) expressly envisage authentication of all the executive action and shall be expressed to be taken C in the name of the Governor and shall be authenticated in such manner specified in the rules made by the Governor. Under Article 166(3), the Governor is authorised to make the rules for the more convenient transaction of the business of the Government of the State, and for the allocation among Ministers of the said business insofar as it is not a business D with respect to which the Governor is by or under the Constitution required to act in his discretion...” 86.