The diff ering degrees of political development and maturity of various parts of the country, may not justify standards based on mathematical accuracy. Articles 371-A a special provision in respect of State of Nagaland, 239-A and 240 illustrate the permissible areas and degrees 111 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. of departure. The systemic defi ciencies in the plenitude of the doctrine of full and eff ective representation has not been understood in the constitutional philosophy as derogating from the democratic principle. Indeed, the argument in the case, in the perspective, is really one of violation of the equality principle rather than of the democratic principle. The inequalities in representation in the present case are an inheritance and compulsion from the past. Historical considerations have justifi ed a diff erential treatment.” 85. The Court held that the special provision under Section 371F(f) is based on historical considerations and compulsions peculiar to the State of Sikkim and based on the conditions that led to the admission of the State into the Union of India. The Court noted: “128. From 1975 and onwards, when the impugned provisions came to be enacted, Sikkim has been emerging from a political society and monarchical system into the mainstream of a democratic way of life and an industrial civilisation. The process and pace of this political transformation is necessarily reliant on its institutions of the past. Mere existence of a Constitution, by itself, does not ensure constitutionalism or a constitutional culture. It is the political maturity and traditions of a people that import meaning to a Constitution which otherwise merely embodies political hopes and ideals. The provisions of clause (f) of Article 371-F and the consequent changes in the electoral laws were intended to recognise and accommodate the pace of the growth of the political institutions of Sikkim and to make the transition gradual and peaceful and to prevent dominance of one section of the population over another on the basis of ethnic loyalties and identities. These adjustments and accommodations refl ect political expediencies for the maintenance of social equilibrium. The political and social maturity and economic development might in course of time enable the people of Sikkim to transcend and submerge the ethnic apprehensions and imbalances and might in future — one hopes sooner — usher in a more egalitarian dispensation. Indeed, the impugned provisions, in their very nature, contemplate and provide for a transitional phase in the political evolution of Sikkim and are thereby essentially transitional in character.” PUBLIC INTEREST COMMITTEE FOR SCHEDULING SPECIFIC 1111 AREAS v. UOI [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 86. The Court upheld the provision on the ground that Parliament had considered it necessary “in the admission of a strategic b State into the Union”. 87. It was specifi cally argued in RC Poudyal that (i) Article 371F(f) would require parity between all sections of the State’s population and not only Bhutias and Lepchas and (ii) since the Bhutias and Lepchas, in addition to being sections covered under Article 371F(f), are also Scheduled Tribes and are governed by the formula stipulated under Article 332(3).