In light of the aforesaid discussion, the petitions challenging the vires of the Assam Community Professional (Registration and Competency) Act, 2015 i.e., Transferred Case (C) Nos. 24 and 25 of 2018 are liable to be dismissed, and are accordingly dismissed. The said C Act has been enacted with a view to restore the position of the diploma holders in medicine and to give them continuity in service. The said Act has been enacted by a valid legislative exercise, and does not transgress any other constitutional limitation and in accordance with Entry 25 of List III of the Seventh Schedule and is not in conflict with the IMC Act, D 1956 and the rules and regulations made thereunder as per Entry 66 of List I of the Seventh Schedule. 23. Before parting with this case, it is necessary to advert to the reasoning of the Division Bench of the High Court which has held in paragraph 15 of its dated 30.10.2014 that the Central Legislation, E namely, the IMC Act, 1956, fully covers the field and therefore, the impugned legislation passed by the Assam State Legislature concerning the Diploma Course in Allopathic Medicine was null and void. In this context, Article 254 of the Constitution has been adverted to and it has been observed that, on account of repugnancy and there being no Presidential assent as required under Article 254, the Assam Act is null F and void. 24. We do not think the doctrine of repugnancy governing Article 254 of the Constitution of India, would apply in the instant case. Although, Entry 25 of List III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India is in the Concurrent List which gives powers to both the Union as well G as the State Legislatures to pass laws on the subject of ‘Education’, it is significant to note that any such law to be made by the State Legislature is subject to, inter alia, Entry 66 of List I or the Union List of the Seventh Schedule. Hence, when there is a direct conflict between a State Law and the Union Law in the matter of coordination and determination of standards in higher education (Entry 66 of List I) such H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 1015 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] as in medical education, concerning allopathic medicine or modern A medicine, as is in the instant case, where the State Law is in direct conflict with the Union law, the State Law cannot have any validity as the State Legislature does not possess legislative competence. In other words, the Assam Act and Rules and Regulations made under the said Act, being in conflict with the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (IMC B Act, 1956) and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder, the doctrine of repugnancy as such would not apply within the meaning of Article 254 of the Constitution. The finding with regard to the constitutionality of the Assam Act of 2015 is limited to holding it non-repugnant with the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956.