Reliance was placed on Section 3 of the BR Act, 1949 as it stood earlier which stated that the said Act would not apply, inter alia, to (a) a primary agricultural credit society; (b) a co- operative land mortgage bank; and (c) any other co-operative society, except in the manner and to the extent specifi ed in Part V. It was submitted that the appellant is a co-operative credit society engaged in providing credit facilities to its members and its members are other co-operative societies which are in the nature of primary societies. The appellant is not carrying on the business of banking within the meaning of Section 80P(2)(a)(i) of the Act. That only a co-operative society which is engaged in the business of banking and is a co-operative bank within the meaning of Part V of the BR Act, 1949 would come within the scope of the exclusion under sub-section (4) of Section 80P of the Act. 10.5. In this context, our attention was drawn to Section 56(o) of the BR Act, 1949 which states that under Section 22, no co-operative society shall carry out banking business in India unless it is a co-operative bank and holds a licence issued in that behalf by the Reserve Bank. That in the instant case, the appellant does not hold any licence as per Section 22 of the BR Act, 1949 and in fact such a licence is not required for the appellant to conduct its business as the appellant is not conducting banking business within the meaning of BR Act, 1949. Therefore, the appellant bank does KSCARDB v. THE ASSESSING OFFICER, TRIVANDRUM 329 AND ORS. [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] not come under the provisions of Chapter V of the BR Act, 1949. It was submitted that the Reserve Bank of India reports and the RTI replies categorically indicate that the appellant is not included under the scope of the provisions of the RBI Act. 10.6. In this regard, learned senior counsel, Sri Krishnan Venugopal, took us through various documents appended to the paper book in to buttress his submission that appellant is not a co-operative bank within the meaning of Chapter V of the BR Act, 1949. 10.7. It was next contended that the of this Court in Mavilayi Service Co-operative Bank Limited vs. Commissioner of Income Tax, Calicut, (2021) 7 SCC 90 (“Mavilayi Service Co-operative Bank”) squarely applies to the case of the appellant inasmuch as, in the said , the touchstone, on the basis of which an entity could be considered to be a co- operative bank or not within the meaning of provision of BR Act, 1949, has been elucidated. Learned senior counsel urged that impugned s may be set aside by applying the ratio of the in Mavilayi Service Co- operative Bank. That such an approach has been adopted by the Assessing Offi cer as per the remand report. 10.8. Per contra, learned ASG, N. Venkataraman, appearing for the respondents, at the outset, vehemently contended that the appellant is “a co- operative bank” and not simply a land mortgage bank.