He submitted that only the laws made under the Constitution of India in exercise of power under the Fifth Schedule will apply to the Scheduled Areas. He submitted that any law made by the State or the Central Legislature in its application to E the Scheduled Area will be in derogation of the provisions of Article 244 of the Constitution of India and therefore, such laws are void. 4. He submitted that the Hon’ble Governor of the State must first decide which Acts of the Parliament or the State Legislature should apply to Scheduled Areas of the State. After satisfying himself that a F particular enactment needs to be applied to a particular Scheduled Area, he must issue a notification making applicable the law to the Scheduled Area. He submitted that unless a specific notification is issued by the Hon’ble Governor clearly incorporating the title and other particulars of every Act of the Parliament and the State Legislature, which will be G applied to the Scheduled Area, no Act of Parliament or State Legislature is applicable to a Scheduled Area. 5. Inviting our attention to the Fundamental Rights guaranteed under sub-clause (e) of Clause (1) of Article 19 of the Constitution of India, he submitted that what prevails in the Scheduled Areas is the law made in accordance with Clause 5 of the Fifth Schedule. H 378 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 6. The learned counsel relied upon the decisions of the Federal Court in the case of Raja Bahadur Kamakshya Narain Singh of Ramgarh v. Commissioner of Income Tax Bihar1 and in the case of Chatturam v. Commissioner of Income Tax2 in support of the interpretation made by him of sub-clause (1) of Clause 5 of the Fifth Schedule. In the statement of case, the appellant has submitted that as B the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 is not notified by the Hon’ble Governor, the said law is not applicable to the Scheduled Area. We have also heard the learned counsel appearing for the respondents. OUR VIEW C 7. The first question to be answered by this Court is whether the Central and the State Acts can apply to a Scheduled Area unless a specific notification making the said Acts applicable to the Scheduled Area is issued by the Hon’ble Governor. Clause 5 of the Fifth Schedule reads thus: “5. Law applicable to Scheduled Areas. — (1) Notwithstanding D anything in this Constitution, the Governor may by public notification direct that any particular Act of Parliament or of the Legislature of the State shall not apply to a Scheduled Area or any part thereof in the State or shall apply to a Scheduled Area or any part thereof in the State subject to E such exceptions and modifications as he may specify in the notification and any direction given under this sub- paragraph may be given so as to have retrospective effect. (2) The Governor may make regulations for the peace and good government of any area in a State which is for the time being a F Scheduled Area.