A claimed by the applicant with the person in whose favour the caste validity certificate has been issued. If, on the basis of the report of the Vigilance Cell, the Scrutiny Committee is satisfied that the person in whose favour caste validity certificate has been issued is a blood relative of the applicant and lawful enquiry has been conducted before issuing the validity certificate, the Scrutiny B Committee will have to issue validity certificate even if the applicant does not satisfy the affinity test. [Para 23][1125-C-G] AFFINITY TEST 4. The Vigilance Cell, while conducting an affinity test, C verifies the knowledge of the applicant about deities of the community, customs, rituals, mode of marriage, death ceremonies etc. in respect of that particular Scheduled Tribe. By its very nature, such an affinity test can never be conclusive. If the applicant has stayed in bigger urban areas along with his family for decades or if his family has stayed in such urban areas for D decades, the applicant may not have knowledge of the aforesaid facts. It is true that the Vigilance Cell can also question the parents of the applicant. But in a given case, even the parents may be unaware for the reason that for several years they have been staying in bigger urban areas. On the other hand, a person E may not belong to the particular tribe, but he may have a good knowledge about the aforesaid aspects. Therefore, the learned senior counsel, is right when he submitted that the affinity test cannot be applied as a litmus test. This Court may note here that question of conduct of the affinity test arises only in those cases where the Scrutiny Committee is not satisfied with the material F produced by the applicant. [Para 25][1126-E-G] WHETHER CASTE SCRUTINY COMMITTEE PERFORMS QUASI-JUDICIAL FUNCTION 5. On a conjoint reading of the 2000 Act as well as ST and SC Rules framed thereunder, it is impossible to conclude that G the Scrutiny Committee discharges only administrative functions. The Scrutiny Committee under the 2000 Act has been entrusted with various powers of the Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. The powers include a power to enforce the attendance of any witness, to receive evidence on affidavits, to H MAH. ADIWASI THAKUR JAMAT SWARAKSHAN SAMITI v. 1105 THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA issue commissions for the examination of witnesses or documents A etc. The scheme of the 2000 Act and both SC and ST Rules provides for the Scrutiny Committee holding an enquiry on the caste claim of the applicant, if necessary, after examining the applicant on oath, recording evidence of witnesses and calling for documents and records etc. The Scrutiny Committee is B expected to record reasons for granting and rejecting the prayer for issue of caste validity certificates. Thus, the Scrutiny Committee has all the trappings of a quasi-judicial authority. [Para 28][1128-C-F] DECISIONS IN THE CASES OF VIJAKUMAR & C ANAND 6. In view of the fact that the 2000 Act and Rules were not considered, the decision in the case of Vijakumar is certainly not a binding precedent for the proposition that in every case, the Scrutiny Committee is required to take recourse to the affinity D test by referring the case to the Vigilance Cell.