No. 26525 of 2009 and W.P. Nos. 221 & 7165 of 2010 T. VALSAN (D) THR. LRS. & ORS. v. K. KANAGARAJ & ORS. 461 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] Electricity Department, who were affected by the but were not A impleaded as a party before the CAT. Arguments Before the High Court 9.In the proceedings before the High Court, the two parties relied upon the aforesaid two s – the Appellants on Shailendra Dania B & Ors.5 case while the Respondents on D. Stephen Joseph6 case. Shailendra Dania & Ors.7 case is undisputedly a latter and pertains to a different Rule, albeit it is stated to be almost similar, while D. Stephen Joseph8 case deals with the very same Rules, in question, as in the present case. The submission of the Respondents was that in the Rules in question, there is nothing stipulated that the experience gained C after the acquisition of the Degree in Electricity Engineering was alone to be considered. 10.The High Court held in favour of the Respondents by allowing the writ petition while relying on the in D. Stephen Joseph9 case. In this behalf, the in M.B. Joshi v. Satish Kumar D Pandey10 was also relied upon by the High Court, which had been cited in D. Stephen Joseph11case qua the aspect of interpretation of service rules. The said case opined that when a Rule is quite specific, it would not be proper to count the experience only from the date of acquisition of the superior educational qualification because such an interpretation E will violate the purpose to incentivise the employee to acquire higher education. The relevant past practice followed by the Department being to the same effect, the practice of considering the tenure of a Junior Engineer as a whole was said to have acquired the status of a Rule of the department. Simultaneously, it was also observed that since the very Rule, in question, had been interpreted by this Court, it was not open for F the CAT to have relied upon the decision qua some other Rules. In the context of the two s of the Supreme Court so discussed, it was observed that Shailendra Dania & Ors.12case, being the latter 5 (supra) G 6 (supra) 7 (supra) 8 (supra) 9 (supra) 10 (1993) Supp. (2) SCC 419 11 (supra) 12 (supra) H 462 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A of three-Judges, had distinguished itself from the earlier in D. Stephen Joseph13 case, being the of two-judges, on the true interpretation of that Rule, in question. 11. The aforesaid resulted in the Special Leave Petition being filed before this Court. B Initial Proceedings Before this Court 12. The two-Judges Bench of this Court, in terms of the dated 30.01.2018, referred the issue to be considered by a larger Bench. While making the reference, the two-Judges Bench opined that D. Stephen Joseph14case apparently was not reflecting the correct opinion C as while construing almost identical Rules, a larger Bench of three-Judges had opined to the contrary in Shailendra Dania & Ors.15 case as also in K.K.