Chest - Fractures on 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th ribs on both sides. Lungs - Contusion of both lungs on the anterior surface. Pleural cavity contained black clotted blood. Heart - Both the chambers of heart were empty. Cause of death - Shock due to injuries in the brain and lungs. Duration: Time since death is 24 to 48 hours. 3. The prosecution examined as many as 15 witnesses. They were broadly categorized by the trial court into three categories: - (i) eye-witnesses of the incident; (ii) witnesses who reached the spot on getting information about the incident; and (iii) witnesses who proved proceedings relating to investigation, medical examination, inquest, seizure memos, preparation of site plan, etc. 4. The fi rst category of witnesses were: PW-1 (Kanhaiya Lal); PW-2 (Sitaram); PW-3 (Mohanlal); and PW-6 (Ganesh). Another witness, namely, PW-4 (Ramanand), who was set up as a person who arrived at the spot on receipt of information of the incident, during his deposition, portrayed himself as an eye-witness of the incident. 5. Amongst the aforesaid category of witnesses, PW-1 was declared hostile. When he was confronted with his previous statement recorded under section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (in short, “the Code”) he stated that the police had forcibly taken his statement though he had not witnessed the incident. Consequently, the trial court found his testimony of no benefi t to the prosecution. PW-3 was discarded by the trial court as unreliable because he was found inconsistent with his statement made during 142 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. the course of investigation. PW-4, who for the fi rst time during examination in Court professed himself to be an eye-witness, was also found not reliable as he too was inconsistent with his previous statement recorded during the course of investigation. Thus, only two eyewitnesses of the incident, namely, PW-2 and PW-6, were discussed in some detail by the trial court. 6. The trial court noticed that though PW-2 (Sitaram) supported the prosecution case as against accused Harilal but he did not name the other two accused, namely, Anshram and Parasram. However, PW-6 who inculpated all the three accused was found wholly reliable by the trial court. Therefore, by placing reliance on his testimony, the trial court convicted all the three accused. While doing so, the trial court found the testimony of PW-6 duly corroborated by medical evidence as also by the circumstance of discovery of blood-stained lathi and clothes at the instance of the accused. 7. Aggrieved by their conviction, three separate appeals were fi led by each of the three accused. Criminal Appeal No. 866 of 1991, which was preferred by Anshram, stood abated consequent to his death during pendency of the appeal. Whereas, the other two appeals, namely, Criminal Appeal Nos. 864 of 1991 and 865 of 1991, fi led by the present set of appellants were dismissed by the High Court by the impugned and . 8. We have heard Shri D.N. Goburdhun, learned senior counsel, for the appellants; and Ms. Prachi Mishra, Additional Advocate General, for the State of Chhattisgarh.