It was also the case on behalf of the appellant that the possession was handed over to the DDA after preparing possession proceedings on the spot. It was also the case on behalf of the appellant/LAC that the G original writ petitioner is not the recorded owner and the recorded owner never came forward to receive any compensation and hence the same is lying unpaid. Despite the above and even after observing that the land in question was taken over thereafter relying upon the decision of this Court in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation and Anr. Vs. H GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI & ANR. v. BHAGRATI & ANR. 679 [M. R. SHAH, J.] Harakchand Misirimal Solanki and Ors., (2014) 3 SCC 183, the A High Court has erred in keeping the question of title of the subject land open to be decided in the appropriate court of jurisdiction, has declared that the acquisition with respect to the land in question is deemed to have lapsed when the compensation had not been paid. 2.1 From the aforesaid, it appears that the title with respect to the B land in question in favour of the original writ petitioner was yet to be established. The original petitioner was not the recorded owner. The recorded owner never came forward to receive the compensation and therefore the same was lying unpaid. Therefore, unless and until the right and title of the original writ petitioner was established the High C Court has materially erred in entertaining the writ petition. 2.2 Even otherwise on merits also the impugned and passed by the High Court is unsustainable. While passing the impugned and the High Court has heavily relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation and D Anr. (supra), which has been subsequently specifically over-ruled by the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Indore Development Authority versus Manoharlal and others reported in (2020) 8 SCC 129. In paragraphs 365 and 366, the Constitution Bench of this Court has observed and held as under:- E “365. Resultantly, the decision rendered in Pune Municipal Corpn. [Pune Municipal Corpn. v. Harakchand Misirimal Solanki, (2014) 3 SCC 183] is hereby overruled and all other decisions in which Pune Municipal Corpn. [Pune Municipal Corpn. v. Harakchand Misirimal Solanki, (2014) 3 SCC 183] has been followed, are also overruled. The decision in Sree F Balaji Nagar Residential Assn. [Sree Balaji Nagar Residential Assn. v. State of T.N., (2015) 3 SCC 353] cannot be said to be laying down good law, is overruled and other decisions following the same are also overruled. In Indore Development Authority v. Shailendra [(2018) 3 SCC 412], the aspect with respect to the proviso to Section 24(2) and whether “or” has to be read as “nor” or as “and” was not placed for consideration. G Therefore, that decision too cannot prevail, in the light of the discussion in the present . 366. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we answer the questions as under: H 680 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R.