D c. At the time of initiation of the selection process, the sealed envelopes of the Convenor and Members of the Committee were opened and fed into the computer for calculation and addition of marks, obtained in the interview with the weightage of academic marks as per the criteria framed E for the purpose. d. The basic data input of interview awards and correction in academic merit was received through a pen drive for consolidation and had been fed into the computer by the Chairman himself, and checked by another member of the F Board. e. The entire record of selection had been perused by the Board and was accordingly approved. f. Select List was prepared on the basis of total marks allocated for academic qualifications as well as marks G secured in the interview. 14.6. In light of the pertinent selection procedure that was followed, we are unable to hold that the same was mechanical or casual or suffered from irregularities which were so grave or arbitrary in nature so as to justify quashing the entire selection process. Further, we are unable to H 760 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A trace the requirement of individual rolls being signed and verified by the members of the Selection Board, to any statute or rule. Therefore, we cannot sustain the finding of the High Court that the entire selection process was vitiated by such irregularity. The High Court was not justified in quashing and setting aside the entire selection process, more so when sixty-four candidates including the appellants had been serving on the B said post for over a decade. Reliance in this regard may be placed on Trivedi Himanshu Ghanshyambhai, wherein it was held that merely because the records could not be produced since they were lost and not available, the appointment could not be cancelled. C 15. The next prong of the challenge relates to the competence of the expert in the Selection Board, Dr. Samina Farhat, Assistant Professor, Department of Pharmacology. The expert was a doctor by profession with a Post Graduate degree (MD) and Ph.D. in Pharmacology to her credit. Rule 9A of the 1992 Rules provides that the Chairman may if he D feels necessary appoint a specialist in the discipline in which appointment is to be made, as a member of the selection board. In the present case, it is the contention of the writ petitioners that a person with a qualification in the field of pharmacy would have been better suited on the panel. In to consider if there is any merit in this contention, it is necessary to E discuss the meaning of ‘pharmacology’ as juxtaposed with ‘pharmacy.’ 15.1. According to P. Ramanatha Aiyar’s Advanced Law Lexicon, 6th Edition, Vol. 3, ‘pharmacology’ is defined as, “the study of drugs. Applied in analyzing and identifying drugs submitted as evidence.” ‘Pharmacy’ is defined as “a branch of knowledge or trade; F the preparation and dispensing of drugs.” As per the Oxford Concise Medical Dictionary, 7th Edition, pharmacology is the science of the properties of drugs and their effects on the body.