The defence did not examine any witness nor did it lead any documentary evidence. 5. The Trial Court, after considering the material on record, came to the conclusion that the prosecution had proved beyond reasonable D doubt that it was the appellant who had committed the crime and accordingly convicted him for culpable homicide amounting to murder under section 302 IPC and awarded him sentence to undergo life imprisonment along with fine of Rs.5,000/-. The said conviction has been affirmed by the High Court. Hence, this appeal. E 6. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the original record also. 7. According to Ms. Anu Gupta, learned counsel for the appellant, both the Courts below committed serious error of law by recording conviction. They relied upon inadmissible evidence and at the same time F ignored the relevant admissible evidence. The witnesses of fact were not consistent and did not inspire confidence. The medical evidence did not support the prosecution story. There was no direct evidence of the commission of crime. The case was based on circumstantial and hearsay evidence. No motive had been set up by the prosecution either in the G First Information Report or the statements recorded during the investigation or even in the evidence led during trial. It was a case of false implication due to various factors elicited in the cross-examination. Learned counsel has taken us to the relevant evidence which shall be shortly discussed. It was thus submitted that the appellant deserves to be acquitted. H 764 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 8. On the other hand, Shri Sumeer Sodhi, learned counsel for the State of Chhattisgarh submitted that the prosecution had fully proved the commission of crime by cogent material. The defence could not disturb or shake the evidence of the prosecution witnesses despite availing the opportunity of cross-examination. There is no reason or justification to interfere with the concurrent findings recorded by both the Courts B below. Mr. Sodhi has also taken us to the relevant part of the evidence in to discredit the arguments and the evidence shown to us by the learned counsel for the appellant. He thus submitted that the appeal deserves dismissal. 9. PW-1 is the informant and uncle of the deceased. He claims to C be the first person to arrive at the scene of the crime. Before discussing his testimony, it would be appropriate to comment on the site plan prepared by the IO to show the location and the distance of the place where the incident took place and the house of the informant. In the site plan, the place of assault is shown with alphabet “A” which is in front of the D house of Chandu. On the other side of the lane, a little away and diagonally from the house of Chandu is the house of Vijay Kumar, the informant (PW-1) which has been marked by alphabet “C”. A little further away from the house of PW-1 is the house of deceased Jagat marked with alphabet “B”.