The respondent state, aggrieved by the award of the arbitrator, challenged it under Sections 30/33 of the Indian Arbitration Act (hereafter “the Act”), claiming that it was the result of legal misconduct. The trial court set aside the award; this impelled the contractor to approach the High Court, which rejected his appeal. Findings of the Court below 6. Both the trial court and the High Court held that the award was vitiated by the legal misconduct of the arbitrator under the old Arbitration Act6. The courts concluded that the claim was time-barred since the disputes in relation to the contract originally awarded in 1983 with the stipulation of the work being completed within eighteen months were no doubt extended with parties’ consent. It was only in 1991 that the claim for nomination of the arbitrator was made, which fi nally led the contractor to approach the Court under Section 8 of the Act in 1995. It was next held that the referring the disputes to arbitration [by the Civil Judge (Senior Division)] on 25.02.1997 (in Arb. M.A. 1/1995) were in relation to the works carried on by the contractor under the contract. The courts held that the award of amounts exceeded the terms of reference in respect of at least three items. Consequently, it could not be sustained. 7. It was held that the claims could not be pursued because the original contractor died and all legal representatives had not joined in the proceedings: there appeared to be inter se disputes amongst them. This fact 4 By dated 25.02.1997 in Arb MA 1/1995. 5 Dated 14.12.1997. 6 Indian Arbitration Act, 1940. M/S. S.D. SHINDE TR. PARTNER v. GOVT. OF 371 MAHARASHTRA AND ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] was not disclosed during arbitration proceedings, vitiating the award. It was also found that in terms of the contract, the claim had to be lodged within a particular time - within 30 days of the expiration of the defect liability period. In this regard, it was held that the claim was made much beyond that period of time and, therefore, contractually precluded. Contentions of the parties 8. Mr. Vinay Navare, learned senior counsel appearing for the contractor/appellant urged that the findings of the courts below are unsustainable. He submits fi rstly that as a matter of law, the fi nding with respect to the claims being time-barred in law is untenable; he relies upon the of this Court reported as Major (Retd.) Inder Singh Rekhi v Delhi Development Authority7. It was urged in this regard that the fi nal bill relating to the contract was furnished to the appellant’s predecessor on 14.12.1992. The contractor’s claim for the amounts made earlier; were rejected by the EE; the Superintending Engineer (hereafter “SE”) had been approached, yet no decision was taken for a while. It was in the light of these facts that the contractor sought for nomination of arbitrator on 21.01.1991. Thereafter, the fi nal bill was prepared on 14.12.1992. Therefore, the contractor preferred an application under Section 8 of the Act, which was ultimately decided on 25.02.1997.