This was essential to claim the customs duty exemption. In this regard, the Petitioner wrote to the Government of Madhya Pradesh to recommend the Petitioner’s case to the Commissioner of Customs on 5.5.2011 for nil custom duty on mining equipments.” H 18 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A “106.It is submitted that vide an Office Memorandum dated 17.06.2011, the Ministry of Power intimated Government of Madhya Pradesh that the exemption for customs duty for UMPPs is given only with respect to power equipment. The total amount of customs duty paid by the Petitioner on mining equipments imported for Sasan UMPP is Rs.361.47 Crores till date. Total B custom duty for mining equipments is estimated to be about Rs. 531 Crores.” “107. It is submitted that the decision of the Ministry of Power amounts to a Change in Law under Article 13.1 of the PPA and the Petitioner is entitled to be compensated for the same. It is C further submitted that the Petitioner not being allowed to import mining equipment under nil customs duty as is granted for the other equipment such as power plants of the Project qualifies as Change in Law under Article 13.1 of the PPA.” “108. It is submitted that as per RFP for Sasan UMPP, the D Procurers had to provide water intake study report. This study was conducted by WAPCOS and the report was made available to all the bidders before bid submission. The cost of the water intake system as per the report was approximately Rs.92 Crores. This estimation was factored into the bid at the time of submission E of the financial bid.” “109. It is submitted that after Rpower acquired the Petitioner, WAPCOS was tasked with confirming the technical feasibility during the detailed engineering exercise. During this process, it was discovered that the water intake location as intimated in the pre-bid report was not appropriate. After, conducting another F detailed study, WAPCOS determined that a new location would be suitable. The new location is 23 km from the power plant as against 12.5 km initially indicated at the time of bidding (original location).” “110. It is submitted that due to the increase in distance, G submergence area along the route and construction time there has been considerable increase in cost of the water intake system. The cost for the construction of water system for the new location is Rs. 244 Cr. The estimated increase in cost of the water intake system due to the change in location of the water intake system is H Rs.152 Crores.” HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 19 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] “111.It is submitted that the increase in cost of the water intake A system is on account of the errors in the report provided by the Procurers and therefore, the Procurers are obligated for compensating the Petitioner for the difference in cost. It is further submitted that since the water pipeline corridor is part of the Power Station Land and the water intake pipeline is an integral part of B the Power Station, any change in the indicative cost of the water intake system will be covered under Change in Law.” “120.Section 79 of the Act, inter alia, empowers the Hon’ble Commission to:- (a) Regulate the tariff of generating companies other than those C owned or controlled by the Central Government if such generating companies entered into or otherwise have a composite scheme for generation and sale of electricity in more than one State; and (b) To adjudicate upon the disputes involving the distribution companies or transmission licensees with regard to the matters D connected with regulation of tariff of generating companies.” “128.