3.1 He further submitted that as it was an issue of jurisdiction of the Labour Court to adjudicate the matter, the High Court had given liberty to the appellants-Management to approach the Labour Court for correction of the error. The Review Petition8 fi led by the respondents-workmen was dismissed by the High Court. Even the objections raised by the respondents- workmen before the Labour Court were rejected, while noticing that the workmen would have full opportunity to cross-examine the witnesses, being summoned by the appellants-Management to establish that there were more than 100 workmen employed in the establishment. The evidence was clinching as it had to come from Employees State Insurance Corporation HIND FILTERS LTD. & ANR. v. HIND FILTER EMPLOYEES’ 429 UNION & ANR. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] and Life Insurance Corporation. However, when the respondents-workmen challenged the aforesaid s before the High Court, the plea of the respondents was accepted. It was observed that the appellants-Management shall not be entitled to lead evidence to disturb the fi nding recorded by the Labour Court as liberty was granted to the appellants-Management only for correction of the factual error and the same shall be limited in terms of Rule 28 of the Rules9 or at the most, Section 152 of the Code10. The argument was that as such was not assailed on merits. 3.2 Submission is that the documents sought to be produced by the appellants-Management go to the root of the case on the question of jurisdiction of the Labour Court to adjudicate the matter. When the same were placed before the High Court by the appellants-Management while challenging the Award of the Labour Court dated 10.02.2006 being prima facie satisfi ed with the argument, liberty was granted to move an application before the Labour Court for correction of the factual error. In case, correction of factual error needs some evidence, that would be permitted. 3.3. In support of the arguments that the court can remand the matter to the Labour Court, reliance was placed on the s of this Court in Santhosh Bansi Mahajan v. State Industrial Court, Madhya Pradesh and others, (1984) Supp. SCC 193 and Bundi Zila Petrol Pump Dealers Association, Bundi v. Sanyojak Bundi Zila Petrol Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), (2019) 5 SCC 337. 4. On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondents submitted that it is too late to reopen the entire issue, nearly, after two decades. The reference was made to the Labour Court on 07.08.2002. Many of the workmen have already retired and some have even expired. Whatever evidence was led by the appellants-Management, on the basis thereof, fi nding was recorded that the appellants-Management had not employed more than 100 workmen and the Labour Court had jurisdiction to deal with the questions referred. Mere admission by one of the representatives of the respondents-workmen, who appeared before the Labour Court, would not 9 The Industrial Dispute (Central) Rules, 1957 10 Civil Procedure Code, 1908 430 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. discharge the onus cast on the appellants-Management to prove that it had employed more than 100 workmen.