The must essentially be viewed in the context of the definition of ‘religious and charitable purpose’ provided in the Act in question. 50. The Wakf in question is dated 26.07.1934. The 1936 Act applied B to Wakfs created before or after the commencement of the Act. However, Section 2(2) declares that the Act shall not apply to certain waqfs. They included a waqf whereunder not less than 75 per cent of the total income, after deduction of certain sums, was for the time being payable for the benefit of the waqif or his descendants. However, Section 38(1) of the 1936 Act made it clear that every waqf, whether subject to C the Act or not and whether created or after the commencement of the 1936 Act, shall be registered. Proceeding on the basis that the waqf dated 16.07.1934 was waqf-alal-aulad and which, in terms of Section 2(2)(i), was not subject to the provisions of the 1936 Act, it was compulsorily registerable in view of Section 38(1). Any waqf which is D registered under the 1936 Act would also be deemed to be registered under the 1960 Act. That is, though the 1936 Act did not apply to certain wakfs, but when it comes to registration under Section 38, it was mandatory for every wakf to be registered (i) whether subject to the Act and ii) whether created before the Act or not. Thus, the registration of the Wakf dated 16.07.1934, was in fact compulsory under Section 38 E of the 1936 Act. 51. It has been contended by Shri P.S. Patwalia, learned Senior Counsel that there was really no waqf as known in law and the waqf in question contemplated only disbursement of the entire income for the benefit of the descendants of the waqif. Quite apart from the fact that F the question engaged the attention of the Civil Court, including the High Court, in the first round of litigation, wherein, it was found that there was a valid waqf from the standpoint of the Shia law and the Consolidation Authorities also found that there was a waqf till the Deputy Director, Consolidation revisited the matter only on the basis of the compromise G between the brothers, the terms of the waqf did contemplate a certain sum being set apart for charitable purposes as correctly pointed out by Shri S.R. Singh, learned Senior Counsel for respondents 2 and 4. In this regard, we notice the stipulation in the deed that a sum of Rs. 500/- will be spent on charitable purpose such as Muazzin and lighting in the mosque and emambara, majlallse ashra of the sacred month of Moharram. No H SABIR ALI KHAN v. SYED MOHD. AHMAD ALI KHAN AND 981 OTHERS [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] doubt, there is the residuary clause, which reveals that the wakif has A provided that if descendants cease to exist, the income from the endowed property will be managed by a Committee to be spent for charitable purposes. 52. A Division Bench of the High Court of Allahabad in the case of U.P.