It is submitted that in G the present case, the land was not only identified by the State Government (and, therefore, not by the appellant beneficiary), but done so after substantially undertaking the enquiry as envisaged under Rule 4. In support of his above submission, Shri C. Aryama Sundaram, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant trust / beneficiary has prayed to consider the following dates and events:- H 984 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A “(i) April 2006- A presentation was made by Vedanta Resources Ltd. to the Chief Minister of Odisha for setting up of a University in Orissa. (Note: No Particular land identified by Vedanta in this presentation) (ii) April-June, 2006 - It was known to the State Govt. that the B Vedanta group had made similar representations to few other States as well. Since the proposal presented a huge opportunity for the State, it started the process of identifying suitable locations on its own, under the leadership of its top officers, i.e. the Chief Secretary, and carried out a detailed inquiry towards identifying land keeping in mind the C considerations under Rule 4 (iii) After looking at various options, the State Govt. finally zeroed in on Puri. (iv) 16.06.2006- The Office of the Chief Minister of Orissa convened a meeting of Secretaries of various departments D in relation to the establishment of the University. At the meeting, State Govt. made a detailed presentation to the Appellant on the land identified by it in Puri. In the said presentation, considerations regarding the suitability of the land, the extent thereof, the habitation thereunder etc. have E been considered in detail. [Note: this also shows Compliance with Rule 4(1)(i) and (iii)] (v) 23.06.2006 - Pursuant to the aforesaid presentation by the State, the Appellant made independent visits to the site proposed in the presentation. On this basis, a letter was F written to the Office of the Chief Minister by AT Kearney (a Consultant appointed by Vedanta) stating that Vedanta was interested in setting up a University in Puri. (vi) 26.06.2006- as per direction of the State Government, the Addl. District Magistrate, Puri and the Tahasildar, Puri made G further visit to the project area. (vii) During the aforesaid exercise: a) Addl. District Magistrate, Puri and Secretary, Works also made aerial survey of the site. [Note: this also shows Compliance with Rule 4(1)(i)] H ANIL AGARWAL FOUNDATION ETC. ETC. v. STATE OF 985 ORISSA AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] b) Number of informal group meetings in the village A between the Collector and other State Govt. officers before the acquisition proceedings were initiated. This was done to discuss various aspects of land acquisition including suitability of land, and to appraise the villagers of the purpose of land acquisition; [Note: B this also shows Compliance with Rule 4(1)(i) and (iii)] c) Visits were also made for the purpose of ascertaining that minimum displacement was taking place out of the one various alternative locations C d) Determination was also done to see that the Appellant is able to utilize the land, which were frozen, expeditiously; at various reviews, the requirement of land was scaled down to 6000 acres; [Note: this also shows Compliance with Rule 4(1)(iv) and (v)] D e) Exercise was also undertaken to find out that the land is rain fed; not irrigated; not much good quality of agricultural land; inferior, unproductive and fallow land.