In view of the same, the legal representatives E of the Complainant would be entitled to further compensation in the form of compound interest @ 15% per annum on the principal amount of Rs.4,53,750/- w.e.f. 1st May, 2005 till 7th May, 2016 further entitled to pendente lite and future interest till realization of the accumulated arrears from Respondents No. 1 and 2. (i.e., the developer)” F Contentions of the Complainant 10.The arguments on behalf of the complainant were common to both appeals. It was urged that NCLAT fell into error as it failed to appreciate that since the legal representatives of the complainant did not G get the refund of the amount of ` 4,53,750/- from the developer until 7th May 2016, the interest on the said principal amount ought to run from 4th October 1993 till the date of realization of the amount i.e. 7th May 2016. 11. It was argued that once the Tribunal found that the developer was in the wrong – a determination that was upheld by this court, which H 1086 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A held that the complainant was entitled to compensation, by way of compound interest – that direction had to be taken to its logical end, which meant that interest on the sum of ` 4,53,750/- was also payable from the date it was deposited with the developer (in 1993) till the amount was realized. This was the only restitutionary and equitable , having regard to all circumstances of the case. B 12. It was submitted that the developer’s argument that the amount had been deducted from its account, and that it was not aware about the filing of the original Pay , could not be countenanced. Learned counsel highlighted, that moreover, the developer took full advantage of the amounts deposited by the complainant, and after cancelling the C allotment, had immediately allotted the flat to another purchaser, for a considerably higher sum of ` 21 lakhs. This fact was not disputed by the developer. Therefore, the complainant could not be placed at a disadvantage, because the amounts deposited and lying with the developer had multiplied manifold. The developer had the advantage (twice over) D of obtaining consideration from the new allottee / purchaser. Contentions of the Developer 13. The developer urged, in response to the complainant’s appeal, as well in its appeal, that no fault could be attached to it, and it could not be fastened with any liability, once the Pay dated 30th April 2005 E was received by the complainant. It was urged by senior counsel for the developer that this court had carefully restricted the remand to whether any liability arose due to any fault or deficiency on its part, after April 2005, given that the Pay was not encashed by the complainant. In this connection, it was submitted that Citibank had categorically averred that the amount was deducted from the developer’s account, when the F Pay was issued. The bank also stated that the amount did not earn any interest, and was kept separately, in accordance with instructions and directives of the Reserve Bank of India (hereinafter, “RBI”).