B 7.5 Now, so far as the quashing and setting aside the award passed by the Arbitral Tribunal awarding interest @ 18% on advance for the hypothecation of equipment, by the learned Single Judge confirmed by the Division Bench is concerned, at the outset, it is required to be noted that the Division Bench of the High Court has upheld the passed C by the learned Single Judge quashing and setting aside the interest awarded by the learned Arbitral Tribunal on advance for the hypothecation of equipment on the ground that there is no such stipulation in the agreement / contract. However, the High Court has not at all considered Section 31(7)(a) of the Arbitration Act, which permits the arbitrator that D unless otherwise agreed by the parties, where and in so far as an arbitral award is for the payment of money, the Arbitral Tribunal may include in the sum for which the award is made interest, at such rate as it deems reasonable, for the whole or any part of the period between the date on which the cause of action arose and the date on which the award is made. Thus, unless there is a specific bar under the contract, it is always E open for the arbitrator / Arbitral Tribunal to award pendente lite interest. Identical question came to be considered by this Court in the case of Raveechee and Company (supra). In the said decision, it is observed and held by this Court that an arbitrator has the power to award interest unless specifically barred from awarding it and the bar must be clear F and specific. In the said decision, it is observed and held that the liability to pay interest pendente lite arises because the claimant has been found entitled to the same and had been kept out from those dues due to the pendency of the arbitration, i.e., pendente lite. Applying the law laid down by this Court in the aforesaid decision G to the facts of the case on hand, once it was found that the advance amount was paid for hypothecation of equipment and thereafter when the Arbitral Tribunal awarded the interest on advance for hypothecation of equipment, the same was not required to be interfered with by the learned Single Judge in exercise of the powers under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act and even by the Division Bench of the High Court while H INDIAN RAILWAY CONST. COMPANY LTD. v. M/S 727 NATIONAL BUILDINGS CONST. CORP. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] exercising the powers under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act. However, A at the same time to award the interest @ 18% can be said to be on a higher side. In the facts and circumstances of the case, if the interest is awarded @ 12% on advance for the hypothecation of equipment, the same can be said to be reasonable interest. 8. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, present B appeal succeeds.