It is upon such notice being published, objections are also invited. It is open to the Planning Authority to amend the Plan, paying heed to the objections D found to be with merit. Again, the matter goes to the Government. Government has the power again to return it. Government as well may approve the Plan. As we have already found Master Plan cannot be conflated with a set of drawings or maps. It must, in the context of law in question, be extended to encompass within its embrace rules by which alone the Plan can become workable and the sublime goal of the lawgiver E attained. The Master Plan accompanied with the DCR were to hold sway. It was to have general application. It was intended to bind everyone. It created rights and liabilities. It was not intended for any particular person. It was to operate in the future. It carried with it the attributes of law. The Government all throughout plays the pivotal and leading role and it is only with the imprimatur of approval by the Government that the F Plan read with the Rules assumed force. Government undoubtedly had power to make rules under Section 122 of the Act. We would therefore hold that the DCR which held the field till 2008 when Regulations were enacted had the force of law. 42. It is profitable for us at this juncture to look at what a learned G single judge had to say regarding the history of the ‘DCR’ and the regulation. Justice V. Ramasubramanian, while judge of the High court, has rendered reported in M. Krishnasamy V. The Member Secretary, Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority and Another29. It was rendered on 25.09.2012. The petitioner therein H 29 2013 1 CTC 80 ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1067 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] challenged a communication by the member secretary of the authority A rejecting the request to waive open space reservation charges for the grant of planning permission. The amount of OSR charge demanded was Rs.58,50,000. It was the contention of the petitioner therein that the charges could be levied only if land of an extent equivalent to 10% of the total area was not reserved for open space and conveyed to the local B body. It was his case that his predecessor in title had already earmarked 10% of the total area and handed it over to the Corporation of Chennai. A draft deed of conveyance was also submitted by his predecessor which could not be executed on account of the lethargy on the part of the corporation but possession was taken in 1976. The learned single judge went on to find as a matter of fact that though a gift deed as such was C not executed, the land was in public domain for the past 36 years and no one except the local body would lay a claim on the said land. The Court held; “Para 12. Though in paragraph 10 of the counter affidavit, the first respondent has claimed that OSR land was neither gifted nor D handed over to the Corporation, the same appears to be an incorrect statement.