13. As a result of the above discussion, we are of the opinion that Balwinder Singh3 deserves to be acquitted of the charge of being in conscious possession of commercial quantity of heroin under the NDPS Act. ed accordingly. 116 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. (c) HOW IS SATNAM SINGH’S CASE PLACED ON A DIFFERENT FOOTING 14. We next come to the case of the appellant, Satnam Singh5. Again, as in the case of Balwinder Singh3, the statement13 made by Satnam Singh5 and recorded under Section 67 of the NDPS Act will have to be discarded outright as it cannot be used as a confessional statement having been recorded by the NCB offi cials who, in terms of the verdict in Tofan Singh’s case36 (supra) are to be treated as “police offi cers” under the provisions of Section 25 of the Evidence Act. But unlike the case of Balwinder Singh3, the conviction of Satnam Singh5 does not hinge solely on his confessional statement13 made to the NCB offi cials. His case is on a diff erent footing because it also rests on other relevant factors including the testimonies of three prime prosecution witnesses namely, Sonu8 [PW-1], P.K. Sharma25 [PW-3] and O.P. Sharma11 [PW-5]. We propose to discuss below that their testimonies when examined carefully, show that they had remained consistent and unfailing. There appear no material contradictions or deviations in their depositions for this Court to extend any benefi t to the appellant – Satnam Singh5. (d) “PROOF BEYOND REASONABLE DOUBT VIS-À-VIS “PREPONDERANCE OF PROBABILITY” : LEGAL POSITION 15. We may fi rst test on the anvil of settled law, the plea taken by learned counsel for the appellant – Satnam Singh5 that the prosecution had failed to establish a prima facie case against the accused and therefore, the burden of proving his innocence did not shift back to him. In the case of Noor Aga38 (supra), a two-Judges Bench of this Court was required to decide several questions, including the constitutional validity of the NDPS Act and the standard and extent of burden of proof on the prosecution vis-à-vis the accused. After an extensive discussion, this Court upheld the constitutional validity of the provisions of Sections 35 and 54 of the NDPS Act43, but went on to hold that since the provisions of the NDPS Act and 43 35. Presumption of culpable mental state—(1) In any prosecution for an off ence under this Act which requires a culpable mental state of the accused, the court shall presume the existence of such mental state but it shall be a defence for the accused to prove the fact that he had no such mental state with respect to the act charged as an off ence in that prosecution. BALWINDER SINGH (BINDA) v. THE NARCOTICS 117 CONTROL BUREAU [HIMA KOHLI, J.] the punishments prescribed therein are stringent, the extent of burden to prove the foundational facts cast on the prosecution, would have to be more onerous. The view taken was that courts would have to undertake a heightened scrutiny test and satisfy itself of “proof beyond all reasonable doubt”.