11.6. Respondent has stated that since part of the electricity produced was captively consumed by the manufacturing units owned by it, the rate of transfer of power was recorded at the market rate i.e. the rate at which electricity was supplied by the State Electricity Board to the industrial consumers i.e. Rs. 3.72 per unit. The transfer was not recorded at the rate at which the surplus electricity was sold by the respondent assessee to the State Electricity Board i.e. Rs. 2.32 per unit since that was the price as per COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX v. M/S JINDAL STEEL & POWER 495 LTD. THROUGH ITS MANAGING DIRECTOR [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] the agreement which could not be treated as the market value of power in as much as the State Electricity Board was the only buyer of the surplus power. 11.7. The above stand of the assessee was not accepted by the assessing offi cer who held that the inter unit transfer of power by the assessee from its power plants to its industrial units should have been Rs. 2.32 per unit being the price at which power was sold to the State Electricity Board and not Rs. 3.72 being the price charged by the State Electricity Board. Assessing offi cer therefore recomputed the deduction claimed by the assessee under Section 80 IA by treating Rs. 2.32 as the market value of electricity per unit and consequently reduced the deduction under Section 80 IA. 11.8. After referring to the provisions of Section 80 IA of the Act, more particularly to sub-section (5) and sub-section (8) thereof, it is contended by the respondent that the price at which goods are transferred from one business of the assessee to another business should be at arm’s length i.e. the same should correspond to the market value of such goods for computing the profi ts of eligible business. In this connection, reference has been made to the expression “market value” as has been defi ned in the explanation below the proviso to sub section (8) of Section 80 IA. It is stated that the expression “market value” would mean the price that such goods would ordinarily fetch in the open market. It is submitted that sub-section (8) of Section 80 IA is pari-materia to sub-section (6B) of Section 80J of the Act. After referring to Circular No.169 dated 23.06.1975 of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), respondent assessee has contended that sub-section (8) of Section 80 IA seeks to provide that the profi ts of the eligible business should be computed by reckoning inter unit transfer of goods and services at the price such goods would ordinarily fetch on sale in the open market. 11.9. Thereafter, respondent assessee has referred to the meaning of the expression “market price” and also various case laws on such meaning. Assessee has contended that in to determine the market price of any goods or services, open market conditions must exist. In other words, there must be willingness on the part of the buyer to purchase and the seller to sell the goods.