The concept of ‘other valuable articles’ may evolve with the arrival in the market of articles, which can be treated as other valuable articles on satisfying the other tests. H 590 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 78. Bitumen is defined in the Concise Oxford English Dictionary as ‘a black viscous mixture of hydrocarbons obtained naturally or as a residue from petroleum distillation, used for road surfacing and roofing’. Bitumen appears to be a residual product in the petroleum refineries and it is usually used in road construction which is also probabalised by the fact that the appellant was to deliver the bitumen to the Road Construction B Department of the State. Bitumen is sold in bulk ordinarily. In the Assessment , the Officer has proceeded to take Rs. 4999.58 per metric ton as taken in the AG Report on bitumen scam. Thus, it is that the cost of bitumen for 2094.52 metric ton has been arrived at as Rs. 1,04,71,720.30. This would mean that for a kilogram of bitumen, the C price would be only Rs.5 in 1995-1996 (F.Y). 79. Bitumen may be found in small quantities or large quantities. If the ‘article’ is to be found ‘valuable’, then in small quantity it must not just have some value but it must be ‘worth a good price’ {See Black’s Law Dictionary (supra)} or ‘worth a great deal of money’ {See Concise D Oxford Dictionary (supra)} and not that it has ‘value’. Section 69A would then stand attracted. But if to treat it as ‘valuable article’, it requires ownership in large quantity, in the sense that by multiplying the value in large quantity, a ‘good price’ or ‘great deal of money’ is arrived at then it would not be valuable article. Thus, this Court would conclude that E ‘bitumen’ as such cannot be treated as a ‘valuable article’. In view of these findings, this Court need not pronounce on points III and IV. The appeals are allowed. The impugned will stand set aside and though on different grounds, the by the Commissioner Appeals deleting the addition made on the aforesaid basis will stand restored. F HRISHIKESH ROY, J. 1. I have perused the erudite opinion of my esteemed brother Justice KM Joseph. I am in accord with his that for the purposes of Section 69A of the Income Tax Act, 1961-the deeming effect of the G provision will only apply, if the assesseeis the owner of the impugned goods and secondly, for any article to be considered as ‘valuable article’under Section 69A, it must be intrinsically costly, and it will not be regarded as valuable if huge mass of a non precious and common place article is taken into account, for imputing high value. I wish to add H the following reasoning to justify my opinion. M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 591 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] 2. Two principal questions arise in this matter.Firstly,whether the A assessee herein can be regarded as an ‘owner’for the concerned goods, and, secondly, whether ‘bitumen’ can be covered within the category of ‘other valuable article’, alongside money, bullion and jewellery, as mentioned in Section 69A of the Income Tax Act, 1961.