It is submitted that therefore, the High Court observed that the decision of the State Government to continue with the acquisition was arbitrary and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. It is further submitted by Shri Neeraj Kumar Jain, learned Senior Advocate that except small parcel/ H STATE OF HARYANA & ORS. v. NIRANJAN SINGH & ORS. 25 ETC. [M. R. SHAH, J.] portion of the land belonging to the original writ petitioners all other major A chunk of the lands/plots have been released and the land in question is not required now and therefore, there is no valid reason not to release the land(s) of the original land owners from acquisition. It is submitted that therefore, the High Court has not committed any error in allowing the writ petitions and directing the State to release their lands from B acquisition on the parity. 4.3 Shri Sachin Jain, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the original writ petitioners in SLP (C) No. 11844/2022 arising out of CWP No. 10452/2014, though is not disputing that the land in question belonging to the original writ petitioner has already been utilized and used for sewage C line, submitted that the remaining land after deducting the land already used for laying down the pipes be released. 4.4 Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the original writ petitioners in SLP (C) No. 11842/2022 arising out of CWP No. 6729/ 2013 has adopted the submissions made by Shri Neeraj Kumar Jain, D learned Senior Advocate. 5. Having heard Shri Alok Sangwan, learned AAG, appearing on behalf of the State and Shri Neeraj Kumar Jain, learned Senior Advocate, appearing on behalf of the original writ petitioners in civil appeal arising out of CWP No. 16346/2013 before the High Court and having gone E through the material on record and the manner in which the State has dealt with the acquisition proceedings and has released the lands acquired from time to time right from the proceedings at the stage of Section 5 A of the Act and thereafter is highly deprecable. Earlier the lands have been released by the State Government initially in favour of the influential persons and thereafter pursuant to the various s passed by the F High Court which were never challenged by the State, it demonstrates the arbitrary exercise of powers by the State in releasing the acquired lands which as such required for public purposes. At the outset, it is required to be noted that when the lands are acquired for the utilization and development as residential and commercial area to develop new sectors and that too by the urban development authority, the future need G is required to be considered and the expansion in future is also required to be taken into consideration and/or bear in mind. The expansion in future in the next 20-25 years is required to be taken into consideration and/or is required to be considered when use of such a vast land for the development of the area/new sectors are required.