C (7) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- sections (5) and (6), no bail shall be granted to a person accused of an offence punishable under this Act, if he is not an Indian citizen and has entered the country unauthorisedly or illegally except in very exceptional circumstances and for reasons to be recorded in writing.” D 33. Thus, a plain reading of the abovementioned provision of the UAPA makes it clear that the benefit of default bail shall be available to the accused for the offences alleged to have been committed under the UAPA where the investigation has not concluded within 90 days of arrest of the accused irrespective of the punishment of the offences alleged to E have been committed by him. At the same time, the provision also gives right to the investigating agency to seek further period of 90 days to complete the investigation by filing a report to the public prosecutor indicating the progress of investigation. Thus, by virtue of Section 43D of the UAPA, the investigating agency gets 90+90 days = 180 days to complete the investigation. F 34. We shall now look into Section 45 of the UAPA. Section 45 of the UAPA is with respect to cognizance of offences. Section 45 of the UAPA reads thus: “45. Cognizance of offences. G (1) No court shall take cognizance of any offence— (i) under Chapter III without the previous sanction of the Central Government or any officer authorised by the Central Government in this behalf; H 28 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A (ii) under Chapter IV and VI without the previous sanction of the Central Government or, as the case may be, the State Government, and if such offence is committed against the Government of a foreign country without the previous sanction of the Central Government. B (2) Sanction for prosecution under sub-section (1) shall be given within such time as may be prescribed only after considering the report of such authority appointed by the Central Government or, as the case may be, the State Government which shall make an independent review of the evidence gathered in the course of investigation and make a C recommendation, within such time as may be prescribed, to the Central Government or, as the case may be, the State Government.” 35. A close look at Section 45 of the UAPA referred to above would indicate that sub section (1) deals with the authority who can D accord sanction for the offence committed under the UAPA whereas sub section (2) deals with the procedure to be followed by the authority at the time of granting sanction. It is evident from Section 45(1) of the UAPA that if the offence falls under Chapter III of the UAPA, the Court shall not take cognizance of the offence unless previous sanction E is accorded either by the Central Government or by any other officer authorised by the Central Government in this behalf. If the offence alleged to have been committed falls under Chapters IV and VI resply, the Court shall not take cognizance of the offence unless previous sanction is granted by the Central Government or the State Government as the case may be.