In these circumstances, the question that needs determination is, whether, against an of the Subordinate Court rejecting on merits an application for review of an appealable decree, a revision be entertained. 23. In DSR Steel Pvt. Ltd. v. State of Rajasthan13, this Court had the occasion to examine diff erent situations which may arise in relation to s passed in a review petition. While dealing with those situations, it was observed: “25.1. One of the situations could be where the review application is allowed, the decree or passed by the court or tribunal is vacated and the appeal/proceedings in which the same is made are reheard and a fresh decree or passed in the same. It is manifest that in such a situation the subsequent decree alone is appealable not because it is an in review but because it is a decree that is passed in a proceeding after the earlier decree passed in the very same proceedings has been vacated by the court hearing the review petition. 25.2. The second situation that one can conceive of is where a court or tribunal makes an in a review petition by which the review petition is allowed and the decree/ under review is reversed or modifi ed. Such an shall then be a composite whereby the court not only vacates the earlier decree or but simultaneous with such vacation of the earlier decree or , passes another decree or or modifi es the one made earlier. The decree so vacated reversed or modifi ed is then the decree that is eff ective for the purposes of a further appeal, if any, maintainable under law. 25.3. The third situation with which we are concerned in the instant case is where the revision petition is fi led before the Tribunal but the 13 (2012) 6 SCC 782 RAHIMAL BATHU & OTHERS v. ASHIYAL BEEVI 711 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] Tribunal refuses to interfere with the decree or earlier made. It simply dismisses the review petition. The decree in such a case suff ers neither any reversal nor an alteration or modifi cation. It is an by which the review petition is dismissed thereby affi rming the decree or . In such a contingency there is no question of any merger and anyone aggrieved by the decree or of the Tribunal or court shall have to challenge within the time stipulated by law, the original decree and not the dismissing the review petition. Time taken by a party in diligently pursing the remedy by way of review may in appropriate cases be excluded from consideration while condoning the delay in the fi ling of the appeal, but such exclusion or condonation would not imply that there is a merger of the original decree and the dismissing the review petition.” (Emphasis supplied) 24. What is clear from the above observations is, that where the review is allowed and the decree/ under review is reversed or modifi ed, such an shall then be a composite whereby the court not only vacates the earlier decree or but simultaneous with such vacation of the earlier decree or , passes another decree or or modifi es the one made earlier.