2018 before the CESTAT which vide the common dated 14.11.2018 set aside the OIO. SUBMISSIONS OF PARTIES 79. Ms. Nisha Bagchi learned counsel appearing for Revenue, would contend, that tribunal committed a serious error in holding the product in question as ‘chewing tobacco’ though it was to be classifi ed as ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’. She would contend that tribunal failed to appreciate the test report dated 4.11.2015, suggested that the product did not contain added lime and yet on the ground test reports not having been drawn a fi nding has been recorded by the tribunal to the eff ect that adjudicating authority was not in a position to correlate the test report in the absence of test memo. She would also contend that tribunal failed to notice that assessee itself had requested for retest of the sample on the ground that the test report is not very specifi c and the various parameters on which it was opined that the sample contained the characteristics of ZST have been clearly spelt out and that the retest has been allowed by the adjudicating authority is factually not correct. The prayer for retest not being in consonance with CBEC’s manual. Hence, she would contend that tribunal ought to have remanded the matter. She would further contend that the tribunal ignored the statement dated 27.10.2015 of Shri Ram Gopal Agnihotri, Director of assessee company whereunder the distinction between CT and ZST has been admitted as also the ingredients of the product manufactured by the assessee was set out. She would submit that the fi nding of CRCL on the test reports has been ignored by the tribunal, which clearly disclosed the fi nal product manufactured by the assessee was ZST. Hence, she prays for the appeal to be allowed. 80. Whereas the learned Counsel appearing for the respondent would contend that the passed by the Tribunal does not suff er from any infi rmity and it is contended that assessee, admittedly, had followed the due procedure in law by following the statutory declarations under the CTPM Rules, declaring that they intend to operate diff erent number of machines in each of the months under dispute. It is contended that had there been any malafi de intentions to wrongly claim the benefi t reduced rate of duty on CT, the assess would have either increased its production by increasing the number of operating machines or at least would have maintained the very same number of operating machines. However, every month the assessee COMMR. OF CEN. EXC. AHMEDABAD v. M/S URMIN 623 PRODUCTS P. LTD. AND OTHERS [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] was consistently reducing the operating machines as per the demand of its product in the market. The decision to manufacture ZST prior to the period of dispute, and to manufacture CT during the period of dispute as well as using diff erent number of packing machines every month was purely a commercial decision taken by the assessee based on several factors. By supporting the of the tribunal, it is contended that CT and ZST are diff erent product and known as such in the market and as such there cannot be a fl ip fl op by selling same product in two diff erent names.