As far as motive is concerned, the prosecution case is that the two accused killed the deceased only to steal his tractor. The deceased in this case was a 42-year-old well-built man of 6 feet 2 inches in height (Post Mortem report dated 12.05.2000). The prosecution case is that the deceased was kidnapped and murdered by the two accused, for his G tractor which they had robbed from the deceased, after putting him to death. Now this tractor the accused had in any case abandoned, and did nothing to recover it till one of them was caught on 12.05.2000. In short, the ‘motive’ is not very convincing. H 3 Meanwhile S.392/394/302 along with S.34 were added in the F.I.R. (dated 11.05.2000) DINESH KUMAR v. THE STATE OF HARYANA 229 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] The disclosure made by the appellant while in police custody, A which led to certain discoveries, such as the place where the stolen tractor was abandoned, the place where the alleged crime was committed, and the place where the body was thrown in the canal, and also the discovery of ‘Parna’, burnt hair, wrist watch, and currency notes of Rs.250/-. B Section 27 of the Evidence Act reads as under :- “How much of information received from accused may be proved—Provided that, when any fact is deposed to as discovered in consequence of information received from a person accused of any offence, in the custody of a police C officer, so much of such information, whether it amounts to a confession or not, as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered, may be proved.” The above provision shows that discovery should be of a distinct fact, the fact which has been discovered by disclosure of the one in D police custody. All the same, these facts were already in the knowledge of the police in the earlier discovery made by the co-accused Mange Ram. The co-accused Mange Ram was arrested on 12.05.2000 and had led to these discoveries on 12th, 13th& 14th May. The present appellant was arrested on May 14, 2000, and the alleged discoveries made by him E were later in time. The discoveries which were made on the pointing out of co-accused Mange Ram cannot be read against the present appellant. If the disclosure has been made by the accused to the police while he was in their custody and such a disclosure leads to discovery of a fact then that discovery is liable to be read as evidence against the accused in terms of Section 27 of the Act. All the same, the distinguishing feature F of such a discovery must be that such a disclosure must lead to the discovery of a “distinct fact”. The recovery of the stolen tractor, the place where the murder was committed and the place where body was thrown in the canal were facts which were already in the knowledge of the police, since it is the case of the prosecution that the co-accused Mange Ram, who was arrested by the police 2 days preceding the arrest G of the present appellant, had earlier led to the same discoveries on 12th, 13th & 14th of May, 2000.