Vishal Mahajan, DAG, Dr. Monika Gusain, Shreeyash Uday Lalit, D Abhinav Aggarwal, Ishaan George, Advs. for the Respondents. The of the Court was delivered by SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J. Leave granted. E 2. Heard Shri Ram Naresh Yadav learned Counsel for the appellant/complainant, Shri Vishal Mahajan, Deputy Advocate General for the State/Respondent No.1 and Shri Shreeyash U. Lalit learned Counsel for Respondent No.2. 3. The appellant before this Court was the informant in the case F and was a prosecution witness (PW-9), in Sessions Trial No.8/2018, which is being held before the Additional Sessions Judge, Sirsa, Haryana, under Sections 458, 460, 323, 302, 148, 149 and 285 of IPC, 1860 read with Section 25 of Arms Act, 1959. The incident is of 12:30 mid night dated 07.09.2017 which occurred at Sirsa, Haryana. The First Information G Report reveals that there were in total fifteen assailants which had broke open the complainant’s house, in the middle of the night and had come in to assault the inmates of the house. Out of these assailants seven have been named who were armed with lathi and three of the named assailants/accused namely Ramesh Gandhi, Kalu Jakhar and Pawan were armed with gun and pistols respectively. Police after investigation H 1212 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A had filed chargesheet against nine persons, but not against Ramesh Gandhi, Kalu Jakhar or Pawan whose names were placed in column 2 of the chargesheet. After the trial had commenced and the complainant was being examined as PW-9, he disclosed the entire event as an eye witness in his examination-in-chief, where he has unambiguously assigned the roles to these three assailants as well, who were named in the FIR B but not made accused in the chargesheet, that is, Ramesh Gandhi (respondent No.2), Kalu Jakhar and Pawan. 4. Immediately thereafter an application was moved before the Court by the Appellant under Section 319 Code of Criminal Procedure, for summoning these three persons Ramesh Gandhi, Kalu Jakhar and C Pawan as accused so that they may also face the trial. This application as we have already stated was allowed, but the was set aside by the High Court in Revision. Before we examine the scope of Section 319 of Code of Criminal Procedure, it would be relevant to go through the statement given by D PW-9, complainant, in his examination in chief as that forms the basis for summoning the three persons. PW-9 states in his examination-in- chief that on 07.09.2017, he along with his younger brother Pradeep Kumar and his cousin Bijender was sleeping in the court yard of their house, after having dinner. His father, Hanuman (deceased), was also E sleeping in the court yard. The main gate of the house was bolted. His uncle Subhash, Jaibir and Raj Kumar were also sleeping in their houses. At about 12:30 i.e. in the middle of the night fifteen persons entered their house having ‘lathi’ and ‘danda’ in their hands, from the adjacent room by breaking the chain.