2. The dispute relates to 110 cents of land at No. 95, East Ayakudi Village, Palani, Tamil Nadu which originally belonged to the fi rst plaintiff , Natchimuthu. He had executed a gift deed in favour of his fi rst wife, Ramathal in respect of 50 cents of land. The suit was fi led jointly by Natchimuthu and his wife Ramathal, described as plaintiff nos. 1 and 2, respectively. 3. In the same village Ayakudi, one Krishnasamy and his two sons, Rajamani and Sakthivelu, were also residing and were well known to the plaintiff s. The plaintiff s, being illiterate and having no other source of income, requested Rajamani to develop the land in suit into several plots after obtaining necessary permissions from the Government offi cials so that the said plots could be sold to generate revenue for the plaintiff s. In lieu of this service, they off ered fi ve cents of land as consideration to Rajamani. 4. A Power of Attorney dated 05.09.1986 was executed in favour of Rajamani by the plaintiff s for the aforesaid purpose. The said deed was produced before the Registering Authority on 17.09.1986 and was registered on 19.09.1986. According to the plaintiff s, Rajamani taking advantage of their illiteracy and simplicity, in addition to the purpose for which the plaintiff s had requested for executing the Power of Attorney, additionally got two more clauses added to it. Firstly, the Attorney would have the right to sell the property, and secondly, to make endorsements in the required documents for Patta transfer. 5. On the date, the Power of Attorney was registered i.e.19.09.1986, Rajamani executed two sale deeds: one in favour of his father, Krishnasamy for 50 cents of land, and the other in favour of his younger brother, Sakthivelu for 50 cents of land. Both sale deeds were undervalued, as the sale consideration was shown to be Rs. 6,000/- per sale deed, and due stamp duty was paid thereon. However, as per the guideline value of the property, the fi rst sale ought to have been valued at Rs. 15,000/- and the second sale at Rs. 7,500/-. In view of the defi ciency of stamp duty on account of undervaluation, both documents were impounded by the authorities. 6. Sometime in 1988, Krishnasamy and his two sons, Rajamani and Sakthivelu, started interfering with possession of the land in suit. It was 352 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. only then that the plaintiff s came to know about the two sale deeds executed by Rajamani in favour of his father and brother. They also threatened the plaintiff s of initiating criminal proceedings against them. On 25.04.1991, the plaintiff s obtained a certifi ed copy of the Power of Attorney, and soon thereafter, the plaintiff s came to know of the mischief committed by Rajamani for incorporating the power to sell, create mortgage, execute sale deed, settlement deed, gift deed, exchange deed and also to make endorsements for Patta transfer, and if needed, to divide the suit property into plots after obtaining layout approval from the concerned authority and to take further action thereof.