He has further stated in his evidence that Manjit Kaur had told his brother that, “he has not done good thing to her and that he will not survive any longer.” In the B background of this version, his statement that on 3rd September 1998, when he was present in his house, appellant Pritinder Singh came in a car and took his brother Ravinder Singh along with Manjit Kaur on the pretext of going to Bhagta to purchase shoes appears to be improbable. It is his further version that appellant Manjit Kaur also took her gun with her. C 15. He stated that since they did not return, it raised a suspicion in his mind. He, therefore, along with Gurdeep Singh, went in search of the deceased Ravinder Singh. They went to the Dera at village Maluka where the Mahant of the Dera told them that Manjit Kaur and Pritinder Singh had come there at around 09.30 PM. Thereafter, he stated that D the Mahant told them that the appellants and the deceased had left the Dera saying that they had to go to the house of Surjit Singh. Then the complainant and Gurdeep Singh started for the house of Surjit Singh and, when they reached the bridge of the minor canal at about 08.30 AM, they saw the dead body of his brother on the pavement of the E minor canal. He further stated that the body of his brother bore two gun- shots. The car was also standing there. The gun was lying in the car along with a belt containing 7 cartridges. Thereafter, when he and Gurdeep Singh were going to the Police Station to lodge the report, they found a police party led by SI Amritpal Singh (PW-11) near the bus stand of V. Guruka Kotha, to whom he narrated the entire incident to, F then and there. As already stated hereinabove, the relations between the appellant Manjit Kaur and this witness are strained. As such, the testimony of this witness, being an interested witness, will have to be scrutinized with greater caution and circumspection. 16. It appears to be improbable that, when appellant Manjit Kaur G had herself threatened the deceased that he would no longer be alive, a real brother would permit the deceased to accompany her and another accused and, that too, when the accused was carrying a gun with her. We find that the evidence of this witness will have to be taken with a pinch of salt. H 1046 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 17. Another witness supposedly giving credence to the last seen theory is Jagtar Singh (PW-9), son of Jagrup Singh. According to this witness, on 3rd September 1998, the accused along with deceased Ravinder Singh had come to the Dera when he had gone to visit there. He stated that when Ravinder Singh went to urinate, Manjit Kaur exhorted co-accused Pritinder Singh by saying that Ravinder Singh was alone B and he should be done away with.