In view of the said chain of events, the delay cannot be attributed to the appellant. More so, the writ petition fi led by land owner before High Court on 29.04.1992 was decided on 29.09.2009, i.e., after about 17 years. During the pendency of the writ petition, the delay, if any, occurred, cannot be attributed to the appellant, but it may refl ect on conduct of respondents for not passing the award even during such pendency. It is not out of place to observe that the High Court has not outrightly disregarded the claim of the appellant for grant of alternate plot in adjoining area and directed the NIT to take a decision. In case, the allotment of plot was not possible, respondents were directed to pass an award within the time frame. The NIT denied the alternate plot, 176 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. but even thereafter, the award was not passed within the time limit fi xed by the High Court. The award on record was passed by SLAO only when this Court had taken cognizance in the matter. Therefore, even after the of the High Court, there is a delay of more than three years in passing of the award. Thus, in our considered opinion, the delay cannot be said to be attributable to the appellant. 28. As per discussion made above and in the facts of this case, what amount of compensation may be directed to the appellant herein needs to be looked into. In this regard, in the case of compulsory acquisition of land, the eminent domain of the State cannot be doubted. Simultaneously, right of the land owner enshrined under Article 300-A and Article 31-A of the Constitution of India which has been recognized as a human/civil right cannot be overlooked. Therefore, if any individual is to be divested or deprived of the said right by the State, it ought not be done without giving compensation in accordance with law for the land so acquired for public purpose. 29. In the above context, we can profi tably refer the of this Court in the case of “Tukaram Kana Joshi and Others through Power-of- Attorney Holder Vs. Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation and Others, (2013) 1 SCC 353”. In the said case, this Court had the occasion to consider the principles of eminent domain, absolute power and deprivation of the rights to property of an individual. The relevant paragraphs of the said are reproduced as thus – “11. …..There is a distinction, a true and concrete distinction, between the principle of “eminent domain” and “police power” of the State. Under certain circumstances, the police power of the State may be used temporarily, to take possession of property but the present case clearly shows that neither of the said powers have been exercised. A question then arises with respect to the authority or power under which the State entered upon the land. It is evident that the act of the State amounts to encroachment, in exercise of “absolute power” which in common parlance is also called abuse of power or use of muscle power.