The group of companies doctrine is one such consent-based doctrine which has been applied, albeit controversially, for identifying the real intention of the parties to bind a non-signatory to an arbitration agreement. Group of Companies Doctrine i. Separate legal personality 82. The phenomenon of group companies is the modern reality of economic life and business organisation. Group companies are a set of separate fi rms linked together in formal or informal structures under the control of a parent company. The group companies can be defi ned in the Indian context as “an agglomeration of privately held and publicly traded fi rms operating in diff erent lines of business, each of which is incorporated as a separate legal entity, but which are collectively under the entrepreneurial, 678 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. fi nancial, and strategic control of a common authority, typically a family, and are linked by trust-based relationships forged around a similar persona, ethnicity, or community.”68 A group company involving the parent and subsidiary companies are created for myriad purposes such as limiting the liability of the parent corporation, facilitating international trade, entering into business ventures with investors, establishing domestic corporate residence, and avoiding tax liability. 83. The principle of separate legal personality has been the cornerstone of corporate law. In Salomon v. Salomon,69 the House of Lords famously observed that a company is at law a diff erent person altogether from the promoters, directors, shareholders, and employees. The principle of separate legal personality equally applies to corporate groups. A parent company is not generally held to be liable for the actions of the subsidiary company of which it is a direct or indirect shareholder. The Companies Act, 201370 has statutorily recognized a subsidiary company as a separate legal entity.71 Section 2(46) of the 2013 Act defi nes a holding company as a company of which one or more other companies are subsidiary companies. Section 2(87) defi nes “subsidiary company” to mean a company in which the holding company exercises control over the composition of the Board of Directors and has a controlling interest of at least 50 percent over the voting rights. Although a holding company owns a controlling interest in the subsidiary company, they are considered as separate legal entities. Group companies’ structures allow multinational corporations to structure their businesses at both the national and international level to leverage better returns for the investors and ensure business growth of the corporation. 84. A Bench of three Judges of this Court in Vodafone International Holding BV v. Union of India72 emphasized the principles of corporate separateness in the following terms: 68 Jayati Sarkar, ‘Business Groups in India’ in Asli Coplan, Takashi Hikino, and James Lincoln (eds) The Oxford Handbook of Business Groups (2010) 299 69 [1897] AC 22 70 “2013 Act” 71 Balwant Rai Saluja v. Air India, (2014) 9 SCC 407 72 (2012) 6 SCC 613 COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 679 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 101. A company is a separate legal persona and the fact that all its shares are owned by one person or by the parent has nothing to do with its separate legal existence.