CHIRANJILAL (MINERAL) 295 INDUSTRIES OF BAGANDIH [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] vide dated 22.04.2014 in Bhushan Power and Steel Limited v. Rajesh Verma14. Under these circumstances, the dated 22.04.2014 had given one more opportunity to the State Government to send requisite recommendation to the Central Government inter alia observing that this Court cannot lose sight of the fact that there is a inter se the parties, which has become fi nal. Accordingly, the contention that the of this Court in Sandur Manganese and Iron Ores Limited (supra) will not undo the directions given in the dated 14.03.2012 was rejected. The relevant observations in the dated 22.04.2014 read as under: “21. We cannot lose sight of the fact that there is a , inter partes, which has become fi nal. Even when the civil appeal was being heard, certain other parties claiming their interest in these very lands had moved intervention applications which were dismissed. At that time also it was mentioned that there are 195 applicants. However, notwithstanding the same, this Court issued fi rm directions to the State Government to recommend the case of the petitioners for mining lease in both the areas. In view of such categorical and unambiguous directions given in the which has attained fi nality, merely because another has been delivered by this Court in Sandur Manganese case , cannot be a ground to undo the directions contained in the dated 14-3-2012. Insofar as law laid down in Sandur Manganese is concerned, that may be applied and followed by the State Government in respect of other applications which are still pending. However, that cannot be pressed into service qua the petitioner whose rights have been crystallised by the rendered in its favour. It cannot be reopened, that too at the stage of implementation of the said . 22. …. Once we hold that the respondents are bound to implement the direction contained in the dated 14-3-2012, insofar as the State Government is concerned, it is obliged to comply therewith and such matters, along with other relevant considerations, can be left to the wisdom of the Central Government while taking a decision on the recommendation of the State Government. 14 (2014) 5 SCC 551. 296 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. xx xx xx 24. …. However, we are giving one fi nal opportunity to them to purge the contempt by transmitting requisite recommendations to the Central Government. It would be for the Central Government to consider the said recommendations on its own merits and in accordance with law. In case the recommendation is sent within one month from the date of copy of receipt of this , we propose not to take any further action and the respondents/contemnors shall stand discharged from this contempt petition. However, in case the respondents do not purge in the manner mentioned above, it would be open to the petitioners to point out the same to this Court by moving appropriate application and in that event the contemnors shall be proceeded against.” (emphasis supplied) 11.