15. The sentencing in this case, to put it mildly, is inexplicable (if G not downright bizarre). On the one hand, Krishan underwent sentence for 9 years 4 months- at the other end of the spectrum, Sunder s/o 9 2017 [2] SCR 379 10 2014 [9] S.C.R. 467 11 2013 (5) SCR 979 12 2015 (3) SCR 590 H 82 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Rajpal underwent only 11 months. No rationale appears from the reasoning of the High Court for this wide disparity. It is not as though the court took note of the role ascribed to the accused (such a course was not possible, given the nature of the evidence). If it were assumed that the age of the accused played a role, then Krishan, at 61 years- who served 9 years and Brahmajit, who had served in the army, and was B detained for over 8 years got the stiffest sentence. On the other end of the scale, younger persons were left relatively unscathed, having served between 3 years and 11 months. 16. The impugned , in this court’s opinion, fell into error in not considering the gravity of the offence. Having held all the accused C criminally liable, under Section 304 Part II read with Section 149 IPC and also not having found any distinguishing feature in the form of separate roles played by each of them, the imposition of the “sentence undergone” criteria, amounted to an aberration, and the sentencing is for that reason, flawed. This court is, therefore, of the view that given D the totality of circumstances (which includes the fact that the accused have been at large for the past four years), the appropriate sentence would be five years rigorous imprisonment. However, at the same time, the court is cognizant of the fact Krishan and Bramhajit served more than that period. Therefore, the impugned , as far as they are E concerned, is left undisturbed. Consequently, the sentence of Raju, Parveen, Sunder s/o Amit Lal, Sandeep, Nar Singh, and Sunder s/o Rajpal is hereby modified; they are hereby sentenced to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for five years. They shall surrender and serve the rest of their sentences within six weeks from today. F 17. The appeals are partly allowed, in the above terms. No costs. Ankit Gyan Appeals partly allowed. (Assisted by : Kritika and Aarsh Choudhary, LCRAs) G H