5 (2003) 5 SCC 580. H 6 (supra) ASHOK RAM PARHAD & ORS. v. THE STATE OF 911 MAHARASHTRA & ORS. [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] 22. On the other hand, the respondents defended the impugned A to contend that there could be no ambiguity that the period of training at the Government Forest Colleges and the period of probation including the extended period of probation, if any, had to be necessarily excluded for computing the period of service. The appointment s had been issued qua the appellants long after the respondents were B appointed as ACF. Further, Rule 2(a) read with Rules 3 and 7 of the 1998 Rules had clarified that the nominated ACF would be entitled for an appointment only after completion of training. Training could not be a mere formality and in Prafulla Kumar Swain7 case, this Court while applying similar rules held that recruitment is just an initial process and may lead to eventual appointment in service. C 23. The respondents further submitted that the endeavour of the appellants to rely on Government Resolutions dated 25.01.1990, 29.07.1993 and 17.02.1997 and claim that Rule 2 of the 1984 Rules had no relevance is fallacious as, Government Resolutions cannot override the Rules. Further, the Resolutions neither speak about the promotion to D the post of DFO nor about how the seniority had to be reckoned for ACF appointed by promotion or by nomination. Conclusion: 24. We have considered the aforesaid rival submissions and E perused the impugned . 25. In service jurisprudence, the service rules are liable to prevail. There can be Government resolutions being in consonance with or expounding the rules, but not in conflict with the same. On having set forth this general proposition, we now examine the scenario of the Rules as prevalent. If we turn to the statutory Rules framed under Article 309 F of the Constitution, i.e., the 1984 Rules, Rule 2 refers to the appointment to the post of the DFO and the same to be made by promotion from amongst officers of the Maharashtra Forest Service and also by appointment directly. The Proviso to Rule 2 of the 1984 Rules is unambiguous and quite clear, i.e., the period spent on training at G Government Forest Colleges and other period of probation including extended period of probation, if any, “shall not be counted towards the requisite period of service.” Thus, what is envisaged is that the appointment is different from the recruitment process, which starts with 7 (supra). H 912 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A the commencement of training. There can be possibilities of a candidate not completing the training satisfactorily, thereby resulting in the candidate’s removal on probation. Such probation period can also be extended to see whether a candidate improves in performance. (Hence, even if the Government Resolution dated 25.01.1990 upgraded the post of ACF from Class II to Class I, the Proviso to Rule 2 of the 1984 Rules B will continue to hold valid in determining the period of service.)