for the Respondents. / OF THE SUPREME COURT S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J. 1. The petitioner has approached this Courtseeking relief under Article 32 of the Constitution aggrieved by the rejection of candidature PALLAVI vs. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 945 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] to a Post Graduate medical seat; the respondent rejected her application after she was allowed to appear in the written examination and the results were declared for the NEET (PG) and the INI-CET/2023 (hereafter called “NEET” collectively). 2. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences(AIIMS), the Nodal Agency for the NEET test/examination, called for applications from eligible candidates by publishing a prospectus for NEET process on 07.03.2023. The petitioner applied and was issued the examination admit card on01.05.2023. She participated and appeared in the NEET examination on 07.05.2023. The petitioner holds an Overseas Citizen of India card (hereafter called the “OCI card holder”). She is a U.S. National and was born on 22.02.1999. 3. The prospectus published by the respondents stipulated the eligibility conditions which indicated that the candidate should possess a Medical or Dental Degree and must have completed the required period of 12 months training and should possess a certifi cate of grading system from the concerned universities/institutions to determine the value of grading in percentage and the minimum marks in aggregate in MBBS/BDS professional examinations was to be 55% aggregate or equivalent. In addition, for Foreign Nationals, No Objection Certifi cate was also deemed essential. This was to be issued by the Ministry of External Aff airs, Government of India. The stipulation for OCI candidates and the relevant requirements for admission into PG courses for Indian Nationals as well as sponsored and Foreign Nationals, reads as follows: “Overseas Citizen of India (OCI): Overseas Citizen of India candidates can apply against Foreign National Seats. OCI candidates are not required to obtained NOC, however must upload the scan copy of OCI cardon or before date(s) mentioned in Important Dates Section of Prospectus Part-A. Section V: Seats available for admission into postgraduate courses for July 2023 Session of various INIs The seats available for admission into postgraduate courses in participating INIs for July 2023 session are of two types 946 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 1. Seats available for all Indian Nationals (excluding sponsored & Foreign National seats) A consolidated list of seats available for admission into postgraduate courses in participating INIs for July 2023 session of various INIs will be prepared and published by Examination section, AIIMS, New Delhi on the basis of offi cial information received from respective INIs. The INI-wise list received from various INIs shall be accessible from Seats Available Tab of the INI-CET portal. These lists are subjected to change as per the decision of respective INIs and shall be updated as per information received by the Examination Section, AIIMS, New Delhi. The list of seats available shall not be changed after the declaration of the results. The updated consolidated list of available postgraduate seats for seat allocation (INI-wise and specialty-wise) for July 2023 session shall be published before the declaration of results.