The mode and manner, in which the dying declarations came to be recorded, is also something which creates a doubt, as regards its truthfulness and trustworthiness. Although, the Investigating Offi cer says that the recording of the dying declarations was video-graphed and the CD has been exhibited in evidence yet it is very important to determine the evidentiary value of the same. 45. We should also look into the genesis of the occurrence from a diff erent angle. It is not in dispute that the three deceased died on account of severe burn injuries. It is also not in dispute that the room in which they were sleeping caught fi re on account of which they suff ered severe burn injuries. It is also not in dispute that infl ammable substance like kerosene was found from the room which ignited the fi re. However, the moot question is who set the room on fi re? Could it be said that the prosecution has been able to prove beyond reasonable doubt that it was only and only the appellant- convict who set the room on fi re by pouring the infl ammable substance? 46. It appears to us that whoever did the act, the infl ammable substance was not directly poured or sprinkled on the three deceased persons. Had it been so, they would have immediately woken up and by the time, the room is sat on fi re, they would make good their escape or catch hold of the culprit. It appears that the infl ammable substance might have been poured on the fl oor of the room and thereafter, the fi re must have been ignited. Once, the room is on fi re, the person responsible for setting the room on fi re would immediately leave that place. We fi nd it very diffi cult to believe that the appellant-convict was still inside the room or even outside the room to be witnessed by the deceased persons as well as by the PW-2 and PW-4, locking the room from outside after setting the room on fi re. The conduct of the accused may be unnatural because he was residing in the very same house, however, the conduct which may be a relevant fact under Section 8 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (for short, ‘the Act 1872’), by itself may not be suffi cient to hold a person guilty of the off ence of murder. IRFAN @ NAKA v. THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 811 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 47. On overall assessment of the materials on record, we have reached to the conclusion that neither the two dying declarations inspire any confi dence nor the oral evidence of the PW-2 and PW-4 respectively inspire any confi dence. Had the dying declarations stood corroborated by the oral evidence of the PW-2 and PW-4, then probably, it would have been altogether a diff erent scenario. However, as noted above, the two dying declarations are not consistent or rather contradictory to the oral evidence on record.