In 2005, the Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Board D notified the Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission (Electricity Supply Code and Related Matters) Regulations, 200512. Clause 4.1.11 of Gujarat Electricity Supply Code, 2005 provided that only the dues of the applicant, if any, were required to be paid at the time of the application for a new connection. The said Clause was later amended in 2010 to provide that the distribution licensee need not entertain an application for reconnection E or a new connection unless any dues relating to those premises are cleared. 14. In Assam, the Assam Electricity Regulatory Commission13 framed the Assam Electricity Regulatory Commission (Electricity Supply Code and Related Matters) Regulations, 2004.14 Clause 3.6 dealing with F the requisition of electricity supply requires a person occupying a new premises to ensure that all the outstanding electricity dues are duly paid up and discharged. 15. In West Bengal, the West Bengal Electricity Regulatory Commission (Electricity Supply Code) Regulations, 201215 have been G 9 “MSEB Conditions of Supply” 10 “Maharashtra Electricity Supply Code 2005’’ 11 “Gujarat Conditions of Supply” 12 “Gujarat Electricity Supply Code” 13 “AERC” 14 “AERC Supply Code” H 15 “WB Electricity Supply Code” K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 657 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] notified under the 2003 Act. Clause 3.4.2 of the said regulations empowers A the licensee to recover the dues of a previous consumer in respect of the premises from a new consumer only if there is a nexus between the previous consumer and the new consumer. 16. The subsequent owners or occupiers of the premises challenged the Conditions of Supply and Electricity Supply Codes enacted by the B Electric Utilities before the respective High Courts when they were called upon to clear the arrears of the previous owners or dues relating to the premises. C. The position in law C 17. Prior to the enactment of the 2003 Act, in Isha Marbles v. Bihar State Electricity Board,16 a three-judge Bench of this Court held that in the absence of a charge being created over the premises by a statutory regulation, an auction purchaser cannot be asked to clear the past arrears of electricity dues as a condition precedent to the grant of electricity. This Court elucidated the position in the context of Section 24 D of the 1910 Act to emphasise that the contract for supply was only between the Electricity Board and the previous consumer, and the subsequent purchaser was neither a consumer within the meaning of the 1910 Act nor had any contractual relationship with the Electricity Board. This Court noted that though electricity is public property which E the law must protect, yet the law, as it stood at that time, was inadequate to enforce the liability of unpaid electricity charges of a previous consumer against a subsequent purchaser of the premises. In Isha Marbles (supra), this Court did not have to deal with any statutory rule, regulation or conditions of supply dealing with the imposition of liability for the payment of electricity dues on a subsequent purchaser.