As already noticed, while the certified copy which does F not show that the stamp duty is paid cannot be impounded under Section 33, it cannot be acted upon under Section 35 of the Stamp Act. P. ARBITRATION AGREEMENT, A DISTINCT AGREEMENT AND ITS IMPACT? G i. The last question, which remains is, whether, if the contract, in which, the Arbitration Clause is located, is unstamped but the Arbitration Clause is stamped, the Court can ignore the fact that the instrument containing in the Contract is unstamped. In the first place, such an eventuality cannot H 372 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A arise. This for the reason that unless there is misrepresentation or a fraud played, it is incomprehensible as to how, when the contract is produced, it will not be dealt with under Section 33 of the Stamp Act among other provisions. B ii. The learned Amicus, in fact, points out that invariably the Arbitration Agreement is contained as a clause in a larger agreement. The contract would consist of the document containing the Arbitration Agreement. This brings us to the question as to whether the Arbitration Agreement can be treated as a separate contract, and even if the main contract C is not stamped, it suffices if the Arbitration Agreement alone is stamped. iii. In N.N. Global(supra), in fact, the Court proceeded to impound the main contract which was the Work . The Doctrine of the Arbitration Agreement being a distinct and D a separate agreement, is well-established. The Doctrine of Kompetenz-Kompetenz has been enshrined in Section 16 of the Act. Section 16, undoubtedly, articulates the principle that the Arbitral Tribunal may rule on its jurisdiction including objections relating to the validity E of the Arbitration Agreement and its very existence and, for that purpose, an Arbitration Clause forming part of the contract, is to be treated as an agreement independent from the other terms of the contract. Equally, Section 16(1)(b) declares that despite the Tribunal finding that the contract was null and void, it would not invalidate the Arbitration F Clause. The evolution of the principle that an Arbitration Agreement is a separate and distinct agreement from the contract, would indicate that it would have no play in the context of the duty of a Court, within the meaning of Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act, to act in consonance G therewith. The efficacy of the Arbitration Clause in a contract is preserved so that the extinguishing of the contractual obligations by termination or non-performance or alleged performance, does not deprive the parties of their rights and the power of the Arbitrator to adjudicate on H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 373 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] disputes, which, otherwise fall within the ambit of the A Arbitration Clause. The underlying principle behind treating the Arbitration Agreement as a separate agreement is to create a mechanism, which survives the contract so that disputes, falling within the Arbitration Agreement, are resolved.