At about 09.15 p.m, the deceased started suff ering from severe unbearable pain. The complainant-appellant called respondent no. 2 at his residential phone but he was not available. At about 09.30 p.m. another pain killer was intravenously given. At about 11.00 p.m. complainant-appellant talked to respondent no. 2 at his residence. The deceased had suff ered heart attack around 11.00 p.m. The deceased was declared brain dead on 31.10.1998. He was kept on life support till his death on 06.11.1998. 4. The grievance of complainant-appellant is that the deceased was not attended to by any doctor from neurosurgery team who had operated the deceased after he was shifted into the private room till 11.00 P.M. After such major surgery, instead of shifting to a private room, the deceased should have been shifted to the Intensive Care Unit4. Findings of Commission (Impugned ) 5. The allegation in the complaint is mainly apropos lack of medical care from the time he was shifted to the Private room till he suff ered a cardiac arrest at around 11:00 PM. However, the appellant herein has not been able to establish by any cogent evidence or material on record that the heart attack suff ered by the deceased had any connection with the operation in question or on account of lack of post-operative care. 4 (for short, ‘ICU’) MRS. KALYANI RAJAN v. INDRAPRASTHA APOLLO 101 HOSPITAL & ORS. [PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, J.] 6. The said fi nding has been supported by an affi davit of Prof. Gulshan Kumar Ahuja who was professor of neurosurgery in AIIMS & Senior Consultant at R-1/hospital at that time and he has opined that complications suff ered by the deceased were totally unrelated to the surgery conducted by R-2. He has further stated that pain in the neck accompanied by symptoms of profuse sweating and nausea cannot be a symptom of cardiac respiratory arrest. 7. The deceased did not have any history of diabetes or hypertension as has been stated by R-2 herein in his evidence neither did he have any heart problem. The said pain in the neck was on account of cervical operation. No material on record to show that the deceased was in pain in any other region of his body. The appellant’s contention apropos the deceased sweating is not met out with in the medical records except for once at 9PM. 8. The appellant herein drew the attention to the observation made in Martin F. D’Souza v. Mohd. Ishfaq5 that no prescription should ordinarily be given without actual examination and the tendency to prescription over the phone except in acute emergency should be avoided. These observations would not be applicable to the said present case since the deceased had complained about pain on the neck for which he had been operated and medicine given by Dr. Tyagi over the phone was only apropos pain on the neck. 9. In the facts and circumstances, no case of medical negligence has been proved nor can it be said that the aftercare treatment of the deceased till he suff ered a cardiac arrest was inadequate so as to hold the respondents herein liable for medical negligence.