E 157. When the conduct prohibited under the Tenth Schedule is (allegedly) committed, there is only one political party. As discussed in the preceding segments of this judgement, this necessitates the Speaker prima facie determining who the political party was at the time of the act which is alleged attract the provisions of the Tenth Schedule. The F decision of the Speaker that a member of the House is disqualified for voluntarily giving up the membership of the political party would only disqualify them from the House. It would not lead to an automatic expulsion of the member from the political party. It follows that the submission of the petitioners that a legislator who has incurred G disqualification under Paragraph 2 of the Tenth Schedule has no locus to institute a petition under Paragraph 15 of the Symbols , cannot be accepted. We accordingly answer the question referred to us as noted in Paragraph 32(j) of this . 158. In the proceedings instituted by Mr. Shinde under Paragraph 15 of the Symbols , the ECI awarded the symbol “bow and arrow” H SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 949 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] reserved for the Shiv Sena to the faction led by him. The petitioners A challenged this before this Court.54 By an dated 22 February 2023, this Court issued notice. We have not expressed any opinion on the merits of that case. vi. The impact of the deletion of Paragraph 3 of the Tenth Schedule 159. The Tenth Schedule to the Constitution was inserted by the B Constitution (Fifty-second Amendment) Act 1985. The Tenth Schedule sought to provide a remedy to the ‘constitutional sin’ of defection. Simply put, defection is the act of members of either House of the state legislature or of either House of Parliament shifting allegiances by exiting the political party on whose ticket they went to the polls and joining C another political party. The years prior to the insertion of the Tenth Schedule witnessed innumerable defections in political parties at both the Union and State level. The turbulent political scenario ensuing from these defections gave rise to the need for an anti-defection law in the country. D 160. The Tenth Schedule penalises defection by disqualifying any member of the House who is found to have indulged in the prohibited act. Paragraph 2(1)(a) stipulates that a member of a House belonging to any political party shall be disqualified for being a member of the House if they have voluntarily given up their membership of such political party. Paragraph 2(1)(b) provides that a member shall be disqualified if they E vote or abstain from voting in the House contrary to any directions issued by the political party to which they belong, or by any person authorised by it in this behalf. 161. Paragraph 6 of the Tenth Schedule entrusts the Speaker of the House with the authority to adjudicate disqualification petitions. While F adjudicating a disqualification petition, the Speaker must also consider any defence(s) raised by the member against whom the petition has been filed.