For example, if a residential layout is formed by DDA or similar statutory authority, it may utilise around 40% of the land area 2 (1988) 3 SCC 751 3 (2009) 15 SCC 769 128 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. in the layout, for roads, drains, parks, playgrounds and civic amenities (community facilities), etc. 15. The development authority will also incur considerable expenditure for development of undeveloped land into a developed layout, which includes the cost of levelling the land, cost of providing roads, underground drainage and sewage facilities, laying water lines, electricity lines and developing parks and civil amenities, which would be about 35% of the value of the developed plot. The two factors taken together would be the “deduction for development” and can account for as much as 75% of the cost of the developed plot. 16 to 21……. 22. Some of the layouts formed by the statutory development authorities may have large areas earmarked for water/sewage treatment plants, water tanks, electrical substations, etc. in addition to the usual areas earmarked for roads, drains, parks, playgrounds and community/ civic amenities. The purpose of the aforesaid examples is only to show that the “deduction for development” factor is a variable percentage and the range of percentage itself being very wide from 20% to 75%.” 14. This Court in the reported as Kasturi and Ors. v. State of Haryana4, held that there may be various factual factors which may have to be taken into consideration while applying the cut in payment of compensation towards developmental charges, maybe in some cases it is more than 1/3rd and in some cases less than 1/3rd. This Court held as under: “7 ……. However, in cases of some land where there are certain advantages by virtue of the developed area around, it may help in reducing the percentage of cut to be applied, as the developmental charges required may be less on that account. There may be various factual factors which may have to be taken into consideration while applying the cut in payment of compensation towards developmental charges, maybe in some cases it is more than 1/3rd and in some cases less than 1/3rd. It must be remembered that there is diff erence between a developed area and an area having potential value, which is yet to be developed. The fact that an area is developed or 4 (2003) 1 SCC 354 MALA ETC. ETC. v. STATE OF PUNJAB AND OTHERS 129 [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] adjacent to a developed area will not ipso facto make every land situated in the area also developed to be valued as a building site or plot, particularly when vast tracts are acquired, as in this case, for development purpose.” 15. The High Court in the impugned after applying the ratio of decisions in case of Brig. Sahib Singh Kalha and Ors vs. Amritsar Improvement Trust and Others5 and other decisions to the facts of these cases, came to the conclusion that a cut of one third was required to be imposed on the amount of compensation awarded by it.