[See: Pradeep Kumar Biswas vs. Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, (2002) 5 SCC 111; Zee Telefilms Ltd. vs. Union of India, (2005) 4 SCC 649; Janet Jeyapaul vs. S.R.M. University, (2015) 16 SCC 530] F This Court has progressively expanded the scope of Article 12 of the Constitution so as to ensure that a private entity, which performs a public duty/function and therefore informs our national life, does not get away scott-free merely because it is not “State” stricto sensu. Such entitles are G imbued with constitutional obligations on account of the public or statutory functions performed by them. At this juncture, it is necessary to reflect on the difference between holding that Fundamental Rights may be enforced against a private entity on account of the public nature of its functions, as contrasted with universal operation of H 784 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A fundamental rights claims against all persons. A private body, acting in private capacity, fulfilling a private function, cannot be axiomatically amenable to the claims of fundamental rights violations. The decision of this Court in Ramakrishna Mission B vs. Kago Kunya, (2019) 16 SCC 303 is also highly instructive on the issue of amenability of actions of private entities, to judicial review under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. In the said case, the issue before this Court was whether the Hospital run by the Petitioner Mission performed a public function that made it amenable C to writ jurisdiction under Article 226. This Court found that the Hospital and the Mission were not amenable to writ jurisdiction under Article 226 since running a hospital would not constitute a public function. This Court further highlighted that even when a private entity performs a public function, D the Court would be required to enquire as to whether the grant in aid received by the said entity covers a significant portion of its expenditure. This Court went on to declare that regulation of a private body by a statute does not give it the colour of a public function. A public function was held to be one which is “closely related to functions which are E performed by the State in its sovereign capacity.” Accordingly, it was held that the Hospital was not performing a public function since the functions it performed were not “akin to those solely performed by State authorities.” It was held that medical services were provided F by private as well as State entities and therefore, the nature of medical services was not such that they could be carried out solely by State authorities. Thus, according to the decision of this Court in Ramakrishna Mission, regulation by the State either G through a statute or otherwise; receipt of a meagre amount of aid from the State; receipt of concessions by the State; do not make a private entity amenable to the writ jurisdiction of Courts under Article 226 of the Constitution. Thus, recognising a horizontal approach of Fundamental Rights between citizens inter sewould set at naught and H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS.