As per request made in the initial report B received from VIMHANS, Vikas Sidhu underwent a more detailed psychometric evaluation – the results of which reflected no clinical signs or symptoms of psychopathology; there is no negative inference made in the report. He has no criminal antecedents and continues to enjoy a strong bond with his family members. In his case as well, the probation report suggested that there was sufficient scope for his reformation and C reintegration into society, and that he showed promise in looking after his wife and aged mother. 27. This court is also cognizant of the nature of the crime that the appellants committed. They kidnapped the deceased, an 18-year-old boy, and sought ransom in exchange. The prosecution was able to prove that D these appellants strangulated the kidnapped boy, burnt his body to eliminate evidence, and disposed of the body in a nala. The sole motive for this crime seems to have been greed. Undoubtedly, there was premeditation in the commission of the crime. These are the aggravating circumstances. 28. Both appellants in the present case, share some commonalities: E they were of young age at the time of offence, hail from educated backgrounds, and they continue to enjoy the love and affection of their families, each of which have a good standing and strong ties within the communities they live in. While the material relating to their lives and social conditions pre-conviction do not offer an explanation as to the F cause for commission of offence, it can certainly be said that the material available regarding their conduct post-conviction, remains encouraging. They have applied themselves during the time of incarceration and used their time to contribute meaningfully – for which they have each received commendations. Their psychological and psychiatric evaluations were concluded to be normal, without cause for concern. A strong case is G made out in support of the appellants’ probability of reform (as already evidenced by their jail conduct), and reintegration into society. The state, too, has not indicated any material to the contrary, regarding this aspect. 29. In view of the totality of the facts and circumstances, and for the above reasons, this court is of the opinion that it would be appropriate H 772 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A to modify the sentence awarded to both appellants to a minimum term of 20 years actual imprisonment. The appeals are partly allowed in the above terms. Nidhi Jain Appeals partly allowed. B (Assisted by : Tamana, LCRA) C D E F G H