The Act No. 13 of H 1972 provides under Section 30, an avenue for the tenant to deposit rent MAN SINGH v. SHAMIM AHMED (DEAD) THR. LRS 305 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] in court, inter alia, in the event such rent is being refused by landlord A the. “30. Deposit of rent in Court in certain circumstances.- (1) If any person claiming to be a tenant of a building tenders any amount as rent in respect of the building to its alleged B landlord and the alleged landlord refuses to accept the same then the former may deposit such amount in the prescribed manner and continue to deposit any rent which he alleges to be due for the any subsequent period in respect of such building until the landlord in the meantime signifies by notice in writing to the tenant his willingness to accept it. C (2) Where any bona fide doubt or dispute has arisen as to the person who is entitled to receive any rent in respect of any building, the tenant may likewise deposit the rent stating the circumstances under which such deposit is made and may, until such doubt has been removed or such dispute has been D settled by the decision of any competent Court or by settlement between the parties, continue to deposit the rent that may subsequently become due in respect of such building. (3) The deposit referred to in sub-section(1), or sub-section (2) shall be made in Court of the Munsif having jurisdiction. E (4) On any deposit being made under sub-section(1), the Court shall cause a notice of the deposit to be served on the alleged landlord, and the amount of deposit may be withdrawn by that person on application made by him to the Court in that behalf. (5) On a deposit being made under sub-section (2), the Court F shall cause notice of the deposit to be served on the person or persons concerned and hold the amount of the deposit for the benefit of the person who may be found entitled to it by any competent Court or by a settlement between the parties and the same shall be payable to such person. G (6) In respect of a deposit made as aforesaid, it shall be deemed that the person depositing it has paid it on the date of such deposit to the person in whose favour it is deposited in the case referred to in sub-section (1) or to the landlord in the case referred to in sub-section (2).” (emphasis provided) H 306 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 7. The case of the landlord is that after the notice dated 05.04.1995 was served on the tenant (on 10.05.1995), and he refused to pay the rent within the stipulated period of one month, his tenancy stood terminated and he had therefore filed a suit for eviction before the Judge, Small Causes Court, Saharanpur for his the eviction. The position of the tenant throughout has been that there was no occasion for him to deposit the B rent on receiving the notice dated 10.05.1995, or on the first hearing under Section 20(4) of the Act, for the simple reason that he had never defaulted in payment of rent as the entire rent at the rate of Rs.