The State of Madhya Pradesh & Anr.56 and A.S. Krishna Vs. State of Madras57 wherein this Court specifically held that the due process clause in the Constitution of the United States of America is not applicable to India. While considering the scope and applicability of Article 19(1)(g) in Kameshwar Prasad and Others Vs. State of Bihar D and Another, it was observed – “As regards these decisions of the American Courts, it should be borne in mind that though the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States reading “Congress shall make no law ….abridging the freedom of speech….” appears E to confer no power on the Congress to impose any restriction on the exercise of the guaranteed right, still it has always been understood that the freedom guaranteed is subject to the police power – the scope of which however has not been defined with precision or uniformly.” F 12.9 In the similar case of Kesavananda Bharati case, (1973) 4 SCC 225, it is noticed by this Court that there are structural differences in the Constitution of India and the Constitution of the United States of America. G 13. Applying the law laid down by this Court in the aforesaid decisions to the facts of the case on hand and considering the different position of laws in US and in our country more particularly faced with Articles 19(1)(c) and 19(4) of the Constitution of India under which the right to freedom of speech is subject to reasonable restrictions and is not an absolute right and the constitution permits the Parliament to frame the H ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 543 [M. R. SHAH, J.] laws taking into consideration the public and/or the sovereignty of A India, without noticing the differences in American Laws and the Indian laws, this Court in the case of Arup Bhuyan (supra) and Raneep (supra) has erred in straightway and directly following the US Supreme Court decisions and that too without adverting to the differences and the position of laws in India. B 13.1 In the aforesaid two decisions without noticing the differences of the US Supreme Court (referred to in the said decisions) this Court has just followed the American decisions to which we are not agreeable. This Court ought to have considered the differences in the American laws and the Indian laws more particularly the provisions in the Indian C Constitution. By the aforesaid we do not say for a moment that in a given case the US Supreme Court decisions may not be taken into consideration and/or may not be a guidance. Before following the American decisions, the Indian Courts are required to consider the difference in the nature of the laws applicable in the respective countries. D 13.2 As observed and held by this Court in the case of Joseph Kuruvilla Vellukunnel (supra), the aid of American concepts, laws and precedents in the interpretation to which laws is not always without its dangers and they have therefore to be relied upon with some caution if not with hesitation because of the difference in the nature of those laws and the institutions to which they apply.