Ideally, a Minister is not supposed to breach his collective responsibility towards the E Cabinet and the Legislature and hence, it is advisable to have a cogent code of conduct as occurring in advanced democracies; (xxi) While it is not possible to impose additional restrictions on F the freedom of speech, it is certainly desirable to have a code of conduct for public functionaries, as followed in other jurisdictions. The Court may keep in mind the fact that this Court in Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Limited (supra) cautioned against framing guidelines across the board to restrict the freedom of Press; G (xxii) Coming to hate speeches, there has been a steep increase in the number of hate speeches since 2014. From May- 2014 to date, there have been 124 reported instances of H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 625 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] derogatory speeches by 45 politicians. Social media A platforms have connived the proliferation of targeted hate speech. Such speeches provide fertile ground for incitement to violence; (xxiii) On the role of the Court in dealing with the question of hate B speech, the decisions in Pravasi Bhalai Sangathan vs. Union of India40; Kodungallur Film Society vs. Union of India41 and Amish Devgan (supra) lay down broad parameters; (xxiv)At the international level, the definition of hate speech was C formulated in the UN Strategy and Plan of Action on Hate Speech, to mean “… any kind of communication in speech, writing or behavior, that attacks or uses pejorative or discriminatory language with reference to a person D or a group on the basis of who they are, in other words, based on their religion, ethnicity, nationality, race, colour, descent, gender or other identity factor.” E The Role and Responsibilities of Political Leaders in Combating Hate Speech and Intolerance (Provisional version) dated 12 March 2019, was submitted by the Committee on Equality and Non-Discrimination to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The Assembly passed the resolution adopting the text proposed F by rapporteur Ms. Elvira Kovacs, Serbia; (xxv) Finally, the way forward is, (i) for the legislature to adopt a voluntary model code of conduct for persons holding public offices, which would reflect Constitutional morality and values of good governance; and (ii) the creation of an G appropriate mechanism such as Ombudsman, in accordance with the Venice principles and Paris principles. Till such an 40 (2014) 11 SCC 477 41 (2018) 10 SCC 713 H 626 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Ombudsman is constituted, the National and State Human Rights Commissions have to take pro-active measures, in terms of the provisions of Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993. IV. Discussion and Analysis B Question No. 1 12. Question No.1 referred to us, is as to whether the grounds specified in Article 19(2) in relation to which reasonable restrictions on the right to free speech can be imposed by law are exhaustive, or can C restrictions on the right to free speech be imposed on grounds not found in Article 19(2) by invoking other fundamental rights?