The time imperative for consideration of representation can never be G absolute or obsessive. It depends upon the necessities and the time at which the representation is made. The representation may be received before the case is referred to the Advisory Board, but there may not be time to dispose of the representation before referring the case to the Advisory Board. In that situation the representation must also be forwarded to H PRAMOD SINGLA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 811 [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] the Advisory Board along with the case of the detenu. The A representation may be received after the case of the detenu is referred to the Board. Even in this situation the representation should be forwarded to the Advisory Board provided the Board has not concluded the proceedings. In both the situations there is no question of consideration of the representation B before the receipt of report of the Advisory Board. Nor it could be said that the Government has delayed consideration of the representation, unnecessarily awaiting the report of the Board. It is proper for the Government in such situations to await the report of the Board. If the Board finds no material for detention on the merits and reports accordingly, the C Government is bound to revoke the of detention. Secondly, even if the Board expresses the view that there is sufficient cause for detention, the Government after considering the representation could revoke the detention. The Board has to submit its report within eleven weeks from D the date of detention. The Advisory Board may hear the detenu at his request. The Constitution of the Board shows that it consists of eminent persons who are Judges or persons qualified to be Judges of the High Court. It is therefore, proper that the Government considers the representation in the E aforesaid two situations only after the receipt of the report of the Board. If the representation is received by the Government after the Advisory Board has made its report, there could then of course be no question of sending the representation to the Advisory Board. It will have to be dealt with and disposed of by the Government as early as possible.” F 30. While at a first glance, it may seem like there is friction between the two sets of s, however, a deeper inspection would prove otherwise. To understand the two sets of s, we must first look at the relevant provisions under which these s were passed. G 31. The Pankaj Kumar Case (Supra) was passed in the context of the Preventive Detention Act, 1960, and the Abdullah Kunhi Case (Supra) was passed in the context of the COFEPOSA Act. Section 3 of the two acts providing for preventive detention, for a ready reference, are being reproduced hereunder in a table chart: H 812 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A B C D E F G H PRAMOD SINGLA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 813 [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] 32. As can be seen from the provisions of the abovementioned A Acts, the detention under both laws can be passed either by the Government, or by the specially empowered officer.