In the latest decision, Joint Labour Commissioner v Kesar Lal42, this court, dealt with the issue of whether a construction worker registered under the Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1996 and a benefi ciary of the scheme made under the rules framed under the enactment, is a ‘consumer’ within the meaning of Section 2(d) of the CPA 1986. The court rejected the statutory authority’s appeal, after reviewing a host of precedents: “14. [..] Public authorities such as the appellants who have been constituted under an enactment of Parliament are entrusted with a solemn duty of providing welfare services to registered workers. The workers who are registered with the Board make contributions on the basis of which they are entitled to avail of the services provided in terms of the schemes notifi ed by the Board. Public accountability is a signifi cant consideration which underlies the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act 1986. The evolution of jurisprudence in 41 2019 (12) SCR 516. 42 2020 (5) SCR 176. 632 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. relation to the enactment refl ects the need to ensure a sense of public accountability by allowing consumers a redressal in the context of the discharge of non-sovereign functions which are not rendered free of charge. This test is duly met in the present case.” (b) Alternative basis for exercising jurisdiction: 53. There are several precedents of this court, which justify the exercise of jurisdiction under Article 32 of the Constitution. The most celebrated decision is that of Nilabati Behara v State of Orissa43, where the jurisdiction of the court was highlighted in the following terms: “‘a claim in public law for compensation’ for contravention of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the protection of which is guaranteed in the Constitution, is an acknowledged remedy for enforcement and protection of such rights, and such a claim based on strict liability made by resorting to a constitutional remedy provided for the enforcement of a fundamental right is ‘distinct from, and in addition to, the remedy in private law for damages for the tort’ resulting from the contravention of the fundamental right. The defence of sovereign immunity being inapplicable, and alien to the concept of guarantee of fundamental rights, there can be no question of such a defence being available in the constitutional remedy. It is this principle which justifi es award of monetary compensation for contravention of fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution, when that is the only practicable mode of redress available for the contravention made by the State or its servants in the purported exercise of their powers, and enforcement of the fundamental right is claimed by resort to the remedy in public law under the Constitution by recourse to Articles 32 and 226 of the Constitution.” 54. This court declared the importance of reaching out to injustice and using its powers, including under Article 142 of the Constitution, in the following terms, in Delhi Development Authority v. Skipper Construction Co. (P) Ltd44: 43 1993 (2) SCC 746.