Minimum Standard. - The Authority may prescribe the F minimum standards of the course, the curriculum, the examination etc. in respect of the course and prescribe by regulation the terms conditions and norms to be fulfilled, facilities to be provided by a Medical Institute for imparting education and training for the course of Diploma in Medicine and Rural Health Care. G 8. Permission to open a Medical Institute.- (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other law for the time being in force no person or organization other than the State Government of Assam shall establish a Medical Institute without (a) the recommendation of the Authority and (b) prior and expressed permission of the State Government. H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 979 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] (2) Every person or organization or trust wanting to start a Medical A Institute shall for the purpose of obtaining permission under sub- section (1) submit to the State Government a proposal in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the rules framed thereunder and the State Government shall refer the proposal to the Authority for its scrutiny and recommendations. B (3) On receipt of the proposal, the Authority may obtain such other particulars and information as may be considered necessary from the person or the organization concerned and thereafter if may, if the proposal is defective and does not contain any necessary particular, give a reasonable opportunity to the person or C organization concerned for making a written representation and it shall be open to such person or organization to rectify the defects, if any, specified by the Authority. (4) The State Government may after considering the proposal and the recommendations or observations of the Authority and D after obtaining where necessary, such other particulars as may be considered necessary by it from the person or the organization concerned either approve (with such conditions, if any, as may be considered necessary) or disapprove the proposal. (5) The authority while making its recommendations and the State E Government while passing an , either approving or disapproving the proposal shall have due regard to the following factors, namely, - (a) whether the proposed person or organization seeking to open a Medical Institute would be in a position to offer the minimum standards of education as prescribed by the F Authority; (b) whether the person seeking to establish a Medical Institute has adequate financial resources; (c) whether necessary· facilities in respect of staff; equipment, G accommodation, training and other facilities to ensure proper functioning of the Medical institute; (d) whether adequate hospital facilities having regard ·to the number of students likely to attend the Medical Institute would be available; H 980 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A (e) whether adequate qualified teaching and non-teaching staff would be available in the Medical Institute., (f) any other condition as may be prescribed. x x x 17. State Register of Rural Health Practitioners.- (1) The B Authority shall cause to be maintained in the prescribed manner and form a Register of Diploma Holders in Medicine and Rural Health Care to be known as the State Register of Rural health Practitioners.