With a Bench of three learned Judges deciding the case, the majority with Justice Y.K. Sabharwal dissenting, took the view that in deciding the question as to whether a reference must be made to arbitration under Section 45, the approach must be to find out whether a prima facie case is made out and whether it was ‘plainly arguable’ that C an Arbitration Agreement was in existence. The Court, in other words, took the view that there must be a prima facie satisfaction that there was an Arbitration Agreement, which is not null and void, inoperative or incapable of being performed. Section 45, it must be noticed, at the time when the case was decided, read as follows: D “45. Power of judicial authority to refer parties to arbitration.- Notwithstanding anything contained in Part I or in the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 (5 of 1908), a judicial authority, when seized of an action in a matter in respect of which the parties have made an agreement referred to in section 44, shall, at the request of one of the parties or any person claiming through or under him, refer E the parties to arbitration, unless it finds that the said agreement is null and void, inoperative or incapable of being performed.” (Emphasis supplied) 29. It was on the aforesaid statutory text that Justice B.N. Srikrishna took the view that the finding as to the existence of the F Arbitration Agreement, was to be a prima facie finding. Justice D.M. Dharmadhikari agreed with Justice B.N. Srikrishna with certain additions. 30. In National Insurance Company Limited v. Boghara Polyfab Private Limited19, the question, which fell for consideration before the Bench of two learned Judges, was as to in what circumstances, G a Court would refuse to refer a dispute relating to quantum to arbitration even though the contract contemplated a reference of such a dispute to 17 (2020) 4 SCC 612 18 (2005) 7 SCC 234 19 (2009) 1 SCC 267 H 322 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A arbitration. It also fell for consideration, as to whether the resistance to the reference on the ground that the applicant under Section 11 of the Act, received the amount and issued a full and final discharge voucher, which he contented was issued under undue influence, coercion and economic compulsion, justified the reference. Justice R.V. Raveendran, speaking for the Court, inter alia, purported to follow the in B SBP (supra) and held as follows: “22. Where the intervention of the court is sought for appointment of an Arbitral Tribunal under Section 11, the duty of the Chief Justice or his designate is defined in SBP & Co. [(2005) 8 SCC 618] This Court identified and segregated the preliminary issues C that may arise for consideration in an application under Section 11 of the Act into three categories, that is, (i) issues which the Chief Justice or his designate is bound to decide; (ii) issues which he can also decide, that is, issues which he may choose to decide; and (iii) issues which should be left to the Arbitral Tribunal to D decide.