… 53. … Jurisprudence in India must evolve towards strengthening the institutional effi cacy of arbitration. Deference to a forum chosen by parties as a complete remedy for resolving all their claims is but part of that evolution. Minimising the intervention of courts is again a recognition of the same principle.” (emphasis supplied) 179. The decision of the majority in N N Global 2 (supra) assumes that the inadmissibility of the document in evidence renders it unenforceable. 166 (2016) 10 SCC 386 IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1177 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] However, the eff ect of the principle of competence-competence is that the arbitral tribunal is vested with the power and authority to determine its enforceability. The question of enforceability survives, pending the curing of the defect which renders the instrument inadmissible. By appointing a tribunal or its members, this Court (or the High Courts, as the case may be) is merely giving eff ect to the principle enshrined in Section 16. The appointment of an arbitral tribunal does not necessarily mean that the agreement in which the arbitration clause is contained as well as the arbitration agreement itself are enforceable. The arbitral tribunal will answer precisely these questions. 180. In terms of Section 10 of the Contract Act, agreements are contracts if they are: a. Made by the free consent of parties competent to contract; b. For a lawful consideration; c. With a lawful object; and d. Not expressly declared to be void under its provisions. 181. These requirements do not aff ect any law in force and not expressly repealed, which:167 a. Requires contracts to be made in writing; b. Requires contracts to be made in the presence of witnesses; or c. Laws relating to the registration of documents. 182. In addition, Section 7 of the Arbitration Act specifies the requirements for the existence of an arbitration agreement. 183. It is the arbitral tribunal and not the court which may test whether the requirements of a valid contract and a valid arbitration agreement are met. If the tribunal fi nds that these conditions are not met, it will decline to hear the dispute any further. If it fi nds that a valid arbitration agreement exists, it may assess whether the underlying agreement is a valid contract. 167 Section 10, Contract Act 117 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 184. By enacting Section 16 of the Arbitration Act, Parliament has (in a manner of speaking) permitted an agreement to arbitrate to be preliminarily enforced even if it is only an agreement. After parties have been referred to arbitration under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act or after the appointment of arbitrators under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act the arbitral tribunal will have jurisdiction to determine all questions and issues in dispute between the parties. The legitimate concerns of the revenue in the realization of stamp duty are not defeated because the arbitral tribunal has the jurisdiction to act in pursuance of the provisions of the Stamp Act.