12. Thus, the present appeal. 13. By way of the special leave petition it has been urged amongst other grounds, that the Court in First Appeal has transgressed the confi nes of Section 30 of the Workmen Compensation Act, 19235; the vehicle in which the logs were stored and thus were being untied, was insured and therefore, the accident having taken place is within the ambit of the insurance company’s responsibilities; that the impugned judgement has left the Claimants remediless and sans any support since the sole breadwinner of the family had passed away. Analysis and Consideration 14. The act governing the present dispute, i.e., the Workmen Compensation Act, 1923, has been, vide The Workmen’s Compensation (Amendment) Act, 2009, amended, by which the word “workmen” has been substituted by “employees” rechristened as the Employees Compensation Act, 1923. 15. What this Court must consider is whether the impugned judgement is sustainable in law? On merits, the consideration would be whether the of the Commissioner, in light of the materials on record, can stand or not? In other words, the impugned judgement must stand true on two grounds, (i) statutory text; and (ii) whether the materials on record support the conclusion drawn therein or not? 5 Hereafter, the Act 380 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 16. Appeals within the act are governed by Section 30 which is extracted below for reference: – “30. Appeals. — (1) An appeal shall lie to the High Court from the following s of a Commissioner, namely :— an awarding as compensation a lump sum whether by way of redemption of a half monthly payment or otherwise or disallowing a claim in full or in part for a lump sum; 1 [(aa) an awarding interest or penalty under section 4A;] (b) an refusing to allow redemption of a half-monthly payment; (c) an providing for the distribution of compensation among the dependants of a deceased 6 [employee], or disallowing any claim of a person alleging himself to be such dependant; (d) an allowing or disallowing any claim for the amount of an indemnity under the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 12; or (e) an refusing to register a memorandum of agreement or registering the same or providing for the registration of the same subject to conditions: Provided that no appeal shall lie against any unless a substantial question of law is involved in the appeal and, in the case of an other than an such as is referred to in clause (b), unless the amount in dispute in the appeal is not less than 2 [ten thousand rupees or such higher amount as the Central Government may, by notifi cation in the Offi cial Gazette, specify]: Provided, further, that no appeal shall lie in any case in which the parties have agreed to abide by the decision of the Commissioner, or in which the of the Commissioner gives eff ect to an agreement come to by the parties: 3[Provided further that no appeal by an employer under clause (a) shall lie unless the memorandum of appeal is accompanied by a certifi cate by the Commissioner to the eff ect that the appellant has deposited with him the amount payable under the appealed against.]