A granted the appellant time to submit his reply in defence. The appellant did submit a reply. But it is an admitted position that the said inquiry proceedings were aborted at the initial stage itself and it was the Report of the Committee submitted earlier, that was acted upon by the EC in terms of a decision taken on 28th January 2010. when the Committee itself was unclear as to the B scope of its inquiry, the appellant cannot be blamed for harbouring an impression that the remit of the Committee was confined to fact finding alone and it was not discharging the functions of a disciplinary committee, as contemplated under the service Rules. [Para 61][817-E-H; 818-A] C 2. It is also noteworthy that the time span prescribed under the CCS (CCA) Rules for concluding an inquiry is ordinarily within a period of six months from the date of receipt of the of appointment. But, here, the entire process was wrapped up in flat 39 days. This shows the tearing hurry in which the Committee D was to submit its Report. One such glaring instance of the over anxiety to conclude the proceedings is apparent from the letter dated 5th May 2009, addressed by the Committee to the appellant informing him that the next date for filing his reply and for recording further depositions was 12th June 2009. Surprisingly, on the very next day, the Committee issued yet another letter E advancing the said dates by claiming that an error had crept into the previous letter and informing the appellant that the date for filing his reply should be read as ‘12th May 2009’ and the date for recording further depositions should be read as ‘14th May, 2009’, thus moving the dates back by a whole month. Another F egregious example of the hurry and scurry shown by the Committee can be gathered from the fact that on 20th May 2009, the Committee had written to the appellant giving him a last opportunity to present himself on 20th May 2009, not only to complete his deposition, but also to cross- examine the complainants and other witnesses. Simultaneously, the Committee G forwarded six more depositions to the appellant and directed him to furnish his reply within 48 hours i.e. by 22nd May, 2009. [Para 63][818-E-H; 819-A] 3. The undue haste demonstrated by the Committee for bringing the inquiry to a closure, cannot justify curtailment of the H AURELIANO FERNANDES v. STATE OF GOA AND OTHERS 777 right of the appellant to a fair hearing. The due process, an A important facet of the principles of natural justice was seriously compromised due to the manner in which the Committee went about the task of conducting the inquiry proceedings. As noted above, when the proceedings, subject matter of the present appeal had taken place, the PoSH Act was nowhere on the horizon and B the field was occupied by the Vishaka Guidelines. The said Guidelines also did not exclude application of the principles of natural justice and fair play in making procedural compliances.