But, before dealing with the aforesaid circumstances to consider whether they unerringly point to the guilt of the appellants in exclusion of any hypothesis as to the guilt of another person, we will fi rstly consider whether the death of Devinder is homicide and if so, whether it is culpable homicide amounting to murder. 7. As a matter of fact, there is no challenge against the identifi cation of the body and also against the concurrent fi nding that the death of Devinder @ Kala is homicide and it is culpable homicide amounting to murder. The evidence of PW-4 Dr. K. Goel, together with postmortem report (Ext.PD) was appreciated by the courts below to come to the said conclusion. The opinion of the doctor is to the eff ect that the cause of death is asphyxia due to the result of pressure over the neck structures, subcutaneous bruising, muscular bruising and subluxation of hyoid bones. They were ante-mortem in nature caused by pressure over neck during the process of strangulation by other party. PW-4 further opined that pressure over neck structure was suffi cient to cause death in the ordinary course of time. This is not at all under challenge. Therefore, the concurrent fi nding that the death of Devinder @ Kala is homicide and that it is case of culpable homicide amounting to murder, arrived upon analysis of the aforesaid evidence, is unimpeachable. 8. When once it is found that the death involved in the case is culpable homicide amounting murder, the next question would be who is/are the culprit(s)? It is to establish that the appellants are the culprits and for that the prosecution had relied on the circumstantial evidence referred to KRISHAN KUMAR AND ANR. v. THE STATE OF 869 HARYANA [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] hereinbefore. As noticed hereinbefore the appellants were found guilty based on the circumstantial evidence and the fi rst link in the chain of circumstantial evidence is the ‘last seen’ evidence. ‘Last seen’ as a link in the chain of circumstantial evidence, would suggest existence of oral testimony of at least one witness to establish that the deceased was last seen in the company of the accused. In this context it is relevant to refer to the following decisions: - 9. In the decision in State of UP v. Satish1, this Court held thus: “The last seen theory comes into play where the time gap between the point of time when the accused and the deceased were seen last alive and then the deceased is found dead is so small that possibility of any person other than the accused being a part of the crime becomes impossible. It would be diffi cult in some cases to positively establish that the deceased was last seen with the accused when there is a long time gap and the possibility of other person coming in between exists. In the absence of any other positive evidence to conclude that the accused and the deceased were last seen together, it would be hazardous to come to a conclusion of guilt in those cases.” (Emphasis added) 10.