They are able to dedicate extended periods of time to the adjudication of a single case before them. If an agreement is impounded by the arbitral tribunal in a particular case, it is far likelier that the process of payment of stamp-duty and a penalty (if any) and the other procedures under the Stamp Act are completed at a quicker pace than before courts. J*. SMS Tea Estates and Garware Wall Ropes were wrongly decided i. SMS Tea Estates 197. The genesis of the present issue stems from a two-Judge Bench decision of this Court in SMS Tea Estates (supra). In that case, the appellant and respondent executed a lease deed with respect to two tea estates in favor of the appellant. The lease deed provided for the settlement of disputes between the parties by arbitration. When the appellant sought to invoke the arbitration clause, the respondent opposed the same on the ground that the lease deed was unregistered and not duly stamped, and was therefore invalid, unenforceable, and not binding. The High Court dismissed the appellant’s application for the appointment of an arbitrator. On appeal, inter alia the following issues came for consideration before this Court: fi rst, whether an arbitration agreement contained in an unregistered (but compulsorily registerable) instrument is valid and enforceable; and second, whether an arbitration agreement in an unregistered instrument which is not duly stamped, is valid and enforceable. 198. With regard to the fi rst issue, the Court analysed Section 49 of the Registration Act. Section 49 of the Registration Act provides that an * Ed. Note: PART J IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1183 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] unregistered document cannot be received as evidence of any transaction affecting such property or conferring such power unless it has been registered. However, the proviso to Section 49 provides that an unregistered instrument can be used as evidence of any collateral transaction not required to be eff ected by such instrument. In view of the aforesaid provision, this Court held that an arbitration agreement contained in an unregistered instrument is a collateral term relating to the resolution of disputes, which was unrelated to the performance of the contract. Therefore, it was held that an arbitration agreement contained in an unregistered but compulsorily registerable document can be acted upon and enforced for the purpose of dispute resolution by arbitration. 199. With regard to the second issue, it was noted that Section 35 of the Stamp Act does not contain a proviso like Section 49 of the Registration Act enabling the unstamped instrument to be used for a collateral purpose. Thereafter, this Court observed that Section 33 casts a duty upon every court, as also an arbitrator, before whom an unregistered instrument chargeable with stamp duty is produced to examine the instrument in to ascertain whether it is duly stamped. If the Court or arbitrator comes to the conclusion that the instrument is not duly stamped, it has to necessarily impound the document.