Given the stages of the process that the candidate has successfully crossed, he may not have a vested right of appointment but a reasonable expectation of being appointed having regard to his position in the merit list could arise. The employer, if it is a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution, would have no authority to act in an arbitrary manner and throw the candidate out from the range of appointment, as distinguished from the zone of consideration, without rhyme or reason. The employer-State being bound by Article 14 of the Constitution, the law places an obligation, nay duty, on such an employer to provide some justifi cation by way of reason. If plausible justifi cation is provided, the courts would be loath to question the justifi cation but the justifi cation must be such that it is rational and justifi able, and not whimsical or capricious, warranting non-interference. 16. In the facts of the present case, the stage of declaration of ineligibility seems to us to turn the tide in favour of the third respondent. If the appellant had declared the third respondent as ineligible based on the appellant’s appreciation of the educational qualifi cation of the third respondent at the threshold, the situation would have entirely been diff erent. However, it was not at the threshold that the third respondent was considered ineligible. As the factual narrative would reveal, the appellant had considered the third respondent eligible, allowed him to take part in the various tests 114 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. in connection with the selection process, interviewed him, placed his name quite high in the merit list, and thereafter sent him for 15 days’ pre-induction training starting from 15th March, 1996. It was after a week that the letter dated 22nd March, 1996 was issued which resulted in ouster of the third respondent from the range of appointment. 17. There is little doubt that the decision to treat the third respondent as ineligible was based on the certifi cate; however, there is no gainsaying that the certifi cate produced by the third respondent in support of his claim that he had qualifi ed in the relevant examination and, thus, was eligible to be considered for appointment, did leave room for two views. It is settled law that unfettered discretion, unaccountable approach and arbitrariness in State action are antithesis to Article 14; and, particularly when two views could possibly emerge looking at the certifi cate of educational qualifi cation placed by the third respondent, with both views not being wholly unworthy of acceptance, fairness in administrative procedure demanded that the appellant ought to have given reason, howsoever brief, as to why it preferred to consider the third respondent to have succeeded in the relevant examination through “vocational stream”, thereby attracting ineligibility, without considering the eff ect of the remark ‘Regular’ at the foot of the certifi cate. The contents of the letter dated 22nd March, 1996, which sounded the death knell for the third respondent, is clearly suggestive of a general direction given to the addressee Postmasters General; they were not called upon to scrutinise each certifi cate on its merits.