The High Court instead of deciding if any other less restrictive but equally effective means could have been employed, straight away received the material in a sealed cover without any application of mind. It is now an established principle of natural justice that relevant material must be disclosed to the affected party. This rule ensures D that the affected party is able to effectively exercise their right to appeal. When the state government claims non-disclosure on the ground of public interest under Section 124 of the Evidence Act, the material is removed from the trial itself. As opposed to this method, when relevant material is disclosed in a sealed cover, E there are two injuries that are perpetuated. First, the documents are not available to the affected party. Second, the documents are relied upon by the opposite party (which is most often the state) in the course of the arguments, and the court arrives at a finding by relying on the material. In such a case, the affected party does not have any recourse to legal remedies because it would be F unable to (dis)prove any inferences from the material before the adjudicating authority. This form of adjudication perpetuates a culture of secrecy and opaqueness, and places the beyond the reach of challenge. The affected party would be unable to “contradict errors, identify omissions, challenge the credibility G of informants or refute false allegations”. The right to seek judicial review which has now been read into Articles 14 and 21 is restricted. A corresponding effect of the sealed cover procedure is a non-reasoned . [Paras 57-59][643-F; 644-A-G] H MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 605 INDIA & ORS. 6. National security is one of the few grounds on which the A right to a reasonable procedural guarantee may be restricted. The mere involvement of issues concerning national security would not preclude the state’s duty to act fairly. If the State discards its duty to act fairly, then it must be justified before the court on the facts of the case. Firstly, the State must satisfy the B Court that national security concerns are involved. Secondly, the State must satisfy the court that an abrogation of the principle(s) of natural justice is justified. These two standards that have emerged from the jurisprudence abroad resemble the proportionality standard. The first test resembles the legitimate aim prong, and the second test of justification resembles the C necessity and the balancing prongs. [Para 75][656-D-F] 7. A claim cannot be made out of thin air without material backing for such a conclusion. The Court must determine if the State makes the claim in a bona fide manner. The Court must assess the validity of the claim of purpose by determining (i) D whether there is material to conclude that the non-disclosure of the information is in the interest of national security; and (ii) whether a reasonable prudent person would arrive at the same conclusion based on the material. The reasonable prudent person standard which is one of the lowest standards to test the E reasonableness of an action is used to test national security claims by courts across jurisdictions because of their deferential perception towards such claims.