9. The submission which has been urged on behalf of the petitioners by Dr A M Singhvi is that the nominated members of the Corporation do not have the right to vote, including at the election of the Mayor. B 10. On the other hand, It has been urged both by the Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the Lt Governor and by Mr Sanjay Jain, Additional Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the Municipal Corporation, that the restriction on the right to vote in terms of Article 243R(2) as well as the proviso to Section 3(3)(b)(i) applies only to the C regular meetings of the Corporation where the business of the Municipal Corporation is transacted and would not extend to the first meeting after the elections are held. Buttressing the submission, it has been urged that Section 73 requires the first meeting of the Corporation to be convened by the Administrator and Section 35 stipulates that at its first meeting the Corporation shall elect one of its members as a Mayor and another to be D a Deputy Mayor. Hence, it has been submitted that the prohibition on the exercise of the right to vote which attaches to the nominated members does not extend to the first meeting of the Corporation. Mr Ranjit Kumar, senior counsel, alluded to the provisions of clause (b) of Article 243R(2), according to which the state legislature may by the legislation provide E for the manner of electing the Chairperson of a Municipality. 11. We are unable to accept the submission which has been urged on behalf of the Municipal Corporation and the Lt Governor and by counsel supporting them. The source of the statutory provision is contained in Article 243R of the Constitution itself. Part IXA of the Constitution was introduced by the Constitution (Seventy-fourth F Amendment) Act 1992. Article 243R provides for the composition of Municipalities. As already noted, the Constitution provides for direct election to all the seats in Municipality, save as specified in clause (2) which enunciates the exceptions. Clause (2) contains provisions, inter alia, for the representation in a Municipality of persons having special G knowledge or experience in Municipal administration as well as other persons such as members of the House of the People and the Legislative Assembly and members of the Council of States and the Legislative Council of the States representing the specific constituency and the Chairpersons of the Committees constituted under clause (5) of Article 243S. The Constitution has imposed a restriction in terms of which H SHELLY OBEROI v. OFFICE OF LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR 587 OF DELHI [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] nominated members who are brought in on account of their special A knowledge or experience in Municipal administration do not have the right to vote. The same restriction finds statutory recognition in Section 3(3)(b)(i) of the Act. The above provisions indicate that persons who are nominated under the sub-clause shall not have the right to vote in the meetings of the Corporation. The Constitution and the Act place value B on their experience but the right to vote is not granted to them at meetings of the Corporation.