Tersely put, it is only such property which is derived or obtained, directly or indirectly, as a result of criminal activity relating to a scheduled off ence can be regarded as proceeds of crime. The authorities under the 2002 Act cannot resort to action against any person for money-laundering on an assumption that the property recovered by them must be proceeds of crime and that a scheduled off ence has been committed, unless the same is registered with the jurisdictional police or pending inquiry by way of complaint before the competent forum. For, the expression “derived or obtained” is indicative of criminal activity relating to a scheduled off ence already accomplished. Similarly, in the event the person named in the criminal activity relating to a scheduled off ence is fi nally absolved by a Court of competent jurisdiction owing to an of discharge, acquittal or because of quashing of the criminal case (scheduled off ence) against him/her, there can be no action for money-laundering against such a person or person claiming through him in relation to the property linked to the stated scheduled off ence. This interpretation alone can be countenanced on the basis of the provisions of the 2002 Act, in particular Section 2(1)(u) read with Section 3. Taking any other view would be rewriting of these provisions and disregarding the express language of defi nition clause “proceeds of crime”, as it obtains as of now.” (underline supplied) In paragraphs 269 and 270, this Court held thus: 106 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. “269. From the bare language of Section 3 of the 2002 Act, it is amply clear that the off ence of money-laundering is an independent off ence regarding the process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime which had been derived or obtained as a result of criminal activity relating to or in relation to a scheduled off ence. The process or activity can be in any form — be it one of concealment, possession, acquisition, use of proceeds of crime as much as projecting it as untainted property or claiming it to be so. Thus, involvement in any one of such process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime would constitute off ence of money-laundering. This off ence otherwise has nothing to do with the criminal activity relating to a scheduled off ence — except the proceeds of crime derived or obtained as a result of that crime. 270. Needless to mention that such process or activity can be indulged in only after the property is derived or obtained as a result of criminal activity (a scheduled off ence). It would be an off ence of money-laundering to indulge in or to assist or being party to the process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime; and such process or activity in a given fact situation may be a continuing off ence, irrespective of the date and time of commission of the scheduled off ence. In other words, the criminal activity may have been committed before the same had been notifi ed as scheduled off ence for the purpose of the 2002 Act, but if a person has indulged in or continues to indulge directly or indirectly in dealing with proceeds of crime, derived or obtained from such criminal activity even after it has been notifi ed as scheduled off ence, may be liable to be prosecuted for off ence of money-laundering under the 2002 Act — for continuing to possess or conceal the proceeds of crime (fully or in part) or retaining possession thereof or uses it in trenches until fully exhausted.