But in the nature of weapon used, the assault made in the rib-cage area, knowledge that death was likely to ensue will have to be attributed to the appellant. 8. In the entirety of the evidence, the facts and circumstances of the case, we are unable to sustain the conviction of the appellant under Section 302 IPC and are satisfi ed that it deserves to be altered to Section 304 Part II IPC. It is ed accordingly. Considering the period of custody undergone after his conviction, we alter the sentence to the period of custody already undergone. The appellant may be released forthwith if not required in any other case. 9. The appeal is therefore allowed in part with the aforesaid modifi cation of the conviction and sentence.” 19. This Court in a recent judgement in the case of Anbazhagan vs. The State represented by the Inspector of Police in Criminal Appeal No.2043 of 2023 disposed of on 20.07.2023 has defi ned the context of the true test to be adopted to fi nd out the intention or knowledge of the accused in doing the act as under: “60. Few important principles of law discernible from the aforesaid discussion may be summed up thus: (1) When the court is confronted with the question, what off ence the accused could be said to have committed, the true test is to fi nd out the intention or knowledge of the accused in doing the act. If the intention or knowledge was such as is described in Clauses (1) to (4) of Section 300 of the IPC, the act will be murder even though only a single injury was caused. To illustrate: ‘A’ is bound hand and foot. ‘B’ comes and placing his revolver against the head of ‘A’, shoots ‘A’ in his head killing him instantaneously. Here, there will be no diffi culty in holding that the intention of ‘B’ in shooting ‘A’ was to kill him, though only single injury was caused. The case would, therefore, be of murder falling within Clause (1) of Section 300 of the IPC. Taking 856 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. another instance, ‘B’ sneaks into the bed room of his enemy ‘A’ while the latter is asleep on his bed. Taking aim at the left chest of ‘A’, ‘B’ forcibly plunges a sword in the left chest of ‘A’ and runs away. ‘A’ dies shortly thereafter. The injury to ‘A’ was found to be suffi cient in ordinary course of nature to cause death. There may be no diffi culty in holding that ‘B’ intentionally infl icted the particular injury found to be caused and that the said injury was objectively suffi cient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death. This would bring the act of ‘B’ within Clause (3) of Section 300 of the IPC and render him guilty of the off ence of murder although only single injury was caused. (2) Even when the intention or knowledge of the accused may fall within Clauses (1) to (4) of Section 300 of the IPC, the act of the accused which would otherwise be murder, will be taken out of the purview of murder, if the accused’s case attracts any one of the fi ve exceptions enumerated in that section.