The speech of the Minister of the State of Kerala portrayed women in a disrespectful way. Since the statements concerned in both the cases were attributed to the Ministers, Question No.4 referred to us, specifically relates to “statement made by a Minister”. Amish Devgan did not deal with the statement of a Minister traceable to any affairs of the State, though a Minister would fall under the category of “person of D influence”. Moreover, the statements attributed to the Ministers in the cases on hand may not come under the category of hate speech. Therefore, we do not wish to enlarge the scope of this reference by going into the questions which were answered in Amish Devgan. 137. Therefore, our answer to Question No.4 would be that a E statement made by a Minister even if traceable to any affairs of the State or for protecting the Government, cannot be attributed vicariously to the Government by invoking the principle of collective responsibility. Question No.5 F 138. Question No.5 referred to us for consideration is “whether a statement by a Minister, inconsistent with the rights of a citizen under Part-III of the Constitution, constitutes a violation of such constitutional rights and is actionable as ‘Constitutional Tort’?” 139. To begin with, we have some difficulty with the words “a G statement by a Minister”, appearing in Question No.5. A statement may be made by a Minister either inside or outside the House of People/ Legislative Assembly of the State. A statement may also be made by a Minister in writing or by words spoken. A statement may be made in private or in public. A statement may also be made by a Minister either H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 705 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] touching upon the affairs of the Ministry/ department of which he is in A control or touching generally upon the policies of the Government of which he is a part. A Minister may also make a statement, in the form of an opinion on matters about which he or his department is not concerned or over which he has no control. All such statements need not necessarily give rise to an action in tort or in constitutional tort. B 140. Take for instance a case where a Minister makes a statement that women are unfit to be employed in a particular avocation. It may reflect his insensitivity to gender equality and also may expose his low constitutional morality. The fact that due to his insensitivity or lack of understanding or low constitutional morality, he speaks a language that C has the potential to demean the constitutional rights of women, cannot be a ground for action in Constitutional tort. Needless to say that no one can either be taxed or penalised for holding an opinion which is not in conformity with the constitutional values. It is only when his opinion gets translated into action and such action results in injury or harm or loss that an action in tort will lie.