In that context, it was observed that a provision is a liability which can be measured only by using a substantial degree of F estimation. A provision is recognised when: (a) an enterprise has a present obligation as a result of a past event (such as a sale); (b) it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and (c) a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The assessee therein was in the business of valve actuators which are sophisticated goods and if any valve actuator was found defective then G the warranty became significant. As the valve actuator is a sophisticated good, no customer was prepared to buy the same without a warranty. In other words, a warranty stood attached to the sale price of the product. In that context, it was observed that obligations arising from past events have to be recognized as provisions and these past events such as a sale H 1318 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A of goods are known as obligating events. It was observed on the facts and circumstances of that case that provision for warranty was rightly made by the appellant enterprise therein because it had incurred a present obligation as a result of past events which resulted in an outflow of resources. B 13.7. In the context of levy of excise duty on the manufacturer who is also a seller at the point of first sale, this Court in Medley Pharmaceuticals Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Central Excise and Customs, Daman, (2011) 2 SCC 601 at paragraph 12 referred to Firm Ram Krishna Ramnath Agarwal vs. Municipal Committee, Kamptee, AIR 1950 SC 11 which had in turn referred to the distinction C made by the Federal Court between a duty of excise and a tax on sale in Province of Madras vs. Boddu Paidanna and Sons, AIR 1942 FC 33 wherein it was observed as under: “9. … … Plainly, a tax levied on the first sale must, in the nature of things, be a tax on the sale by the manufacturer or producer; D but it is levied upon him qua seller and not qua manufacturer or producer. It may well be that a manufacturer or producer is sometimes doubly hit.… If the taxpayer who pays a sales tax is also a manufacturer or producer of commodities subject to a central duty of excise, there may no doubt be overlapping in one E sense; but there is no overlapping in law. The two taxes which he is called on to pay are economically two separate and distinct imposts. There is, in theory, nothing to prevent the Central Legislature from imposing a duty of excise on a commodity as soon as it comes into existence, no matter what happens to it afterwards, whether it be sold, consumed, destroyed or given away. F … It is the fact of manufacture which attracts the duty, even though it may be collected later….