D (34) Mr. Amit Kapoor, learned counsel, laid stress on the principle of contra proferentem. He would point out along with Mr. Sajjan Poovyya, learned senior counsel, that the Court must not be oblivious of the fact that this case represents a case 2 scenario under the RFP. This means that unlike a situation where the contractor is free to choose the site and the other facilities, in a case 2 situation which is the situation prevailing E in this case,everything is dictated to by the employer viz., SPV. Expatiating the said point, it is pointed out that the bidders did not have a control over the water source from which water had to be taken. In other words, the water could not have been sourced from any other water body. This aspect is relevant for the purpose of considering the free play with the F Commission in the matter of fixing tariff based on a situation which was created as are exemplified by two grounds which have been made out and which are the subject matter of the appeals. Another point which is projected is that in regard to geological matters, the bidders were warned that they would have to on their own make an assessment. But such a caveat was not entered with regard to pertinently the hydrological G conditions. Since water intake system related to hydrology, it is not open to the appellants to ward off a just fixation of tariff based on the discovery of the fact that the first WAPCOS report was highly flawed. We are reminded that it was of the greatest importance for the first respondent that it ran the power plant on a yearly basis. The second report of the WAPCOS would clearly indicate that if the appellant had to take water H 38 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A in terms of the first WAPCOS report, during the lean months, the first respondent would not get sufficient water supply to operate the plant. If such an eventuality had taken place, the result would be that the procurers would end up paying the charges towards capacity charge even though, it would not get power. The appellants would be compelled to buy power from outside and finally the end consumer would have to bear the brunt B of the loss. It is to avoid all this that the first respondent has acted in a manner which was not only in tune with its best interest but also ensuring that the procurers and finally the consumers were best protected. It is further pointed out by the learned counsel that the Court must bear in mind that the contract in question permits the passing of the benefit not C only to the contractor but also to the employer viz., the appellants. In other words, if it was a case where the first respondent were to be found to be making an unjust enrichment under the regulatory mechanism, the appellants could have moved the Commission for bringing down the rates.