In Mrityunjoy Das (supra), it held that: “13. Before however, proceeding with the matter any further, be it noted that exercise of powers under the Contempt of Courts Act shall have to be rather cautious and use of it rather sparingly after addressing itself to the true eff ect of the contemptuous conduct. The court must otherwise BALWANTBHAI SOMABHAI BHANDARI v. HIRALAL 1095 SOMABHAI CONTRACTOR (DECEASED) REP. BY LRS. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] come to a conclusion that the conduct complained of tantamounts to obstruction of justice which if allowed, would even permeate in our society (vide Murray & Co. v. Ashok Kr. Newatia [(2000) 2 SCC 367 : 2000 SCC (Cri) 473] ). This is a special jurisdiction conferred on to the law courts to punish an off ender for his contemptuous conduct or obstruction to the majesty of law. It is in this context that the observations of this Court in Murray case [(2000) 2 SCC 367 : 2000 SCC (Cri) 473] in which one of us (Banerjee, J.) was party needs to be noticed: (SCC p. 373, para 9) “The purpose of contempt jurisdiction is to uphold the majesty and dignity of the courts of law since the image of such a majesty in the minds of the people cannot be led to be distorted. The respect and authority commanded by courts of law are the greatest guarantee to an ordinary citizen and the entire democratic fabric of the society will crumble down if the respect for the judiciary is undermined. It is true that the judiciary will be judged by the people for what the judiciary does, but in the event of any indulgence which can even remotely be termed to aff ect the majesty of law, the society is bound to lose confi dence and faith in the judiciary and the law courts thus would forfeit the trust and confi dence of the people in general.”” 47. The Constitutional Bench of this Court in the case of Supreme Court Bar Association (supra), while discussing the ambit of powers under the Act 1971 and the principles to be followed while punishing a party held as under: “28. An analysis of the above provision shows that sub-section (1) of Section 12 provides that in a case of established contempt, the contemner may be punished: (a) with simple imprisonment by detention in a civil prison; or (b) with fi ne; or (c) with both. A careful reading of sub-section (2) of Section 12 reveals that the Act places an embargo on the court not to impose a sentence in excess 1096 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. of the sentence prescribed under sub-section (1). A close scrutiny of sub-section (3) of Section 12 demonstrates that the legislature intended that in the case of civil contempt a sentence of fi ne alone should be imposed except where the court considers that the ends of justice make it necessary to pass a sentence of imprisonment also. Dealing with imposition of punishment under Section 12(3) of the Act, in the case of Pushpaben v. Narandas V. Badiani [(1979) 2 SCC 394 : 1979 SCC (Cri) 511] this Court opined: (SCC p. 396, para 6) “6.