The principle of party autonomy, the court concluded that, by an agreement, could be waived by the parties. This duty itself is implied in a mandatory provision of the UK Arbitration Act (of 1996). 36. Halliburton (supra) was concerned an ad hoc arbitration governed by the laws of New York but seated in London. The removal of the presiding arbitrator became the subject of an application on various grounds, including 22 2021 [2] All E.R. 1175 101 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. his failure to disclose certain appointments had given rise to justifi able doubts regarding his impartiality. The applicant alleged this duty meant that he should have disclosed various previous arbitration engagements by the insurance company, which nominated him, especially in some cases, where the claims were somewhat similar to those that the applicant had been exposed to, but the insurer had denied its liability for. The Supreme Court underlined that arbitrators perform judicial functions and are required to act as judges would, without fear or favour, aff ection or ill-will. One way of satisfying the parties as to an arbitrator’s impartiality is disclosure. The role of disclosure was summarised by the Lord Hodge who delivered the opinion of the Court: “70. An arbitrator, like a judge, must always be alive to the possibility of apparent bias and of actual but unconscious bias. … One way in which an arbitrator can avoid the appearance of bias is by disclosing matters which could arguably be said to give rise to a real possibility of bias. Such disclosure allows the parties to consider the disclosed circumstances, obtain necessary advice, and decide whether there is a problem with the involvement of the arbitrator in the reference and, if so, whether to object or otherwise to act to mitigate or remove the problem…” The UK Act does not place any express obligation on potential or serving arbitrators to disclose to parties regarding matters that concern their independence or impartiality. This duty was not previously recognized by the courts in the UK. The Supreme Court in Halliburton (supra) had to uniquely determine where such a duty existed in English law. The Court found that the duty of disclosure for arbitrators was implicitly based on section 33 of the 1996 Act (Arbitration Act, 1996), which provides that arbitral tribunals shall act fairly and impartially as between the parties. As the Court said that the legal obligation to disclose matters that could give rise to justifi able doubts as to an arbitrator’s impartiality was “encompassed within the statutory obligation of fairness” it was “also an essential corollary of the statutory obligation of impartiality.” 37. Discussing the duty, the UK Supreme Court considered if an arbitrator with a fi nancial relationship with a party to the dispute in which CHENNAI METRO RAIL LTD. ADMIN. BUILDING v. 1019 M/S TRANSTONNELSTROY AFCONS (JV) [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] he or she was appointed was under a duty to disclose it; and held that it would “be incumbent on the arbitrator to disclose the relationship in to comply with his statutory duty of fairness under section 33 of the 1996 Act.” The court held that there was a legal duty of disclosure in English law which was “encompassed within the statutory duties of an arbitrator under section 33,” while adding that this was “a component of the arbitrator’s statutory duty to act fairly and impartially,” and that it did not override the separate duty of privacy and confi dentiality under the English law.