What is more important, it is pointed out that there are no allegations levelled against the Public Prosecutor who has been appointed as aforesaid. H 1108 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A (10) Learned counsel for the petitioners have raised another complaint as well. It is pointed out that on a regular basis, the petitioners who are witnesses have been under threats by the other- side. He would submit that despite a request being made, protection has not been accorded. B (11) Learned counsel for the first respondent-State, on the other hand, points out that there is a Witness Protection Scheme, 2018. A witness who is intimidated will always have a right to write to the presiding Judge or Public Prosecutor or the Superintendent of Police of concerned District. Only one request has been received on the last date of hearing, it is submitted. C (12) As far as transferring the case out of the State is concerned, we would think that due to the passage of time and the fact that nearly 42 witnesses have already been examined, we do not think that, as things stand, the case is to be transferred. (13) We must pause here for a moment and however make D these observations: The State exists on the basis of implied consent of the Governed. The principal reason for people to come together under the organization of the state is the fundamental principle that the State will be in a position to always protect the lives and properties of the citizens. E This is the fundamental unalterable premise for the creation, existence and preservation of any civilized State. It is all the more so, when the State is functioning under a written constitution which guarantees fundamental rights such as ours. It is accordingly that rule of law is rightfully treated as part of the basic structure of the Constitution. It F is the bounden duty of any State to ensure that the lives of its citizens and other persons are at all times protected. The same goes for their properties. This is the elementary function of the State. We are not at this stage called upon to deal with the duties of the State with the mantle of a welfare State falling upon it. Even if this indispensable function to constitute a State is not performed, it would be a lamentable G state of affairs. (14) The principal mechanism for vindicating the rule of law and upholding the rights of the citizens is the judicial branch of the State. One of the fundamental methods by which Rule of law is preserved consists of sanctions of which the criminal law is the H SUNIL SAINI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF HARYANA & ORS. 1109 principal branch. The criminal courts must be allowed to function in A a manner by which at the end of the day the guilty are punished and innocent are exonerated. (15) The role of the Public Prosecutor in all of this is paramount.