29. In the aforesaid backdrop, in to answer the reference, it is essential to appreciate the decisions relied upon in the two decisions, D namely, Arup Bhuyan and Indra Das. It is only subsequent to having appreciated these decisions that we may examine effectively, their application to the scenario before us. Background, import and relevance of decisions of Supreme Court of United States relied on in Arup Bhuyan E 30. In Arup Bhayan, the learned bench of two judges placed reliance on American decisions in Elfbrandt v. Russel45, Clarence Brandenberg v. State of Ohio46 and United States v. Eugene Frank Robel47 wherein the doctrine of ‘guilt by association’ has been rejected. The court observed that the abovementioned s apply to India F too, since the fundamental rights in India are similar to the Bill of Rights in the U.S. Constitution. Furthermore, this court while setting aside the conviction of the appellant under S.3(5) TADA observed: “12. In our opinion, Section 3(5) cannot be read literally otherwise it will violate Articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution. It has to be G read in the light of our observations made above. Hence, mere membership of a banned organisation will not make a person a 45 384 U.S. 17 (1966) 46 395 U.S. 444 (1969) H 47 389 U.S. 258 (1967) ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 573 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] criminal unless he resorts to violence or incites people to violence A or creates public dis by violence or incitement to violence.” 31. Reliance was placed on the decision of this court in State of Kerela v. Raneef48 (two-Judge Bench), wherein Justice Katju, while upholding the granting bail to the Respondent, placed reliance on US Supreme Court decisions such as Elfbrandt (supra) which has B rejected the doctrine of “guilt of association”. 32. In Elfbrandt (supra), the constitutionality of the Arizona Act was in question which required all state employees to take oath. Under the oath, an employee is subject to prosecution for perjury and discharge from office if he “knowingly and willfully becomes or remains a C member of the communist party of the United States or its successors or any of its subordinate organizations’’ or “any other organization” having for “one of its purposes”, the overthrow of the state government, where the employee had knowledge of such unlawful purpose. It was held that those who join an organization but do not share D its unlawful purposes and who do not participate in its unlawful activities surely pose no threat. This Act threatens the cherished freedom of association protected by the First Amendment, made applicable to the States through the Fourteenth Amendment. 33. In Clarence Brandenberg v. State of Ohio49, the Appellant E was convicted under the Ohio Criminal Syndicalism statute for: (i) ‘advocating … the duty, necessity, or propriety of crime, sabotage, violence, or unlawful methods of terrorism as a means of accomplishing industrial or political reform’ and (ii) for ‘voluntarily assembling with any society, group, or F assemblage of persons formed to teach or advocate the doctrines of criminal syndicalism.’ The Supreme Court of the United States of America, while reversing the conviction, held that Ohio’s Criminal Syndicalism Act cannot be sustained.