The relevant portion of the said reads as under: “When a Legislature sets out to validate a tax declared by a court to be illegally collected under an ineff ective or an invalid law, the cause for ineff ectiveness or invalidity must be removed before validation can be said to take place eff ectively. The most important condition, of course, is that the Legislature must possess the power to impose the tax, for, if it does not, the action must ever remain ineff ective and illegal. Granted legislative competence, it is not suffi cient to declare merely that the decision of the court shall not bind for that is tantamount to reversing the decision in exercise of judicial power which the Legislature does not possess or exercise. A court’s decision must always bind unless the conditions on which it is based are so fundamentally altered that the decision could not have been given in the altered circumstances. Ordinarily, a court holds a tax to be invalidly imposed because the power to tax is wanting or the statute or the rules or both are invalid or do not suffi ciently create the jurisdiction. Validation of a tax so declared illegal may be done only if the grounds of illegality or invalidity are capable of being removed and are in fact removed and the tax thus made legal. Sometimes this is done by providing for jurisdiction where jurisdiction had not been properly invested before. Sometimes this is done by re-enacting retrospectively a valid and legal taxing provision and then by fi ction making the tax already collected to stand under the re-enacted law. Sometimes the Legislature gives its own meaning and interpretation of the law under which the NHPC LTD. v. STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH 35 SECRETARY & ORS.[B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] tax was collected and by legislative fi at makes the new meaning binding upon courts. The Legislature may follow any one method or all of them and while it does so it may neutralize the eff ect of the earlier decision of the court which becomes ineff ective after the change of the law. Whichever method is adopted it must be within the competence of the Legislature and legal and adequate to attain the object of validation. If the Legislature has the power over the subject-matter and competence to make a valid law, it can at any time make such a valid law and make it retrospectively so as to bind even past transactions. The validity of a validating law, therefore, depends upon whether the Legislature possesses the competence which it claims over the subject-matter and whether in making the validation it removes the defect which the courts had found in the existing law and makes adequate provisions in the validating law for a valid imposition of the tax.” iii. In the case of Indian Aluminium Company Co. vs. State of Kerala, A.I.R 1996 SC 1431, the principles regarding the abrogation of a of a court of law by a subsequent legislation were culled out in the following words: “56.