18. We may also observe that PW-1, namely, Ashish Agrawal, nephew of the deceased, has not made out any person to be responsible for the offence, nor has he expressed any doubt or pointed fingers against any of the accused, much less the present appellant. He states he has C “no information as to how many persons, how hit to uncle with bullet coming with what mode.” 19. The testimony of the Investigating Officer Inspector J.S. Saggu (PW-23) runs into 97 pages. Close examination of the same reveals that the witness miserably failed to investigate as is expected and required of D a police officer to investigate a crime of murder, especially when not even a single eyewitness exists, and the entire case rests entirely on circumstantial evidence. 20. The homicidal death of Shri Goverdhan Aggarwal is not in dispute. Be that as it may, it has come in the testimony of the Investigating E Officer that on 27.9.2009, after registration of the complaint, he visited the spot; carried out the preliminary investigation; sent the dead body for post-mortem and collected several incriminating articles. 21. It is pertinent to note that his testimony reveals that the prime accused was Sunil Paswan, who stands acquitted on all charges by the F Court below, and this Court is not called upon examine the complicity of the other accused. 22. It further emanates from the testimony of P.W. 23 that the present appellant was not present at the spot of the crime. In fact, not even one person has disclosed his complicity in the crime. His testimony G further reads the complicity of Pankaj Singh in the crime, to be suspected only based on the disclosure statements of co- accused Sunil Paswan (Ex. P-13) to the effect that the former could get recovered pistol/bullets/ live cartridges from the house of co- accused Abhishek Singh. The courts below have disbelieved this part of the version of the deponent qua the H 840 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A other accused. Hence, the High Court’s reasoning in arriving at Pankaj Singh’s guilt is illogical if not self-contradictory. 23. Furthermore, we notice that on 12.10.2009, Pankaj Singh was called to the police station, where he recorded his statement, which corroborated what Sunil Paswan had said regarding him being able to B support the recovery of arms and ammunition from the house allegedly belonging to Abhishek Singh. Under the statement, the incriminating material, i.e., three guns (one with an empty cartridge); thirty- three live cartridges of 9mm; six empty 9 mm cartridges and four empty 9 mm cartridges, were recovered vide memo Ex. P-14. They were sent for analysis to the laboratory at Chandigarh. Further, his statement shows C that the accused, Pankaj Singh, was arrested on 22.10.2019 vide memo Ex. P-21/P-22. 24. Now significantly, the witness (P.W. 23) admits that the statements of neither Sunil Paswan nor Pankaj Singh have been recorded by him, in his hand, or by any other named persons, under his instructions.