The respondent in support of his election petition examined himself as PW-1 and the Returning Offi cer Mr. Dagbom Riba as PW-2. The appellant, on the other hand, in her defense had examined 14 witnesses which included her family members, the advocate who assisted her in fi ling the nomination as also her election agent. On analysing the evidence available before it, the High Court has arrived at the conclusion that the details of the property owned by the late husband of the appellant was not indicated in the relevant column of Form-26 which provided for mentioning the details of the properties owned by the spouse. In the said column the appellant had indicated as ‘not applicable’. It is in that light, the High Court has arrived at the conclusion that in a circumstance when the legal heir certifi cate dated 04.05.2017 issued in favour of the fi rst wife of Late Khaliko Pul had been set aside as on the date when the nomination paper was fi led by the appellant on 26.03.2019, the properties relating to which the legal heir certifi cate had been issued being that of the spouse ought to have been mentioned in the Form-26 of the affi davit. 102 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 7. In the background of the contentions urged by the learned senior counsel for the appellant to assail the conclusion reached by the High Court and the contentions put forth by the learned senior counsel for the respondent to sustain the same, we note that though a detail consideration has been made by the High Court and the contentions in that regard put forth by the learned senior counsel on either side before us is also elaborate, the only issue that arises for consideration is as to whether the indication made by the appellant in Form-26, as ‘not applicable’ in the column relating to ‘spouse’, in the facts and circumstance emerging herein would amount to non-disclosure of the properties owned by her spouse, as would be understood in a normal case and whether that would amount to a defect of substantial character requiring rejection of the nomination papers more particularly of a successful candidate after the election as having materially aff ected the result. 8. On this aspect, the undisputed fact even without reference to the evidence tendered by the parties is that the husband of the appellant Late Kalikho Pul, during his life time had owned and possessed the following properties:- “(1). Plot No.1: Area 581 Sq Yards: location Mumbai, Maharashtra. (2). Plot No.480: Area 550 Sq Yards: location Mumbai, Maharashtra. (3). Plot No.483-484: Area 1166 Sq Yards: location Mumbai, Maharashtra. 4). Plot No.485-486: Area 1148 Sq Yards: location Mumbai, Maharashtra. 5). Plot/Dag No.37(A): Area 5950 Sq Mtrs; location Khupa, (Hig) Anjaw. 6). Plot/Dag No.894: Area 2000 Sq Mtrs; location Tezu(Educated youth colony).” But, the question is with regard to its status after his death. DASANGLU PUL v. LUPALUM KRI 1027 [A. S. BOPANNA, J.] 9. The fact that the appellant had indicated as ‘not applicable’, in the column in Form-26 relating to indication of the property details belonging to the spouse will no doubt ex-facie indicate that the above-noted properties were not mentioned.