He submitted that Section 7 of the TP Act further permits a person to transfer such property either wholly or in part. It is contended that Section 10 of the TP Act provides that any condition or limitation absolutely restraining the transferee or any other person claiming under him from parting with or disposing of F his interest in the property is void. It is further submitted that Section 44 of the TP Act also permits one of two or more co-owners of immoveable property to transfer his share of such property or any interest therein. It is submitted that if the contention of the appellants is accepted, it would be contrary to the provisions of the TP Act. G 40. Shri K.M. Natraj submitted that ownership of a building is different from ownership of a land. He therefore submitted that it is not necessary that a person who owns a building, would also own the land. He submitted that there is nothing in law which prohibits a building to be constructed and owned by three different persons. He relies on the H 622 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A s of this Court in the cases of Dr. K.A. Dhairyawan and Others v. J.R. Thakur and Others8 and Rev. FR. K.C. Alexander v. State of Kerala9. He also relies on the of the Karnataka High Court, Bombay High Court and Rajasthan High Court in the cases of R.G. Hiremath and Another v. T. Krishnappa10, Laxmipat Singhania v. Larsen and Toubro, Ltd.11 and Saiffuddin v. The Commissioner of B Income Tax (129)12. The learned ASG also submitted that when the building regulations permit construction of three floors, the relief as sought by the appellants cannot be granted. V. STATUTORY PROVISIONS: C 41. For appreciating the rival contentions, it will be necessary to refer to certain statutory provisions. 42. The 1952 Act came to be enacted for facilitating the construction of the New Capital of Punjab at Chandigarh. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the 1952 Act would reveal that the said Act was enacted for vesting legal authority with the State Government to D regulate the sale of building sites and to promulgate building rules on the lines of Municipal Bye-laws so long as a properly constituted local body does not take over the administration of the city. Clause (k) of Section 2 of the 1952 Act defines ‘transferee’, which reads thus: “2. Definitions.- E ………….. (k) “transferee” means a person (including a firm or other body of individuals, whether incorporated or not) to whom a site or building is transferred in any manner whatsoever, under this Act F and includes his successors and assigns.” 43. It is sought to be urged on behalf of the respondents that ‘transferee’ as defined under the 1952 Act means a person including a firm or other body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, to whom a site or building is transferred in any manner whatsoever, under this Act G and includes his successors and assigns.