Agreements were entered into between the original writ petitioners and GAIL, ONGC, FCI etc. respectively. G 2.3 The original writ petitioners – suppliers of the vehicles filed the writ petitions before the learned Single Judge challenging the vires of Rule 3A(2) of the TST Rules and also for refund of the amount so deducted on the ground that there is no charging provision under the TST Act for levy of sales tax on transfer of the right to use goods and, hence, Rule 3A of the TST Rules, which makes it mandatory for persons, H 1138 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A responsible for making payment of the bills of the transferer of the right to use goods, to deduct, at source, sales tax at a flat rate of 4% is ultra vires the TST Act. One another ground of challenge to Rule 3A was that Rule 3A suffers from absence of delegation of power and, hence the memorandum issued in the year 1992 is invalid and cannot be enforced. B 2.4 All the writ petitions were resisted by the State contending inter alia that the transactions involved amounted to ‘Sale’ within the meaning of 2(g)(ii) of the TST Act and that as per the second proviso of Section 3(i) of the TST, Tax at 4% of the valuable consideration, shall be payable on transfer of the right to use any goods for any purpose and, hence, Rule 3A(2), prescribed merely a mode of recovery of sales tax C which is otherwise due and payable and thus Rule 3A(2) is valid. 2.5 Learned Single Judge declared Rule 3A(2) as ultra vires the TST Act. However, the learned Single Judge held that the suppliers are liable to pay sales tax under Section 3AA of the TST Act. Aggrieved by the of learned Single Judge, the State preferred writ appeals D before the Division Bench of the High Court. The original writ petitioners – suppliers also filed the writ appeals before the Division Bench aggrieved by that part of the of the learned Single Judge where it was held that the original writ petitioners – suppliers are liable to pay sales tax under Section 3AA of the TST Act. E 2.6 The Division Bench considered the following two issues: (i) Whether authority vests in the Revenue Dept. to direct deduction at Source for payment of Sales Tax from Bills of any person who transfers right to use any goods for any purpose? F (ii) Whether Rule 3A(2) is a valid piece of delegated Legislation? 2.7 During the pendency of the writ appeals, the TST Act has been replaced by the Tripura VAT Act, 2004 w.e.f. 01.04.2004. Therefore, as such the dispute is for the period prior to 01.04.2004. G 2.8 By the impugned common and the Division Bench of the High Court has dismissed the appeals of the State and has allowed the appeals of the original writ petitioners – suppliers and has held that Rule 3A(2) is ultra vires TST Rules and TST Act.