549 ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 10.2. The decision of the Calcutta High Court was followed by the Full Bench of the Lahore High Court in Hidayat Ullah Khan vs. The Crown, AIR 1949 Lah 77 wherein the petitioners being apprehensive of institution of criminal proceedings had outlined reasons for the apprehension and sought pre-arrest bail till the disposal of the trial. The petitioners had averred that such arrest would amount to victimization, and would be a cause of disgrace and dishonour to them. Justice Cornelius underlined that the proposed prosecution was not in good faith and that one of the petitioners was suff ering from certain illnesses. The Crown had challenged the competence of the High Court to grant bail in anticipation of arrest, and that had occasioned the reference of the question from the Single Judge to the Full Bench. The Full Bench framed the question as under: “Whether the High Court can grant any relief, and if so what, to a person seeking an for bail, in anticipation of his arrest for an off ence?” 10.3. The Full Bench held that the High Court had power under Section 498 of the erstwhile Code of Criminal Procedure Code to make an that a person who is suspected of an off ence for which he may he arrested by a police-offi cer or a Court, shall be admitted to bail. The Full Bench laid emphasis on the distinction between the jurisdiction of the police offi cer or Magistrate under Section 497 of the erstwhile Criminal Procedure Code ‘to release on bail’ and that of the High Court under Section 498 of the erstwhile Criminal Procedure Code, to ‘direct that any person be admitted to bail.’ The Full Bench reasoned that the distinct use of a wide expression signifi ed that the High Court’s power includes not merely a power to revise the exercise of discretion by police-offi cers and Courts of fi rst instance where bail has been refused, but also include clearly a power in the High Court to grant bail to persons to whom the police and the Courts of fi rst instance are not permitted by S. 497 to grant bail, including those persons who are not in custody. The Full Bench struck a cautious note that ‘such cases would necessarily be extremely rare, and by its very nature, the power to interfere with the discretion of an offi cial such as a police-offi cer exercising statutory powers perhaps at some remote place, at the very earliest stages of an investigation, would require to be exercised with the very greatest care.’ The Full Bench held that the Court 550 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. needs to be satisfi ed that if it stayed its hands until the police-offi cer had himself exercised his discretion in the matter and refused, upon arrest, to grant bail, a grave or irreparable wrong or injustice might result, while at the same time preserving the interest of justice in so far as they related to the charge against such an accused person.