In Western India Match Co. v. Workmen3(2-Judge Bench), the Court further held that: F “7. The terms of employment specified in the Standing would prevail over the corresponding terms in the contract of service in existence on the enforcement of the Standing ….. 8. If a prior agreement inconsistent with the Standing s will not survive, an agreement posterior to and inconsistent with the G Standing should also not prevail….. ... 2 (1984) 3 SCC 369 3 (1974) 3 SCC 330 (hereinafter referred to as ‘WIMCO’) H 864 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 10. In the sunny days of the market economy theory, people sincerely believed that the economic law of demand and supply in the labour market would settle a mutually beneficial bargain between the employer and the workmen. Such a bargain, they took it for granted, would secure fair terms and conditions of B employment to the workman. This law they venerated as natural law. They had an abiding faith in the verity of this law. But the experience of the working of this law over a long period has belied their faith. 11. …It plainly follows from Sections 4, 10 and 13(2) that the C inconsistent part of the special agreement cannot prevail over the Standing . As long as the Standing is in force, it is binding on the Company as well as the workmen. To uphold the special agreement would mean giving a go-by to the Act’s principle of three-party participation in the settlement of terms of employment. So we are of the opinion that the inconsistent part of D the special agreement is ineffective and unenforceable.” 11. Placing reliance on WIMCO (supra), this court in Rasiklal Vaghajibhai Patel v. Ahmedabad Municipal Corpn.4 (2-Judge Bench) held that any condition of service, if inconsistent with certified standing s, would not prevail, as the certified standing s would E have precedence over all such agreements. Any settlement, the employee Union enters into with the Employer would not override the Model Standing , unless it is more beneficial to the employees. 12. Coming to the facts of the case, the CGIT noted that the letters issued by the airlines (Respondent herein) to the workmen aimed F to appoint them for a fixed term. Even though their appointment s, issued from time to time, extended their appointment period, however, on expiry of such period, their employment was supposed to end. It is argued that they carried out work for more than 240 days, which was of a regular and permanent nature, but since the appointment was for a G fixed-term contract, it would be of no consequence even though they did work for 240 days or more. The Tribunal observed that the airlines had no option but to not renew the fixed-term contracts of the workmen due to a change in Government policy. H 4 (1985) 2 SCC 35 BHARATIYA KAMGAR KARMACHARI MAHASANGH v. M/s. 865 JET AIRWAYS LTD. [SANJAY KAROL, J.] 13. The High Court, while upholding the of the CGIT, held A that the mere completion of 240 days would not entitle the members to claim permanency under the Model Standing given the settlement and, more specifically, Clause 18 thereof.