As per the report the complainant had failed to give any logical and satisfactory account for the delay in lodging the complaint. The accused assert that the complaint is an abuse of the process of law and has been filed to put pressure on the accused in view of the rape case filed by her against the third person. C 34. At the same time, it is noticeable that the complainant/informant has made several allegations of rape, sexual harassment, etc. against persons with whom she had been acquainted and working. The complainant/ informant has pleaded threat and harassment at the hands of the persons named as perpetrators, who are people of influence and power as the ground and reason for delay. She pleads that period of D limitation prescribed in section 468 of the Code does not apply to an offence punishable with imprisonment exceeding three years. On the question of delay, reliance is placed on the constitutional bench decision of this Court in the L.R. Melwani (supra). It is submitted that this Court on several occasions has sustained conviction relying solely upon the E testimony of the prosecution/victim, when there is no doubt about her credibility and trustworthiness. While examining the question of delay in making the complaint, the courts must remain alive to the fact that it is difficult for a woman to come forward and make a statement alleging rape or sexual assault. F 35. Every criminal case, it is stated, is a voyage of discovery in which truth is the quest. Right from the inception of the judicial system, it has been accepted that discovery, vindication and establishment of truth are the primary purposes underlying the existence of the courts of justice. However, the supremacy of truth is easier to assert than to define. Often this task becomes difficult when contradictory factual positions G are asserted duly supported and affirmed on oath. In adversarial systems, the process of ascertaining truth requires compliance of procedures and rules of evidence, and limit the role of the adjudicator, in acting as an investigator to verify veracity of the allegations and counter-allegations till evidence and material is laid and examined as per codified procedural H 172 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A law. Yet it is believed that clash of adversaries is best calculated to getting out the facts. In a well-designed system, judicial findings of formal legal truth should coincide with the substantive truth. This can happen when the facts as asserted by the contestants are skilfully explored in accordance with the procedure prescribed by law. Abuse of law must be checked, if possible, at the very threshold, albeit when it is possible B and also as per the procedure prescribed by law. V.R. Krishna Iyer, J. aptly summarize the procedure on the quest for truth and justice in Jasraj Inder Singh v. Hemraj Multanchand, (1977) 2 SCC 155: “8. To pick out a single true item which had been inextricably got enmeshed in the skein of entries and cross-entries was to tear up C the fabric of the whole truth.