Merely because, a wrong method is being adopted cannot be a ground to perpetuate the same, if it is found to be illegal and/or contrary to the directions issued by this Court, more particularly, in the case of All India Judges’ Association and Ors. (supra). H RAVIKUMAR DHANSUKHLAL MAHETA & ANR. v. HIGH 431 COURT OF GUJARAT AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] 8.6 Even the objection on behalf of the promotees that as this A Court is monitoring the process of recruitment to the post of District Judges and, therefore, the present writ petition may not be entertained and/or by this Bench, has no substance. What is being monitored is the process and not the methodology adopted for promotion to the post of District Judge. This Court is monitoring whether the time schedule fixed B by this Court in the case of Malik Mazhar Sultan (supra) is being followed or not and the posts are timely filled in or not. The mode and method of the promotion is not the subject matter. 8.7 Now, insofar as the reliance placed upon the decision of this Court in the case of C.P. Kalra (supra) relied upon on behalf of the C promotees is concerned, at the outset, it is required to be noted that the said decision is prior to the decision of this Court in the case of All India Judges’ Association and Ors. (supra). In the present case, the Recruitment Rules specifically provides that the promotion shall be given by applying the principle of merit-cum-seniority, which is to be adhered to. D 8.8 Now, insofar as the reliance placed upon the decision of this Court in the case of V.K. Srivastava and Ors. (supra) relied upon on behalf of the promotees is concerned, at the outset, it is required to be noted that in the said decision, of this Court is not observing that the principle of merit-cum-seniority is to be given a go-by. Before this Court, E it was submitted on behalf of the petitioners that prior to the amendment of the Rules, promotion to the cadre of District Judge was based on the principle of “seniority-cum-merit” and now, as per the amended Rules, pursuant to the directions issued by this Court, the principle has been changed to “merit-cum-seniority” and the same has seriously affected F the rights of the Civil Judges (Senior Division). However, the amended Rules are applicable retrospectively and to that, this Court noted the contention on behalf of the State that in the process of promotion, merit alone was not being given importance. There was no direct controversy before this Court on the principle of “merit-cum-seniority” and/or what can be said to be the “merit-cum-seniority”. The law on the principle of G “merit-cum-seniority is by now, settled by this Court in a catena of decisions. As observed, while applying the principle of “merit-cum- seniority”, greater emphasis is given on merit and ability and seniority plays a less significant role. As observed, while applying the principle of “merit-cum-seniority”, the seniority is to be given weight only when merit H 432 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R.