Aggrieved, the Appellants moved the learned Division Bench of the High Court by preferring an appeal, which after hearing was dismissed vide Impugned on 14.08.2023. SUBMISSION BY THE APPELLANTS: 6. Mr. K. M. Nataraj, learned Additional Solicitor General (hereinafter referred to as the “ASG”) for the Appellants submitted that the learned Single Judge and the learned Division Bench of the High Court have issued directions contrary to law. It was submitted that both s have been passed on an erroneous assumption that the provisions of Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) , 1968 (hereinafter referred to as the “1968 ”), would be applicable in elections to the LAHDC. Learned ASG canvassed that this is not the correct legal position as the LAHDC election is being conducted by the Election Authority of the Union Territory of Ladakh constituted under Rule 5 of The Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Councils (Election) Rules, 1995 (hereinafter referred to as the “1995 Rules”). It was contended that the Election Commission of 76 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. India (hereinafter referred to as the “ECI”) is empowered to hold elections to the Parliamentary and State Assembly constituencies and for the present LAHDC elections, the ECI does not exercise any authority. Thus, the learned ASG submitted that any reference to the provisions of the 1968 is misplaced. 7. Learned ASG, further, contended that Paragraphs No. 9, 10 and 10(A) of the 1968 speak of restrictions on the allotment of symbols reserved for State Parties in States where such parties are not recognized; concession to candidates set up by a State Party at elections in other States or Union Territories, and; concession to candidates set up by an un-recognized party which was earlier recognized as a National or State Party, respectively. Thus, it was his categoric stand that such concession can be only for the purposes of Parliamentary and State Assembly elections, and not for the election in question. 8. Learned ASG submitted that the reference by the ECI in its communication dated 18.07.2023 to R1, that it can avail the concession under Paragraph 10 of the 1968 can neither confer any right on R1, nor compel the Election Authority of the Union Territory of Ladakh to allow the prayer of R1, as made in the Writ Petition before the High Court. With regard to the opinion of the Law Department of the Appellant No.1, as quoted in the communication of the District Election Offi cer (District Magistrate), Kargil in his communication dated 12.07.2023 to the Chief Electoral Offi cer, Union Territory of Ladakh, the same at best was only advisory but not binding as it is for the Election Authority of the Union Territory of Ladakh to independently consider such request. 9. He submitted that none of the candidates, who have fi lled up and submitted their nomination forms, have either sought the Plough symbol or indicated in the relevant column that they were candidates of R1 and on this score alone, at this stage, R1 was not entitled to any indulgence by this Court.