[ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] (after coming into force of the Code) he/it cannot be found fault with, since there is no fetter in ‘Law’, in this regard. 59. It is pointed out that the decisions cited on behalf of the Appellant before this Tribunal, in the instant case are not applicable to the facts and the circumstances of the present case, hence they are neither considered, nor discussed. 60. Be that as it may, in view of the detailed upshot, this Tribunal taking note of the respective contentions projected by the Learned Counsels appearing for the parties, considering the facts and circumstances of the present case in a proper perspective, comes to a resultant conclusion that the instant case there is a ‘Financial Debt’ which is due and payable by the ‘Corporate Debtor’. Moreover, as against the Corporate Debtor/Totem Infrastructure Limited, s were passed by the Debt Recovery Tribunal(s) and the three ‘Recovery Certifi cates’ dated 17.10.2017, 04.08.2017 and 08.09.2015 clearly establish the factum of Financial Debt, due and payable, and that default being committed by the ‘Corporate Debtor’. To put precisely, the onus of proving the ‘debt’ and ‘default’ on the part of the First Respondent/ Bank in the instant case, has been duly discharged. Looking at from any angle, the ‘admission ’ of the section 7 application as against the ‘Corporate Debtor’ by the Adjudicating Authority, (‘National Company Law Tribunal’, Hyderabad Bench in an application fi led by the First Respondent/Bank) as Financial creditor on 12.01.2021 in CP (IB) No. 625/7/HDB/2019 does not suff er from any material irregularities and patent illegalities in the eye of Law. Resultantly, the Appeal fails. CONCLUSION: In fi ne, the Comp App (AT)(CH)(Ins) No. 04/2021 is dismissed. No costs. The I A No. 09/2021 and 10/2021 are closed.” 5. In the case of Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited -vs- A. Balakrishnan and Another [(2022) 9 SCC 186], a three Judge Bench of this Court had examined the question of limitation from the perspective of issue of recovery certifi cates in terms of provision of the Recovery of Debts and Bankruptcy Act, 1993 (1993 Act). We shall refer to this henceforth as Kotak Mahindra I. It was opined by this Court in this :- 500 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. “28. It could thus be seen that this Court in Dena Bank [Dena Bank v. C. Shivakumar Reddy, (2021) 10 SCC 330] in SCC paras 136 and 141, has in unequivocal terms held that once a claim fructifi es into a fi nal and /decree, upon adjudication, and a certifi cate of recovery is also issued authorising the creditor to realise its decretal dues, a fresh right accrues to the creditor to recover the amount of the fi nal and/or /decree and/or the amount specifi ed in the recovery certifi cate. It has further been held that issuance of a certifi cate of recovery in favour of the fi nancial creditor would give rise to a fresh cause of action to the fi nancial creditor, to initiate proceedings under Section 7 IBC for initiation of the CIRP, within three years from the date of the and/or decree or within three years from the date of issuance of the certifi cate of recovery, if the dues of the corporate debtor to the fi nancial debtor, under the and/or decree and/or in terms of the certifi cate of recovery, or any part thereof remained unpaid.