Going beyond the duty to communicate, the Chief D Minister has a duty to furnish such information relating to the administration of the affairs of the State and proposals for legislation as the Governor may require. Moreover, if the Governor so requires, the Chief Minister is duty bound to submit for consideration to the Council of Ministers any matter on which E the decision is taken by a Minister which has not been considered by the Council of Ministers. [Para 18][539-E-F] 3. The power of the Governor to seek information under Article 167 must be read holistically with reference to their duties as constitutional head under the Constitution. The information that the Governor seeks under Article 167 would enable them to F effectively discharge their duties. To illustrate, the Governor has the power to direct reconsideration of bills that are passed in the assembly. For the Governor to make this decision, it is necessary that all the relevant information that would aid them in making the said decision must be made available. Similarly, the governor G requires all relevant information to identify if a decision has been taken by a Minister individually without the consideration of the council. The Governor might be unable to discharge their duty H 534 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A under Article 167(c) if the Chief Minister does not discharge their duty under Article 167(a) and Article 167 (b) by providing the Governor with relevant information as requested. Thus, the Chief Minister is required to discharge their duties under Article 167 to enable the Governor to effectively discharge their duties stipulated in the Constitution. [Para 19][539-G-H; 540-A-B] B 4. While responding to the request by the Council of Ministers for summoning the House, the communication of the Governor dated 23 February 2023 referred to the Cabinet decision. However, the Governor also referred to the tweet of the Chief Minister and to his letter dated 14 February 2023 and C then proceeded to state that since both the tweet and the letter were “patently unconstitutional” and “extremely derogatory”, he was compelled to take legal advice “on this issue” and that he would decide on the request thereafter. There was no occasion to seek legal advice on whether or not the Budget Session of the D Legislative Assembly should be convened. The Governor was plainly bound by the advice tendered to him by the Council of Ministers. [Para 23][543-D-F] 5. The genesis of the controversy has required the intervention of this Court at two distinct levels: first, to ensure E that the constitutional duty of the Governor to act on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers to summon the Legislative Assembly is fulfilled without delay or demur; and second, to ensure that the obligation of the Chief Minister to furnish information to the Governor in terms of Article 167(b) of the Constitution is fulfilled. There are two equally important aspects F for the functioning of a parliamentary democracy. First, the failure of a constitutional authority to fulfill its obligation under a distinct provision of the Constitution does not furnish a justification to another to decline to fulfill its own constitutional obligation.