6. The Trial Court upon appreciation of the oral as well as documentary evidence came to the conclusion that the prosecution had failed to prove its case against the accused beyond a reasonable doubt and accordingly, acquitted the accused. 7. The State of Himachal Pradesh, being dissatisfi ed with the and of acquittal passed by the Trial Court, went in appeal before the High Court. The appeal came to be allowed by the High Court and the appellant herein stood convicted for the off ence under Section 20 of the NDPS Act. 8. In such circumstances referred to above, the appellant is here before this Court with the present appeals. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT 9. Mrs. Pragya Baghel, the learned counsel appearing for the appellant, vehemently submitted that the High Court committed a serious error in holding the appellant guilty of the off ence under the NDPS Act. She would submit that the High Court should not have disturbed a well reasoned of acquittal passed by the Trial Court. The learned counsel submitted that the High Court committed a serious error in recording the RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 299 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] fi nding that Section 50 of the NDPS Act is not applicable in the present case as the recovery of the contraband substance was not made as a result of the personal search of the accused but on account of the search of his bag. 10. It was argued that the expression “to search any person” occurring in Section 50 of the NDPS Act means search of articles on the person or body of the person to be searched as well as the search of articles in immediate possession like bag and other luggage carried by him or in physical possession of the person to be searched. 11. The learned counsel argued that Section 50 of the NDPS Act was not complied with in its letter and spirit as although the case of the prosecution is that the appellant was given the option to be searched before the police or a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate, yet the appellant accused was not told that it is his right to be searched in the presence of a Magistrate or Gazetted Offi cer. The learned counsel argued that the fact that the accused was also given a third option of being searched before the police offi cer itself violated Section 50 of the NDPS Act. She would argue that Section 50 of the NDPS Act is mandatory and the Trial Court rightly held that Section 50 of the NDPS Act was not complied with. 12. In the last, the learned counsel argued that in case of search of person of the accused as well as the luggage which is in his immediate possession, then even in such circumstances Section 50 of the NDPS Act will apply and would have to be complied with. She would argue that in the case on hand not only the search of the person of the accused was undertaken but the search of the bag was also undertaken.