(c) Benefi t of legitimacy has been conferred upon the children born either before or after the date on which Section 16(1) was amended. 334 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. (d) Mischief or the vice which was the basis of unconstitutionality of unamended Section 16 has been eff ectively removed by amendment. (e) Section 16(1) now stands on its own strength and operates independently of other sections with the result that it is constitutionally valid as it does not discriminate between illegitimate children similarly circumstanced and classifi es them as one group for conferment of legitimacy. Section 16, in its present form, is, therefore, not ultra vires the Constitution.” Section 16 was held to be intra vires. The Court held that Section 16 enacts a legal fi ction: by a rule of ‘fi ctio juris’ the legislature has provided that children, though “illegitimate”, shall, nevertheless, be treated as legitimate notwithstanding that the marriage was void or voidable. Interpreting the legal fi ction in Section 16, the Court in Kalliani Amma observed that “illegitimate children, for all practical purposes, including succession to the property of their parents have to be treated as legitimate”. However, “they cannot …succeed to the properties of any other relation on the basis of this rule, which in its operation, is limited to the properties of the parents”: “82. In view of the legal fi ction contained in Section 16, the illegitimate children, for all practical purposes, including succession to the properties of their parents, have to be treated as legitimate. They cannot, however, succeed to the properties of any other relation on the basis of this rule, which in its operation, is limited to the properties of the parents.” 13. Section 2 of the HMA 1955 contains provisions for the application of the Act15. Under clause (a) to the Explanation, where both the parents of a 15 2. Application of Act - (1) This Act applies (a) to any person who is a Hindu by religion in any of its forms or developments, including a Virashaiva, a Lingayat or a follower of the Brahmo, Prarthana or Arya Samaj, (b) to any person who is a Buddhist, Jaina or Sikh by religion, and (c) to any other person domiciled in the territories to which this Act extends who is not a Muslim, Christian, Parsi or Jew by religion, unless it is proved that any such REVANASIDDAPPA & ANR. v. MALLIKARJUN & ORS. 335 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] child are Hindus, Buddhists, Jainas or Sikhs ‘by religion’, the child, whether legitimate or illegitimate, would also be a Hindu, Buddhist, Jain or Sikh, as the case may be. Under clause (b) where one of the parents professes any of the four religions, the child would be regarded as Hindu, Buddhist, Jain or Sikh, whether the child is legitimate or illegitimate. Clauses (a) and (b) of the Explanation indicate that the legitimacy of a child, one or both of whose parents profess Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism or Sikhism, is not relevant to the applicability of the Act to the child.