Even if a Magistrate does not say in so many words while directing investigation under Section 156(3) of the Code that an G FIR should be registered, it is the duty of the officer in charge of the Police station to register the FIR regarding the cognizable offence disclosed by the complainant because that Police officer could take further steps contemplated in Chapter XII of the Code only thereafter.” H KAILASH VIJAYVARGIYA v. RAJLAKSHMI CHAUDHURI 169 AND OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] 30. In Anju Chaudhary (supra), this court analysing the power A of the Magistrate under Section 156(3) observed: “41. Thus, the Magistrate exercises a very limited power under Section 156(3) and so is its discretion. It does not travel into the arena of merit of the case if such case was fit to proceed further. This distinction has to be kept in mind by the court in different B kinds of cases….” 31. In HDFC Securities Ltd. v. State of Maharashtra,(2017) 1 SCC 640, this court while interpreting the words “may take cognizance” and Section 156(3), held: C “24. Per contra, the learned counsel for Respondent 2 submitted that the complaint has disclosed the commission of an offence which is cognizable in nature and in the light of Lalita Kumari case [Lalita Kumari v. State of U.P., (2014) 2 SCC 1 : (2014) 1 SCC (Cri) 524] , registration of FIR becomes mandatory. We observe that it is clear from the use of the words “may take D cognizance” in the context in which they occur, that the same cannot be equated with “must take cognizance”. The word “may” give discretion to the Magistrate in the matter. If on a reading of the complaint he finds that the allegations therein disclose a cognizable offence and that the forwarding of the complaint to E the police for investigation under Section 156(3) will be conducive to justice and save the valuable time of the Magistrate from being wasted in enquiring into a matter, which was primarily the duty of the police to investigate, he will be justified in adopting that course as an alternative to taking cognizance of the offence, himself. It is settled that when a Magistrate receives a complaint, he is not F bound to take cognizance if the facts alleged in the complaint, do not disclose the commission of an offence.” 32. However, the position is different at the post-cognizance stage. Under Section 202, the Magistrate can analyse the veracity of the complaint made and appreciate whether there are grounds to proceed G further. In Chandra Deo Singh v. Prokash Chandra Bose alias Chabi Bose and Another, AIR 1963 SC 1430, this Court referred to the objective of Section 202, to observe: “8. ……to enable the Magistrate to form an opinion as to whether process should be issued or not and to remove from H 170 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A his mind any hesitation that he may have felt upon the mere perusal of the complaint and the consideration of the complainant’s evidence on oath.