SHAH, J.] Section 53 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and the General Clauses A Act,1897. The term of imprisonment is not included in the computation of term of parole. 7. Keeping in mind the above, the issue involved in the present case viz. whether the period of parole is to be excluded from the period of sentence while considering 14 years of actual imprisonment for the B purpose of premature release is to be considered. 7.1 The High Court while passing the impugned and and taking the view that the period of parole is to be excluded from the period of sentence while considering 14 years of actual imprisonment has heavily relied upon or considered Rule 335 of the Rules, C 2006 which provides that the period of release on Furlough and Parole “shall be counted as remission of sentence ….”. Once the period of parole is to be counted as remission of sentence, as rightly observed and held by the High Court, the period of parole is also required to be excluded from the period of sentence while considering 14 years of actual D imprisonment. 8. Now, so far as the reliance placed upon the decision of this Court in the case of Sunil Fulchand Shah (supra) relied upon by learned senior counsel for the respective petitioners – convicts / prisoners is concerned, the said decision shall not be applicable to the facts of the E case on hand. It was a case of detenue under the provisions of the COFEPOSA Act. Even in the said decision, it is observed and held that the period of detention would not stand automatically extended by any period of parole granted to the detenu unless the of parole or rules or instructions specifically indicates as a term and condition of parole, to the contrary. In the present case the term ‘imprisonment’ is not included F in the computation of term of parole. Rule 335 specifically provides that parole is to be counted as remission of sentence. Therefore, the said decision would not be applicable to the facts of the case on hand. 8.1 Similarly, the decision of this case in the case of Avtar Singh (supra) also shall not be applicable to the facts of the case on hand while G considering the issue viz. whether the period of parole is to be excluded from the period of sentence under the Rules, 2006 while considering 14 years of actual imprisonment. 9. Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the petitioners relying upon Section 55 of the Prisons Act, 1894 that even on parole the prisoners H 1034 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A shall be deemed to be in custody and therefore, the said period is to be included for the purpose of actual imprisonment is concerned, the aforesaid has no substance. Section 55 of the Prisons Act, 1894 shall not be applicable with respect to release on parole. Section 55 of the Prisons Act, 1894 shall be applicable in a case where a prisoner is taken out from any prison, he shall deem to have been in prison.