PPAs were executed prior and B subsequent to the issuance of the dated 20-6 2001. Different persons executed the contracts at different times in full awareness of the terms and conditions of such PPAS. To frustrate a contract on the ground of duress or coercion, there have to be definite pleadings which have to be substantiated C normally by leading cogent and proper evidence. However, in the case where summary procedure is adopted like the present one, at least some documentary evidence or affidavit ought to have been filed raising this plea of duress specifically. 43. [..] From the record before us, nothing was brought to D our notice to state the plea of duress and to prove the alleged facts which constituted duress, so as to vitiate and/or even partially reduce the effect of the PPAs. On the one hand, the Tribunal appears to have doubted the binding nature of the contracts stating that they contained unilateral conditions introduced by virtue of and approval of the Regulatory E Commission, while on the other hand, in para 53 of the , it proceeded on the presumption that PPAS are final and binding and still drew the conclusion that the Regulatory Commission could not revise the tariff. Even in the , no facts have been pointed out which, in the opinion of the F Tribunal, constituted duress within the meaning of the Contract Act so as to render the contract voidable.” 52. In Gujarat Urja v. Solar Power Company India Pvt. Ltd.30(hereafter “Solar Power Company India Pvt. Ltd”), the issue involved was whether the State Commission could extend the control period. One of the arguments made was that having regard to the terms G of the PPA, the exercise of such power to extend the control period was not available under the statute. The Court (per Kurian Joseph, J) referred to Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd. v. Tarini Infrastructure Ltd.31 wherein it was held that: 30 (2017) 14 S.C.R. 115 H 31 (2016) 5 S.C.R. 990 GUJARAT URJA VIKAS NIGAM LIMITED v. RENEW WIND 705 ENERGY (RAJKOT) PVT. LTD. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] “10. While Section 61 of the Act lays down the principles for A determination of tariff, Section 62 of the Act deals with different kinds of tariffs/charges to be fixed. Section 64 enumerates the manner in which determination of tariff is required to be made by the Commission. On the other hand, Section 86 which deals with the functions of the Commission B reiterates determination of tariff to be one of the primary functions of the Commission which determination includes, as noticed above, a regulatory power with regard to purchase and procurement of electricity from generating companies by entering into PPA(s). The power of tariff determination/fixation undoubtedly is statutory and that has been the view of this C Court expressed in paras 36 and 64 of A.P. TRANSCO v. Sai Renewable Power (P) Ltd. This, of course, is subject to determination of price of power in open access (Section 42) or in the case of open bidding (Section 63).