6. For deciding the applications so preferred by the respondent F No.1, the Company Court framed the following question for adjudication:- “The question before this Court is whether claims, that might arise against the Official Liquidator representing the company in liquidation, for any period of time, subsequent to the of winding up, can outright be rejected.” G 6.1. It was contended on behalf of respondent No. 1 Nigam - applicant before the Company Court - that the OL was liable for both pre-liquidation and post-liquidation rates and taxes; that as per Section 6 Hereinafter also referred to as ‘the Rules of 1959’. H 1088 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 185 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 19567 the position of respondent No. 1 was that of a secured creditor; and that in any case, the OL was required to give reasons for rejection of claim which he had not done. A reference was also made to Rule 163 of the Rules of 1959. 6.2. Similarly, it was contended on behalf of respondent No.3 B auction purchaser, while placing reliance on the said Section 185 of the M.P. Act of 1956, that he was not liable towards such taxes prior to the date on which he occupied the property; and that the OL was liable to pay all taxes till the execution of deed of conveyance in favour of the purchaser. C 6.3. On the other hand, it was contended on of behalf the appellant OL that he was liable to pay only those taxes which accrued till the date of winding up and became payable within one year thereof; that in view of Section 529A of the Companies Act, 19568, workmen’s dues and the dues of secured creditors to the extent they were secured, were to be paid pari passu, and prioritised over all other debts; and that Rule 154 D of the Rules of 1959 provided for filing of affidavit of proof of debts as on relevant date and the appellant had allowed taxes due on the relevant date that had been proved. 7. In the common and dated 25.04.2007, the Company Court, while allowing the applications so filed by the respondent E No. 1 Nigam, held that liability of the appellant OL was not restricted to the claims and debts only until the date of of winding up. 7.1. The Company Court further held that reliance placed by the appellant OL on Section 530 of the Companies Act and Rule 154 of the Rules of 1959 was patently misconceived, while observing that there F was no provision in either of them which restricted the claim only until the date of of winding up. It was also held that Section 530 of the Companies Act would not absolve a company in liquidation of its liability towards revenue and taxes; and that such liabilities in the post-liquidation period were to be treated as a part of the cost of winding up and would be prioritised over all other liabilities.