The satisfaction said to have been arrived at by the authority would also be bad where it is based on the application of a wrong test or the misconstruction of a statute. Where this happens, the satisfaction of the authority would not be in respect of the thing in AMEENA BEGUM v. THE STATE OF TELANGANA 975 & ORS. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] regard to which it is required to be satisfi ed. Then again the satisfaction must be grounded ‘on materials which are of rationally probative value’. Machindar v. King [AIR 1950 FC 129 : 51 Cri LJ 1480 : 1949 FCR 827]. The grounds on which the satisfaction is based must be such as a rational human being can consider connected with the fact in respect of which the satisfaction is to be reached. They must be relevant to the subject-matter of the inquiry and must not be extraneous to the scope and purpose of the statute. If the authority has taken into account, it may even be with the best of intention, as a relevant factor something which it could not properly take into account in deciding whether or not to exercise the power or the manner or extent to which it should be exercised, the exercise of the power would be bad. Pratap Singh v. State of Punjab [AIR 1964 SC 72 : (1964) 4 SCR 733]. If there are to be found in the statute expressly or by implication matters which the authority ought to have regard to, then, in exercising the power, the authority must have regard to those matters. The authority must call its attention to the matters which it is bound to consider.” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 16. In Icchu Devi Choraria vs. Union of India10, the judicial commitment to strike down illegal detention,even when the petition on which Rule was issued did not have the requisite pleadings, was highlighted in the following words: “5. *** Where large masses of people are poor, illiterate and ignorant and access to the courts is not easy on account of lack of fi nancial resources, it would be most unreasonable to insist that the petitioner should set out clearly and specifi cally the grounds on which he challenges the of detention and make out a prima facie case in support of those grounds before a rule is issued or to hold that the detaining authority should not be liable to do any thing more than just meet the specifi c grounds of challenge put forward by the petitioner in the petition. The burden of showing that the detention is in accordance with the procedure established by law has always been placed by this Court on the detaining authority because Article 10 (1980) 4 SCC 531 976 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 21 of the Constitution provides in clear and explicit terms that no one shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except in accordance with procedure established by law. This constitutional right of life and personal liberty is placed on such a high pedestal by this Court that it has always insisted that whenever there is any deprivation of life or personal liberty, the authority responsible for such deprivation must satisfy the court that it has acted in accordance with the law.