of the Supreme Court is the only binding as res judicata in subsequent proceedings between the parties. (vi) Once leave to appeal has been granted and appellate jurisdiction of Supreme Court has been invoked the passed in appeal would attract the doctrine of merger; the may be of reversal, modifi cation or merely affi rmation. (vii) On an appeal having been preferred or a petition seeking leave to appeal having been converted into an appeal before the Supreme Court the jurisdiction of High Court to entertain a review petition is lost thereafter as provided by sub-rule (1) of Rule 1 of 47 CPC.” 27. The aforesaid decision no doubt draws the distinction between a simple non-speaking passed by this Court rejecting the special leave to appeal fi led under Article 136 of the Constitution of India, in which case the doctrine of merger has no application, and cases where this Court exercises its appellate power in terms of the statute or the Constitution. In the former set of cases, the grant of special leave to appeal is discretionary. The eff ect of a non-speaking of dismissal of the special leave petition without anything more indicating the grounds or reasons for dismissal by a necessary implication cannot be taken as acceptance of the reasons or the ratio of the under challenge. It is not correct to assume that the Court has implicitly decided all the questions. There could be multiple reasons why in a particular case a special leave to appeal can be refused. It would be incorrect to attempt to embark on such reasons when they have not been so stated. Such reasons can be varied and diff erent, and may not completely and directly relate to the merits of the case as to be construed as an imprimatur of this Court on the correctness of the decision appealed against. A case may not raise a question of general principle but turn on its own facts. Facts of the particular case may not be suitable as a foundation for determining some question of a general principle. Due to heavy backlog of work, this Court has to restrict the intake of fresh cases. Thus, there can be a variety of reasons why the court dismisses a special leave petition, and that too by a non-speaking . EXPERION DEVELOPERS PVT. LTD. v. HIMANSHU 1137 DEWAN AND SONALI DEWAN [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] 28. Approving this aforesaid ratio, in Khoday Distilleries Ltd. (supra) it is observed: “20. The Court thereafter analysed number of cases where s of diff erent nature were passed and dealt with these s by classifying them in the following categories: (i) Dismissal at the stage of special leave petition — without reasons — no res judicata, no merger. (ii) Dismissal of the special leave petition by speaking or reasoned — no merger, but rule of discipline and Article 141 attracted. (iii) Leave granted — dismissal without reasons — merger results.” 29. On the question whether there was any confl ict in the legal ratios in Kunhayammed (supra) and earlier of this Court in Abbai Maligai Partnership Firm and Another v. K. Santhakumaran and Others13, the three judges’ Bench in Khoday Distilleries Ltd. (supra) has held: “24.