[…] G Those who are responsible for the national security must be the sole judges of what the national security requires. It would be obviously undesirable that such matters should be made the subject of evidence in a court of law or otherwise discussed in public.” H 58 (2019) 1 SCC 1 MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 651 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] However, the Court put the affidavit that was filed by the Director A of Army Contracts claiming exception to the right to requisition on the grounds of national security to the test of reason. It was observed that there was ‘no satisfactory evidence’ that such a right was exercisable: “In their Lordships’ opinion the appealed from was wrong, not because, as contended by the appellants, there is by international B law no right at all to requisition ships or goods in the custody of the Court, but because the judge has before him no satisfactory evidence that such a right was exercisable. The affidavit of the Director of Army Contracts, following the words of XXIX, merely states that it is desired on behalf of His C Majesty to requisition the copper in question. It does not state that the copper is urgently required for national purposes. Further, the affidavit of Sven Hoglund, which is unanswered, so far from showing that there was any real case to be tried, suggests a case for immediate release.” D (emphasis supplied) 68. In Council of Civil Service Unions (supra), the Minister of Civil Service released an instruction that employees of the Government Communications Headquarters cannot be a part of trade unions. This decision was challenged on the ground that the employees and the trade E unions were not consulted before the instruction was issued. It was submitted that it was a well-established practice for the trade unions to be consulted before conditions of service are altered. 69. The Government Communications Headquarters is a branch of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office which ensures the security of the United Kingdom military, and provides intelligence signals for the F Government. The respondent defended its action on the ground that because “prior consultation would involve a real risk that it would occasion the very kind of disruption [at GCHQ] which was a threat to national security and which it was intended to avoid.” The House of Lords observed that generally the decision of whether the requirements of G national security outweigh the duty of fairness is for the Government and not the courts to decide. However, this observation was qualified. It was held that the Government is under an obligation to produce evidence that the decision was based on the grounds of national security which warranted the departure from the rule of fairness if the decision is H 652 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A successfully challenged on the ground that it was arrived by an unfair process: “The question is one of evidence. The decision on whether the requirements of national security outweigh the duty of fairness in any particular case is for the Government and not for the courts; B the Government alone has access to the necessary information, and in any event the judicial process is unsuitable for reaching decisions on national security.