254(2) of the Constitution, and it continued to operate and provide altogether different yardsticks for acquisition of land and payment of compensation till the advent of the new LA Act – No doubt, the scheme of the new LA Act advocates D timely measures being adopted in implementation of the acquisition and such general temporal restrictions would benefit the land owners, but the absence of such restrictions in the Highways Act may not be reason enough to invalidate it, as the very premise on which the Highways Acts was enacted by the State of Tamil Nadu E was to cut down on time-consuming processes. Dismissing the appeals, the Court HELD: Civil Appeal Nos. 5692-5693 of 2021 1. The question that would arise is as to the locus standi of the appellants, who admittedly purchased their lands after the F initiation of land acquisition proceedings, to maintain a challenge to the provisions of the Industrial Purposes Act and the proceedings initiated thereunder. [Para 18][951-F-G] 2. As regards the issue of the appellants’ locus standi, that very aspect was considered by a 3-Judge Bench of this Court in G Shiv Kumar and another Vs. Union of India and others [(2019) 10 SCC 229]. The question therein was whether subsequent purchasers of acquired land would be entitled to seek invalidation of the acquisition on the ground of delay under Section 24(2) of H C.S. GOPALAKRISHNAN ETC. v. THE STATE OF TAMIL 941 NADU & OTHERS the new LA Act. The Bench held that a sale transaction, effected A after the Notification under Section 4 of the old LA Act, is void and would be ineffective to transfer the land and such a sale would not clothe the subsequent purchasers with title, whereby they could claim to be in possession. It was observed that it would be profoundly unfair and unjust and against the policy of law to permit B such a purchaser to claim resettlement or claim the land back, as envisaged under the new LA Act. [Para 22][953-A-C] 2. As both appellants seek to assail the validity of the Industrial Purposes Act only in the context of the acquisition proceedings initiated thereunder in relation to the lands C purchased by them after issuance of the Public Notice under Section 3(2) thereof, viz., the equivalent of a Notification under Section 4 of the old LA Act, their challenge is tainted and unacceptable in its very inception. They were both subsequent purchasers and are deemed to be aware of the acquisition proceedings. In that regard, it may also be noted that the original D owners of the subject lands raised their objections in response to the Public Notice issued under Section 3(2) in the year 2007, but chose to sell their lands in 2012 and 2013. In any event, neither of these subsequent purchasers can be permitted to claim ignorance of the acquisition proceedings. In effect, the very sale E transactions under which they claim title and interest in the subject lands are rendered void in the eye of law.