Consequently, the appellants forfeited their so called right to seek parity which was nothing but an afterthought claim made out of greed. He points out that the fi rst appeal(s) were fi led with certain defects, including defi cient Court Fees and they never cured such defects. According to learned Senior Counsel, the plea of illiteracy or poverty was a lame excuse. Not only that the appellants are residents of an area which falls in NCR, they had also gotten a handsome compensation amount from the Reference Court, which fact alone belies their plea of poverty and ignorance. 12. Having heard learned Senior Counsel for the parties and on perusal of the material placed on record, we are satisfi ed that the appellants are entitled to seek parity with their co-villagers in the grant of compensation for their acquired land. This Court has consistently held in a catena of decisions that the inordinate delay in fi ling appeal in compensatory matters, per se, may not be fatal as the rights and equities between the parties can be well balanced by denying the statutory benefi ts, such as interest for the delayed period. We are thus of the considered opinion that the delay in fi ling the fi rst appeal(s) could be condoned subject to the condition that the appellants would not be entitled to enure undue benefi t for the delayed period. We MOHAR SINGH (DEAD) THROUGH LRS. & ORS. v. STATE 847 OF UTTAR PRADESH COLLECTOR & ORS. grant such indulgence in the appellant’s favour also for the reason that a batch of fi rst appeals at the instance of other land owners was still pending consideration before the High Court. All that the High Court ought to have emphatically denied to the late-comers was the benefi t of interest including on the solatium, under Section 34 of the Act for the period from the date of passing of the award by the Reference Court till the fi ling of the fi rst appeals. 13. Adverting to the appellants’ claim for enhanced compensation at the rate fi xed by the High Court in respect of the land of village Makanpur, it may be noticed that such a plea was expressly raised by the land owners before the High Court when their fi rst appeals were decided on 04.07.2016. The High Court unequivocally rejected the said claim while fi xing the compensation at a lower rate of Rs.130 per sq. yard for the land of village Khora. This Court in further appeal partly accepted the claim of the land owners of village Khora and enhanced the compensation to Rs.150 per sq. yard. In other words, the claim of parity between the acquired lands of village Khora and Makanpur was impliedly rejected by this Court. We see no reason to take a diff erent view. Consequently, we do not fi nd any merit in the plea that the appellants are entitled to compensation at par with the land owners of village Makanpur.