01.01.2016 shall be paid Accepted E during the calendar year 2020, after adjusting the interim relief already paid under the Interim Report dated 09.03.2018. 44.14 The present practice of sanction of DA at the rates Accepted prescribed by Central Government from time to F time shall continue. The Hon’ble Supreme Court may issue directions that the benefit of revised DA in conformity with the s issued by the Central Government from time to time shall be paid to the Judicial officers without delay, and in any case, not G later than 3 months from the date of issuance of the by the Central Government. The benefit of revised rates of DA shall accrue from the effective date as specified in the issued by Central Government in this behalf. H 72 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 44.15(i) Grant of 1st ACP to Civil Judge (Jr. Div.) shall Accepted, the revised not be based on the application of the existing norms be developed norm of seniority-cum-merit. There shall be by the High Courts in relaxed norms for assessing the performance in accordance with this terms of output. The scrutiny shall be for the limited purpose of ascertaining whether there is anything positively adverse such as consistently poor/unsatisfactory performance or adverse B report of serious nature leading to the inference that the Officer is unfit to have the benefit of ACP. 44.15(ii) If for any reason, delay in grant of ACP goes Accepted beyond one year, one additional increment for every year delay shall be granted subject to adjustment while drawing the arrears on grant C of ACP. 44.16(i) The posts of District Judges (Selection Grade) Accepted shall be increased to 35% of the cadre strength as against the existing 25%, and the District Judges (Super Time Scale) shall be increased to 15% of the cadre strength as against the existing 10%. It will be effective from 01.01.2020 D 44.16(ii) The upgradation benefit shall be given to the To be considered at District Judges by applying the principle of the relevant stage seniority-cum-merit instead of merit-cum- seniority. 44.16(iii) If the post remains or continues for three years To be considereda t it shall form part of cadre strength. the relevant stage 44.17 The Pay Revision benefit which is already Accepted available to the Presiding Judges of Industrial E Tribunals/Labour Courts (outside the regular cadre of subordinate judiciary) in view of the recommendation of JPC, shall be extended to them also simultaneously with Judicial Officers of regular cadre without administrative delays. 44.18 The Judges of the Family Courts in Accepted Maharashtra who belong to a separate cadre have F to be extended the benefit of pay of District Judge (Selection Grade) and District Judge (Super Time Scale) in the same ratio as prescribed for regular District Judges. The High Court to propose the minimum age for grant of Selection Grade, if considered necessary. The Principal Judge Family Court (ex-cadre) to be allotted quarters preferentially, in General Pool G Accommodation. 44.19 Special Judicial Magistrates (Second Accepted with Class)/Special Metropolitan Magistrates (dealing modification of with petty criminal cases) shall get minimum Rs.