A property, and contrasts with the two provisions above that deal with liability for those who provide illicit proceeds. There must be intent to acquire, possess or use, and the accused must have knowledge at the time of acquisition or receipt that the property was proceeds. B 4. Participation in, association with or conspiracy to commit, attempts to commit and aiding, abetting, facilitating and counselling. There are varying degrees of complicity or participation other than physical commission of the offence: assistance (aiding and abetting, facilitating) and encouragement (counselling). In addition, attempts are to be C criminalized. Finally, this section includes conspiracy, a common law concept, or as an alternative, an association of persons working together to commit an offence. Knowledge: The variants suggested are first, the basic one of knowledge that the property is proceeds of crime (which D knowledge may be inferred from objective factual circumstances); and secondly a more flexible standard of knowledge or suspicion that the property is proceeds of crime.” Therefore, it is clear that the provisions of PMLA are in tune with E the Model Law drafted by UNODC. Keeping this in mind, let us now search for an answer to the two questions. Question 1: Whether without identifying the proceeds of crime or a property representing the proceeds of crime and without identifying any process or activity connected to proceeds F of crime as required by Section 3, which constitute the foundational/jurisdictional fact, ED can initiate an investigation and issue summons? 93. The common theme of the song of the learned counsel for the accused is that the mere registration of a FIR for a predicate offence, G even if it is a scheduled offence, is not sufficient for the ED to register an Information Report and summon anyone. According to the learned counsel, the commission of the scheduled offence should have generated proceeds of crime and those proceeds of crime should have been laundered by someone, for the ED to step in. Going a step further, it was contended by the learned senior counsel that the ED should first identify H Y. BALAJI v. KARTHIK DESARI & ANR. ETC. 1087 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] some property as representing the proceeds of crime, before an A Information Report is registered and a summon issued under Section 50(2). 94. These contentions, in our opinion, if accepted, would amount to putting the cart before the horse. Unfortunately for the accused, this is not the scheme of the Act. B 95. Section 3 of the Act which defines the offence of money- laundering reads as follows: “3. Offence of money-laundering.—Whosoever directly or indirectly attempts to indulge or knowingly assists or knowingly is C a party or is actually involved in any process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime including its concealment, possession, acquisition or use and projecting or claiming it as untainted property shall be guilty of offence of money-laundering. Explanation.—For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that,— D (i) a person shall be guilty of offence of money-laundering if such person is found to have directly or indirectly attempted to indulge or knowingly assisted or knowingly is a party or is actually involved in one or more of the following processes or activities connected with proceeds of crime, namely:— E (a) concealment; or (b) possession; or (c) acquisition; or F (d) use; or (e) projecting as untainted property; or (f) claiming as untainted property, in any manner whatsoever; G (ii) the process or activity connected with proceeds of crime is a continuing activity and continues till such time a person is directly or indirectly enjoying the proceeds of crime by its concealment or possession or acquisition or use or projecting it as untainted property or claiming it as untainted property in any manner whatsoever.” H 1088 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R.