iii. Even if this Court concludes that no other provision of the said Act confers the Bar Council of India with a function of laying down pre-enrolment conditions, Section 49(1)(ag) of D the said Act would per se afford a basis to infer that the Bar Council of India has such a function. Thereafter, the ministerial act of enrolment, subject to the conditions that may be specified, is carried out under Section 24(3)(d) of the said Act. E d. Viability of an Examination to be conducted post-enrolment: If this Court decides to extend no reconsideration to the decision in V.Sudeer13, the question then arises as to whether the Bar Council of India could prescribe a post-enrolment examination under Section 49(1)(ah) of the said Act. It is important to contrast the word used in F Section 30 of the said Act with Sections 24 and 29 of the said Act. While the former makes the right to practice subject to the provisions of the said Act, the latter provisions make their respective aspects subject to the provisions of the said Act and the rules made thereunder. Therefore, the right to practise under Section 30 of the said Act could only be G restricted by another provision in the said Act and not by the rules made under any provision in the said Act. If this interpretation were to stand, then the framing of the All India Bar Examination in its current format would have to be held illegal. However, the previous interpretations of 13 (supra) H 356 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A the provisions of the said Act in Jamshed Ansari v. High Court of Allahabad & Ors.14, and N.K. Bajpai v. Union of India & Anr.15, make the right to practise subject to the provisions that grant the rule- making power, thereby validating the All India Bar Examination in its current form at the expense of expanding the scope of the restriction on Section 30 of the said Act. B 14. The aforesaid was supplemented by the Amicus through an additional note addressing concerns that were expressed in the Court during the proceedings on the practicality of the various thought processes. This inter alia included as to when the examination could be held and how the candidates should be dealt with till the examination C results are declared. The supplementary suggestions are as under: a. If the examination is held pre-enrolment, two alternatives are suggested: firstly, the candidates should be permitted to take the pre- enrolment examination on production of a transcript showing that they have received a passing mark D in all their law school examinations and the degree certificate can be submitted at the time of enrolment. Alternatively, if the eligibility could be extended to those persons who are in the final semester of their law course, they could be allowed to take the examination and any result in such examination E would then be subject to the said person passing all the components required under the University/College’s course of study.