We must also be cognizant of the fact that one of objectives of the Arbitration Act was to minimise the supervisory role of courts in the arbitral process.164 176. In Hameed Joharan v. Abdul Salam,165 this Court made the following observations on the interplay between the Stamp Act and the Limitation Act 1963: “38. … The intent of the legislature in engrafting the Limitation Act shall have to be given its proper weightage. Absurdity cannot be the outcome of interpretation by a court and wherever there is even a possibility of such absurdity, it would be a plain exercise of judicial power to repel the same rather than encouraging it. The whole purport of the Indian Stamp Act is to make available certain dues and to collect revenue but it does not mean and imply overriding the eff ect over another statute operating in a completely diff erent sphere.” c. Parliament was aware of the Stamp Act when it enacted the Arbitration Act 177. Parliament was aware of the Stamp Act when it enacted the Arbitration Act. Yet, the latter does not specify stamping as a pre-condition to the existence of a valid arbitration agreement. Further, Section 11(6-A) of the Arbitration Act requires the court to confi ne itself to the examination of the existence of the arbitration agreement. This provision stands in contrast to Section 33(2) of the Stamp Act which also uses the word “examine.” Section 33(2) requires the person before whom an instrument is produced, to examine whether it is stamped with a stamp of the value and description required by the law when such instrument was executed or fi rst executed. 164 Statements of Objects and Reasons, Arbitration Act 165 (2001) 7 SCC 573 117 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Although Parliament was aware of the mandate of Section 33(2), it did not require the court acting under Section 11 to also undertake the examination required by Section 33(2). ii. Harmonious construction of the three statutes under consideration a. The eff ect of the competence-competence doctrine 178. In A. Ayyasamy v. A. Paramasivam,166 a two-judge Bench of this Court of which one of us, DY Chandrachud, J, was a part emphasized that arbitration must provide a “one-stop forum” for the resolution of disputes and held that (a) Courts must give eff ect to the commercial understanding of parties to arbitration agreements that arbitration is effi cacious; and (b) This can be done by minimising judicial intervention: “48. The basic principle which must guide judicial decision-making is that arbitration is essentially a voluntary assumption of an obligation by contracting parties to resolve their disputes through a private tribunal. The intent of the parties is expressed in the terms of their agreement. Where commercial entities and persons of business enter into such dealings, they do so with a knowledge of the effi cacy of the arbitral process. The commercial understanding is refl ected in the terms of the agreement between the parties. The duty of the court is to impart to that commercial understanding a sense of business effi cacy.