21. The submission was that all disciplinary cases, including courts- martial, which may mandate re-appreciation of evidence may be kept out of the purview of the exercise of the High Court’s jurisdiction. The D same may amount to a second criminal appeal. 22. An additional plea was made that nothing said in the present should be read as amounting to diluting the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, which would remain intact. Thus, the observation, as regards adjudication of a certain category of matters in the writ jurisdiction E of the High Court, was only to facilitate smoother administration of justice. 23. Lastly, it was submitted that the nature of the Armed Forces Tribunal must be kept in mind, which is distinct from a normal administrative tribunal under Article 323A or other tribunals under Article 323B of the Constitution and, thus, the High Court should not in routine F interfere with the s of the Armed Forces Tribunal under Article 226 seeking to exercise the jurisdiction akin to say a Central Administrative Tribunal. Our observations: G 24. We have given thought to the matter, keeping in mind the last aspect emphasized by the learned Additional Solicitor General, dealing with the importance of the Armed Forces Tribunal, and its jurisdiction being distinct from other tribunals. We are conscious of the importance of the role performed by the Armed Forces and the discipline level required by these services. Thus, often many jurisprudential principles H 612 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A of other tribunals cannot be imported into the decisions of the Armed Forces Tribunal. The Armed Forces have their own rules and procedures, and if there is proper exercise of jurisdiction in accordance with the norms of the Armed Forces, the High Court or this Court have been circumspect in interfering with the same, keeping in mind the significance of the role performed by the Armed Forces. B 25. While we agree with the aforesaid principle, we are unable to appreciate the observations in the case of Major General Shri Kant Sharma & Anr.17, which sought to put an embargo on the exercise of jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution, diluting a very significant provision of the Constitution which also forms the part of basic structure. C The principles of basic structure have withstood the test of time and are emphasized in many judicial pronouncements as an ultimate test. This is not something that can be doubted. That being the position, the self- restraint of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution is distinct from putting an embargo on the High Court in exercising this jurisdiction D under Article 226 of the Constitution while judicially reviewing a decision arising from an of the Tribunal. 26. On the legislature introducing the concept of “Tribunalisation” (one may say that this concept has seen many question marks vis-a-vis different tribunals, though it has also produced some successes), the E same was tested in L. Chandra Kumar18 case before a Bench of seven Judges of this Court.