Obviously this could not have been the parliamentary intendment, after providing in Section 35 that the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 will prevail over all other laws that are inconsistent therewith. A middle ground has, therefore, necessarily to be taken. According to us, the two apparently confl icting sections can best be harmonised by giving meaning to both. This can only be done by limiting the scope of the expression “or any other law for the time being in force” contained in Section 37. This expression will, therefore, have to be held to mean other laws having relation to the securities market only, as the 124 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 is the only other special law, apart from the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002, dealing with recovery of debts due to banks and fi nancial institutions. On this interpretation also, the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 will not be included for the obvious reason that its primary objective is to rehabilitate sick industrial companies and not to deal with the securities market.” (Emphasis supplied) 70. This Court in M.D. Frozen Foods Exports Private Limited & Ors. v. Hero Fincorp Limited reported in (2017) 16 SCC 741, observed that since as per Section 37 SARFAESI Act, the RDBFI Act which also contemplates arbitration proceedings, is in addition to the SARFAESI Act, it held that both Arbitration & Conciliation Act, 1996 and the SARFAESI Act would go hand in hand. The relevant observations are reproduced below: - “27. On the SARFAESI Act being brought into force seeking to recover debts against security interest, a question was raised whether parallel proceedings could go on under the RDDB Act and the SARFAESI Act. This issue was clearly answered in favour of such simultaneous proceedings in Transcore v. Union of India. A later in Mathew Varghese v. M. Amritha Kumar also discussed this issue in the following terms: (Mathew Varghese case, SCC pp. 640-41, paras 45-46) “45. A close reading of Section 37 shows that the provisions of the SARFAESI Act or the Rules framed thereunder will be in addition to the provisions of the RDDB Act. Section 35 of the SARFAESI Act states that the provisions of the SARFAESI Act will have overriding eff ect notwithstanding anything inconsistent contained in any other law for the time being in force. Therefore, reading Sections 35 and 37 together, it will have to be held that in the event of any of the provisions of the RDDB Act not being inconsistent with the provisions of the SARFAESI Act, the application of both the Acts, namely, the SARFAESI Act and the RDDB Act, would be complementary to each other. In this context reliance can be placed upon the decision in Transcore v. Union of India. In para 64 it is stated as under after referring to Section 37 of the SARFAESI Act: (SCC p. 162) CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT.