minimum age requirement, and whether the parties are within the degrees of prohibited relationship. The law regulates the conduct of the parties to a marriage in numerous ways. For example, the law penalises the husband and his family members if they treat the wife cruelly, including demands for dowry.116 Similarly, the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act 2005117 penalises persons for domestic violence in the course of a domestic relationship which has been defi ned to include marriage.118 The grounds for divorce prescribed in various marriage laws also regulate the conduct of parties because their actions during the sustenance of a marriage may be a ground for the legal dissolution of that marriage. The valid grounds for divorce include where one of the parties has a sexual relationship outside of marriage,119 or has deserted their spouse,120 or treats the spouse with cruelty.121 The State regulates the relationship between the parties after the divorce by prescribing the payment of maintenance. Under the SMA, the wife can claim alimony or maintenance and under the HMA, both the husband and the wife can claim maintenance. The above discussion elucidates that the State plays a crucial role in regulating marriage. Marriage has attained both social and legal signifi cance because of the active involvement of the State at every stage of the marital relationship – during entry into it, during its subsistence, and in its aftermath. 133. Marriage was earlier a purely social institution unregulated by the State. What prompted the State to regulate personal relationships? There are two prominent reasons. The fi rst reason was to regulate the social . The State regulated social by fi rstly, regulating the sexual conduct of persons through marriage, and secondly, by prescribing a legal mechanism for the devolution of property based on the legitimacy of the heir. 134. With respect to the fi rst of the reasons, the State used marriage as a tool to regulate sexual behaviour.122 The State prescribed social rules 116 Section 498A of IPC 117 “DV Act” 118 Sections 2(f) and 3 of the DV Act, 119 Section 27(1)(a) of the SMA 120 Section 27(1)(b) of the SMA 121 Section 27(1)(d) of the SMA 122 Laurence Drew, Sex, ‘Procreation and the State Interest in Marriage, (2002) Columbia Law Review, Vol. 102(4) SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1319 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] through the vehicle of law by devising marriage as an exclusive relationship. Engaging in sexual conduct outside of marriage is a ground for divorce under personal marriage laws and the civil marriage law. It is also crucial to note that impotency and not sterility is a ground for divorce.123 Impotency is the inability of a man to engage in sexual intercourse. On the other hand, sterility is the inability of a man or a woman to procreate. By prescribing impotency as a ground for declaring a marriage void (and not sterility), the State emphasised the centrality of sexual relations in a marriage as opposed to procreation.