40. Further, it is also to be noted that this Court at this stage cannot enter into a fact finding mission to verify the claims of the respondent B authority. To justify such a classification, the respondent authority should have discharged their burden of proof to back their claim. Mere statements without any evidence cannot be accepted by us as justification for the said classification, which can have a debilitating effect on those who are at the losing side of the classification. C 41. To survive the rigors of Article 14, the impugned classification must not only make it through the abovementioned test, but also clear the Wednesbury Principle, and by extension the Proportionality test. WEDNESBURY PRINCIPLE 42. In the case of Associated Provincial Picture Houses Limited D v. Wednesbury Corporation10, the King’s Bench Division was tasked with the question of under what circumstances can the Court interfere in cases of administrative law making. While dealing with this, the Court held that interference in administrative decisions was permissible, only if (i) the was contrary to law (ii) or relevant factors were not E considered, or (iii) irrelevant factors were considered or, (iv) or the decision was such that no other authority under similar circumstances would have come to this conclusion. The relevant paragraph of the are reproduced herein: “In the result, this appeal must be dismissed. I do not wish to repeat myself but I will summarize once again the principle F applicable. The Court is entitled to investigate the action of the local authority with a view to seeing whether they have taken into account matters which they ought not to take into account, or, conversely, have refused to take into account or neglected to take into account matters which they ought to G take into account. Once that question is answered in favour of the local authority, it may be still possible to say that, although the local authority have kept within the four corners of the matters which they ought to consider, they have nevertheless come to a conclusion so unreasonable that no H 10 [1948] 1 KB 223 RAMESH CHANDRA SHARMA v. STATE OF UTTAR 457 PRADESH [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] reasonable authority could ever have come to it. In such a A case, again, I think the Court can interfere. The power of the Court to interfere in each case is not as an appellate authority to override a decision of the local authority, but as a judicial authority which is concerned, and concerned only, to see whether the local authority have B contravened the law by acting in excess of the powers which Parliament has confided in them. The appeal must be dismissed with costs.” 43. The Wednesbury principle was first introduced to Indian Jurisprudence in the case of Om Kumar & Ors. Vs. Union Of India11. C Here, again, a similar question was posed before the Supreme Court, as to when can the Court exercise its power of judicial review in cases of executive law making.