The revenue had carried the matter before the High Court which had held that the transactions constituted sale thereby, C attracting levy of tax. 9.1. In the said case, reliance was placed on Prem Nath Motors, Prem Motors and Geo Motors by the assessee. It was contended that as part of a warranty agreement, replacement of the defective agreement was made by the dealer and there was no sale involved. As opposed to D this, the revenue contended that the transaction between the assessee and manufacturer was a separate transaction. It was not the case of the assessee therein that the manufacturer had supplied the goods to the customers. If it had supplied parts to the customers through the assessee, the position may have been different. The manufacturer was obligated E to make the replacement. If he did not possess the parts to meet the contractual obligation, he would have purchased the part from any seller of the part and would have paid the sales tax. In the said case, the assessee had supplied the goods for which it had received the consideration by way of credit notes and/or other mode of payment. This Court observed that the factual position in Prem Nath Motors F case was different. That in Geo Motors and Prem Motors, the nature of the transaction between the assessee and manufacturer was lost sight of. It was observed that when the manufacturer may have purchased from the open market, parts for the purpose of replacement of the defective parts, it would have paid taxes. But the position is not different G because the assessee had supplied the parts and had received the price. That the assessee had received the payment of the price supplied to the customer. Therefore, the transaction is subject to levy of tax. The decisions in Geo Motors and Prem Motors were overruled. It is in the above context that the Reference has been passed doubting the aforesaid observations. H 1298 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Submissions: 10. We have heard learned senior counsel and learned counsel for the respective parties at length and shall proceed to answer the reference. Arguments on Behalf of Assessees in the present Appeals/ B SLPs: I. Submissions of Sri Kavin Gulati, senior counsel for the appellant in Civil Appeal No.1822/2007: (i) Learned senior counsel Sri Gulati submitted that the Tata Motors dealership agreement, particularly clauses 1(a), 1(b), C 1(e), 9, 10, 11(a), 12, 13(c), 25, and 33 indicate that the transaction between the manufacturer and the dealer is one of Principal and Principal. Tata Motors has already collected and paid Sales Tax while selling the automobiles in question to the dealers. The dealer is contractually bound to service D the warranty obligations undertaken by the manufacturer at the time of the sale. It was brought to our attention that in the present appeals, the respective State’s Sales Tax authorities had adopted varying interpretations of the allegedly taxable transactions. While the Assessing Officer in Karnataka had characterized the sale as between dealer E and manufacturer; the authorities in Kerala deemed it to be a sale by the dealer without specifying to whom the sale was made.