liquor. When enquired with the accused about PESALA NOOKARAJU v. THE GOVERNMENT OF 529 ANDHRA PRADESH & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] his identity particulars, he voluntarily disclosed that his name is Pesala Nookaraju S/o Builiyya, Age: 45 Years Caste: SC (Mala), R/o N. S. Venkatapuram Village, Tuni Mandal and explained him that the possession, transportation, selling of ID liquor is an off ence under A. P. Prohibition (Amendment) Act 2020 and arrested the accused and registered the case against the accused and seized the ID arrack. Then drawn 300 ml I.D. liquor as sample for the purposeof Chemical Examination, from seized arrack into a separate bottle and sealed the sample bottle and mica bag with the remaining ID liquor and pasted identity slips duly signed by the SI SEB and staff and seized ID liquor, under the cover of Special Report drafted on the spot, by the Enforcement Sub- Inspector. The sample was sent to Chemical Examiner, Kakinada for analysis and the same was analysed and the Chemical Examiner opined that “It is illicitly Distilled liquor unfi t for human consumption and injurious to health” and issued an analysis report vide C.E. No. 2381/2021 in Sl. No. 41632 dated 10.11.2021. GROUND NO. 3 (Cr. No. 532/2021, dated 30.09.2021 of U/s 7(B) r/w 8(B) of AP Prohibition (Amendment) Act- 2020 of SEB Station, Tuni, Kakinada District): On 30.09.2021, at about 08.05 P.M., while the Special Enforcement Bureau, SHO, Tuni along with Technical wing sub-Inspector and staff conducting raids for detection of Proh. & Excise off ences at near Ambedkar statue of SC Peta N.S. Venkatapuram village of Tuni Mandal and found one person came by walk with one mica bag in his right hand, on seeing the Police Party, he left the mica bag which is in his hand and tried to ran away. SI SEB stopped the person with the help of constables and the Enforcement Sub Inspector sent one constable to secure mediators but he come back and informed that nobody is came forward to stood as mediators. Then Sub Inspector SEB got opened the bag and found one polythene cover containing 10 liters I. D. liquor. When enquired with the accused about his identify particulars, he voluntarily disclosed that his name is Pesala Nookaraju S/o Bulliyya, Age: 45 Years, Caste: SC (Mala) R/o N. 530 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. S. Venkatapuram Village, Tuni Mandal and explained him that the possession, transportation, selling of ID liquor is an off ence under A.P. Prohibition (Amendment) Act 2020 and arrested the accused and registered the case against the accused and seized the ID arrack. Then drawn 300 ml I. D. liquor as sample for the purpose of chemical examination, from the seized ID arrack in to a separate bottle and sealed the sample bottle and mica bag with the remaining ID liquor and pasted identity slips duly signed by the SI SEB and staff and seized I.D. liquor, under the cover of Special Report drafted on the spot, by the Enforcement Sub-Inspector.