11. In paragraph 9 of the written statement cum counter-claim fi led by the respondents, it was specifi cally admitted that the appellant’s father owned the suit property. It was urged that the respondents’ father and, thereafter, the respondents were in open and peaceful possession of the suit SRI. K.M. KRISHNA REDDY v. SRI. VINOD REDDY & ANR. 215 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] property from 1978 and have perfected their title by adverse possession. An inconsistent plea was taken that the appellant’s brother Jayarama had got the suit property in partition and that there was an agreement for sale executed by the said Jayarama in favour of their mother. In fact, they claimed that their mother was put in possession of the suit property in part performance of the agreement. 12. Thus, the respondents admitted the title of the appellant’s father to the suit property. What was disputed by the respondents was the claim of the appellant that the suit property was allotted to his share under the family settlement dated 25th April 1993. Thus, even if the document of family settlement is ignored, the appellant was one of the co-owners of the suit property after the demise of his father. Though the respondents claimed that the appellant’s brother Jayarama was the allottee of the suit property in partition, the respondents did not prove the partition. They could not establish that the suit property came to the share of the said Jayarama. At the highest, the respondents proved that under an agreement for sale executed by Jayarama, their mother paid consideration to the said Jayarama. However, in the written statement cum counter-claim, there is a specifi c pleading that is as under: “Despite the fact that the defendants have perfected their right by way of adverse possession, on the advice of some of the well wishers their mother has paid a sum of Rs. 5,500/- towards full consideration to the property and M.Jayarama Reddy entered into an Agreement of Sale and consented for continuing the possession and possession was accepted in the said agreement. It is also made clear that as a part performance of the agreement to sell, the defendant’s mother has been put in possession of the same.” (underlines supplied) 13. Thus, the stand is that their mother was put in possession of the suit property by Jayarama in part performance of the agreement for sale. This contention completely militates against the plea of adverse possession as this contention completely defeats the plea of adverse possession. The reason is that this contention shows that the respondents are not claiming hostile possession, which is an essential ingredient of a plea of adverse possession. In fact, at the trial stage, the respondents ought to have elected 216 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. one of the two alternative pleas. However, issues framed by the Trial Court indicate that the respondents relied upon their plea of adverse possession as well as their plea based on the agreement for sale executed by the said Jayarama.