A Office of the Central Pollution Control Board, Bangalore and Chennai, State Pollution Control Boards of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and also to the Pollution Control Committee of Union Territory of Puducherry for their information and compliance of the direction.” B 7. Being dissatisfied with the aforesaid directions issued by the NGT, Chennai, the appellant is here before this Court. 8. The other oil marketing companies (OMCs) before this Court seeking to challenge the very self same passed by the NGT are : (1) M/s Indian Oil Corporation Limited, (2) M/s Hindustan Petroleum C Corporation Limited; (3) M/s Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited, (4) M/s Nayara Energy Limited, and (5) M/s Shell India Markets Private Ltd. Submissions on behalf of the appellant: 9. At the outset, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the D appellant herein submitted that it does not seek to challenge the directions contained in para 69(i) and 69(ii) resply of the impugned i.e. regarding the installation of the VRS/VRD. The learned counsel would like to confine his challenge only to the direction issued in para 69(iii) and para 69(iv) resply referred to above i.e. in regard to the Consent to Establish (CTE) and Consent to Operate (CTO). E 10. The learned counsel submitted that the present appeal gives rise to three substantial questions of law which read thus:- A. Whether the NGT can issue directions which are in the nature of legislative functions? F B. Whether the public sector and private sector OMCs and/or ROs (Retail Outlets) are required to obtain Consent to Establish and/or Consent to Operate for operation, establishment and carrying on the business of ROs? C. Whether the NGT can impose requirement of obtaining an G additional approval merely to provide for a regulating mechanism to supervise compliance of the existing guidelines issued by the CPCB? 11. The learned counsel submitted that the directions issued in para 69(iii) and 69(iv) resply of the impugned are legislative in H M/S INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED v. V. B. R. MENON 223 & OTHERS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] nature and therefore beyond the jurisdiction of the NGT. He would submit A that the directions issued by the NGT, Chennai to the CPCB making it mandatory to obtain CTE and CTO for ROs would amount to enacting a law under the guise of judicial . It was further submitted that there is no rational basis to issue the directions making it mandatory for the ROs to obtain CTE and/or CTO. According to the learned counsel, B the only basis for the NGT to issue such directions is to ensure proper regulatory mechanism and/or to secure compliance of the guidelines issued by the CPCB regarding installation of VRS, etc. It was also submitted that the impugned directions are directly in conflict with the object with which the reclassification of industries has been done by the CPCB. It was pointed out that the petroleum retail outlets fall within the C green zone and for any industry falling within the green zone, it is not mandatory to obtain CTO and/or CTE.