We have already held that for anyone to be standing on street No.300 it is just not possible to set on fi re any house on street No.400. We have already held that by standing on any spot on the roof of Babu Ram’s house it was just not possible to shoot any person on street No.300. 53. The inevitable conclusion is, that as claimed by the witnesses of the prosecution, Babu Ram jumped from the roof of his house on to the roof of House No.D-354 of Mangat Ram and standing at the roof of Mangat Ram’s house at the spot marked ‘4’ on the site plan Ex.PW-7/A, indiscriminately fi red 16 shots, all directed downwards on the persons in street No.300, with specifi c targets SUNIL v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 391 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] being Mangat Ram and his family members against whom Babu Ram had a grievance of being the sympathizers of Lala Satpal. 54. Besides, the right of self-defence is a self-limiting right and authorizes the person acting in self-defence to use only such force which is reasonable and commensurate with the danger to body or to property. No doubt, defence of a dwelling house stands on a diff erent footing and law has always looked with special indulgence on a man who is defending his dwelling against those who try to unlawfully evict him, for: the house of everyone is to him as his castle and fortress. 55. The indiscriminate fi ring by Babu Ram cannot be justifi ed under any circumstances. 56. The testimony of the witnesses of the prosecution and the defence, though with a diff erence qua the origin of a spat on the public street, establishes a public spat on a public street involving the families of Sri Krishan and Lala Satpal. The evidence, as held above, establishes that Babu Ram fi red from the roof of the house of Mangat Ram and targeted people on street No.300 where the spat between the family members of Shri Krishan and Lala Satpal took place. It is apparent that Babu Ram was led into fi ring because he learnt of the quarrel going on in street No.300. It is obvious that Babu Ram had come to aid of his sister and his brother-in-law. It is obvious that Babu Ram has acted with vengeance and not to protect himself or his house. It is not the case of Babu Ram that his sister’s house or the family members of his sister who were on street No.300 were in danger and he did the fi ring to protect them. 57. Looked from any angle whatsoever, Babu Ram cannot escape the consequence of his acts.” 7. As far as co-accused Vijay is concerned, the High Court allowed his appeal by giving him the benefi t of doubt as only one witness had alleged about his participation. 8. In respect of the appellants Sunil, Shri Krishan and Ravinder, the High Court observed that Mangat Ram (PW-2), Ashok Kumar (PW-8), Kashmere Lal (PW-9), Darshana (PW-13), Raj Kumar (PW-14) and Sushil 392 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R.