He further stated that Exs. X1 and X2 were not the thumb marks of Venkubayamma. He denied the suggestion that Venkubayamma had adopted Nalini Kanth and had executed a Will, whereby he would be entitled to her properties. 16. In his cross-examination, Kaliprasad stated that he did not have any photograph of Venkubayamma. He denied the suggestion that she used to apply hair dye. He also denied that the woman in Exs. A2 and A3 photographs was Venkubayamma. According to him, Venkubayamma used to write letters to him while he was at Hyderabad and she was in the habit of signing in English using disjointed letters. He admitted that some of her letters were signed in Telugu but a few were signed in English. He asserted that the signatures in Ex. A10 were not that of Venkubayamma and denied that the thumb marks (Exs. X1 and X2) were of Venkubayamma. 17. As already noted supra, the Trial Court held in favour of Nalini Kanth but, in appeal, the High Court reversed that decision. In essence, this case would turn upon the validity of Ex. A10 Will. Further, the validity of Ex. A9 Adoption Deed would also require examination. In the event Ex. A10 Will is found to be valid, Nalini Kanth would be the sole heir thereunder, but if it is held to be invalid and Ex. A9 Adoption Deed is found to be valid, he would be an heir, as an adopted son, along with Kaliprasad, the grandson. He would then be entitled to a half-share in the suit properties. 18. First and foremost, we may note the essential legal requirements to prove a Will. Section 63 of the Indian Succession Act, 1925 (for brevity, ‘the Succession Act’), prescribes the mode and method of proving a Will and, to the extent relevant, it reads as under: - “63. Execution of unprivileged Wills. - Every testator, not being a soldier employed in an expedition or engaged in actual warfare, or an airman so employed or engaged, or a mariner at sea, shall execute his Will according to the following rules: - (a). ……. MOTURU NALINI KANTH v. GAINEDI KALIPRASAD (DEAD, 655 THROUGH LRS.) [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] (b). ……. (c). The Will shall be attested by two or more witnesses, each of whom has seen the testator sign or affi x his mark to the Will or has seen some other person sign the Will, in the presence and by the direction of the testator, or has received from the testator a personal acknowledgement of his signature or mark, or the signature of such other person; and each of the witnesses shall sign the Will in the presence of the testator, but it shall not be necessary that more than one witness be present at the same time, and no particular form of attestation shall be necessary.” 19. In turn, Sections 68 and 69 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (for brevity, ‘the Evidence Act’), read as under: ‘68. Proof of execution of document required by law to be attested.