In regard to information enumerated or required to be enumerated under Sections 4(1)(b) and (c) of the RTI Act, necessarily and naturally, the competent authorities under the RTI Act will have to act in a proactive manner so as to ensure accountability and ensure that the fi ght against corruption goes on relentlessly. But in regard to other information which do not fall under Sections 4(1)(b) and (c) of the Act, there is a need to proceed with circumspection as it is necessary to fi nd out whether they are exempted from disclosure. 24. One of the objects of democracy is to bring about transparency of information to contain corruption and bring about accountability. 2 Central Board of Secondary Education and another v. Aditya Bandopadhyay and others (2011) 8 SCC 497, Institute of Chartered Accountants of India v. Shaunak H. Satya and others (2011) 8 SCC 781, Verhoeven, Marie -Emmanuelle v. Union of India and others. (2016) 6 SCC 456 and Central Public Information Offi cer, Supreme Court of India v. Subhash Chandra Agar- wal (2020) 5 SCC 481 204 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. But achieving this object does not mean that other equally important public interests including effi cient functioning of the governments and public authorities, optimum use of limited fiscal resources, preservation of confi dentiality of sensitive information, etc. are to be ignored or sacrifi ced. The object of the RTI Act is to harmonise the confl icting public interests, that is, ensuring transparency to bring in accountability and containing corruption on the one hand, and at the same time ensure that the revelation of information, in actual practice, does not harm or adversely aff ect other public interests which include effi cient functioning of the governments, optimum use of limited fi scal resources and preservation of confi dentiality of sensitive information, on the other hand. While Sections 3 and 4 seek to achieve the fi rst objective, Sections 8, 9, 10 and 11 seek to achieve the second objective.” 4. Having noted the scope and ambit of the obligations imposed on public authorities under Section 4, as elucidated by this Court, we may now refer to the prayer made by the petitioner in the Writ Petition. The writ petitioner seeks a direction: (a) to ensure that public authorities comply with the mandatory suo motu disclosures under Section 4 on a proactive basis; (b) to ensure that website disclosures of public authorities are complete, easily accessible as required by Clause No. 2.2 of the O.M. dated 07.11.2019; (c) to ensure compliance of proactive disclosure package audited by third party under Section 4 of the Act read with Clause 4.4 of O.M. dated 07.11.2019; (d) to appoint senior offi cer as nodal offi cer for being accountable for compliances with respect to proactive disclosure guidelines as per Clause 5.1 of the O.M. dated 07.11.2019; (e) direct Central Information Commission/State Information Commissions to examine third party audit reports as per Clause 4.5 of the O.M. dated 07.11.2019; KISHAN CHAND JAIN v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS.