The same authority has also analysed the position of a recovery certifi cate as a deemed decree. It has been, inter-alia, held in this :- “79. From the plain and simple interpretation of the words used in sub-section (22-A) of Section 19 of the Debts Recovery Act, it would be amply clear that the legislature provided that for the purposes of winding-up proceedings against a company, etc. a recovery certifi cate issued by the Presiding Offi cer under sub-section (22) of Section 19 of the Debts Recovery Act shall be deemed to be a decree or of TOTTEMPUDI SALALITH v. STATE BANK OF INDIA & 509 ORS. [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] the Court. It is thus clear that once a recovery certifi cate is issued by the Presiding Offi cer under sub-section (22) of Section 19 of the Debts Recovery Act, in view of sub-section (22-A) of Section 19 of the Debts Recovery Act it will be deemed to be a decree or of the Court for the purposes of initiation of winding-up proceedings of a company, etc. However, there is nothing in sub-section (22-A) of Section 19 of the Debts Recovery Act to imply that the legislature intended to restrict the use of the recovery certifi cate limited for the purpose of winding- up proceedings. The contention of the respondents, if accepted, would be to provide something which is not there in sub-section (22-A) of Section 19 of the Debts Recovery Act. 80. In any case, when the legislature itself has provided that any recovery certifi cate issued under sub-section (22) of Section 19 of the Debts Recovery Act will be deemed to be a decree or of the court for initiation of winding-up proceedings, which proceedings are much severe in nature, it will be diffi cult to accept that the legislature intended that such a recovery certifi cate could not be used for initiation of CIRP, which would enable the corporate debtor to continue as an on-going concern and, at the same time, pay the dues of the creditors to the maximum. We, therefore, fi nd no substance in the said submission.” 15. We have already referred to the provision of Section 19(22A) of the 1993 Act. This Court has construed the purpose of the said provision to include bringing an action under the IBC on the strength of Section 19(22) and (22A) of the 1993 Act. In the said provision, however, so far as bringing a winding-up action is concerned, the right of a recovery certifi cate-holder as a deemed-decree holder has been confi ned to companies registered under the Companies Act, 2013 and certain other entities with which we are not concerned here. But in relation to initiating proceeding under the IBC or making a claim under the said Code, the restriction does not remain confi ned to the Companies Act, 2013. The corporate debtor in this proceeding was incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956. In the case of Kotak Mahindra I (supra), credit facilities were extended to the borrower entities in the years 1993-94.