Couples were also enabled to choose whether to have, and if so, how many children to have. If they were unhappy with each other, they could divorce - a choice exercised by a large number of couples. Marriage became primarily a personal contract between two equals seeking love, stability, and happiness. Therefore, although social mores prevailed in relation to marriage, traditions and legal regimes were not static; the changes that society underwent or the forces that brought change, also carried winds that breathed new content, new contexts and new values, into the institution of marriage. SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1437 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 10. Law’s progress stresses upon individual’s rights for equality. The form of marriage, or the legally prescribed procedures assume a secondary role - they are matters of belief and practice. They cannot be regarded as the essential content of marriage. Tying thali is necessary in South India among many Hindu communities; and in some parts the exchange of rings, garlands and some rituals is necessary in North India. Many Hindu marriage customs and traditions insist on the saptapadi; amongst Muslims, the nikah ceremony, witnessed by invitees, and other customary rituals and practices, is generally followed; Christian customs emphasize on solemnization by the couples taking marriage vows. The rich diversity of this country and its pluralism is refl ected in customary practices surrounding marriage solemnization, all – if not most of which involve the couple, the members of their family, and the larger community. Ritualistic celebration of marriage is considered by some as essential, while many in other sections may deem that the factum of marriage suffi cient. For relationships that did not have customary practice dating back in history, the State enacted law – much like the petitioners, seek. 11. Therefore, legislations governing inter-caste and inter faith marriages, and adoption, are two important social relations relating to the family, through which secularism fi nds its base for an egalitarian social under the Constitution. The enactment of laws to facilitate this aspect is testimony of the right of individuals to personal choice and autonomy. For instance, enactment of the Hindu Marriage (Removal of Disabilities) Act, 1946 enabled persons from the same gotra or pravara to marry. Likewise, the bar to Hindu widows’ remarriage, was removed by enacting the Hindu Widows Remarriage Act, 1856. Inter-caste and inter-faith marriages became a possibility under the SMA after 1954. 12. The ‘legal’ dimension of marriage, in the US – the jurisprudence of which the petitioners relied on, is markedly diff erent from the nature of marriage in India, and its evolution. This contextual diff erence, is of great relevance, when considering a constitutional question of this kind. Marriage in countries like the US, was earlier a sacramental institution that fl owed from the Church and its divine authority. However, in modern times, it fl ows from the State; which created a ‘license regime’ for marriage. The result is that marriages may be performed and celebrated with religious traditions 143 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.