That thereafter,after the borrower having failed to obtain any , the respondent no.1 had straightway filed the writ petition challenging the e-auction notice which the borrower failed to get any relief before the DRT. If the respondent G no.1 would have approached the DRT against the e-auction notice he would have been non-suited in view of the earlier passed by the DRT dated 24.08.2016. Therefore, calculatively the respondent no.1 filed the writ petition before the High Court challenging the e-auction notice and that too after conducting of the e-auction on 31.08.2016 and the sale H in favour of the appellant was confirmed. The aforesaid facts were G. VIKRAM KUMAR v. STATE BANK OF HYDERABAD & 637 ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] pointed out before the High Court and despite the same the High Court A has allowed the writ petition which is not sustainable at all. By the impugned the respondent no.1 has got the relief which as such the borrower failed to get from the DRT. On the aforesaid grounds the impugned and passed by the High Court is unsustainable. 8.3 Even otherwise it is very debatable whether Section 13(8) of B the SARFAESI Act shall be applicable in favour of a person who is only an agreement to sale holder or Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act shall be applicable only in case of the borrower who is ready and willing to pay the entire debt. In the present case the borrower failed to get any relief from the DRT. The borrower did not apply and/or invoke Section C 13(8) and did not agree to clear the entire dues. Therefore, also the High Court has materially erred in allowing the writ petition. 8.4 Even otherwise it is required to be noted that as such what exact relief is granted by the High Court is not clear. The High Court has simply stated that the writ petition is allowed. However, it is required D to be noted that what was challenged before the High Court was the e- auction noticedated 28.07.2016 which was already conducted on 31.08.2016. Therefore, the writ petition was filed much after conducting the e-auction on 31.08.2016. No consequential relief has been granted by the High Court. Therefore, also the impugned and passed by the High Court is unsustainable. E 8.5 Now so far as the submission on behalf of the respondent no.1 that the respondent no.1 has paid/deposited the amount of sale consideration and now the respondent no.1 has died his heirs will have to vacate the flat in question and on the other hand the appellant shall be entitled to return the amount of Rs.6,45,250/- deposited at the relevant F time being 25% of the auction sale consideration with interest is concerned, at the outset it is required to be noted that as such the transaction between the respondent no.1 and the borrower pursuant to the agreement to sale dated 16.06.2016 was absolutely illegal and behind the back of the Tribunal as well as the Bank and during the pendency of G the proceedings before the Tribunal.