LTD. v. IFFCO – TOKIO GENERAL 969 INSURANCE CO. LTD. [A. S. BOPANNA, J.] to be without class on the date it was hit by ship Seaways-9. The insurance company therefore is under no contractual or legal obligation to reimburse the complainant company for the loss suff ered by it on account of sinking of the vessel.” “The case of the insurance company is based on the Class Certifi cate having been obtained by concealment of material fact from the Classifi cation Society and not on the actual unseaworthiness or otherwise of the vessel.” 11. The question, therefore, is as to whether the consideration made and conclusion reached by the NCDRC as extracted above would admit of any perversity or error in its reasoning. In the instant case, the fact that an ABS classifi cation certifi cate was obtained by the appellant and was produced to the respondent, based on which a Marine Hull Insurance Policy valid for the period 09.11.2006 to 08.11.2007 was issued in favour of the appellant by the respondent is the accepted position. The fact that the vessel had a collision with a Tug boat ‘Sea Ways 9’ on 03.12.2006 during the subsistence of the policy is also the accepted factual position. The policy vide Clause 6 thereto, inter alia provides for covering loss or damage suff ered due to ‘perils of the seas’ is also evident. 12. In a normal circumstance noted above, it would be suffi cient to admit the claim and determine the quantum of loss suff ered. However, in the instant case, there is a prelude which provides a diff erent dimension to the claim. Prior to the instant policy, the vessel was covered under a policy for the period 09.11.2005 to 08.11.2006. During the subsistence of the earlier insurance policy, a claim was lodged by the appellant claiming the reimbursement of the insurance amount towards damage to the engine crank shaft and the related parts of the vessel. Dhiraj Off shore Pvt. Ltd. was appointed as a surveyor to assess the loss for which the insurance amount was claimed by the appellant. The Surveyor on inspection found that the chief component of the port main engine of the vessel was beyond repairs. However, the appellant had indicated that they had carried out temporary repairs to the port main engine due to their urgent commitments for delivery of cargo and as there was a waiting period of six months for delivery of the engine crank shaft and connecting rods from the manufacturers, the replacement was not immediately possible. The insurance company based 970 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. on the recommendations of the surveyor made a payment of Rs.1,00,00,000/- to the appellant, on account, towards the said damage to the engine crank shaft and connecting rods which required replacement. However, the said replacement was not made and the status continued to be the same which came to be known only on 19.02.2007 when Dhiraj Off shore Pvt. Ltd. submitted the fi nal report by which time the present accident had occurred.