In this regard, it is to be noted here that the way in which the amount has to be distributed and paid, purely falls within the domain of the Resolution Applicant and further the CoC in its commercial wisdom has accepted the G same. Further, there is no provision in the IBC, 2016 which mandates that the Related party should be paid in parity with the unrelated party.… 95. It must be noted here that so long as the provisions of the Code and the Regulations have been met, it is the commercial H M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 815 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] wisdom of the requisite majority of the CoC which is to negotiate A and accept a resolution plan, which may involve differential payment to different classes of creditors, together with negotiating with a prospective resolution applicant for better or different terms which may also involve differences in distribution of amounts between different classes of creditors… B 96. Thus, the contentions of the Learned Senior Counsel for the objectors that differential treatment are being made to them since they are related party in respect of the Corporate Debtor do not hold any merit in view of the discussions made supra and also the decisions referred in support of the same. Hence the objections C raised by the objectors inrelation to the said issues are overruled.” 15.5. The Adjudicating Authority also took note of the question relating to the pending avoidance application and recorded its satisfaction that the provision had duly been made in the resolution plan as to the fate of the avoidance application and hence, the objections in that regard D were required to be eschewed. 15.6. Apart from the above, the Adjudicating Authority also dealt with the objections raised by one of the other prospective resolution applicants but those aspects need not be dilated for the present purpose. 16. After recording its findings on the issues raised by the parties, E the Adjudicating Authority proceeded to approve the resolution plan while recording its satisfaction as regards all the mandatory compliances by the plan in the following manner: - “(V) APPROVAL OF RESOLUTION PLAN 103. Thus, after overruling all the objections raised in relation to F the Resolution Plan, this Adjudicating Authority in so far as the approval of the Resolution Plan is concerned, section 30(6) of the IBC, 2016 cast certain duties upon this Adjudicating Authority to examine the Resolution Plan as to whether the Plan falls within the contours of the said Section. Hence, a comparison of the G mandatory compliance as required under IBC, 2016 vis-a-vis the compliance as made in the Resolution Plan is being tabulated hereunder. H 816 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A B C D E F G H M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 817 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] A B C D E F G H 818 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 17. The Adjudicating Authority, thereafter, referred to the decisions of this Court in the cases of Essar Steel (supra); K. Sashidhar v. Indian Overseas Bank: (2019) 12 SCC 150; Jaypee Kensington Boulevard Apartments Welfare Association and Ors.