1 was appointed as a Research Associate in the Central Research Institute (Ayurveda), Bhuvaneshwar under the Control of the Ministry of AYUSH, vide appointment letter dated 03.10.1985. The terms CENTRAL COUNCIL FOR RESEARCH IN AYURVEDIC 753 SCIENCES v. BIKARTAN DAS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] of appointment specifi cally stated inter alia, in para 2 (vi) & (vii) thereof, that “Private or Consultancy service is strictly prohibited” and that “Other terms and conditions of service will be governed by the rules and instruction applicable to similar personnel under the Government of India” respectively. Further it was stated that the pay and dearness allowances etc. will be as applicable to the Central Government servants of equivalent status and will be governed by the CCS Rules as amended by the Government of India from time to time. c. The fact that the Institute where the respondent No. 1was serving is under the ‘pervasive control’ of the Government/Ministry is admitted by the appellants in their counter affi davit fi led before the CAT and also in the Counter affi davit fi led before the High Court. Therefore, two factual aspects are admitted and it is beyond any doubt that (i) the respondent No. 1 is an AYUSH Doctor and (ii) the Institute is under the administrative control of the Ministry of AYUSH. d. In view of the aforesaid admitted facts, it is evident more particularly from the Union Cabinet decision of the appellants that the Government of India had approved the enhancement of age of superannuation from 60 to 65 years. This decision of the Cabinet was applicable to the respondent No. 1. In terms of the said decision at “iii. that the superannuation age has been enhanced to 65 years in respect of doctors under their administrative control of the respective Ministries/ Departments [M/o of AYUSH (AYUSH Doctors,………”. e. The Cabinet has not made any distinction or diff erence in treatment between the AYUSH Doctors working under the administrative control of the Ministry of AYUSH in the matter of enhancement of retirement age up to 65 years. It is reiterated that only two conditions are required to be satisfi ed to avail the enhanced age of superannuation up to 65 years of age viz., (i) AYUSH Doctor and (ii) being under the Administrative Control of the Ministry. Therefore, the respondent No. 1 is squarely covered by the Cabinet’s decision and is entitled to the enhanced age of retirement of 65 years. f. That accordingly, Rule 56(bb) of the Fundamental Rules, 1922, which is a statutory rule framed under the Proviso to Article 309 of 754 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. the Constitution of India, was amended vide Gazette Notifi cation dated 05th January, 2018 in terms of which the age of superannuation inter alia of the AYUSH doctors [3rd line of amended Rule (bb) shall be sixty-fi ve years. This was further amended vide the Gazette Notifi cation dated 11.08.2018 categorically laying down that the age of superannuation of doctors belonging to various cadres including AYUSH and working under the Ministry of AYUSH shall be 62 years unless they opt to continue in teaching, consultancy, etc in which case it shall extend up to 65 years.