The Commission observed that though it was not disputed that the appellant provided sponsorship, information and advice to persons going to Pakistan for training which E may have included militant training, it could not be concluded that these actions constituted a threat to ‘national security’. The Court of Appeal allowed the appeal against the of the Commission. 72. The appeal against the of the Court of Appeal was dismissed by the House of Lords. Lord Slynn of Hadley observed in his opinion that: (i) where the liberty of the person and the opportunity of his F family to remain in the country are at stake, and when specific actions which have already occurred are relied on, then it is fair that the civil standard of proof is applied; (ii) when the Secretary of State decides that a person must be deported for public good, he is entitled to have precautionary and preventive principles. There must be material on the G basis on which he can reasonably and proportionately conclude that there is a real possibility that that the activities harm national security; (iii) the Secretary of State is in the best position to assess the security threat. Due weight must be given to his assessment. However, his decision is open to review on the above two grounds; and (iv) It was held in H 654 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Council of Civil Service Unions (supra) that if it is contested that the deportation was not based on the grounds of national security, then the Government must produce evidence to satisfy the Court that the decision is based on the grounds of national security. However, ‘that is not the issue in the present case’. B 73. Lord Hoffman in his opinion observed that the Commission cannot differ from the opinion of the Secretary of State on the meaning of national security. That is, the question of whether for example, the promotion of terrorism in a foreign country by a United Kingdom resident would be contrary to the interests of national security is for the Government to decide. Relying on the in Council of Civil C Service Unions (supra), it was held that the decision on the validity of deportation is not conceded to the Secretary of the State. The Commission has to determine (i) the factual basis for the executive’s opinion that deportation would be in the interests of national security’; (ii) if the decision of the Secretary of the State was one which a reasonable minister D would have arrived at; and (iii) any other legal defence that was available to the appellant. The relevant observations are extracted below: 54. This does not mean that the whole decision on whether deportation would be in the interests of national security is surrendered to the Home Secretary, so as to “defeat the purpose E for which the Commission was set up”: see the Commission’s decision. It is important neither to blur nor to exaggerate the area of responsibility entrusted to the executive.