The High Court, vide the impugned and , held that the 18 months Diploma in Elementary Education (for short, “D.El. Ed.”) conducted through the Open and Distance Learning (for short, ‘ODL’) mode in elementary education by the National Institute of Open Schooling (hereinafter referred to as ‘NIOS’) is a valid Diploma for applying against the regular posts of Assistant Teachers (Primary) in the State of Uttarakhand. The High Court therefore directed the State to consider the candidatures of the petitioners therein for the said post on the basis of the applications made by them pursuant to the advertisement issued by the Department of Elementary Education, Government of Uttarakhand, Dehradun. 3. Appeals arising out of SLP(C) Nos. 23583-84 of 2022 are fi led by the candidates who are holding the 2 years diploma in elementary education whereas appeal arising out of SLP (C) No. 23943 of 2022 is fi led by the State of Uttarakhand. 4. Facts in brief giving rise to the present appeals are as under: 4.1 On 27th August 2009, the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009 (hereinafter referred to as “RTE Act”) was notifi ed. Sub-section (1) of Section 23 of the RTE Act provided that any person possessing such minimum qualifi cations, as laid down by an academic authority, authorized by the Central Government, by notifi cations, shall be eligible for appointment as a teacher. Sub-section (2) thereof enables JAIVEER SINGH AND OTHERS v. THE STATE OF 601 UTTARAKHAND AND OTHERS [B. R. GAVAI, J.] the Central Government, if it deems necessary, by notifi cation, to relax the minimum qualifi cations required for appointment as a teacher, for such period, not exceeding fi ve years. The fi rst proviso to sub-section (2) thereof provided that a teacher who, at the commencement of this Act, does not possess minimum qualifi cations as laid down under sub-section (1), shall acquire such minimum qualifi cations within a period of fi ve years. The second proviso to sub-section (2) thereof, which was added by Act 24 of 2017, further provided that a teacher appointed or in position as on the 31st March 2015, who does not possess minimum qualifi cations as laid down under sub-section (1), shall acquire such minimum qualifi cations within a period of four years from the date of commencement of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (Amendment) Act, 2017 (hereinafter referred to as “2017 Amendment Act”). 4.2 The Central Government, through Ministry of Human Resource Development, Department of School Education & Literacy (hereinafter referred to as “MHRD”), vide notifi cation dated 31st March 2010 authorized the National Council for Teacher Education (for short, “NCTE”) as the academic authority for laying down the minimum qualifi cations for a person to be eligible for appointment as a teacher. 4.3 NCTE, vide notifi cation dated 23rd August 2010, prescribed minimum qualifi cations for a person to be eligible for appointment as a teacher for Class I to VIII. 4.4 In the year 2012, Government of Uttarakhand promulgated Uttarakhand Government Elementary Education (Teacher) Service Rules 2012 (hereinafter referred to as “2012 Service Rules”) by invoking powers conferred under Section 58 of the Uttarakhand School Education Act, 2006.