14. The Magistrate (PW5), before whom one of the dying declarations was recorded, proves the correctness of the statement and that when the statement of the deceased was recorded, she was coherent and oriented. He also accepted that there was no reason for him to believe that the deceased was not in a position to make the statement or that the statement made by her stands vitiated for any reason. The statement of PW5 was supported by that of PW14 (Dr. K. Venugopal). 15. The statement of the deceased wife further categorically states that the appellant was in habit of drinking alcohol and used to assault her frequently in inebriated condition. She also stated that various criminal cases are pending against the appellant in connection with similar kind of assaults. The above aspect, as stated by the deceased, was corroborated by the testimony of PW21 (Investigating Offi cer). Even the DW1 (Saji Mathew) also proved that the deceased, at the time of the admission in the hospital, narrated about her burn injuries and alleged that her husband assaulted her and that she had poured kerosene on herself whereupon her husband had set her on fi re. The medical report reveals that the deceased had suff ered 96% burn injuries. 16. The incident was also proved by the oral testimony of PW1 (Sahajan) and PW2 (Gopalakrishnan), the neighbours who took the deceased to the hospital in a jeep and have seen the deceased in burning state. 17. In view of the aforesaid facts and circumstances and the overwhelming evidence on record, there is no escape from the conclusion 178 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. that the deceased died of burn injuries. She had herself poured kerosene upon her body and that the appellant set her ablaze and later tried to douse the fi re by pouring water. The appellant also accompanied the deceased to the hospital. 18. Now the only point for consideration is whether in the above circumstances, the appellant had any premeditated mind to kill the deceased or was it due to grave and sudden provocation which would not amount to murder or would at best be a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend up to 10 years or with fi ne or with both under Section 304 Part-II of IPC. 19. In support of his above argument, learned counsel for the appellant relied upon Kalu Ram v. State of Rajasthan2 which was case of a similar kind in connection with uxoricide by burning. However, it would be relevant and material to refer to Exception 4 to Section 300 IPC which defi nes “Murder” before extending the benefi t of the above decision to the appellant. The said exception reads as under: “Exception 4.—Culpable homicide is not murder if it is committed without premeditation in a sudden fi ght in the heat of passion upon a sudden quarrel and without the off ender having taken undue advantage or acted in a cruel or unusual manner.