[2023] 14 S.C.R. 74 : 2023 INSC 959 CASE DETAILS MANAK CHAND @ MANI v. THE STATE OF HARYANA (Criminal Appeal No. 2276 of 2014 ) OCTOBER 30, 2023 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, C. T. RAVIKUMAR AND SUDHANSHU DHULIA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether the courts below were justifi ed in convicting and sentencing the appellant for off ence of rape u/s. 376 IPC. Penal Code, 1860 – s. 376 – Rape - Allegation of the prosecutrix aged less than 16 years, against her sister’s brother-in-law-appellant that she was raped two three times when she had gone to her sister’s matrimonial home – Considering the family relations, initially the matter was sought to be settled by the marriage of the two – However, the off er was turned down, and the prosecutrix’s father lodged an FIR – of conviction and sentence of the appellant u/s. 376 by the courts below – Correctness: Held: Testimony of the prosecutrix does not inspire confi dence – She did not disclose the incident immediately, rather there were allegations of rape on two three occasions but no date or time disclosed – She disclosed about the incident to her mother after one and a half months – The date the prosecutrix alleged the fi rst incident of rape, was the same date, the prosecution led evidence that she had attended a school located at a separate place – This seems improbable, if not impossible – Also FIR was ultimately fi led as the initial proposal of marriage was turned down – All these facts cast a doubt on the prosecution case – Evidence, as to the age or even rape not examined properly by the courts below – No defi nite conclusion could have been made regarding the age of the prosecutrix – Prosecution did not successfully prove that the prosecutrix was less than sixteen years of 74 MANAK CHAND @ MANI v. THE STATE OF HARYANA 75 age at the time of the alleged commission of the crime – Furthermore, the prosecution failed to do the bone ossifi cation test for determination of the age of the prosecutrix – Thus, the appellant to be given benefi t – As to the factum of rape itself, the off ence of rape not made out as it did not meet the ingredients of rape as defi ned u/s. 375, as no evidence found which may suggest that the appellant, even though had sexual intercourse with the prosecutrix, it was against her will or without her consent – Thus, the of the courts below set aside and appellant acquitted of the charges. [Paras 6, 9, 11 and 12] Evidence – Off ence of rape – Testimony of the prosecutrix – Evidentiary value: Held: Conviction can be made on the basis of the sole testimony of the prosecutrix – Courts have to be extremely careful while examining this sole testimony – Furthermore, both the prosecutrix as well as the accused have a right for a fair trial – Thus, when the statement of the prosecutrix does not inspire confi dence and creates a doubt, the court must look for corroborative evidence.