729 [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] 10. In Manju Devi v State of Rajasthan, (2019) 6 SCC 203, this Court emphasized that a discretionary power like Section 311, CrPC is to enable the Court to keep the record straight and to clear any ambiguity regarding the evidence, whilst also ensuring no prejudice is caused to anyone. A note of caution was sounded in Swapan Kumar Chatterjee v Central Bureau of Investigation, (2019) 14 SCC 328 as under: ‘10.The fi rst part of this section which is permissive gives purely discretionary authority to the criminal court and enables it at any stage of inquiry, trial or other proceedings under the Code to act in one of the three ways, namely, (i) to summon any person as a witness; or (ii) to examine any person in attendance, though not summoned as a witness; or (iii) to recall and re-examine any person already examined. The second part, which is mandatory, imposes an obligation on the court (i) to summon and examine or (ii) to recall and re-examine any such person if his evidence appears to be essential to the just decision of the case. 11.It is well settled that the power conferred under Section 311 should be invoked by the court only to meet the ends of justice. The power is to be exercised only for strong and valid reasons and it should be exercised with great caution and circumspection. The court has vide power under this section to even recall witnesses for re-examination or further examination, necessary in the interest of justice, but the same has to be exercised after taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of each case. The power under this provision shall not be exercised if the court is of the view that the application has been fi led as an abuse of the process of law. 12.Where the prosecution evidence has been closed long back and the reasons for non-examination of the witness earlier are not satisfactory, the summoning of the witness at belated stage would cause great prejudice to the accused and should not be allowed. Similarly, the court should not encourage the fi ling of successive applications for recall of a witness under this provision.’ 11. In Harendra Rai v State of Bihar, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1023, a 3-Judge Bench of this Court was of the opinion that Section 311, CrPC should be invoked when ‘… it is essential for the just decision of the case.’ 730 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 12. Having considered the matter and surveyed the law supra, the Court fi nds that a case for interference has been made out. Under the peculiar facts of the present case, the request for recall of the appellant under Section 311, CrPC was justifi ed, as at the relevant point of time in his initial deposition, there was no occasion for him to bring the relevant facts relating to similarity of data before the Court, which arose after the CFSL expert was examined.