Article 162 provides that subject to the provisions of the Constitution, the executive power of a State shall extend to the matters with respect to which the Legislature of the State has the power to make laws. The proviso stipulates that with respect to matters which both the Legislature of a State and Parliament have legislative competence, F the executive power of the State shall be limited by the Constitution or by any law made by Parliament: “Article 162. Extent of executive power of State.- Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, the executive power of a State shall extend to the matters with respect to which the Legislature G of the State has power to make laws. Provided that in any matter with respect to which the Legislature of a State and Parliament have power to make laws, the executive power of the State shall be subject to, and limited by, the executive power expressly conferred by this Constitution or by any law made H by Parliament upon the Union or authorities thereof.” GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 547 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 83. A combined reading of Articles 73 and 162 indicates that the A Union has exclusive executive power over entries in List I. The States have exclusive executive power over entries in List II. With respect to List III, that is, the concurrent list, the Union shall have executive power only if provided by the Constitution or by a law of Parliament. The States shall have executive power over the entries in List III. However, if a B Central legislation or a provision of the Constitution confers executive power to the Union with respect to a List III subject, then the executive power of the State shall be subject to such law or provision. The executive power of the Union “in a State” over matters on which both States and the Union of India can legislate (that is, the concurrent list) is limited to ensure that the governance of States is not taken over by the Union. C This would completely abrogate the federal system of governance and the principle of representative democracy. It is with this objective in mind that the members of the Constituent Assembly thought it fit to limit the executive power of the Union in a State over matters on which the State also has legislative competence. D 84. The principle in Articles 73 and 162 would equally apply to the scope of executive power over matters which are within the legislative competence of both the Union and the GNCTD. This is because the objective of the provisions is to limit the executive power of the Union in the territorial limits where there is an elected government of a federal unit. E 85. Both Parliament and the Legislature of NCTD have legislative competence over List II and List III. For the purposes of NCTD, both List II and List III are “concurrent lists”. Thus, the delimitation of executive power between Parliament and Government of NCTD with respect to entries in List II and List III are guided by these principles.