The said Board considered that the concept of G redensification in general would go against the heritage of the city. 96. The said Board also considered that individual developments of apartments in plots will result in increase in density in the areas of the city that are most profitable to the developers, rather than where these housing units are actually required. It considered that introduction of the H 652 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 2001 Rules will most essentially create apartments in the higher cost bracket of saleable units, and is unlikely to create any low income or mid income housing. It also considered that the demand in the city was for lower income and middle- income housing rather than housing for the rich and affluent. It also considered that if the re-introduction of the 2001 Rules is permitted, it will lead to proliferation of slums required to B service the higher density of highest income group people. 97. It is to be noted that one of the salient features of Le Corbusier’s design was that the population density in the northern sectors was to be low, which increases towards the southern sectors. Chandigarh city has been planned as a low-rise city and has been so developed that C even after sixty years of its inception, it retains its original concept to a large extent. 98. One of the guiding principles that weighed with the said Board was that Chandigarh had Heritage Value, and it was important to preserve and maintain the integrity of the original concepts and planning postulates D of Sun, Space and Verdure. Another principle that weighed with the said Board was that any redevelopment in northern sectors (Phase-I) should only be done keeping the recommendations of the Heritage Committee in mind. Another guiding factor was that the same practices as followed while developing the New Delhi Municipal area (Lutyen’s Delhi) be followed in respect of the city of Chandigarh. The architecture of the E city was to be preserved and retained in sync with Le Corbusier’s vision. The low-rise character of the city needs to be maintained. The recommendations of the said Board had been accepted while notifying the CMP-2031. 99. It is important to note that the CMP-2031 itself states that F Phase-I Sectors have been recommended for Heritage status, and that the re-utilization of the identified housing/institutional pockets in the first phase has to be undertaken with the prior approval of the Heritage Committee. Having observed this at one place, it is difficult to apprehend as to how, though the CMP-2031 observed that by the year 2001 itself, the planned density of 16 per acre in Phase-I has been exceeded, it G estimated the holding capacity to be 34 per acre. It also records that as per 2001 Census, the density in Phase-I was 26 per acre. 100. The CMP-2031 thereafter observes that under the regulations, all private plots can build up to three floors with each floor having the potential of having an independent unit.