The candidate getting fewer marks than the same shall not be eligible. For the candidate F of the Socially and educationally backward class·these marks shall be 57% (171 marks) whereas, the for the candidate of Schedule Caste and the Schedule Tribe these marks shall be 55% (165 marks). The candidate getting less marks than the same, shall not be eligible for getting the appointment…” G 9. Sub-clause (15) of Clause (7) (General Instructions) of the advertisement empowers the Selection Committee to cancel the entire process in the event of any necessity that may arise or, alternatively, to make an appropriate amendment. It further facilitates any addition or reduction in the number of posts originally announced. In the aforesaid H circumstances, a candidate will not be entitled for any refund. SURESHKUMAR LALITKUMAR PATEL v. STATE OF 549 GUJARAT [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] “(15) In case any necessity arises for cancelling this advertisement A for any reason, or to make amendment in the same or to make addition or decrease in the numbers of posts, then, the Department shall have complete right/authority to do so, and, for this it will not bound to give reasons. Further, under such circumstances, the application made and the examination fee shall not be refundable.” B 10. Sub-clause (19) of Clause (7) concerns itself with the recruitment process which confers a power on the Selection Committee as provided under sub-clause (15) in connection with the recruitment process. “(19)…In connection with the recruitment process of this post, in C case any necessity arises for cancelling this advertisement or instruction for any reason, or to make amendment in the same, then, the complete right/authority shall be with the Selection committee to do so, and for this the Selection Committee shall not be bound to give reasons for the same…” D 11. Enclosure (1) of the advertisement 05.09.2015 once again reiterates Clause (1) by making the position abundantly clear on the posts being filled up with other eligible candidates, when the reserved candidate under the horizontal reservation is not available. 12. The aforesaid advertisement does not give any room for any E interpretation otherwise. It thus speaks about the manner by which a post has to be filled up, inclusive of a special reservation in the form of a horizontal one. The power of either cancellation or amendment has to be exercised by way of an amendment to the advertisement, except in a case of reduction of seats. Further, such a power has to be exercised either at the initial stage, which only means before writing the examination F or during the process, and thus giving ample indication that publishing the result would mean the completion and, therefore, the declaration of selected candidates would only be consequential. 13. The Selection Committee held a meeting on 05.10.2016 proposing to further relax the cut-off marks fixed only for the candidates G belonging to the horizontal reserved categories. Accordingly, the cut-off marks for the General Category have been kept intact. Thereafter, a subsequent meeting was held on 17.12.2016 by which the earlier decision proposed to be implemented on 05.10.2016 was cancelled.