It is submitted that the eligibility criteria to contest the election of the SGPC and the undertakings before the ECI and GEC are contrary H 928 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A to each other. It is submitted that therefore, a secular image as a political party was being projected before the ECI, while before the GEC, it was projected that only restricted membership of only adult Singhs and Singhnis / baptized Sikhs, was permitted. It is submitted that, thus, a falsified Constitution was knowingly filed by the appellants before the ECI. It is submitted that the continuing B nature of fraud and the roles of appellants have also been brought out by the witnesses and through evidence collected during the inquiry collected through the pre-summoning stage before the learned Magistrate’s Court, resulting in its summoning . 4.6 It is further submitted by Shri Prashant Bhushan, learned C counsel appearing on behalf of the original complainant that at the stage of summoning, the allegations in the complaint alone are required to be considered and it is required to be considered whether the allegations in the complaint disclose cognizable offences committed by the appellants or not. It is submitted that a D complaint only sets the law into motion, whereas, it is on the basis of evidence recorded in accordance with Section 200 Cr.P.C., that a Magistrate’s court is dutybound and empowered to pass a speaking under Section 203 Cr.P.C. or Section 204 Cr.P.C. It is submitted that on the basis of the material/evidence collected/ recorded during the course of the inquiry, the Magistrate’s Court E decides to summon or not to summon those involved in the offences. It is submitted that, therefore, once on the basis of the material collected during the course of the inquiry, if the Magistrate is satisfied that a prima facie case is made out against the accused, summoning be issued against the accused to face the trial. F 4.7 It is submitted that in the present case by submitting the false claim of secularism just contrary to the relevant clauses in the Constitution of the Party, a clear case is made out for the offence under Section 415/420 IPC. It is submitted that it is a clear case of cheating and dishonest inducement. It is further submitted by G the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the original complainant that even the case for forgery is made out. It is submitted that as per the definition of forgery, “whoever makes any false documents with intent to commit fraud or that fraud may be committed by such persons is said to have committed the offence of forgery”. It is submitted that therefore, in the present case, a clear case of H forgery has been made out. SHRI SUKHBIR SINGH BADAL v. BALWANT SINGH KHERA 929 AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] 4.8 Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the appellants, A more particularly, by the appellant – Parkash Singh Badal that as he was originally not named in the complaint and even at the time of inquiry under Section 202 Cr.P.C., he was not named in the inquiry and therefore, the summoning is vitiated on the ground that the mandatory requirement of inquiry under Section 202 Cr.P.C.