We do not agree to this fi nding of the two courts below as, in our opinion, a search and recovery made from the appellant of the alleged contraband “charas” does not satisfy the mandatory requirements of Section 50 as held by this Court in Vijaysinh Chandubha Jadeja. This we say for the following reasons: 24.1. First, it is an admitted fact emerging from the record of the case that the appellant was not produced before any Magistrate or gazetted offi cer. 330 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 24.2. Second, it is also an admitted fact that due to the aforementioned fi rst reason, the search and recovery of the contraband “charas” was not made from the appellant in the presence of any Magistrate or gazetted offi cer. 24.3. Third, it is also an admitted fact that none of the police offi cials of the raiding party, who recovered the contraband “charas” from him, was the gazetted offi cer and nor they could be and, therefore, they were not empowered to make search and recovery from the appellant of the contraband “charas” as provided under Section 50 of the NDPS Act except in the presence of either a Magistrate or a gazetted offi cer. 24.4. Fourth, in to make the search and recovery of the contraband articles from the body of the suspect, the search and recovery has to be in conformity with the requirements of Section 50 of the NDPS Act. It is, therefore, mandatory for the prosecution to prove that the search and recovery was made from the appellant in the presence of a Magistrate or a gazetted offi cer. 25. Though, the prosecution examined as many as fi ve police offi cials (PW 1 to PW 5) of the raiding police party but none of them deposed that the search/recovery was made in presence of any Magistrate or a gazetted offi cer. 26. For the aforementioned reasons, we are of the considered opinion that the prosecution was not able to prove that the search and recovery of the contraband (charas) made from the appellant was in accordance with the procedure prescribed under Section 50 of the NDPS Act. Since the non-compliance of the mandatory procedure prescribed under Section 50 of the NDPS Act is fatal to the prosecution case and, in this case, we have found that the prosecution has failed to prove the compliance as required in law, the appellant is entitled to claim its benefi t to seek his acquittal.” 59. However, in our opinion, the observations made in Arif Khan (supra) are in direct confl ict with the Constitution Bench decision of Baldev Singh (supra). It appears that the attention of the learned Judges while rendering the decision of Arif Khan (supra) was seemingly not invited to the words “if the person to be searched so requires” used in section 50. RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 331 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 60. Section 50 of the NDPS Act only goes so far as to prescribe an obligation onto the police offi cer to inform the suspect of his right to have his search conducted either in the presence of a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate.