The present Detention fares no better. Even if the off ences referred to in the Detention , alleged to have been committed AMEENA BEGUM v. THE STATE OF TELANGANA 989 & ORS. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] by the Detenuhave led to the satisfaction being formed, still the same are separate and stray acts aff ecting private individuals and the repetition of similar such acts would not tend to aff ect the even fl ow of public life. The off ence in respect of the minor girl did exercise our consideration for some time but we have noted that the Detenu was not arrested because of an passed by the High Court on an application under section 438 of the Criminal Procedure Code (“Cr. PC”, hereafter). The investigating agency not having elected to have such quashed by a higher forum, the facts have their own tale to tell. Even otherwise, the gravity of the off ences alleged in Arun Ghosh (supra) was higher in degree, yet, the same were not considered as aff ecting ‘public ’. The only other off ence that could attract the enumerated category of “acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public ” and an of preventive detention, if at all, is the stray incident where the Detenu has been charged under section 353, IPC and where the police has not even contemplated an arrest under section 41 of the Cr. PC. 40. On an overall consideration of the circumstances, it does appear to us that the existing legal framework for maintaining law and is sufficient to address like offences under consideration, which the Commissioner anticipates could be repeated by the Detenu if not detained. We are also constrained to observe that preventive detention laws—an exceptional measure reserved for tackling emergent situations—ought not to have been invoked in this case as a tool for enforcement of “law and ”. This, for the reason that, the Commissioner despite being aware of the earlier and of the High Court dated 16th August, 2021 passed the Detention ostensibly to maintain “public ” without once more appreciating the diff erence between maintenance of “law and ” and maintenance of “public ”. The of detention is, thus, indefensible. 41. We could have ended our here, but having regard to the arguments advanced at the Bar we wish to deal with the other issues too. This, we are persuaded to do, in to remind the authorities in the state of Telangana that the drastic provisions of the Act are not to be invoked at the drop of a hat. 990 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 42. Now, we proceed with the second issue as to whether there was proper application of mind to all relevant circumstances or whether consideration of extraneous factors has vitiated the Detention . 43. Considering past criminal history, which is proximate, by itself would not render an illegal. The Commissioner in the Detention made pointed reference to the Detenu being a habitual off ender by listing 10 (ten) criminal proceedings in which the Detenu was involved during the years 2019-20, consequent to which the Detenu was preventively detained under the Act vide of detention dated 4th March, 2021, since quashed by the High Court by its dated 16th August, 2021.