Analysis and conclusion A. Relevant provisions 32. Section 5 of the EPA, relates to the power to give directions: “5. POWER TO GIVE DIRECTIONS.- Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law but subject to the provisions of this Act, the Central Government may, in the exercise of its powers and performance of its functions under this Act, issue directions in writing to any person, offi cer or any authority and such person, offi cer or authority shall be bound to comply with such directions Explanation--For the avoidance of doubts, it is hereby declared that the power to issue directions under this section includes the power to direct-- (a) the closure, prohibition or regulation of any industry, operation or process; or (b) stoppage or regulation of the supply of electricity or water or any other service.” 20 Paragraph 9 and 11 of dated 28.08.2009 passed by the Delhi High Court in WP (C) No. 8120/2009. 21 Original Application No. 442/2015. TAMIL NADU AND PUDUCHERRY PAPER CUP MANUFACTURES 1147 ASSOCIATION v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] By Notifi cation dated 10.02.1988, the Ministry of Environment and Forest, Government of India, in exercise of its powers under Section 23 of the EPA, delegated its power vested under Section 5 of the Act, to numerous states – including Tamil Nadu. The Notifi cation stated that the Central Government may revoke such delegation of powers in respect of all or any of the state governments, or may itself invoke Section 5 of the Act, if it found such course of action necessary in the interest of public interest.22 33. Rule 4 of the 1986 Rules, is to be read with Section 5, and is relied upon by the appellants: “4. DIRECTIONS – (1) Any direction issued under section 5 shall be in writing. (2) The direction shall specify the nature of action to be taken and the time within which it shall be complied with by the person, offi cer or the authority to whom such direction is given. (3) (a) The person, offi cer or authority to whom any direction is sought to be issued shall be served with a copy of the proposed direction and shall be given an opportunity of not less than fi fteen days from the date of service of a notice to fi le with an offi cer designated in this behalf the objections, if any, to the issue of the proposed direction. (b) Where the proposed direction is for the stoppage or regulation of electricity or water or any other service aff ecting the carrying on any industry, operation or process and is sought to be issued to an offi cer or an authority, a copy of the proposed direction shall also be endorsed to the occupier of the industry, operation or process, as the case may be and objections, if any, fi led by the occupier with an offi cer designated in this behalf shall be dealt with in accordance with the procedures under sub-rules (3a) and (4) of this rule: Provided that no opportunity of being heard shall be given to the occupier if he had already been heard earlier and the proposed direction referred to in sub-rule (3b) above for the stoppage or 22 Notifi cation No.