H M/S OSWAL PLASTIC INDUSTRIES V. MANAGER, LEGAL 989 DEPTT N.A.I.C.O. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] 4.3 Making the above submissions, it is prayed to dismiss the A present appeal. 5. The short question which is posed for consideration of this Court is whether in the facts and circumstances of the case and on true interpretation of relevant clause of insurance policy, in case of damage of the plant and machinery due to fire, the complainant shall be entitled B to the reinstatement value or the depreciated value? 5.1 While dealing with the aforesaid issue, relevant clause 9 of Section 2 of the policy is required to be considered, which reads as under: - “9. If the Company at its option, reinstate or replace the property damaged or destroyed, or any part thereof, instead of paying the C amount of the loss or damage, or join with any other Company or Insurer(s) in so doing the Company shall not be bound to reinstate exactly or completely but only as circumstances permit and in reasonably sufficient manner, and in no case shall the Company be bound to expend more in reinstatement than it would have cost to reinstate such property as it was at the time of the occurrence D of such loss or damage nor more than the sum insured by the Company thereon. If the Company so elect to reinstate or replace any property the insured shall at his own expense furnish the Company with such plans, specifications, measurements, quantities and such other particulars as the Company may require, and no acts done or caused to be done, by the Company with a view to E reinstatement or replacement shall be deemed an election by the Company to reinstate or replace. If in any case the Company shall be unable to reinstate or repair the property hereby insured, because of any municipal or other regulations in force affecting the alignment of streets or the F construction of buildings or otherwise, the Company shall, in every such case, only be liable to pay such sum as would be requisite to reinstate or repair such property if the same could lawfully be reinstated to its former condition.” 5.2 On true interpretation and on fair reading of above clause, firstly the option is given to the insurance company to reinstate or replace G property damaged or destroyed instead of paying the amount of loss or damage. If the insurance company exercises the option of reinstatement or replaces the property damaged, the company shall not be bound to reinstate completely or partly but only as circumstances permit and in reasonably sufficient manner, and in no case shall the company be bound to expend more in reinstatement than it would have cost to reinstate H 990 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A such property as it was at the time of the occurrence of such loss or damage not more than the sum insured by the company thereon. However, in any case the company is unable to reinstate or repair the property insured, because of any municipal or other regulations in force affecting the alignment of streets or the construction of buildings or OTHERWISE, in that case, the company shall be liable to pay such B sum as would be requisite to reinstate or repair such property if the same could lawfully be reinstated to its former condition.