Directive principles of State policy provide for a guidance to interpretation of fundamental rights of a citizen as also the statutory rights. 109. It may be true that prices are required to be fixed having E regard to the market forces. Demand and supply is a relevant factor as regards fixation of the price. In a market governed by free economy where competition is the buzzword, producers may fix their own price. It is, however, difficult to give effect to the constitutional obligations of a State and the principles leading to a free economy at the same time. A level playing field is the key F factor for invoking the new economy. Such a level playing field can be achieved when there are a number of suppliers and when there are competitors in the market enabling the consumer to exercise choices for the purpose of procurement of goods. If the policy of the open market is to be achieved the benefit of the consumer must be kept uppermost in mind by the State.” G 106. In paragraph-111, the Court, inter alia, held as follows: “111. The State when it exercises its power of price fixation in relation to an essential commodity, has a different role to play. 25 (2007) 2 SCC 640 H COAL INDIA LIMITED v. COMPETITION COMMISSION 881 OF INDIA [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Object of such price fixation is to see that the ultimate consumers A obtain the essential commodity at a fair price and for achieving the said purpose the profit margin of the manufacturer/producer may be kept at a bare minimum. The question as to how such fair price is to be determined strictosensu does not arise in this case, as would appear from the discussions made hereinafter, as here B the Central Government has not fixed any price. It left the matter to the coal companies. The coal companies in taking recourse to e-auction also did not fix a price. They only took recourse to a methodology by which the price of coal became variable. Its only object was to see that maximum possible price of coal is obtained. … .” C 107. We may notice here that the observations were made at the time when coal was an essential commodity. Coal ceased to be an essential commodity after the date of the in February, 2007. We are not for a moment holding that coal has ceased to be a vital national resource. All that we are observing is that, the basis for the observations in paragraph-111, stood removed. D 108. The Court went on to hold further: “113. The State or a public sector undertaking plays an important role in the society. It is expected of them that they would act fairly and reasonably in all fields; even as a landlord of a tenanted E premises or in any other capacity. (See Baburao Shantaram More v. Bombay Housing Board [AIR 1954 SC 153 : 1954 SCR 572] SCR at p. 577, DwarkadasMarfatia& Sons v. Board of Trustees of the Port of Bombay [(1989) 3 SCC 293 : (1989) 2 SCR 751] SCR at pp.