Ltd,11 a two Judge Bench of this Court while dealing with the construction and applicability of Section 26 of the 2015 Amendment Act in relation to arbitration proceedings and / or legal proceedings in H 11 (2018) 6 SCC 287 TATA SONS PVT LTD (FORMERLY TATA SONS LTD) v. SIVA INDUSTRIES 1283 AND HOLDINGS LTD [DR. DHANAJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] connection with such arbitration proceedings, inter alia, observed in a A footnote that Section 29A was procedural in nature. However, this Court stated that Section 29A created new obligations in respect of a proceeding which had already commenced since it laid down a strict timeline for rendering an arbitral award for the first time in the framework of the Arbitration Act (emphasis supplied). This Court clarified: B “Section 29A of the Amendment Act provides for time limits within which an arbitral award is to be made. In Hitendra Vishnu Thakur v. State of Maharashtra (1994) 4 SCC 602 at 633, this Court stated: “(iii) Every litigant has a vested right in substantive law but no C such right exists in procedural law. (iv) A procedural statute should not generally speaking be applied retrospectively where the result would be to create new disabilities or obligations or to impose new duties in respect of transactions already accomplished. D (v) A statute which not only changes the procedure but also creates new rights and liabilities shall be construed to be prospective in operation, unless otherwise provided, either expressly or by necessary implication.” It is, inter alia, because timelines for the making of an arbitral E award have been laid down for the first time in Section 29A of the Amendment Act that parties were given the option to adopt such timelines which, though procedural in nature, create new obligations in respect of a proceeding already begun under the unamended Act. This is, of course, only one example of why parties may F otherwise agree and apply the new procedure laid down by the Amendment Act to arbitral proceedings that have commenced before it came into force.” 33. Procedural law establishes a mechanism for determining rights and liabilities of a party and a machinery for enforcing them.12 Generally, procedural laws are presumed to be retrospective, unless there is a clear G indication that such was not the intention of the legislature,13 or the 12 Thirumalai Chemicals Ltd v. Union of India (2011) 6 SCC 739 13 Jose Da Costa and Anr. v. Bascora Sadasiva Sinai Narcornim, (1976) 2 SCC 917; Gurbachan Singh v. Satpal Singh (1990) 1 SCC 445; Rajendra Kumar v. Kalyan (D) by Lrs, (2000) 8 SCC 99 H 1284 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A procedural law imposes new obligations qua transactions already concluded or creates new rights or liabilities.14 34. The 2019 Amendment Act does not contain any provision equivalent to Section 26 of Act 3 of 2016 evincing a legislative intent making the application of the amended provision prospective. The B amended provisions of Section 29A, in terms of which the arbitral tribunal has to endeavour to dispose of the proceedings in an international commercial arbitration as expeditiously as possible within a period of twelve months from the completion of the pleadings are remedial in nature.