To this end, he also cited the of this Court in Safai Karamchari Andolan v. Union of India5 where this court held that the 2013 Survey was inadequate as it was confi ned only to 3546 statutory towns and did not extend to rural areas. This Court also held that the States were able to identify only a miniscule proportion of the number of people actually engaged in manual scavenging. 14. On the aspect of sewer deaths, he brought to the attention of this Court the defi nitions of ‘hazardous cleaning’ under Section 2(d) of the 2013 Act as well as the defi nitions of ‘sewer’ and ‘septic tank’ under Sections 2(p) and 2(q). He stated that though the Act prohibits hazardous cleaning under Section 7 and 9, no specifi c bar is made to the manual cleaning of sewers and septic tanks as long as protective gear is given. To this end, he referred to Rule 3(1) of the 2013 Rules and laid stress on the words “No person shall be allowed to clean a sewer manually” to contend that the statutory scheme recognized that entry into a sewer or a manhole can only be after the sewage is totally emptied by machines. 15. It was argued that there is a legislative vacuum in so far as rehabilitation for hazardous workers is concerned. The sole rehabilitation, according to him, is by virtue of the of this Court in Safai Karamchari Andolan (supra) where this Court granted compensation of Rs. 10 lakhs to the family of a person who died in a sewer. 16. He argued that constitutionally speaking, hazardous cleaning amounts to forced labour under Article 23 of the Constitution as explained 5 2014 (4) SCR197 109 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. by this Court in People’s Union for Democratic Rights v. Union of India6 (para 13-14). It was further highlighted that the Act of 2013 intends that no person should come in direct contact with human excreta and hazardous cleaning whereby as person is coerced to immerse himself in or be in contact with human excreta without protective gear/safety precautions is nothing but forced labour prohibited under Article 23. A narrow interpretation of “forced labour”, restricting it to only those cases where there is lack of remuneration, is contrary the intention of Article 23. This is because such a narrow interpretation would fail to address structural discrimination and would also render the phrase “other similar forms of forced labour” otiose. Additionally, it was further submitted that “consent” given by the worker to perform hazardous cleaning would not mean that labour is not forced. Reliance placed on People’s Union for Democratic Rights (supra) followed in Sanjit Roy v. State of Rajasthan7. 17. Amicus further contended that like manual scavenging, hazardous cleaning is also a practice borne out of ‘untouchability’ and must be prohibited under Article 17 of the Constitution. He brought to the attention of the Court Section 7A of the Civil Rights Act, 1955, which specifi cally bars any scavenging or sweeping or any other job of a similar nature as being an enforced disability arising out of ‘untouchability’.