v. M/S TIRUMALA 185 CONSTRUCTIONS [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] to the transition from the provisions of the Constitution as they stood immediately before the date of assent of the President to this Act to the provisions of the Constitution as amended by this Act), the President may, by , make such provisions, including any adaptation or modifi cation of any provision of the Constitution as amended by this Act or law, as appear to the President to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing the diffi culty: Provided that no such shall be made after the expiry of three years from the date of such assent. (2) Every made under sub-section (1) shall, as soon as may be after it is made, be laid before each House of Parliament.” 82. It cannot be in dispute that Section 20 existed for a period of two years and enabled the President to issue s for the removal of diffi culties experienced in the course of implementing the amendments to the Constitution. If indeed those parts of the amendments were not enacted in the exercise of constituent power but mere legislative power, there would be no legitimacy of the power conferred upon the President under Section 20. 83. On an overall interpretation of the provisions of the Amendment, it is held that Sections 19 and 20 constitute incidental and transitory provisions which have limited life, so to speak. Whether they became part of the Constitution or not is really academic. What really matters is the eff ect of those provisions. B. Whether the power of amendment or repeal is subject to limitations under Section 19 84. In this context, Section 143(2) of the Government of India Act, 1935 was considered by a Constitution Bench of this court in Rama Krishna Ramanath (supra). That provision reads as follows: “143(2) Any taxes duties, cesses or fees which, immediately before the commencement of Part III of this Act, were being lawfully levied by any Provincial Government, municipality or other local authority or body for the purposes of the Province, municipality, district or other local area under a law in force on the fi rst day of January, nineteen hundred and thirty-fi ve, may, notwithstanding that those taxes, duties, 186 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. cesses or fees are mentioned in the Federal Legislative List, continue to be levied and to be applied to the same purposes until provision to the contrary is made by the Federal Legislature.” 85. In Rama Krishna Ramanath (supra) it was held that considering the use of the phrase “continue to be levied” found in Section 143(2) of the Government of India Act, until provisions to the contrary are made by the Federal Legislature, the provision posits a limited legislative power in the province to indicate or express a desire to continue or not to continue the levy, which would include the power to repeal the statute in its entirety. Such limited legislative power would also include reducing the rate of tax, though continuing the levy.