15. In our considered view, the statement of P.W.6 - Sarani Boria needs to be appreciated in its entirety. In her cross-examination, P.W.6 has candidly admitted that her husband was an alcoholic and he used to quarrel with her and also with the appellant after consuming alcohol. She has affi rmatively deposed that the deceased used to ill-treat her after consuming alcohol. 16. It seems to us from the version of P.W.6 that the deceased was an alcoholic and he used to misbehave not only with his wife but also with her family members. This version deserves appreciation in its right perspective. Such being the conduct of the deceased, the appellant’s only concern was to protect the life and dignity of his daughter, who was his only child. Reading the evidence on record, it is perceived that the appellant just wanted to create some kind of psychological fear and restraint in the deceased’s mind, so that he could no longer assault or humiliate the appellant’s daughter. The appellant and the deceased were the only ones present in the house at the time of occurrence. The daily consumption of liquor by the deceased was an apparent factor that exhorted the appellant to assault the deceased not with an intent to commit his murder but only to force the deceased to mend his ways and mend his drinking problem. The appellant seemingly attacked the deceased without any intention to commit his murder. It was rather a crude attempt to forcibly change the deceased’s habits and help the appellant’s daughter to have peaceful and dignifi ed life. 17. The appellant’s motive at best was to prevent the deceased from misbehaving with his daughter after consuming alcohol. The manner in which the occurrence appears to have taken place inside the house, does MARKASH JAJARA v. THE STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 841 indicate that the appellant lost his self-control on account of persistent provocation and suddenly thrashed his son-in-law with the bamboo stick. It is a case where provocation seems to be brewing up since the deceased shifted to the appellant’s house. It acquired enormous gravity with each recurrence of humiliating stances of the appellant’s daughter. The fatal occurrence was seemingly the fi nal culmination of loss of the power of self-control. The fact that the deceased was living as a `ghar javai’ with the appellant, suffi ciently indicates that the appellant did not have any pre-meditated intention to commit the murder of his son-in-law. But for the continuous harassment of the appellant’s daughter by the deceased who was a habitual drunkard, the appellant would not have lost his senses suddenly. The simmering discontent of a frustrated and hapless father unfortunately led him to strike the deceased with a bamboo stick. The series of provocative acts attributable to the deceased indeed laid the foundation of sustained provocation. 18. In the facts and circumstances of the present case, as noticed above, it appears to us that the act of the appellant in causing injuries to the deceased falls within the expression of `culpable homicide’ which does not amount to `murder’.