It stated that:- “20. The question which arises before us is whether Section 50(1) was required to be complied with when charas was recovered only from the bag of the appellant and no charas was found on his person. 356 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Further, if the fi rst question is answered in the affi rmative, whether the requirements of Section 50 were strictly complied with by PW 2 and PW 4. 21. … The appellant agreed to search PW 2 before the latter carried out his search. On conducting the search, only personal belongings of PW 2 were found by the Appellant. On the search of the appellant in the presence of the gazetted offi cer, a biscuit-coloured jute bag was recovered from the Appellant, and Rs. 2400 cash in the denomination of 24 notes of Rs. 100 each was found in the left pocket of the Appellant’s trouser. When the bag was opened, a black polythene cover containing nineteen rectangular broken sheets of a blackish/deep brown colour weighing 1.5 kilograms was recovered. The sheets were tested and were found to be charas. 22. PW 2 conducted a search of the bag of the appellant as well as of the appellant’s trousers. Therefore, the search conducted by PW 2 was not only of the bag which the appellant was carrying, but also of the appellant’s person. Since the search of the person of the appellant was also involved, Section 50 would be attracted in this case. Accordingly, PW 2 was required to comply with the requirements of Section 50(1). As soon as the search of a person takes place, the requirement of mandatory compliance with Section 50 is attracted, irrespective of whether contraband is recovered from the person of the detainee or not. It was, therefore, imperative for PW 2 to inform the appellant of his legal right to be searched in the presence of either a gazetted offi cer or a magistrate. …” (Emphasis supplied) 102. Thus, one view which originated from Dilip (supra) and relied upon in SK. Raju (supra) implied that if a person is searched and along with him or her, his or her bag is also searched, then the benefi t of Section 50 should be extended while conducting the personal search of the accused. 103. However, it is pertinent to note that although Pawan Kumar (supra) has been referred to and considered in SK. Raju (supra) yet, the Court in SK. Raju (supra) overlooked the fact that in Pawan Kumar (supra) also the search was not only of the person of the accused but also of his bag. Even in such circumstances, the larger Bench in Pawan Kumar (supra) took the view that Section 50 would not apply if nothing incriminating is RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 357 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] recovered from the person of the accused. Thus, there is an apparent confl ict between the two decisions. Section 50 not applicable when recovery made from bag, conveyance, etc.