(xii) Ex.PW27/B prepared by autopsy surgeon Dr. M.M. Narnaware, proved by PW27, suggested that the knife/ dagger recovered at the instance of Neeraj could have F caused such injuries as were found on the body of the deceased. (xiii) The testimonies of police witness, etc. proved that the articles sent for forensic examination were duly sealed, properly kept and dispatched. G (xiv) The serologist report proved that the clothes recovered at the instance of Santosh @ Bhure carried human blood of same group as found on the trouser and vest worn by the deceased at the time of his death. 6. On strength of the above findings, the Trial Court concluded H that the proven circumstances constituted a chain which conclusively SANTOSH @ BHURE v. STATE (G.N.C.T.) OF DELHI 735 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] indicated that the accused Santosh @ Bhure in the company of co- A accused Neeraj committed the crime and to remove the evidence hid the dagger and the blood-stained clothes and further, to hoodwink the police, Neeraj wrote and planted a suicide letter in a pocket of the trouser worn by the deceased. The Trial Court noticed that the accused had offered no plausible explanation for the incriminating circumstances B appearing against them hence they were liable to be convicted and sentenced under section 302 read with section 34 IPC. However, in absence of any evidence with regard to prior meeting of mind, the Trial Court acquitted them of the charge of criminal conspiracy. 7. Aggrieved with their conviction, Santosh @ Bhure and Neeraj C filed separate appeals before the High Court. The High Court allowed the appeal of Neeraj whereas the appeal of Santosh @ Bhure was dismissed. High Court Findings 8. The High Court by placing reliance on two decisions of this D Court, namely, Sukhvinder Singh & Others v. State of Punjab1; and State of Uttar Pradesh v. Ram Babu Misra2,held that the expert opinion with regard to the suicide letter being in the handwriting of Neeraj would have to be eschewed, inasmuch as the specimens of handwriting and signature of Neeraj were obtained with neither his consent nor permission/ E of the Court. It held that once that piece of evidence is eschewed, hardly any incriminating circumstance is left to sustain Neeraj’s conviction. Consequently, Neeraj’s appeal was allowed. 9. With regard to co-accused Santosh @ Bhure, the High Court found the prosecution successful in proving — (a) that at about 11.00 a.m. on 12.09.2000 dead body of the deceased was found in the apartment F under his tenancy and occupation; (b) that the deceased died a homicidal death; (c) that Santosh absconded and could be apprehended only on 23.09.2000; (d) that blood-stained clothes were recovered pursuant to his disclosure statement and at his pointing out; and (e) that those clothes carried blood of human origin and of same group as found on clothes G worn by the deceased. The High Court concluded that the above circumstances constituted a chain so far complete as to conclusively indicate that in all human probability it was Santosh and no one else who 1 (1994) 5 SCC 152 2 (1980) 2 SCC 343 : AIR 1980 SC 791 H 736 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R.