The idea behind this provision is to ensure transparency and enable the voters to make an informed choice while casting the ballot. The need for a detailed declaration by candidates was underlined C by this court in Public Interest Foundation & Ors v Union of India (UOI) & Ors.,7which required the Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) , 1968 to be suitably amended. The court observed that: “The best available people, as is expected by the democratic D system, should not have criminal antecedents and the voters have a right to know about their antecedents, assets and other aspects. We are inclined to say so, for in a constitutional democracy, criminalization of politics is an extremely disastrous and lamentable situation. The citizens in a democracy cannot be compelled to stand as silent, deaf and E mute spectators to corruption by projecting themselves as helpless. The voters cannot be allowed to resign to their fate. The information given by a candidate must express everything that is warranted by the Election Commission as per law. Disclosure of antecedents makes the election a fair one and F the exercise of the right of voting by the electorate also gets sanctified. It has to be remembered that such a right is paramount for a democracy. A voter is entitled to have an informed choice. If his right to get proper information is scuttled, in the ultimate eventuate, it may lead to destruction of democracy because he will not be an informed voter having G been kept in the dark about the candidates who are Accused of heinous offences. In the present scenario, the information given by the candidates is not widely known in the constituency and the multitude of voters really do not come to know about the antecedents. Their right to have information suffers. H 7 2018 [10] SCR141 BHIM RAO BASWANTH RAO PATIL v. K. MADAN MOHAN 1227 RAO AND ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 116. Keeping the aforesaid in view, we think it appropriate to A issue the following directions which are in accord with the decisions of this Court: (i) Each contesting candidate shall fill up the form as provided by the Election Commission and the form must contain all the particulars as required therein. B (ii) It shall state, in bold letters, with regard to the criminal cases pending against the candidate. (iii) If a candidate is contesting an election on the ticket of a particular party, he/she is required to inform the party about C the criminal cases pending against him/her. (iv) The concerned political party shall be obligated to put up on its website the aforesaid information pertaining to candidates having criminal antecedents. (v) The candidate as well as the concerned political party D shall issue a declaration in the widely circulated newspapers in the locality about the antecedents of the candidate and also give wide publicity in the electronic media. When we say wide publicity, we mean that the same shall be done at least thrice after filing of the nomination papers.” E 13.