B 2. You are requested to enter into necessary gas supply contract with GAIL within 60 days of issue of this letter failing which above allocation will be liable for allocation.” Looking to the significance of the time period in the letter, the parties began negotiating the terms of the gas supply contract. IPCL C thus entered into a contract with GAIL on 09.11.2001 for supply of natural gas. IPCL had set up and installed a plant at Gandhar by investing approximately Rs. 4500 crores. Further, in to meet the stipulation of the allocation letter, it laid down pipelines between Hazira and Gandhar at a cost of approximately Rs. 354 crores. D 3. As per the contract, the methodology of supply of gas was that GAIL received natural gas from the producer, i.e. ONGC, which procured the same at Hazira from the Bombay High project. Thereafter, the gas was transported from Hazira to IPCL’s Gandhar plant through pipelines laid down by IPCL. The unutilised gas was then sent back to Hazira, also using IPCL’s pipelines. E 4. We may flag at this stage itself the significance of the manner in which the gas is carried, as the dispute before us revolves around this particular aspect. On one hand, as per the allocation terms, IPCL had to lay down its own pipelines (which were so laid), and those pipelines alone were utilised for carrying gas. On the other hand, the charge is F levied by GAIL for ‘loss of transportation charges’ in terms of the contract. It is this aspect of the contract between the parties which has been the subject matter of adjudication in writ proceedings filed by IPCL under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. IPCL succeeded before the learned Single Judge in terms of the s dated 19.09.2006 and G 11.04.2007, and before the Division Bench in the Letters Patent Appeals vide dated 17.06.2008. 5. We may note that though the contract inter se the parties was signed on 09.11.2001, the challenge was laid to Clauses 10.01 and 4.04 of the contract only on 09.03.2006, i.e. after five years. In this interregnum, H IPCL ceased to be a public sector undertaking. M/S. GAIL (INDIA) LTD. v. M/S. INDIAN PETROCHEMICALS 331 CORP. LTD. [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] 6. The other development is the decision of GAIL to stop levying A loss of transportation charges in May 2016. Thus, the total amount collected under the aforesaid clauses is stated to be Rs. 134 crores before it was quashed by the Single Judge and sustained by the Division Bench. 7. In to understand the contractual context, the relevant B two clauses are extracted below: “4.04 The BUYER, in addition to price of GAS mentioned in Article 10, shall pay to the SELLER Rs. 4,16,700/- (Rupees Four Lakh Sixteen Thousand and Seven Hundred) towards fortnightly service C charges on account of deployment of manpower by the SELLER for terminal operation and routine maintenance along with applicable taxes / levies thereon, connected with delivery of Gas at the Point of Onward Delivery and receipt of Gas returned by the BUYER at the Point of Return Delivery.