19. For the sake of clarity, in such a case where a multiplicity of proceedings exists, we find it crucial to clarify that as far as the present appeals are concerned, challenge is confined to two s dated 20.12.2019 and 15.07.2022 passed by the High Court. D 20. At the first instance, by way of an earlier Special Leave Petition, the original impugned of the High Court dated 20.12.2019 was challenged. This Court had dismissed the same, however liberty was granted to the petitioner(s)/appellant(s) to approach the High Court by way of a review. E 21. The said liberty was utilized by the appellant(s), and a review was filed in the High Court. The same however, was dismissed by the High Court vide impugned and dated 15.07.2022. 22. In the present appeals, both, the original impugned by F the High Court in appeal, as well as the in review by the High Court, are being challenged. ANALYSIS 23. The Ld. counsel appearing on behalf of both the parties were heard in great detail. G 24. At the first instance, the Ld. Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents has raised a preliminary objection as far as the maintainability of the present appeals are concerned. 25. We are of the considered opinion that only after the issue of maintainability is decided upon, can this Court enter into the merits of H S. NARAHARI AND ORS. v. S.R. KUMAR AND ORS. 1015 [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] the case. The issue of maintainability of Special Leave Petition is akin to A a rite of passage, and only after it is deemed that Special Leave Petition is maintainable, can an entry be taken into the merits of a dispute. 26. It is the contention of the respondents that as far as an appeal by way of Special leave against an passed in review is concerned, the provisions of XLVII rule 7 make it amply clear that the same B is not permissible, that is to say, no appeal by way of Special Leave Petition against an passed in review is maintainable. 27. Further, it has also been contended by the respondents, that this Court, while dismissing the original Special Leave Petition filed by the petitioner(s) therein, while it granted liberty to the petitioners to C approach the High Court in review, did not give the petitioners specific permission to file a subsequent Special Leave Petition before this Court. Such lack of explicit permission, as per the respondent, places a bar on the petitioners to approach this Court again. For this, the respondent has relied on the case of Sandhya Educational Society Vs. Union Of India1 D 28. As far as first contention of the respondent is concerned, we concur with the same. XLVII rule 7 of the CPC makes it amply clear that no Special Leave Petition can be filed against an passed in review, and as such, does not require our further consideration. For a ready reference, the same is being reproduced herein: E “ of rejection not appealable.