[Paras 95, 122, 125,135 and 141][100-A; 115- F-G; 116-F; 122-B-E; 124-B-C] 7. The cardinal importance of a fiercely independent, honest, C competent and fair Election Commission must be tested on the anvil of the rule of law as also the grand mandate of equality. Rule of law is the very bedrock of a democratic form of governance. It simply means that men and their affairs are governed by pre- announced norms. It averts a democratic Government brought to power by the strength of the ballot betraying their trust and D lapsing into a Government of caprice, nepotism and finally despotism. It is the promise of avoidance of these vices which persuades men to embrace the democratic form of Government. An Election Commission which does not ensure free and fair poll as per the rules of the game, guarantees the breakdown of the E foundation of the rule of law. Equally, the sterling qualities must be possessed by an Election Commission is indispensable for an unquestionable adherence to the guarantee of equality in Article 14. In the wide spectrum of powers, if the Election Commission exercises them unfairly or illegally as much as he refuses to exercise power when such exercise becomes a duty it has a telling F and chilling effect on the fortunes of the political parties. Inequality in the matter of treatment of political parties who are otherwise similarly circumstanced unquestionably breaches the mandate of Article 14. The Election Commissioners including the Chief Election Commissioner blessed with nearly infinite G powers and who are to abide by the fundamental rights must be chosen not by the Executive exclusively and particularly without any objective yardstick. [Para 165][138-F-H; 139-A-B, E] 8. If the drawing up of the panel itself results in a fate accompli, then, the whole exercise would be reduced to a foregone conclusion as to who would be finally appointed. What this Court H 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A finds about the method involved is, even proceeding on the basis that the Government has the right to confine the appointee to Civil Servants that it is in clear breach of the contemplated mandate that be it as an Election Commissioner or Chief Election Commissioner, the appointee should have a period of six years. The philosophy behind giving a reasonably long stint to the B appointee to the post of Election Commissioner or the Chief Election Commissioner, is that it would enable the Officer to have enough time to gear himself to the needs of the Office and to be able to assert his independence. An assured term would instil in the appointee, the inspiration and the will to put in place any C reforms, changes, as also the inspiration to bring out his best. A short-lived stint may drain the much needed desire besides the time to fulfill the sublime objects of the high Office of the Election Commissioner or the Chief Election Commissioner. Any tendency towards placating the powers that be, would wax as also the power and the will to assert his independence may wane, bearing in D mind, the short tenure.