In the case before this Court, in fact, the extension granted by the learned Chief Metropolitan Magistrate was challenged on the ground that the learned Chief Metropolitan Magistrate had no competence to extend the judicial custody of the accused. The G learned Additional Sessions Judge accepted the same. However, thereafter, a fresh extension was sought which was beyond the period prescribed under Section 167 of the Cr.PC and therefore, this Court observed and held that extension for period of investigation from retrospective effect shall not be permissible. H 832 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 6.3 Similarly, even the decision of this Court in the case of Rambeer Shokeen (supra) relied upon by learned Solicitor General shall also not be applicable to the facts of the case on hand. In the case of Rambeer Shokeen (supra) pending application by the Investigating Agency for extension of time for completing the investigation, the accused made an application for statutory/default bail and to that this Court B observed and held that the application filed by the Investigating Agency for extension of time for completing the investigation which was prayed in time kept pending ought to be decided first by the Court. 6.4 Thus, sum and substance of law laid-down by this Court in the cases of Sanjay Dutt (supra) and Jigar (supra) are that while C considering the application by the Investigating Agency for extension of time for completing the investigation beyond the period prescribed under Section 167(2) of the Cr.PC the accused is to be given notice and/or is to be kept present before the Court, so that, the accused had knowledge that the extension is sought and granted. D 6.5 However, in the facts and circumstances of the case, we are of the view that the appellant is not entitled to the relief of statutory/ default bail. In the present case the facts are glaring which are as under: - ……The accused was arrested on 29.01.2022. The 90 days E provided under Section 167 Cr.PC thus would expire on 29.04.2022. Within the period of 90 days i.e., on 22.04.2022, the IO submitted the report and prayed for extension of time for completing the investigation which came to be allowed by the learned Trial Court by granting extension of 30 days period. It is true that for whatever reason, the accused was not kept present F at the time when the learned Trial Court considered the report submitted by the IO for extension of time for completing the investigation. However, the accused came to be informed about the extension on the very next day i.e., 23.04.2022. The accused did not challenge the extension on any ground which may be G available to him and/or did not make any grievance that such an extension is illegal and/or contrary to law. On 10.05.2022, he made the present application for default bail/statutory bail on the ground that the chargesheet has not been filed within the period of 90 days. At this stage, it is required to be noted that at the time when the present application for default/statutory bail was made on H QAMAR GHANI USMANI v. THE STATE OF GUJARAT 833 [M. R. SHAH, J.]