Learned counsel has further submitted that as a matter of legal principle, if previous history of accused person’s insanity is revealed, the investigating officer is duty bound to subject him E to medical examination and to submit the evidence to the Court; and failure to do so may amount to serious infirmity which may lead to benefit of doubt to the accused but, in such cases, the onus of producing evidence with respect to the conduct and mental condition is on the accused and the Court is not expected to presume to the contrary. While relying upon a decision of this Court in the case of Bapu alias Gujraj Singh v. State F of Rajasthan: (2007) 8 SCC 66, learned counsel has submitted that the plea of unsoundness of mind qua the appellant is untenable not just owing to the fact that no such plea or evidence was placed during the trial or even before the High Court but also because the appellant had no previous history of insanity as such. In this regard, learned counsel has G referred to the testimony of PW-3, the manager of rehabilitation centre to the effect that during the period of admission, the appellant’s behaviour was like an ordinary prudent man and he was never administered any medicine for mental illness, for no such illness having been observed nor any previous history having been given by his family members. H PREM SINGH v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 841 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 11.5. Learned counsel for the respondent-State has also submitted A that the plea of unsoundness of mind, if at all, could only be raised by the defence to rule out the forming of mens rea but a case of purported subsequent mental illness cannot be raised to invoke the exceptions of Section 300 IPC. Thus, according to the learned counsel, reference to the treatment of the appellant post-conviction in psychiatry ward because B of the complaints of abnormal behaviour is of no avail to the appellant. Learned counsel has referred to decisions of this Court in Shrikant Anandrao Bhosale v. State of Maharashtra: (2002) 7 SCC 748 and Dahyabhai Chhaganbhai Thakkar v. State of Gujarat: AIR 1964 SC 1563. C 11.6. Learned counsel for the respondent-State has further submitted that the suggestions to the effect that the appellant might be having requisite knowledge but was lacking an intention to commit the crime remains untenable for the reasons,inter alia, that the appellant meticulously planned the crime by taking his children to the canal at a time when he was vested with their sole custody in the absence of his D wife; he mercilessly strangulated the children one by one and if at all anopportunity of realisation were to be visualised, at least after killing the first child he had ample time and opportunity to restrain himself and not to kill the other one. This apart, according to the learned counsel, after gruesome killing of the two children, the appellant enacted an E elaborate ploy by interacting with the persons in the vicinity and attempted to create a false narrative of drowning of the children.