Rajender Kumar vs. Rambhai (2007) 15 SCC 513, also alludes to the same principle. (ii) Further, in Beghar Foundation through its Secretary vs. Justice K.S. Puttaswamy (Retd.) & Ors. (2021) 3 SCC 1, while considering the review petitions filed against the D final and passed in Justice K.S. Puttuswamy vs. Union of India (2019) 1 SCC 1 (Aadhaar – 5 J. ), it was observed that there was no case for review of the said . It was further observed that, “change in the law or subsequent decisions/ E of a Larger Bench by itself cannot be regarded as ground for relief.” The review petitions were, accordingly, dismissed by the majority of the Judges on the Bench (4:1), while Dr. D.Y.Chandrachud, J. expressed his dissenting opinion in the said case. (iii) Reliance was also placed on Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd. F and Another vs. Union of India and Others (2006) 3 SCC 1 and Kamlesh Verma vs. Mayawati and Others (2013) 8 SCC 320 in support of their submissions. 18. By way of reply, learned senior counsel and learned counsel for the review petitioners sought refuge under the expression “for any G other sufficient reason” in XLVII Rule 1 CPC to contend that in view of the changed circumstances, inasmuch as the dictum in Pune Municipal Corporationis overruled by the Larger Bench of this Court and all other s following the in Pune Municipal Corporation have also been overruled, there is good ground to review H and reopen all previous s passed on the basis of the overruled GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI THR. THE SECRETARY, LAND AND BUILDING 235 DEPT. v. M/S. K.L. RATHI STEELS LTD. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] in Pune Municipal Corporation. Hence, these review petitions A are maintainable and ought to be allowed. In this regard, learned counsel for the review petitioners placed reliance on The Bengal Immunity Company Ltd. vs. The State of Bihar AIR 1955 SC 661. 19. Having regard to the rival submissions made, I find that the bone of contention between the parties is with regard to the maintainability B of these review petitions bearing in mind the scope and purport of XLVII Rule 1 CPC and particularly, the Explanation thereto. In other words, the point for consideration is, whether, the passed in Pune Municipal Corporation and all other s following the said dictum, which have been overruled, could be reviewed by entertaining C these review petitions and the said s be recalled and the said cases be reheard and decided in light of Indore Development Authority. 20. At the outset, it is observed that this is not a case where the question involved is, whether, the in Pune Municipal Corporation calls for a review or reconsideration. It has already been D reconsidered by this Court, by the Larger Bench in Indore Development Authority. The pertinent question involved in this case is, whether, the in Pune Municipal Corporation having been overruled and all other s following Pune Municipal Corporation having been overruled in Indore Development Authority, would call for review of all those s despite having attained finality between E the parties.