Thereupon the City Engineer shall give his written instructions and/or decisions within a period of 60 days of such request. This period can be extended by mutual consent of the parties. Upon receipt of written instructions of decisions, the parties shall promptly proceed without delay to comply with such instructions or decisions. If the City Engineer fails to give his instructions or decisions 962 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. in writing within a period of 60 days or mutually agreed time after being requested if the parties are aggrieved against the decision of the CE, the parties may within 30 days prefer an appeal of MPL Com who shall aff ord an opportunity to the parties of being heard and to off er evidence in support of his appeal. MPL Com will give his decision within 90 days. If any party is not satisfi ed with the decision of MPL Com, he can refer such disputes for arbitration to an Arbitration Board to be constituted by the Corporation, which shall consist of three members of whom one shall be chosen from among the offi cers belonging to the Urban Administration and Development Department not below the rank of BE, one retired Chief Engineer of any technical department and City Engineer, Nagar Nigam, Jabalpur. The following are also the terms of this contract, namely: (a) No person other than the aforesaid Arbitration Board constituted by the Corporation (to handle cases of all technical departments) shall act as arbitrator and if for any reason that is not possible the matter shall not be referred to arbitration at all. (b) The Corporation may at any time eff ect any change in the personnel of the Board and the new members or members appointed to the Arbitration Board shall be entitled to proceed with the reference from the stage it was left by his or their predecessors. (c) The party invoking arbitration shall specify the dispute or disputes to be referred to arbitration under this clause together with the amount or amounts claimed in respect of each such dispute(s). (d) Where the party invoking arbitration is the contractor no reference for arbitration shall be maintainable, unless the contractor furnishes a security deposit of a sum determined according to the table given below, and the sum so deposited shall on the determination of arbitration proceeding, be adjusted against the costs, if any awarded by the Board against the party and the balance remaining after such adjustment or in the absence of the such costs being awarded the whole of the sum LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 963 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] shall be refunded to him within one month from the date of the award. Amount of claim Rate of security deposits For claim below Rs 10,000 5% of amount claimed For claim of Rs 10,000 and above 3% of amount claimed but below Rs 1,00,000 subject to minimum of Rs 500 For claims of Rs 1,00,000 and 2% of the amount claimed above subject to a minimum of Rs 3000” (Emphasis supplied) 37.