Rejecting the argument, this Court emphasized that the office of the Speaker is held in high respect in parliamentary tradition. The Court held that the Speaker embodies propriety and impartiality and that it was therefore inappropriate to express distrust in the office of the Speaker: G “118. It would, indeed, be unfair to the high traditions of that great office to say that the investiture in it of this jurisdiction would be vitiated for violation of a basic feature of democracy. It is inappropriate to express distrust in the high office of the Speaker, merely because some of the Speakers are alleged, or even found, to have discharged their functions not in H 914 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A keeping with the great traditions of that high office. The robes of the Speaker do change and elevate the man inside.” (emphasis supplied) 83. The petitioners have relied upon the in Shrimanth Balasaheb Patil v. Speaker, Karnataka Legislative Assembly,25 B where it was observed that the Speaker does not deserve to be reposed with public trust and confidence if they are not able to dissociate from their political party and if they act contrary to the spirit of neutrality and independence. In Shrimanth Balasaheb Patil (supra), the Speaker issued s disqualifying certain MLAs, prohibiting them from C contesting elections and becoming members for the remaining term of the Legislative Assembly. This Court upheld the decision of the Speaker on the question of disqualification. However, it held that the Speaker does not have the power to specify the period of disqualification under the Tenth Schedule. It was in view of the unconstitutional exercise of power by the Speaker that this Court expounded on the general principles D that a Speaker is expected to follow while adjudicating questions of disqualification. 84. A similar submission was made before this Court in the case of Keisham Meghachandra Singh v. Hon’ble Speaker Manipur Legislative Assembly26,where it was submitted that this Court should E issue a writ of quo-warranto against the appointment of an MLA as a minister when disqualifications petitions are pending. Rejecting the submission, this Court held as under: “8. Shri Kapil Sibal, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the Appellant, in the Civil Appeal arising out of SLP(C) No. F 18659 of 2017, has argued that the Speaker in the present case has deliberately refused to decide the disqualification petitions before him…… In these circumstances, he has exhorted us to issue a writ of quo warranto against Respondent No. 3 stating that he has usurped a constitutional office, and to declare that he cannot do so… G 32. It is not possible to accede to Shri Sibal’s submission that this Court issue a writ of quo warranto quashing the appointment of the Respondent No. 3 as a minister of a cabinet 25 (2020) 2 SCC 595 H 26 (2020) SCC OnLine SC 55 SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 915 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] led by a BJP government.