F 13.Given the aforesaid background and s of this Court, the plenary and conscientious power conferred on this Court under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, seemingly unhindered, is tempered or 24 For Section 151 C.P.C. see – Jet Ply Wood (P.) Ltd. and Another v. Madhukar Nowlakha and Others, (2006) 3 SCC 699; and Bhagat Singh Bugga v. Dewan Jagbir Sawhney, 1941 SCC OnLine Cal 247. For Section 482 Cr.P.C. see – Popular Muthiah v. State G Represented By Inspector Of Police, (2006) 7 SCC 296; and Dinesh Dutt Joshi v. State of Rajasthan and Another, (2001) 8 SCC 570. 25 This statement on legislation is equally true, if not truer, for exercise of power by this Court under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India. 26 Earlier s of different High Courts in Bhim Singh v. Kan Singh, 2003 SCC OnLine Raj 326; Nagen Kundu v. Emperor, 1934 SCC OnLine Cal 12; and Chhail Das H v. State of Haryana, 1974 SCC OnLine P&H 246, relating to the Cr.P.C., hold that the SHILPA SAILESH v. VARUN SREENIVASAN 189 [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] bounded by restraint, which must be exercised based on fundamental A considerations of general and specific public policy. Fundamental general conditions of public policy refer to the fundamental rights, secularism, federalism, and other basic features of the Constitution of India. Specific public policy should be understood as some express pre-eminent prohibition in any substantive law, and not stipulations and requirements B to a particular statutory scheme. It should not contravene a fundamental and non-derogable principle at the core of the statute. Even in the strictest sense27, it was never doubted or debated that this Court is empowered under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India to do ‘complete justice’ without being bound by the relevant provisions of procedure, if it is C Cr.P.C. is deemed to be exhaustive when covered by a provision, but where a case arises which demands exercise of discretion, which is not within the provisions that the Cr.P.C. specifically provides, it would be reasonable to say that the court has power to make such as the ‘ends of justice’ require. Every criminal court, including the court of a Metropolitan Magistrate, has this power, notwithstanding the specific power conferred under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. on the High Court. 27 Some jurists have opined that the s on the powers of this Court under D Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India can be divided into three phases. The first phase till late 1980s is reflected in the s of Prem Chand Garg (supra) and A.R. Antulay (supra), which inter alia held that the directions should not be repugnant to and in violation of specific statutory provision and is limited to deviation from the rules of procedure. Further, the direction must not infringe the Fundamental Rights of the individual, which proposition has never been doubted and holds good in phase two and E three. The second phase has its foundation in the ratio of the of the 11-Judge Constitution Bench of this Court in I. C. Golak Nath (supra), dealing with the doctrine of prospective overruling, which held that Articles 32, 141 and 142 are couched in such wide and elastic terms as to enable this Court to formulate legal doctrines to meet the ends of justice, the only limitation thereon being reason, restraint and injustice.