But we do seek to alter the practice whereby the inevitable sequence that would follow upon the arising of a reasonable suspicion is arrest, followed by being taken to the station, often to be searched, fi ngerprinted and photographed. The evidence submitted to us supports the view of the Police Complaints Board, expressed in their triennial report, that police offi cers are so involved with the process of arrest and detention that they fail at times to understand the sense of alarm and dismay felt by some of those who suff er such treatment. Arrest represents a major disruption to the suspect’s life…That disruption cannot, in our view, be justifi ed if it is not necessary to take him to the station for one or more of the following reasons: to fi nd out his name and address; to prevent the continuation or repetition of the off ence; to protect persons or property; to preserve evidence in connection with that off ence; to dispel reasonable suspicion or to turn it into a prima facie case.” (para 3.75) The Royal Commission underlined the necessity principle to diminish the possibility of arbitrary arrest, thereby requiring the police offi cer receiving the suspect in his custody to enquire as to whether it would be essential to keep the arrested person at the police station on the basis of the following criteria: (i) the person’s unwillingness to identify himself so that a summons may be served upon him; (ii) the need to prevent the continuation or repetition of that off ence; (iii) the need to protect the arrested person himself, or other persons or property; 572 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. (iv) the need to secure or preserve evidence of or relating to that off ence or to obtain such evidence from the suspect by questioning him; and (v) the likelihood of the person failing to appear at Court to answer any charge made against him. (d) The Queen’s Bench in Regina vs. Secretary of State for the Home Department, Ex Parte LeecH, (1994) Q.B. 198 held that it was a principle of fundamental importance that every citizen had a right of unimpeded access to a Court, and to a solicitor for the purpose of receiving advice and assistance in connection therewith. (e) In Kenya, while there are no specifi c provisions on anticipatory bail, these are instead enshrined in constitutional provisions under the Bill of Rights. The Constitution of Kenya, 2010 provides for: (i) Bail of arrested person under Article 49(1)(h) (ii) Appropriate relief under Article 23(3) for breach of the Bill of Rights. Therefore, wherever the remedy has been considered, the Courts have applied the threshold applicable to an application fi led seeking to prevent the violation or threatened violation of rights under Articles 23 and 165(3) of the Kenyan Constitution. (f) The High Court of Kenya in Coroline Kuthie Karanja vs. Director Public Prosecutions, (2021) eKLR extensively referred to Section 438 of CrPC and stated that the constitutional Courts of India had widely construed the fundamental aspects of anticipatory bail to be of great importance and anchored to the right to life and liberty of a person.