G 4. Pursuant to the said proceeding, the respondents herein were absorbed in the service of the Electricity Board. 5. Earlier, the Electricity Board had taken a decision on 28- 11-1996 to regularise the services of its employees working on daily-wage basis from before 4-5-1990 on the existing H 438 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A vacant posts and that an examination for selection would be held for that purpose. 6. The contention of the writ petitioners (the respondents herein) was that since the Society had been taken over by the Electricity Board, the decision dated 28-11-1996 taken by B the Electricity Board with regard to its daily wage employees will also be applicable to the employees of the Society who were working from before 4-5-1990 and whose services stood transferred to the Electricity Board and who were working with the Electricity Board on daily-wage basis. C 7. The learned Single Judge in his dated 21-9-1998 held that there was no ground for discriminating between two sets of employees who are daily wagers, namely, (i) the original employees of the Electricity Board, and (ii) the employees of the Society, who subsequently became the employees of the Electricity Board when the Society was taken D over by the Electricity Board. This view of the learned Single Judge was upheld by the Division Bench of the High Court. 8. We are in agreement with the view taken by the Division Bench and the learned Single Judge. 9. The writ petitioners who were daily wagers in the service E of the Society were appointed in the Society before 4-5-1990 and their services were taken over by the Electricity Board “in the same manner and position”. In our opinion, this would mean that their services in the Society cannot be ignored for considering them for the benefit of the dated 28-11- F 1996. …….. 19. In the present case many of the writ petitioners have been working from 1985 i.e. they have put in about 22 years’ service and it will surely not be reasonable if their claim for G regularisation is denied even after such a long period of service. Hence apart from discrimination, Article 14 of the Constitution will also be violated on the ground of arbitrariness and unreasonableness if employees who have put in such a long service are denied the benefit of H OM PRAKASH BANERJEE v. THE STATE OF WEST BENGAL 439 & ORS. [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] regularisation and are made to face the same selection which A fresh recruits have to face.” 27. The principles of natural justice, too, demand that the Appellant cannot be denied the benefit of the regularisation of services when his similarly placed fellow employees have been granted the said benefit. B 28. Therefore, we do not agree with the view taken in the impugned of the High Court as well as by the learned Single Judge in Writ Petition No. 31399 (W) of 2017. The Appellant herein, in our considered opinion, is entitled to receive back wages and benefits from 1991, along with an interest of 10%.