There are several ways by which, a power may be conferred upon the Governor, or qua the Governor, which will enable him to exercise the said power by virtue of his offi ce as Governor. Therefore, there can be no gainsaying that all the powers that are exercisable by the Governor by virtue of his offi ce can be exercised only in accordance with the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers except insofar as the Constitution expressly, or perhaps by necessary implication, provides otherwise. DR. PREMACHANDRAN KEEZHOTH & ANR. v. THE 431 CHANCELLOR KANNUR UNIVERSITY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 76. Thus, in such a situation, the statute makes a clear-cut distinction between two distinct authorities, namely, the Chancellor and the State Government. When the legislature intentionally makes such a distinction, the same must also be interpreted distinctly, and while dealing with the case of the Vice-Chancellor, the Governor, being the Chancellor of the University, acts only in his personal capacity, and therefore, the powers and duties exercised and performed by him under a statute related to the University, as its Chancellor, have absolutely no relation to the exercise and performance of the powers and duties by him while he holds offi ce as the Governor of the State. 77. Hardwari Lal (supra) has been referred to and relied upon by this Court in Bhuri Nath and Others v. State of J&K and Others reported in (1997) 2 SCC 745. In the said case, the question that arose was in relation to whether the Governor was bound to act in accordance with the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers, or whether he could exercise his own discretion, independent of his status and position as the Governor, by virtue of him being the ex offi cio Chairman of the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board under the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Act, 1988. The Shrine Board discharges functions and duties, as have been described under the Act in the manner prescribed therein, and thus, after examining the scheme of the Act, this Court held that, “In Hardwari Lal case [AIR 1982 P&H 439 : (1982) 1 SLR 39] , a Full Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court was to consider whether the Governor in his capacity as the Chancellor of Maharshi Dayanand University was to act under Maharshi Dayanand University Act, 1975 (Haryana Act No. 25 of 1975) in his offi cial capacity as Chancellor or with aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. The Full Bench, after elaborate consideration of the provisions of the Act and the statutes, came to observe in para 121 at p. 476 that the Act and the statutes intended that the State Government would not interfere in the aff airs of the University. The State Government is an authority quite distinct from the authority of the Chancellor. The State Government cannot advise the Chancellor to act in a particular manner. The University, as a statutory body, autonomous in character, has been given certain powers exercisable by the Chancellor in his absolute discretion without any interference from any quarter.