43. We have made this discussion only to remind ourselves that in interpretation of the Notification we are concerned with, a pursuitof a F purposive interpretation or a search for arationale which the Court finds fair may meet with limitations which flow from the object of the maker of the notification being confined to the plain meaning of the words used. No doubt, a situation found in the facts of the case reported in M. Nizamudeen (supra) may call for a different approach. G 44. Reverting back to the controversy, projected from the difference between the words ‘within’ and ‘in’, we may notice the following discussion of the NGT, which is a specialised Body, consisting of aJudicial Member and a Technical Member in a statutory appeal under the Act. H 276 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A “54. In compact Oxford English Dictionary, the meaning of the word ‘in’ is defined as follows:- ‘in Preposition 1) so as to enclosed, surrounded, or inside. 2) expressing a period of time during which an event takes place. 3) expressing the length of time before an event is expected to B happen. 4) expressing a state, condition, or quality. 5) expressing inclusion or involvement. 6) indicating the means of expression used: put in writing. 7) indicating a person’s occupation or profession. 8) expressing a value as a proportion of whole. Adverb 1) expressing movement that results in being inside or surrounded. 2) expressing the state C of being enclosed or surrounded. 3) present at one’s home or office. 4) expressing arrival at a destination. 5) [of the tide] rising or at its highest level. Adjective informal fashionable. - Phrases be in for be going to experience something, especially something unpleasant. in on knowing a secret. in D that for the reason that. in with i11fo1mal enjoying friendly relations with. the ins and outs informal all the details. - Origin Old English” 55. The word ‘within’ has been defined in the same Dictionary as follows:- E “within Preposition 1) inside. 2) inside the range or bounds of we were within sight of the finish. 3) occurring inside a particular period of time. 4) not further off than (used with distances). Adverb: 1) inside; indoors. 2)internally or inwardly.” F 56. Meaning of these words when compared, it will be clear that what was intended by these words is something will have to be done within the area, if it relates to the area and in the area if relates to the area and not beyond that area.” 45. Going by the definition of the word ‘in’, it includes ‘so as to be G enclosed, surrounded or inside’. One way of looking at the word ‘in’ the notified port in para 8 (II) (vi) would be that storage of non-hazardous material is permitted inside the notified port. We notice that the definition of the word ‘within’ also includes the word meaning inside. No doubt, Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes declared: “A word is not a crystal, H transparent and unchanged; it is the skin of a living thought and may K.T.V.