B 10. Chapter 4 of the Act of 2007 deals with fixation of fees. Section 9(1) therein provides that, having regard to the location of the private unaided professional educational institution; the nature of the professional course; the cost of the land and building; the available infrastructure, teaching, non-teaching staff and equipment; the expenditure on administration and maintenance; the reasonable surplus C required for growth and development of the professional institution; and any other relevant factor, the AFRC shall determine, in the manner prescribed, the fees to be charged by the private unaided professional educational institution. Section 9(2) provides that the AFRC shall give the institution an opportunity of being heard before fixing any fees. D The proviso thereunder states that no such fees, as may be fixed by the AFRC, shall amount to profiteering or commercialization of education. 11. Significantly, in the 11-Judges Bench decision of this Court in T.M.A. Pai Foundation and others Vs. State of Karnataka and E others [(2002) 8 SCC 481], the majority opinion voiced by B.N.Kirpal CJ, speaking for himself and five other learned Judges, answered the question as to whether statutory provisions regulating facets of administration of educational agencies, including regulation of fees, would interfere with the right of administration by minorities in the negative, but held that such regulatory measures should be minimal in F the case of unaided minority educational institutions. As regards the fees to be charged by unaided institutions, it was held that the same could not be regulated but no institution should charge capitation fee. It was emphasized that, inasmuch as the occupation of education is, in a sense, regarded as charitable, the Government can provide regulations G that will ensure excellence in education, while forbidding the charging of capitation fee and profiteering by the institution. Since the object of setting up an educational institution is by definition “charitable”, it was held to be clear that an educational institution cannot charge such a fee as is not required for the purpose of fulfilling that object. To put it differently, per the majority, in the establishment of an educational H ICON EDUCATION SOCIETY v. STATE OF MADHYA 733 PRADESH & OTHERS [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] institution, the object should not be to make a profit inasmuch as A education is essentially charitable in nature, but there could, however, be a reasonable revenue surplus, which may be generated by the educational institution for the purpose of development of education and expansion of the institution. The partly-concurring opinion of S.N.Variava J, speaking for himself and Ashok Bhan J, was to the B effect that there could be an appropriate mechanism to ensure that no capitation fee is charged and profiteering is not resorted to, but the extent of regulation would not be the same for aided and unaided institutions. 12. Thereafter, in the 7-Judges Bench decision of this Court in C P.A. Inamdar and others Vs. State of Maharashtra and others [(2005) 6 SCC 537], this Court unanimously held that, as per the law declared in T.M.A.