Petitioners shall appear on or before 11/01/ 2019 before the concerned Police Station. G In view of the above, the present applications stand disposed of. Direct service is permitted.” 8. The State of Gujarat being dissatisfied with the aforesaid passed by the High Court is here before this Court with the present appeal. H 1142 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 9. For the first time, this Court took up the matter on 29.04.2019 and issued notice. While issuing notice, this Court granted relief staying the directions issued by the High Court that the adjudicatory process must be completed within a period of eight weeks. 10. The learned counsel appearing for the State of Gujarat pointed B out that as many as 14 summons have been issued to one of the respondents. Only once, one of the respondents appeared for the purpose of interrogation. Thereafter, none of the respondents appeared before the authority. It’s been now 5 years that the inquiry is still pending. He further submitted that it is only after the respondents are interrogated, that the department will be able to ascertain whether there is any evasion C or not and on the basis of which the future course of action like filing of complaint etc., would be decided. 11. We are not convinced with the manner in which the High Court has disposed of both the writ applications filed by the respondents. It was expected of the respondents to honour the summons and appear D before the authority for the purpose of interrogation. 12. It is well-settled position of law that power to arrest a person by an empowered authority under the GST Act and could be termed as statutory in character and ordinarily the writ court should not interfere with exercise of such power. We say so because such power of arrest E can be exercised only in those cases where the Commissioner or his delegatee has reasons to believe that the person has committed any offence specified in Clause (a) or Clause (b) or Clause(c) or Clause (d) of sub-Section (1) of Section 132 which is punishable under clause (i) or (ii) or sub-section (1) or sub-Section (2) of the said Section. F 13. As observed by this Court in Union of India Vs. Padam Narain Aggarwal and Ors. (2008) 13 SCC 305, (which was in context with the powers of Custom Officers to arrest under the Customs Act) such statutory powers must be exercised on objective facts of commission of an offence enumerated and the officer concerned must have reason to believe that a person sought to be arrested has been guilty of such an G offence. 14. This Court in Padam Narain Aggarwal (supra) made it very clear that ordinarily the Court should not impose any condition before effecting arrest. If any conditions are imposed before effecting arrest for instance giving prior intimation to the person concerned etc., the H THE STATE OF GUJARAT ETC. v. CHOODAMANI 1143 PARMESHWARAN IYER & ANR.