voting share of the committee of creditors, in such manner as may be B specified. Section 21. Committee of creditors. -(1) The interim resolution professional shall after collation of all claims received against the corporate debtor and determination of the financial position of the corporate debtor, constitute a committee of creditors. C (2) The committee of creditors shall comprise all financial creditors of the corporate debtor: Provided that a 25[financial creditor or the authorised representative of the financial creditor referred to in sub-section (6) or sub-section (6A) or sub-section (5) of section 24, if it is a related party of the D corporate debtor,] shall not have any right of representation, participation or voting in a meeting of the committee of creditors: 26[Provided further that the first proviso shall not apply to a financial creditor, regulated by a financial sector regulator, if it is a related party of the corporate debtor solely on account of E conversion or substitution of debt into equity shares or instruments convertible into equity shares 27[or completion of such transactions as may be prescribed], prior to the insolvency commencement date.] (3) 28[Subject to sub-sections (6) and (6A), where] the corporate F debtor owes financial debts to two or more financial creditors as part of a consortium or agreement, each such financial creditor shall be part of the committee of creditors and their voting share shall be determined on the basis of the financial debts owed to them. G 24 Ins. by Act 26 of 2018, sec. 9 (w.r.e.f. 6-6-2018). 25 Subs. by Act 26 of 2018, sec. 15(i)(a), for “related party to whom a corporate debtor owes a financial debt” (w.r.e.f. 6-6-2018). 26 Ins. by Act 26 of 2018, sec. 15(i)(b) (w.r.e.f. 6-6-2018). 27 Ins. by Act 1 of 2020, sec. 7 (w.r.e.f. 28-12-2019). 28 Subs. by Act 26 of 2018, sec. 15(ii), for “Where” (w.r.e.f. 6-6-2018). H 860 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A (4) Where any person is a financial creditor as well as an operational creditor, - (a) such person shall be a financial creditor to the extent of the financial debt owed by the corporate debtor, and shall be included in the committee of creditors, with voting share proportionate to B the extent of financial debts owed to such creditor; (b) such person shall be considered to be an operational creditor to the extent of the operational debt owed by the corporate debtor to such creditor. (5) Where an operational creditor has assigned or legally C transferred any operational debt to a financial creditor, the assignee or transferee shall be considered as an operational creditor to the extent of such assignment or legal transfer. (6) Where the terms of the financial debt extended as part of a consortium arrangement or syndicated facility 29[***] provide for D a single trustee or agent to act for all financial creditors, each financial creditor may- (a) authorise the trustee or agent to act on his behalf in the committee of creditors to the extent of his voting share; (b) represent himself in the committee of creditors to the extent E of his voting share; (c) appoint an insolvency professional (other than the resolution professional) at his own cost to represent himself in the committee of creditors to the extent of his voting share; or F (d) exercise his right to vote to the extent of his voting share with one or more financial creditors jointly or severally.