The complainant alleged negligence on the part of Suretech Hospital to not conduct regular blood tests to identify signifi cant fall in her platelet count at an appropriate time and waited for her platelet levels to fall to a dangerously low level, i.e., 26,000 on 20.05.2004, before taking any action. Mrs. Sunita also claimed her repeated complaints of blurred vision were ignored, thereby resulting in vision loss. The main claim of negligence that the complainant attributed in the Consumer Case No. 48 of 2005 is that the forced ‘NI’ procedure resulted in her developing Grade-IV Subglottic Stenosis (i.e., narrowing of upper airway between the vocal folds and lower b of cricoid cartilage) in the trachea. Subsequently, the same led to various severe complications. As per the complainant, the unnecessitated and forcefully-conducted ‘NI’ procedure was the only reason she suff ered from voice-loss and permanent deformity in her respiratory tract. The ‘NI’ procedure was carried out, despite multiple failures in decannulating the ‘TT’. Rebuttalto the Consumer Complaint: 11. Dr. M.A Biviji claimed that being a radiologist, he did not have any role in conducting Mrs. Sunita’s Bronchoscopy or ‘NI’ on 13.05.2004. Relying on Mrs. Sunita’s discharge bill dated 26.05.2004, he averred that Dr. Rajesh Swarnakar as the pulmonologist and bronchoscopist at Suretech Hospital, conducted the aforesaid Bronchoscopy and ‘NI’ procedure. 12. Dr. M.A Biviji, Dr. Nirmal Jaiswal, and Dr. Madhusudan Pradhan claimed that the complaint is not maintainable as the complainant has not impleaded necessary parties i.e., Dr. Swarnakar, who conducted both the Bronchoscopy, indicating normalcy in Mrs. Sunita’s airways and the ‘NI’ procedure, as well as Dr. Ambade and Dr. Arti Wanare, Ophthalmologists, and Dr. Vinay Saoji, Plastic Surgeon who conducted the ‘Mandibular Bracing Surgery’. M.A BIVIJI v. SUNITA & ORS. 121 [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] 13. According to Dr. Biviji, performing the ‘Barium Swallow Test’ was essential in to understand why the liquid feed was coming out of Mrs. Sunita’s tracheostomy wound. He elucidated how the test was a routine procedure conducted even in newborn babies to enquire about any abnormality in the passage between the windpipe and the food-pipe. He stated that the solution used for the said test i.e., the Barium Sulphate solution is a non-toxic, and harmless substance, not posing any danger even in case of it being aspirated. He stated that he was present during the test, as it cannot be conducted without a radiologist’s presence. Their presence is needed for the multiple X-rays that need to be taken during the test. Further, the test cannot be conducted without the patient’s cooperation, as they are instructed to swallow the Barium solution. After the test, as a part of the routine procedure, appropriate steps were taken to remove the Barium Swallow Solution that was aspirated by the patient, using a suction machine. 14. Dr. Biviji along with Dr. Nirmal Jaiswal, Dr Madhusudan Shendre, and Suretech Hospital claimed that the complaint had been fi led at the behest of Dr. Kalidas Parshuramkar (Mrs. Sunita’s relative) who is a third party apart from being a PG diploma student in Gynecology.