During the trial, the accused shall be given ample opportunity to put forward their case. Therefore, on the aforesaid ground, the High Court has materially erred in setting aside the direction to prosecute issued under section 212(14) of the Act. Now so far as the observations made by the High Court that the B relevant facts and documents to demonstrate application of mind have not been placed on record is concerned, it is required to be noted that a final to prosecute was placed on record in which it has been specifically mentioned that having gone through the IFIN SFIO Report. 15.3 Now so far as another ground on which the direction/sanction C to prosecute has been set aside by the High Court, namely, that it was an incomplete investigation report and therefore on such an incomplete investigation report, no direction/sanction to prosecute could have been issued is concerned, at the outset, it is required to be noted that the High Court has not properly appreciated that the SFIO IFIN Report was a D report prepared by the SFIO on the completion of the investigation into the IFIN – one of the companies under investigation. It is required to be noted that by an dated 30.09.2018, an investigation was directed to be conducted by the SFIO into IL&FS and its subsidiaries, which comprise of approximately 100-160 entities. So far as the IFIN is concerned, it was one of the subsidiaries in the IL&FS group and the E financial services arm. It is the case on behalf of the Central Government that so far as the SFIO IFIN Report is concerned, it is a record in respect of IFIN, upon completion of investigation into IFIN. Merely because so far as the investigation with respect to other subsidiary companies of IL&FS group is concerned, the same might have been going on, cannot F be a ground to observe that at this stage so far as the IFIN is concerned the report was incomplete report and for which the investigation was going on. The High Court has not properly appreciated the aforesaid and has wrongly treated the report as an interim report so far as the IFIN is concerned. At this stage, it is required to be noted that in the SFIO IFIN Report itself, it is observed that in light of complex structure G of the IL&FS Group and the inter-linkages between entities etc, if any further instances or transactions are uncovered qua IFIN during the investigation of other group companies of IL&FS, then a further report will be filed. Therefore, the High Court has materially erred that the investigation in respect of IFIN is incomplete. It is required to be noted H 1014 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A that as such the SFIO had submitted the report after a detailed and extensive investigation of IFIN. There are conclusive findings against each of the writ petitioners including Hari Sankaran pointing out multiple breaches, violations of statutory duties and fraudulent conduct.