“Means of access” has been defined under Section 2(i) and includes any means of access, whether private or public, for vehicles or for foot passengers and B includes a road.” 8. Insofar as the levy of other charges by way of inspection fee/ supervision fee while granting of sanction layout plan, sub-division charges, stacking charges and impact fee etc., except levy of development charges/fees, is concerned, while considering the legality of the levy of C such charges, the relevant provisions of the Act, 1973 are required to be considered, which are as under: “S. 2. Definitions - In this Act unless the context otherwise requires— (e) ‘development’ with its grammatical variations, means the D carrying out of building, engineering, mining or other operations in, on, over or under land, or the making of any material change in any building or land, and includes re- development: (f) ‘Development Area’ means any area declared, development E area under Section 3: (g) ‘the Development Authority’ or ‘the Authority’, in relation to any development area, means the Development Authority constituted under Section 4 for that area: F (ggg)‘development fee’ means the fee levied upon a person or body under Section 15 for construction of road, drain, sewer line, electric supply and water supply lines in the development area by the Development Authority):] (h) ‘engineering operation’ includes the formation or laying out means of access to a road or the laying out of means of G water supply: (hh) ‘Land use conversion charge’ means the charge levied on a person or body under section 38-A for the change of land use in the Master Plan or Zonal Plan;] H 908 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A (ii) ‘mutation charges’ means the charges, levied under Section 15 upon the person seeking mutation in his name of a property allotted by the Authority to another person:] (kk) ‘Stacking fees’ means the fees levied under Section 15 upon the person or body who keeps building materials on the B land of the Authority or on a public street or public places:] (ll) ‘water fees’ means the fees levied under Section 15 upon a person or body for using water supplied by the Authority for building operation or construction of buildings.] xxx xxx xxx C S. 14. Development of the land in the developed area - (1) After the declaration of any area as development area under Section 3, no development of land shall be undertaken or carried out or continued in that area by any person or body (including a department of Government)-unless permission for such D development has been obtained in writing from the [Vice- Chairman) in accordance with the provision of this Act. (2) After the coming into operation of any of the plans in any development area no development shall be undertaken or carried out or continued in that area unless such development is also in E accordance, with such plans. (3) Notwithstanding anything contained In Sub-sections (1) and (2), the following provisions shall apply in relation to development of land by any department of any State Government or the Central Government or any local authority— F (a) When any such department or local authority intends to carry out any development of land it shall inform the (Vice Chairman) in writing of its intention to do so giving full, particulars thereof, including any plans and documents, at least 30 days before undertaking such development; G (b) In the case of a department of any State Government or the Central Government, if the (Vice-Chairman) has no objections, it should inform such department of the same within three weeks from the date of receipt by it under Clause (a) of the department’s intention, and if the Vice-Chairman does ‘not make any objection H MATHURA VRINDAVAN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY & 909 ANOTHER v. RAJESH SHARMA AND OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.]