Making above submissions and relying upon the aforesaid decisions, it is prayed to answer the reference accordingly and not to disturb the G view taken by this Court in the cases of Raneef (supra); Arup Bhuyan (supra) and Indra Das (supra). 9. In rejoinder to the submissions made by Shri Sanjay Parikh, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the applicant/intervener Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General has submitted that so far as H ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 531 [M. R. SHAH, J.] the submissions made by Shri Sanjay Parikh, learned Senior Counsel on A reasonability and proportionality, it is submitted that a detailed adversarial judicial process prior to declaration of organization as banned organization is required to be undertaken under Sections 3 and 4 of the UAPA, 1967. It is submitted that the said judicial adversarial process ensures inbuilt reasonability and proportionality and ensures that such provisions are B just, fair and reasonable. 9.1 Now so far as the submission made by Shri Parikh, learned senior counsel on mens rea element and reliance placed upon the s in criminal law which have held mens rea an essential ingredient of crime, it is submitted by Shri Mehta, learned Solicitor General that the C question of mens rea may depend on the facts and circumstances of each case and would have to be adjudicated during trial. It is submitted that the s in Raneef (supra), Arup Bhuyan (supra) and Indra Das (supra) as such do not deal with the concept of mens rea and neither do the s in America on which the reliance has been placed. D 9.2 Now so far as the reliance placed upon the decisions relating to IPC and more particularly the decisions of this Court in the case of Kedar Nath Singh (supra), Balwant Singh (supra) and Bidal (supra), it is submitted that the said reliance may not be appropriate as the offences under the IPC are standalone offences and are applied for a far wider E canvass than the offence of membership of banned organization under the UAPA and TADA. It is submitted that the banning of an organization under the UAPA takes place after a detailed adversarial judicial process which is given wider publicity, thereby ensuring reasonableness, limited application and availability of information with regard to the inherently F legal nature of such banned organization. It is submitted that the same is absent in IPC offences which can be applied by any police officer investigating any offence, without there being the presence of any banned organization or the procedure preceding the banning of such organization. It is submitted that therefore there is vast differences between UAPA and IPC offences. It is submitted that in the present case the Parliament G in its wisdom and taking into consideration the sovereignty of India has thought it fit to enact the UAPA and provide under Section 10(a)(i) that mere member of the banned organization itself is an offence. 9.3 Now so far as the submission of Shri Praikh, learned Senior Counsel on vagueness and possibility of misuse of Section 10(a)(i), it is H 532 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R.