D Dismissing the appeal, the Court HELD : 1.1 The ‘review’ contemplated in Rule 16.28 of the Punjab Police Rules, 1936 empowers a superior authority to ‘call for the records of awards made by their subordinates and confirm, enhance, modify or annul the same, or make further E investigation or direct such to be made before passing s.’ As such, the ‘review’ is by a superior authority and not the same authority. [Para 18][414-B-C] 1.2 The factual premise noted by the Single Judge itself was wrong, inasmuch as it was the Inspector General of Police, F who had, in effect, ‘reviewed’ an passed by his predecessor- in-office by expunging the adversere marks, which was previously declined by his predecessor-in-office. [Para 17][413-E] 1.3 The incongruity has crept in the Rules due to passage of time, legally and in fact. To a judicially or legally trained mind, G it is obvious that ‘review’ carries a specific connotation, but the same is not the case herein. Put simply, review is a re-look at an passed by the same authority which passed the original , be it a Court or an executive officer. The heading to the rule above is a misnomer inasmuch as no power of ‘review’ is H AISH MOHAMMAD v. STATE OF HARYANA AND ORS. 405 created or conferred, as manifest from are ading of (1), (2) and A (3) of Rule 16.28. For completeness, Rule 16.29 is entitled “Right of appeal” and Rule16.32 is labelled “Revision”. This is one part of the issue. [Para 19][414-C-E] 1.4 The Rules, originally framed in 1934, contemplated the authorities as “The Inspector-General, a Deputy Inspector-General, B and a Superintendent of Police”. The “Inspector-General” of that time [when the service was called Imperial/Indian Police] headed the State Police, but is today known as, in most States and Union Territories, barring a handful, in the hierarchy of the State Police, as the Director-General of Police, an officer drawn from the Indian C Police Service, who sits at the apex of the state police machinery. In fact, today the Inspector-General of Police is administratively subordinate to the Director-General of Police and the Additional Director-General of Police. [Para 20][414-F-G] 1.5 The Rules were also framed at a time when the system D of Ranges and Commissionerates had not been established. Indubitably, the Rules, for better or for worse (worse, we hazard) have not kept pace with the times. It cannot be appreciated why the authorities concerned are unable to update/amend the Rules with at least the correct official description of posts to obviate confusion. [Para 21][414-G-H; 415-A] E 1.6 The Division Bench has not approached the issue in the manner it was required to. The reason given for interference with the Single Judge’s view is that it was highly improbable and unwarranted for the Inspector General of Police to have expunged the adverse remarks when there was a judicial verdict by the F civil court refusing to do so. The said reasoning was employed despite noting the fact that even if there was any power of review, in the extant circumstances, it was wholly arbitrary.