Unlike hijras who often have the option of joining the hijra community and forming the guru-chela bond, transmen do not have traditions or customs which may lead to the creation of non-biological familial bonds with other transmen as a group. Regardless, they form close bonds with other transmen and many consider these bonds to be familial.203 These atypical manifestations of the family unit equally constitute the fundamental groups of society. The Constitution accounts for plural identities and values. It protects the right of every person to be diff erent. Atypical families, by their very nature, assert the right to be diff erent. Diff erence cannot be discriminated against simply because it exists. Articles 19 and 21 protect the rights of every citizen and not some citizens. 203 Purayil (n 96) 136 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 230. Some petitioners have suggested that the atypical family is a queer person’s ‘chosen family.’ Chosen families comprise people who are selected to be one’s kin, with the exercise of one’s agency.204 Some have argued that the entire spectrum of queer relationships in India may not always be based on choice, with guru-chela relationships often assigned rather than chosen.205 Hence, while some queer relationships may accurately be described as the ‘chosen family,’ all of them are the ‘atypical family.’ II. The right to dignity, autonomy, and privacy 231. It is not only formal freedom which is signifi cant but also substantive freedom or the opportunity to achieve what one sets out to achieve and the conditions which enable this. The freedom guaranteed under the Constitution is realised in substance only when the conditions for their eff ective exercise are created. Formal freedom is translated into substantive freedom through the formulation of schemes and policies. When citizens are prevented from exercising their rights, the courts of the country create the conditions for their exercise by giving eff ect to the laws enacted by the legislative wing or the schemes formulated by the executive wing. In the process, courts interpret the Constitution and the rights and freedoms it recognizes. This exercise lies at the core of Article 21 of the Constitution, which guarantees the right to life and personal liberty. 232. A few paragraphs ago, this Court discussed what it means to be human. The question of what it means to be free – or to have liberty – is of equal signifi cance. It is a question which has plagued philosophers, ethicists, and economists alike. The answer may mean diff erent things to diff erent people and may change depending on the circumstances in which the question is asked. Simply put, the ability to do what one wishes to do and be who one wishes to be (in accordance with law) lies at the heart of freedom. 233. Article 21 is available to all persons including queer persons. Article 21 encompasses the rights to dignity, autonomy, and privacy. Each of these facets animates the others. It is not possible to speak of the right to enter into a union without also speaking of the right to intimacy, which 204 See generally, Kath Weston, Families We Choose: Lesbians, Gays, Kinship (Columbia University Press 1997) 205 Reddy (n 81) SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR.