The High Court had rightly concluded that strict compliance with Rule 4 of the 1986 Rules was not warranted in the particular facts of the case and given the huge publicity around this ban.19 29. Counsel insisted that the appellant associations had been given ample opportunity to be heard; on 14.11.2018, the associations were invited for a hearing by the Steering Committee, where the appellants urged that paper cups had not been banned in other states that had instituted a ‘plastic ban’. It was only after hearing them, that the clarifi cation dated 08.12.2018 was made – by which their representation was rejected. 30. With regards to non-woven polypropylene bags, the State opposed the contention that it was a textile material and not plastic. CIPET has concluded that it is “polypropylene, a synthetic plastic which is spun into fi bres and bonded together by chemical or solvent treatment as non-woven fabric”. The fi ller material used in these bags make them stiff er, and water resistance. They easily break and thrown away frequently. It was stated that at high temperatures, polypropylene releases harmful substances and if it is used in a long period with slow degradation process, the potential crisis is more dangerous than plastic bags. It was submitted that the appellant itself claimed that this non-woven fabric degrades under sun light within a very short span of time; it physically breaks down into very small fragments (termed as ‘disintegration’) and is not degraded biologically to yield CO 2, water, inorganic compounds and biomass and does not leave any visible distinguishable or toxic residue as for the case of compostable plastics (which is defi ned in ‘IS/ISO 17088:2008 – Specifi cations for Compostable 18 M.C. Mehta v. Kamal Nath (1997) 1 SCC 388; Association for Environment Protection v. State of Kerala (2013) 7 SCC 226m Fomento Resorts and Hotels Ltd. v. Minguel Martins (2009) 3 SCC 571, M.I. Builders (P) Ltd. v. Radhyen Shyam Sahu (1999) 6 SCC 464. 19 See paragraph 56 of the impugned HC . 114 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. Plastics’). Therefore, the small fragments (known as ‘microplastics’ and could in soil, freshwater, etc. and could have a long-term negative impact on such ecosystems. Reliance was placed on the Delhi High Court’s observations in WP (C) No. 8120/200920 and the NGT’s 21 with respect to ban and use of plastic bags in State of Punjab and Haryana which included non-woven bags. 31. Attention was drawn to the three reports (IIT Madras Report, Report of Committee of Experts, and chemical tests conducted by CIPET) and counsel urged that the impugned notifi cation was backed by expert data. Arguing that prohibition is only with respect to use and throw plastic, irrespective of whether they are recyclable or non-recyclable, as consumers nonchalantly discard these products widely, and litter unscrupulously, making it impossible to eff ectively collect, segregate and recycle. The High Court was justifi ed in rejecting the appellants’ challenge on this ground and holding that the ban is defensible on scientifi c analysis since these products were not biodegradable.