Court herein) for consideration of the application under Section 5 of the Limitation Act. B. Respondent 7. It is submitted that to attract Article 116 of the Limitation Act, it is not necessary that such Appellate remedy should be conferred by the Code. It is only that the procedure for such Appeal be governed under the Code. 7.1 The Act provides for an Appeal from the passed by the Commissioner of payments to lie to a principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction which, by all intent and purposes is governed by the Court. 7.2 A reading of the Statutory scheme, it is submitted, suggests that the Legislature intended the Commissioner to function as the Civil Court for “all practical purposes”. The fact that an Appeal therefrom lies to a Principal Civil Court of Original jurisdiction, further substantiates such intention. 7.3 It is submitted that Article 116 provides for Limitation in cases of Appeal under the Code from any Decree or to High Court. Vidyacharan Shukla carved out a third category where the Appeal is not governed by the provisions of the Code but the procedure therefore and the powers for dealing there with, are governed by the Code. 7.4 The Claimant - Appellants contention, it was submitted, runs strictly contrary to the very objective of the Law of Limitation which is to ensure that a dispute does not survive endlessly and that the parties subject thereto are not forever, in the land of uncertainty. 7.5 The Appeal before the District Judge, was fi led 3 years 6 months and 22 days after passing of the by the Commissioner of Payments. It is submitted that the delay in Condonation Application, which states that it was only then that the Appellant came to know of the provisions of Section 22(8) of the Jogighopa Act, amounts to ignorance of Law which is not an excuse permissible. 7.6 It is further submitted that, it is now well settled that the Courts are not to take a liberal approach in condonation of delay in the absence M/S NORTH EASTERN CHEMICALS INDUSTRIES (P) LTD. 831 v. M/S ASHOK PAPER MILL (ASSAM) LTD. [SANJAY KAROL, J.] of suffi cient cause. To substantiate this position, Learned Senior Counsel refers to Amalendu Kumar Bera v. State of W.B.18 7.7 It is further submitted without prejudice, that in the absence of a prescribed Statutory Limitation, approaching the Court, is to be done within “reasonable time”. Satyan v. Deputy Commissioner19 is relied on. 7.8 Section 19 of the Act provides for a claim before the Commissioner to be fi led within 30 days from the specifi ed date. It provides that if such authority is satisfi ed that the claimant was prevented by suffi cient cause, he may entertain the claim within a further period of 30 days, but no later – this suggests that the intention was to provide for a summary and expeditious claim disposal mechanism. This further suggests, it is submitted, that it would be unfair to suggest that the Legislature had provided a strict timeline for claims but intended to provide an endless opportunity for appeals.