Under Article 102(1)(e) and Article 191(1)(e), the disqualifi cation operates by or under any law made by Parliament. Disqualifi cation under the above provisions of Section 8 follows upon a conviction for one of the listed off ences. Once the conviction has been stayed during the pendency of an appeal, the disqualifi cation which operates as a consequence of the conviction cannot take or remain in eff ect. In view of the consistent statement of the legal position in Rama Narang and in decisions which followed, there is no merit in the submission that the power conferred on the appellate court under Section 389 does not include the power, in an appropriate case, to stay the conviction. Clearly, the appellate court does possess such a power. Moreover, it is untenable that the disqualifi cation which ensues from a conviction will operate despite the appellate court having granted a stay of the conviction. The authority vested in the appellate court to stay a conviction ensures that a conviction on untenable or frivolous grounds does not operate to cause serious prejudice. As the decision in Lily Thomas has clarifi ed, a stay of the conviction would relieve the individual from suff ering AFJAL ANSARI v. STATE OF UP 997 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] the consequence inter alia of a disqualifi cation relatable to the provisions of sub-sections (1), (2) and (3) of Section 8.” (emphasis supplied) 19. The unreported decision in Naranbhai Bhikhabhai Kachchadia v. State of Gujarat12, relied on by Dr. Singhvi, was rendered on an appeal where the prayer for stay of conviction was declined by the relevant high court. The appellant, a sitting member of Parliament, had been convicted of off ences under sections 332, 186 and 143, IPC along with others but acquitted of the more serious off ence under section 3(1) (x) of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. Looking to the facts of the case, this Court was of the view that adverse consequences will certainly follow not only to the appellant but also to his constituents in case the conviction remains, and the impact thereof would be irreparable. Considering various factors as delineated in unnumbered paragraph 13, including the somewhat exceptional consequence of the disqualifi cation of the appellant from representing his constituents in Parliament for six years, this Court quashed the prosecution against the appellant only on the condition that the appellant pays to the victim/complainant Rs.5,00,000/- within a week. 20. Finally, the recent decision of this Court in Rahul Gandhi v. Purnesh Ishwarbhai Modi & Anr.13 was placed on behalf of the appellant wherein this Court observed that section 8(3) of the RoP Act has far-reaching consequences, as it not only aff ects the right of the appellant to continue in public life but also is a detriment to the right of the electorate which has elected him to represent their constituency. 21. It has been noticed that in Ravikant S. Patil (supra) and Lok Prahari (supra), this Court had considered the decision in K.C.