Tenancy Act, 1939. Partly allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 The High Court while deciding the issue of C ownership in favour of Respondents on the strength of the Sale Deed, have come to different conclusions as such to the nature of the instrument. Respondents in the plaint filed by them in 1983 Injunction Suit, the respondents claim to tenure holders who were later accorded the status of ‘Bhumidhar’ on the basis of Zamindari D Notification. On the other hand, in the Second Writ Petition, the respondents stated that the Sale Deed was actually in respect of the title per se. The recitals of the Sale Deed highlight that the relationship between JV and ML seemed more akin to that of a vendor vendee in a title sale than that of the sale of leasehold rights. [Paras 37 and 38][965-B-C; 966-E] E 1.2 In respect of the two parallel findings given by the High Court, the respondents for the first time before this Court have given up the finding which treated the Sale Deed as a sale of title. However, it is noted that both these parallel findings by the High Court have been without any serious examination of the nature F of the Sale Deed itself. The High Court erred in respect of these findings and as the same was essential to determine the present dispute on merit, it is deemed to be a fit case to exercise the power of remand. Additionally, despite these findings being a serious lacuna to reach a conclusive decision, the appellants have G raised no serious objection to the modified stand taken by the respondents wherein they stated that the Sale Deed was in respect of leasehold rights only. [Paras 39 and 40][966-F-H] 1.3 It can be safely deduced that the appellants did contend the issue of prior approval from the initial stage itself. Apart from H 938 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A the said eviction suit, two other proceedings need to be highlighted, i.e. consolidation proceedings which occurred between 1959–1960 and acquisition proceedings for a portion of land initiated by the military authorities in 1963. In respect of the consolidation proceedings, the stand taken by State cannot be deduced as no document or in respect of the same has B been produced. However in respect of the acquisition, dated 22.11.1965 passed by the concerned Land Acquisition Officer, which granted compensation to the predecessor of respondents has been brought on record wherein it must be noted that compensation was granted on the basis of revenue entries and C without any serious examination of the validity of the same. Hence, both these proceedings cannot be treated as an admission of validity of revenue entries or as accepting the waiver of breach of the condition in respect of prior approval from the Deputy Commissioner. [Para 42][968-B-D] D 1.4 The dated 07.08.1980 passed by the Commissioner, Kumaon, in the mutation proceedings makes it apparent that the approval from the appropriate authority as per the lease deed, i.e.