All the relevant issues have been accordingly examined by the Ministry of Home Aff airs being the Competent Disciplinary Authority. The issues agitated by the Charged Offi cer were found devoid of merit by the Disciplinary Authority. Accordingly, the charge of sexual harassment of a woman at work place levelled against the Charged Offi cer has been proved beyond shadow of doubt by a Committee headed by Jt. Director, NCRB, which has been upheld by the Disciplinary Authority. NOW, THEREFORE, after careful consideration on the fi ndings of inquiry report, UPSC advice, written submission of Charged Offi cer and other related records of the case, the President of India has come to the conclusion that justice would be met if the penalty of “withholding of 50% (fi fty percent) of monthly pension on permanent basis” is imposed upon the Charged Offi cer Shri Dilip Paul, the then Area Organiser, now Ex-DIG, SSB. ACCORDINGLY, the aforesaid penalty is hereby imposed upon Shri Dilip Paul, Ex-DIG who had superannuated on 31.03.2013. The gratuity amount, if not otherwise required may be released to him. (By and in the name of the President) Sd/- (Vandan Saxena) Assistant Director (Pers-I)” 16. It appears that during the pendency of the disciplinary proceedings, the respondent superannuated on 31.03.2013 as Dy. IG, Frontier Headquarters, SSB, Ranidanga, Siliguri, Darjeeling, West Bengal, and subject to the fi nal outcome of the disciplinary proceedings, he was granted provisional pension without retirement gratuity. A.4 Defence of the Respondent 17. It is the case of the respondent that the complainant had preferred one application in August, 2011 with a request to transfer her from the Rangia UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 499 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] Offi ce to the Frontier Headquarter Guwahati. The request for transfer was made on the ground that the complainant needed to look after her ailing mother-in- law. However, her application was rejected by the IG, Frontier Headquarters on 24.08.2011 on the ground of non-availability of corresponding vacant post. It is the case of the respondent that on the very next day, he received a message on his mobile phone which read as follows; “I am hubby of one of your lady staff , wait and watch the end of your career.” 18. According to the respondent the message was forwarded by the husband of the complainant as she harboured a grudge on the misconception that it was the respondent who was instrumental in getting her transfer application rejected. 19. It is also the case of the respondent that he had lodged the fi rst information report at the Rangia Police Station being Case No. 348 of 2011 in connection with the threats administered to him by way of a telephonic message. A.5 Proceedings before the CAT 20. The respondent preferred OA No. 181 of 2013 before the Central Administrative Tribunal, Guwahati (CAT), assailing (i) the constitution of the Central Complaints Committee vide dated 06.08.2012 (received via fax dated 03.09.2012), (ii) cancellation of the Frontier Complaints Committee’s Inquiry Report vide dated 30.11.2011 (received via Memorandum dated 10.12.2012 of the Frontier, Headquarters, SSB, Guwahati) and the (iii) Central Complaints Committee’s Inquiry Report dated 28.12.2012.