She was a Municipal Councilor for 6 years, Trustee of Mangalore Port Trust, a Member of Cheshire Home, Mangalore and President of Christian Planters Guild, Chickmagalur besides being an active Social Worker. We have already found that PW- 3, one of the attesting witnesses to the Will in question was examined to satisfy the statutory mandate to prove execution. PW-3, would depose that the testatrix herself called him to attest the Will and that he had seen the testatrix reading the papers before putting the signatures. PW-2, who is one of the sons of testatrix also corroborated the version that PW-3 was called over phone by his mother to attest the Will and that she had also read the Will. Nothing to disbelieve their versions was elicited by the defendants during their cross-examinations. PW-3 deposed that it was in his presence that the testatrix had signed the Will. It cannot be said that a person afflicted with arthritis would not be in a position to read and understand the contents of a document. We have also adverted to the amendment sought to be brought in by defendant No.5 by producing Ext.D5 and what turns out of it. When the above being the position, by no stretch of imagination it can be taken that the testatrix was illiterate or put her signature without understanding the contents of the Will. In the circumstances, the said suspicions excited the mind of defendant No.5 and accepted by the High Court cannot survive. In other words, they cannot be sustained. 18. Another circumstance treated as suspicious circumstance by the High Court is the prominent participation of the beneficiaries under the Will in the matter of its execution. The allegation of prominent participation as relates execution of a Will suggests some kind of influential interference DEREK A C LOBO & ORS. v. 1561 ULRIC M A LOBO (DEAD) BY LRS. & ORS. on the testator/testatrix. There cannot be any doubt with respect to the position that the mere presence of executor or any beneficiary under a Will at the time of the execution of the Will ipso facto will not invalidate it or is sufficient to cast suspicion on the execution of the Will. At any rate, it is for the person raising the same to prove that it was not a mere presence in the vicinity and it was capable of influencing the testator/testatrix. So also, the other reason assigned by the High Court that the advocate who drafted the Will was not examined, according to us cannot be said to be a legal requirement at all and at any rate, the non-examination of the advocate who drafted the Will cannot be a ground to discard the Will since it was proved by examining an attesting witness and no other circumstances surround it to make suspicious. We are fortified in our view by the decision of this Court in “Ramabai Padmakar Patil (D) Through Lrs. and Ors. Vs. Rukminibai Vishnu Vekhande and Ors.9”. 19. That apart (Ext.P3 and Ext.P4) documents would undoubtedly show that the Will in question was acted upon by the parties.