This Court held that this class of actions operates in rem, which is a right exercisable against the world at large as contrasted with a right in personam which is an interest protected against specifi ed individuals. All disputes relating to rights in personam are considered to be amenable to arbitration while rights in rem are required to be adjudicated by courts and public tribunals. The enforcement of a mortgage has been held to be a right in rem for which proceedings in arbitration would not be maintainable. In Vimal Kishor Shah v. Jayesh Dinesh Shah [Vimal Kishor Shah v. Jayesh Dinesh Shah, (2016) 8 SCC 788 : (2016) 4 SCC (Civ) 303] , this Court added a seventh category of cases to the six non-arbitrable categories set out in Booz Allen [Booz Allen & Hamilton Inc. v. SBI Home Finance Ltd., (2011) 5 SCC 532 : (2011) 2 SCC (Civ) 781] , namely, disputes relating to trusts, trustees and benefi ciaries arising out of a trust deed and the Trust Act.” 18. This Court in Emaar III (supra) then considered the scope and eff ect of Section 5 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 which reads as under: “5. Extent of judicial intervention. – Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, in matters governed by this Part, no judicial authority shall intervene except where so provided in this Part.” 19. What were then the factors which necessitated an amendment, inter alia, in Sections 8 and 11 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 and what was the purpose behind these amendments? This aspect again has been examined in 284 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. detail in Emaar III (supra). Such amendments were recommended by the Law Commission in its 246th Report, paragraph 33 of the 246th Report of the Law Commission stated as under: “33. It is in this context, the Commission has recommended amendments to Sections 8 and 11 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. The scope of the judicial intervention is only restricted to situations where the court/judicial authority fi nds that the arbitration agreement does not exist or is null and void. Insofar as the nature of intervention is concerned, it is recommended that in the event the court/judicial authority is prima facie satisfi ed against the argument challenging the arbitration agreement, it shall appoint the arbitrator and/or refer the parties to arbitration, as the case may be. The amendment envisages that the judicial authority shall not refer the parties to arbitration only if it fi nds that there does not exist an arbitration agreement or that it is null and void. If the judicial authority is of the opinion that prima facie the arbitration agreement exists, then it shall refer the dispute to arbitration, and leave the existence of the arbitration agreement to be fi nally determined by the Arbitral Tribunal. However, if the judicial authority concludes that the agreement does not exist, then the conclusion will be fi nal and not prima facie.” The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Bill 2015 reads as under: “2.