19. The submission of the appellant was that this is the same wine in a new bottle. All these issues had been dealt with earlier in the as well as in the various applications fi led by the respondent. They referred to the reply fi led in the First Contempt Petition as well as the Second Contempt Petition and the MAs fi led by the respondents. These allegations, inter alia, were regarding the appellant taking monetary benefi t on account of increase in GCV of washed coal, requirement of reconciliation for making payment, the same expert opinion to justify alleged increase in GCV and the same Notice of Dispute issued for the fi rst time by the respondent. 20. When we examined the issue, we fi nd the same thing being raked up again and again only as an endeavour to not make payments, till in the Contempt proceedings they were compelled to make payment. The liberty granted by the dated 09.03.2021 cannot be construed to seek refund of the amount paid under the s passed by this Court from time to time. What was noticed was that some aspect was raised which was really 722 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. in the nature of fresh dispute. The Court did not preclude the respondents from raising ‘all future disputes’ but that cannot be to unsettle the eff ect on the main dated 05.10.2017 abundantly clarifi ed from time to time. Finding themselves helpless in the face of the Second Contempt and with possibility of serious consequences, they sought to wriggle out of the consequences arisen by off ering to make payment. The future dispute, thus, must have a reference to a period after the date of the dated 09.03.2021. 21. The payments were made in terms of the imprimatur granted by this Court as to the quantum and, thus, what was sought to be done was to really reopen the same issue. 22. We are conscious that the impugned has simply maintained the petition and that would mean another round of litigation, and this is being continuing since the in 2017 for the last six years. Thus, to say that an innocuous was passed, would not be a correct position, this is more so as we have explained what was meant by ‘all future dispute’. 23. It was submitted that the policy for handling and disposal of washery rejects stands changed from 2021 and the concept of coal being washed at an approved washery operator’s site thereafter being shifted to the site and losses being caused, etc., are no more part of the manner of implementation of the contract and, thus, would not arise. Coal is now directly delivered to the project site and washing occurs there. We have, thus, no hesitation in coming to the conclusion that the impugned , innocuous as it may seem, is not sustainable and this is yet another endeavour of the respondent to wriggle out of its obligation under the dated 05.10.2017, repeatedly explained by various s. This kind of endeavour can neither be appreciated nor left without consequences thereof.