We invite the attention of the High Court to the provisions of Chapter XXVIII (Section 366 to Section 371) and Chapter XXIX (Section 372 to Section 394). The provisions of Section 366 to Section 368 and Sections 386 and Section 391 are quoted here for ready reference:- “Section 366. Sentence of death to be submitted by Court of Session for confi rmation.—(1) When the Court of Session passes a sentence of death, the proceedings shall be submitted to the High Court, and the sentence shall not be executed unless it is confi rmed by the High Court. (2) The Court passing the sentence shall commit the convicted person to jail custody under a warrant. Section 367. Power to direct further inquiry to be made or additional evidence to be taken.—(1) If, when such proceedings are submitted, the High Court thinks that a further inquiry should be made into or additional evidence taken upon, any point bearing upon the guilt or innocence of the convicted person, it may make such inquiry or take such evidence itself, or direct it to be made or taken by the Court of Session. (2) Unless the High Court otherwise directs, the presence of the convicted person may be dispensed with when such inquiry is made or such evidence is taken. (3) When the inquiry or evidence (if any) is not made or taken by the High Court, the result of such inquiry or evidence shall be certifi ed to such Court. 1052 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. Section 368. Power of High Court to confi rm sentence or annual conviction.—In any case submitted under Section 366, the High Court— (a) may confi rm the sentence, or pass any other sentence warranted by law, or (b) may annul the conviction, and convict the accused of any off ence of which the Court of Session might have convicted him, or a new trial on the same or an amended charge, or (c) may acquit the accused person: Provided that no of confi rmation shall be made under this section until the period allowed for preferring an appeal has expired, or, if an appeal is presented within such period, until such appeal is disposed of. × × × × Section 386. Powers of the appellate court.—After perusing such record and hearing the appellant or his pleader, if he appears, and the Public Prosecutor, if he appears, and in case of an appeal under Section 377 or Section 378, the accused, if he appears, the Appellate Court may, if it considers that there is no suffi cient ground for interfering, dismiss the appeal, or may— (a) in an appeal from an of acquittal, reverse such and direct that further inquiry be made, or that the accused be re-tried or committed for trial, as the case may be, or fi nd him guilty and pass sentence on him according to law; (b) in an appeal from a conviction— (i) reverse the fi nding and sentence and acquit or discharge the accused, or him to be re-tried by a court of competent jurisdiction subordinate to such Appellate Court or committed for trial, or (ii) alter the fi nding, maintaining the sentence, or (iii) with or without altering the fi nding, alter the nature or the extent, or the nature and extent, of the sentence, but not so as to enhance the same; MUNNA PANDEY v. STATE OF BIHAR 1053 [J.