the power of the municipality to levy a tax. Even before this Court, no such notifi cation has been produced. The consequence of paragraph 5(1) of the Fifth Schedule is that it enables the Governor to direct either that a parliamentary or state law shall not apply to a Scheduled Area in the State or that it would apply subject to exceptions and modifi cations. Therefore, unless a notifi cation has been issued by the Governor indicating that (I) a parliamentary or state law shall have no application to the Scheduled Area; or (ii) the parliamentary or state legislation would apply subject to exceptions or modifi cations, there would be no hindrance in the application of the law to the State. 14. The alternate submission of the Additional Solicitor General is that since Article 243ZC provides that Part IXA would have no application to a Scheduled Area, the power which is conferred on the legislature of a State to authorise the municipality to levy, collect and appropriate taxes would similarly have no application. 15. Article 243-X is in the following terms : “243-X. Power to impose taxes by, and Funds of, the Municipalities.—The Legislature of a State may, by law,— (a) authorise a Municipality to levy, collect and appropriate such taxes, duties, tolls and fees in accordance with such procedure and subject to such limits; (b) assign to a Municipality such taxes, duties, tolls and fees levied and collected by the State Government for such purposes and subject to such conditions and limits; (c) provide for making such grants-in-aid to the Municipalities from the Consolidated Fund of the State; and (d) provide for constitution of such Funds for crediting all moneys received, respectively, by or on behalf of the Municipalities and also for the withdrawal of such moneys therefrom, as may be specifi ed in the law.” 16. The impact of Article 243-ZC is that Part IXA has no application to a Scheduled Area. The inapplicability of article 243X did not denude 774 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. the state legislature to enact legislation for the State. A Scheduled Area governed by Article 244 of the Constitution is subject to the provisions contained in the Fifth Schedule which govern the administration and control of Scheduled Areas or Scheduled Tribes. Paragraph 5 confers a power on the Governor, as noted above, to direct either that parliamentary or state law shall not apply in the Schedule Area or that it would apply subject to such exceptions or modifi cations as may be specifi ed. As the High Court noted, no such notifi cation has been produced and none, we may add, has been produced before this Court other than the notifi cation dated 29 February 2003 specifying the Scheduled Areas. In this view of the matter, the conclusion of the High Court cannot be faulted. 17. On the second aspect, it needs to be noted that the Additional Solicitor General has fairly drawn the attention of this Court to the of the Constitution Bench in Central India Spinning and Weaving & Manufacturing Co. Ltd.