at the time of recruitment. If it is found by the Screening Committee that the person against D whom a serious case involving moral turpitude is registered is discharged on technical grounds or is acquitted of the same charge, but the acquittal is not honourable, the Screening Committee would be entitled to cancel his candidature. Stricter norms need to be applied while appointing persons in a disciplinary force because E public interest is involved in it.” 10. It was further observed therein that if the Screening Committee’s decision was not mala fide or actuated by extraneous considerations, then the same could not be questioned. “35. The police force is a disciplined force. It shoulders the great F responsibility of maintaining law and and public in the society. People repose great faith and confidence in it. It must be worthy of that confidence. A candidate wishing to join the police force must be a person of utmost rectitude. He must have impeccable character and integrity. A person having criminal antecedents will not fit in this category. Even if he is acquitted or G discharged in the criminal case, that acquittal or discharge will have to be examined to see whether he has been completely exonerated in the case because even a possibility of his taking to the life of crimes poses a threat to the discipline of the police force. The Standing , therefore, has entrusted the task of H taking decisions in these matters to the Screening Committee. IMTIYAZ AHMAD MALLA v. THE STATE OF JAMMU AND 171 KASHMIR AND OTHERS [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] The decision of the Screening Committee must be taken as final A unless it is mala fide. In recent times, the image of the police force is tarnished. Instances of police personnel behaving in a wayward manner by misusing power are in public domain and are a matter of concern. The reputation of the police force has taken a beating. In such a situation, we would not like to dilute the B importance and efficacy of a mechanism like the Screening Committee created by the Delhi Police to ensure that persons who are likely to erode its credibility do not enter the police force. At the same time, the Screening Committee must be alive to the importance of the trust reposed in it and must treat all candidates with an even hand. C 36. The Screening Committee’s proceedings have been assailed as being arbitrary, unguided and unfettered. But, in the present cases, we see no evidence of this. However, certain instances have been pointed out where allegedly persons involved in serious offences have been recommended for appointment by the D Screening Committee. It is well settled that to such cases the doctrine of equality enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution of India is not attracted. This doctrine does not envisage negative equality (Fuljit Kaur [Fuljit Kaur v. State of Punjab, (2010) 11 SCC 455] ). It is not meant to perpetuate illegality or fraud because it embodies a positive concept.