(2B) Where the assigned House site was alienated by the assignee as on the date of commencement of this Act, such house site shall be regularized in favour of the alienee as a one-time measure. (3) Any transfer or acquisition made in contravention of the provision of sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) or sub-section (2A) shall be deemed to be null and void. (4) The Provisions of this section shall apply to any transaction of the nature referred to in sub-section (2) in execution of a decree or of a civil court or of any award or of any other authority. (5) Nothing in this section shall apply to an assigned land which was purchased by a landless poor person in good faith and for valuable consideration from the original assignee or his transferee prior to the commencement of this Act and which is in the possession of such person for purposes of cultivation or as a house-site on the date of such commencement.” (Emphasis Applied) 646 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 62. In to appreciate sub-Section (2) of Section 3 of the 1977 Act in its correct perspective, the expression ‘landless poor person’ and ‘transfer’ also become important, which are defi ned in the 1977 Act as follows:– “Section 2(3) – “landless poor person” means a person who owns an extent of land not more than 1.011715 hectares (two and half acres) of wet land or 2.023430 hectares (fi ve acres) of dry land or such other extent of land as has been or may be specifi ed by the Government in this behalf from time to time and who has no other means of livelihood. Explanation: - For the purposes of computing the extent of land under this clause, 0.404686 hectares (one acre) of wet land shall be equal to 0.809372 hectares (two acres) of dry land; x-x-x-x Section 2(6) – “Transfer” means any sale, gift, exchange, mortgage with or without possession, lease (except in the case of Lease to the Andhra Pradesh Green Energy Corporation Ltd., for use as deemed fi t and including for usage of non-agriculture purpose) or any other transaction with assigned lands, not being a testamentary disposition and includes a charge on such property or a contract relating to assigned lands in respect of such sale, gift, exchange, mortgage, Lease (except in the case of Lease to the Andhra Pradesh Green Energy Coproration Ltd., for use as deemed fi t and including for usage of non-agriculture purpose) or other transaction.” (Emphasis Applied) 63. On a conjoint reading of these statutory expressions, particularly pertaining to the term ‘transfer’, the question that falls on us to answer is whether the GPA executed in favour of M.A. Baksh by the Assignees would result in contravention of Section 3(2) of the 1977 Act. The contention made by learned senior counsel Mr. Reddy that the contravention could only be limited to the sale deeds executed in respect of about 10 Acres of the Subject Land seems to be built on the decision of this Court in Suraj Lamp YADAIAH AND ANR.