(supra) and even thereafter also one another petition under Article 32 of the Constitution has been entertained, the present writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution is entertained. 7. Learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the promotees, while opposing the present writ petition has made the following G submissions:- (i) That the Rules, 2005 have been framed in compliance of the directions issued by this Court in the case of All India Judges’ Association and Ors. (supra). It is submitted that in paragraph 27, this Court has held that there should H 426 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A be two methods for appointment by promotion, namely, (i) promotion on the basis of principle of merit-cum-seniority and (ii) by promotion strictly on the basis of merit. The distinction between two methods of promotions is that while in the second method, the merits obtained by the judicial officers in the examination alone will determine their position B in the Select List whereas while promotion as per the first method, seniority in the feeder cadres has to be maintained. ; (ii) That in the case of V.K. Srivastava and Ors. Vs. Government of Uttar Pradesh and Anr., (2008) 9 SCC 77, this Court has also further clarified that even if the C principle of merit-cum-seniority has to be applied, the principle is that if the candidates are eligible for promotion to the cadre of District Judges, the seniority in the feeder category has to be maintained as regards 50 percent of the promotions are concerned and in the case of 25 percent D promotions, the test must be rigorous and strictly on merit and such candidate may supersede some of their colleagues in the feeder category, i.e., Civil Judges (Senior Division). ; (iii) That the very purpose for providing the channel of promotion under 10% quota through limited competitive examination E is to provide an incentive to the officers amongst the relatively junior officers to improve and to compete with each other so as to excel and get quicker promotion. However, this method of promotion is not to be applied while filling up the vacancies under the 65% quota. ; F (iv) That the merit-cum-seniority does not mean that the length of service has no relevance and a written examination that only tests academic knowledge, which is sometimes, gained without possessing overall qualities, practical experience of practicing law. ; G (v) Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the promotees has further submitted that the decisions relied on behalf of the petitioners shall not be applicable for the recruitment of District Judges. It is further submitted that even the Rules in Jharkhand and West Bengal are distinct and different from the Rules applicable so far as the Gujarat is concerned. H RAVIKUMAR DHANSUKHLAL MAHETA & ANR. v. HIGH 427 COURT OF GUJARAT AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] It is submitted that in proviso to Rule 5 in Jharkhand Rules, A it is stated that seniority shall prevail only when the merit is concluded in all respects.