These land scams not only result in financial losses for individuals and investors but also disrupt development projects, erode public trust, and hinder socio-economic progress. 26. While we do not wish to comment further on this issue, we D believe it is necessary to foil any trace of organised crime perpetrated by land mafia, through an unimpaired and unobstructed investigation. 27. It is inarguable that the cancellation of bail should be done only for substantial and compelling reasons, however, setting aside an erroneous bail is altogether different from cancelling bail. This E Court does not intend to interfere with the judicial discretion exercised by the High Court in granting bail to an accused as a standard practice. However, it is essential to ensure that all the material facts are brought on record and thereafter only the discretionary jurisdiction is exercised in accordance with the fundamental principles of anticipatory bail laid down in various decisions over time by this Court. F 28. It is immaterial that the genuineness of the 1996 GPA is already sub-judice before the Civil Court in the civil suits pending between the parties. The appellants, owing to their age and residential status, cannot be expected to await indefinitely for the outcome of these civil proceedings. Regardless, the pendency of these cases does not estop G the issues of forgery and fabrication being considered in the course of criminal investigation. The facts of the case speak for themselves and an element of criminality cannot be ruled out at this stage. Whether or not the alleged offences were committed by Respondent No. 2 and his co-accused in active collusion with each other can be effectively H PRATIBHA MANCHANDA & ANR. v. STATE OF HARYANA & 425 ANR. [SURYA KANT, J.] determined by a free, fair, unhampered and dispassionate investigation. A In the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case, custodial interrogation of not only Respondent No. 2 but all other suspects is, therefore, imperative to unearth the truth. Joining the investigation with a protective umbrella provided by pre-arrest bail will render the exercise of eliciting the truth ineffective in such like case. We are, as mentioned, also skeptical, B suspicious and incredulous about the verification process of the 1996 GPA carried out by the Sub-Registrar, Kalkaji, New Delhi. Hence, the conduct of the officials of Sub-Registrar Office, Kalkaji, New Delhi is also required to be examined to take the investigation to its logical conclusion. C 29. It is clarified that the observations made hereinabove are prima facie in nature and shall not be taken as final conclusions. D. CONCLUSION 30. In light of above discussion and without expressing any views on the merits of the case, the appeal is allowed and the impugned D dated 31st May, 2022 passed by the High Court granting pre-arrest bail to Respondent No. 2 is hereby set aside. 31. Given the facts and circumstances of this case, we expand the scope of inquiry in these proceedings and direct the Commissioner of Police, Gurugram to constitute a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to E be headed by an officer not below the rank of Dy.