is wide and can be used/wielded to quash criminal proceedings to secure the ends of justice and prevent abuse of the process of the court, albeit it has to be exercised sparingly, carefully, and with caution. This Court, in State of Madhya Pradesh v. Laxmi Narayan and Others39, has set out guidelines as to when the High Court may C exercise jurisdiction under the inherent powers conferred under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. for quashing non-compoundable offences in terms of Section 320 of the Cr.P.C. In view of the above legal position and discussion, this Court, on the basis of settlement between the parties, while passing a decree of divorce by mutual consent, can set aside and quash other proceedings and s, including criminal cases and First D Information Report(s), provided the conditions, as specified in the aforementioned s, are satisfied. Grant of divorce on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage in exercise of jurisdiction and power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India. E 23. This brings us to the last question of whether this Court, in exercise of power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, can grant a decree of divorce when, upon the prayer of one of the spouses, it is satisfied that there is complete and irretrievable breakdown of marriage, notwithstanding the opposition to such prayer by the other F spouse? 24.Section 13(1)(i-a) of the Hindu Marriage Act, enacted by Act No. 68 of 1976 with effect from 25th May 1976, reads thus: “13 Divorce.- (1) Any marriage solemnized, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, may, on a petition presented G by either the husband or the wife, be dissolved by a decree of divorce on the ground that the other party— xx xx xx H 39 (2019) 5 SCC 688. SHILPA SAILESH v. VARUN SREENIVASAN 199 [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] (i-a) has, after the solemnization of the marriage, treated the A petitioner with cruelty; or xx xx xx This provision often has to be read with clause (a) to Section 23(1) of the Hindu Marriage Act, the substantive portion of which was B enacted as a part of the main enactment vide Act No. 25 of 1955, and reads: “23. Decree in proceedings. — (1) In any proceeding under this Act, whether defended or not, if the court is satisfied that— (a) any of the grounds for granting relief exists and the petitioner C 40[except in cases where the relief is sought by him on the ground specified in sub-clause (a), sub-clause (b) or sub- clause (c) of clause (ii) of Section 5] is not in anyway taking advantage of his or her own wrong or disability for the purpose of such relief, and D xx xx xx” The legal effect of Section 13(1)(i-a) read with Section 23 (1)(a) of the Hindu Marriage Act, it has been interpreted, invokes the ‘fault theory’, an aspect which we shall subsequently examine. First, we would like to delineate the meaning of the term ‘cruelty’, which expression has E not been defined in the Hindu Marriage Act.