[2023] 13 S.C.R. 771 : 2023 INSC 889 CASE DETAILS NARESH @ NEHRU v. STATE OF HARYANA (Criminal Appeal No. 1786 of 2023) OCTOBER 09, 2023 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT AND ARAVIND KUMAR, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Conviction of the appellants for off ences punishable u/s.302 r/w s.149, IPC based on the statement of PW-9, as an eyewitness to the crime, if justifi ed. Evidence – Of eyewitness – When not to be relied upon: Held: Evidence of the eye-witness should be of very sterling quality and calibre and it should not only instil confi dence in the court to accept the same but it should also be a version of such nature that can be accepted at its face value – In the present case, testimony of PW-9 (cousin of the deceased) was shrouded with inconsistencies and he had not named the appellants in the FIR – Contradictions in PW-9’s statement were glaring – Prosecution failed to prove the guilt of the appellants beyond reasonable doubt – Non-consideration of the lacuna in the prosecution case in proper perspective by the Trial Court and the High Court resulted in miscarriage of justice – Conviction of the appellants unsustainable – of Courts below set aside – Appellants acquitted of the off ences alleged. [Paras 9.1- 9.3, 10 and 11] Evidence – CCTV footage – Reliance placed to convict the appellants and co-accused persons, if proper: Held: Said evidence could not have been relied upon as it was infested with serious doubts and the very manner in which it came into existence itself raised a serious doubt not only about its source but also about the presence of the appellants at the scene of crime – PW-8 who made a video from his mobile phone of the CCTV footage on 22.04.2016 claimed to 771 772 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. have handed over the recorded CD (Ex.P.3) to the police on 01.06.2016 – However, the video (CD) was not forwarded by the police to the Forensic Science Laboratory – PW-8 claims to have downloaded the video from his mobile phone and transferred to his laptop and then prepared CD (Ex.P.3) – Neither laptop nor mobile phone was produced by prosecution or had been seized by the police during the course of investigation – Trial court’s conclusion is based on inconsistent evidence and there is lack of clarity in the evidence of PW.8 – He identifi ed his signature on the certifi cate Ex. P-L (furnished as required u/s.65-B, Evidence Act) which was prepared by police offi cial who was not examined – Further, Ex.P.3 was played in the trial court and the Sessions Judge recorded that from the video clips the faces of assailants and complainants were not decipherable – PW-8 admitted in his cross-examination that certifi cate Ex.PL was prepared by a police offi cial, and he had affi xed his signature to Ex.PL – He also admitted that faces of the assailants were not visible and identifi able and the registration numbers of the motorcycles were also not visible – Investigating Offi cer (PW-15) also admitted in his cross-examination that faces of the accused are not identifi able from the video – The said video according to PW-8 was taken from the CCTV camera located in the house of ‘D’ who was never cited as a witness by the prosecution – Evidence Act, 1872 – s.65-B.