A statute cannot be interpreted in a manner that will render some of its provisions otiose. A statute must be construed and interpreted E in such a manner as to make it workable. Therefore, the argument based on sub-Section (6) of Section 10 of the Delimitation Act 2002 will have to be rejected. 35. Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution enable the Parliament to create new States and Union territories. Accordingly, the two new Union F territories have been created. The J&K Reorganisation Act which created the two new Union territories assigns the role of readjustment of constituencies to the Delimitation Commission under the Delimitation Act, 2002. Article 4 of the Constitution permits the Parliament to incorporate such provisions in the law made in accordance with Article G 3 for the formation of new States and Union territories, which may be necessary to give effect to the provisions of the law. Such a law may also contain provisions as to representations in Parliament and in the Legislature of the State or States affected by such law. Therefore, such law which is made under Article 3 can always provide for readjustment of the Constituencies in the newly constituted States or Union territories H 546 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A through the Delimitation Commission. Hence, we hold that there is no illegality associated with the establishment of the Delimitation Commission under the impugned dated 6th March 2020. 36. Under the notification dated 6th March 2020, the appointment of the Chairperson of the Delimitation Commission who was a retired B Judge of this Court was for a period of one year. By the notification dated 3rd March 2021, the said period was extended up to two years. By the third impugned notification dated 21st February 2022, the said period of two years was extended to two years and two months. Once the Delimitation Commission was established, there is nothing wrong if the Central Government extended the period of appointment of the C Chairperson till the task of delimitation/readjustment was completed. The Delimitation Act, 2002 is silent about the term of the appointment of the Chairperson. Exclusion of the North-Eastern States from the purview of the notification dated 6th March 2020 D 37. Another challenge which is seriously pressed is to that part of the second impugned notification dated 31st March 2021 by which the States of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur and Nagaland were excluded from the purview of the Delimitation Commission constituted under the notification dated 6th March 2020. In the counter affidavit E filed by the Union of India, reliance has been placed on the letter dated 22nd February 2021 issued by the Deputy Secretary (NE-III), Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India. In paragraphs 5 and 6 of the counter affidavit, it is stated that the Delimitation Commission set up on 12th July 2002 under the Chairmanship of a retired Judge of this Court had completed the delimitation exercise in respect of the entire country F except for four North-Eastern States of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Nagaland.