It is submitted that as per Section 4 of the Act, 1957, whenever it appears to the Central Government that coal is likely E to be obtained from land in any locality, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette give notice of its intention to prospect for coal therein. It is submitted that thereafter after following the due procedure as required the Central Government being satisfied, after considering the report, if any, made under Section 8 that any land or any right in or over such land should be acquired, a declaration shall be made by it to that F effect. It is submitted that thereafter once the declaration under Section 9 of the Act is issued on the publication in Official Gazette of the declaration,the land or the rights in or over the land, as the case may be, shall vest absolutely in the Central Government free from all encumbrances as per Section 10 of the Act. It is further submitted that as per Section 11 of the Act, notwithstanding anything contained in Section G 10, the Central Government may, if it is satisfied that a Government company is willing to comply or has complied with such terms and conditions as the Central Government may think fit to impose, direct, by in writing, that the land or the rights in or over the land, as the case may be, shall, instead of vesting in the Central Government under Section H 1058 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 10 or continuing to so vest, vest in the Government company either on the date of publication of the declaration or on such other date as may be specified in the direction. It is submitted that therefore, once the land or the rights vested in the Central Government and/or in a Government company (under Section 11), the same is vested absolutely free from all encumbrances and the State Government is not entitled to recover any B amount of premium of the land or the compensation or any rental except the royalty leviable under Section 18(a) of the Act, 1957. It is submitted that therefore, the demands made by the State Government upheld by the High Court towards premium/rental, etc., is absolutely illegal. 4. Opposing the present appeal Shri Umakant Mishra, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State hasvehemently submitted that C the appellant has been vested with the rights in the land in question pursuant to the of the Central Government issued under Section 11 of the Act, 1957. It is submitted that it cannot be disputed that the State Government was the owner of the lands in question. It is submitted that therefore, the State Government is entitled to the premium/ compensation/rentals with respect to the lands in question of the land D vested or rights so vested in the Government company. 4.1 It is submitted that as such Section 18(a) of the Act, 1957 which has been inserted in the year 1971 is distinct from and over and above the right of the State Government to recover the compensation/ rental, etc.