B (3) The court does not have the expertise to correct the administrative decision. If a review of the administrative decision is permitted it will be substituting its own decision, without the necessary expertise which itself may be fallible. (4) The terms of the invitation to tender cannot be open C to judicial scrutiny because the invitation to tender is in the realm of contract. Normally speaking, the decision to accept the tender or award the contract is reached by process of negotiations through several tiers. More often than not, such decisions are made qualitatively by experts. D (5) The Government must have freedom of contract. In other words, a fair play in the joints is a necessary concomitant for an administrative body functioning in an administrative sphere or quasi-administrative sphere. However, the decision must not only be tested by the E application of Wednesbury principle of reasonableness (including its other facts pointed out above) but must be free from arbitrariness not affected by bias or actuated by mala fides. (6) Quashing decisions may impose heavy administrative F burden on the administration and lead to increased and unbudgeted expenditure. Based on these principles we will examine the facts of this case since they commend to us as the correct principles.” 217. Though various authorities are cited at the Bar with regard G to scope of judicial review, we do not find it necessary to refer to various s. We may gainfully refer to the of this Court in the case of Rashmi Metaliks Limited and Another v. Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority and Others62, wherein this Court has deprecated the practice of citing several decisionswhen the law on H 62 (2013) 10 SCC 95 VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 111 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] the issue is still covered by what has been held in the case of Tata A Cellular (supra). 218. Our enquiry, therefore, will have to be restricted to examining the decision-making process on the limited grounds as have been laid down in the case of Tata Cellular (supra). B Scope of Judicial Interference in matters pertaining to economic policy 219. Since the issue involved is also related to monetary and economic policy of the country, we would also be guided by certain other pronouncements of this Court. C 220. We may gainfully refer to the following observations of the Seven-Judge Bench in the case of M/s. Prag Ice & Oil Mills and Another v. Union of India63: “24. We have listened to long arguments directed at showing us that producers and sellers of oil in various parts of the country will D suffer so that they would give up producing or dealing in mustard oil. It was urged that this would, quite naturally, have its repercussions on consumers for whom mustard oil will become even more scarce than ever ultimately. We do not think that it is the function of this Court or of any Court to sit in over such matters of economic policy as must necessarily be E left to the Government of the day to decide.