[2023] 11 S.C.R. 246 : 2023 INSC 705 CASE DETAILS MANOJ KUMAR SONI v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH (Criminal Appeal No.1030 of 2023) AUGUST 11, 2023 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT AND DIPANKAR DATTA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration : Conviction of both the appellants-accused respectively u/s.411 and s.120-B, IPC was based largely upon disclosure statements made by them and the co-accused, unaccompanied by supporting evidence, if justifi ed Evidence – Disclosure statements relied upon, without any supporting evidence, to convict u/s.411 and s.120-B, IPC – If adequate: Held : No – Although disclosure statements hold signifi cance as a contributing factor in unriddling a case, they are not so strong a piece of evidence suffi cient on its own and without anything more to bring home the charges beyond reasonable doubt – Sole connecting evidence against both the appellants-accused (‘M’ and ‘K’) was the recovery based on their disclosure statements, along with those of the other co-accused but this evidence is not suffi cient to qualify as “fact … discovered” within the meaning of s.27, Evidence Act, 1872 and thus, untrustworthy – Appellants’ conviction respectively for off ence punishable u/s.411 and s.120-B, IPC set aside, acquitted. [Paras 21, 30 and 44] Evidence Act, 1872 – s.27 – Disclosure statements u/s.27 made by the accused – Evidentiary value: Held : The provided information must be directly relevant to the discovered fact, including details about the physical object, its place of origin, and the accused person’s awareness of these aspects – Further, as regards the disclosure statements of co-accused, Courts have hesitated to place reliance solely on them and used them merely to support the conviction. [Paras 22 and 23] 246 MANOJ KUMAR SONI v. 247 THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH Evidence – Property seizure memos – Reliability: Held : Could have been a reliable piece of evidence but the seizure witnesses turned hostile – No scope to rely on a part of their depositions – Thus, the seizure lost credibility. [Para 26] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – Examination u/s.313 – Duty of Trial Courts: Held : Trial courts have been cautioned against recording statements in a casual and cursory manner – Mere quantity of questions posed to the accused is not important but rather the content and manner in which they are framed – In the present case, irrelevant and abstract questions about the main incident of robbery were asked to the appellant-accused ‘M’, even though his alleged involvement occurred much later when the robbed items were allegedly sold to him by the co-accused – Prosecution’s entire case is premised on the disclosure statements made by the co-accused, but ‘M’ was never given the opportunity to explain the circumstances. [Paras 31 and 32] Evidence Act, 1872 – s.114(a) – Presumption – Appellants were not present at the complainant’s house during the incident and were apprehended later when it was discovered that ‘M’ had purchased the stolen articles and ‘K’ was involved in hatching the conspiracy: Held : A presumption of fact u/s.114(a) must be drawn considering other evidence on record and without corroboration from other cogent evidence, it must not be drawn in isolation – Trial Court convicted one of the appellant-accused (‘M’) based on a presumption u/s.114(a) asserting that his possession of stolen articles shortly after the theft, with knowledge of its stolen nature, was adequate enough to hold him guilty u/s.411, IPC – It erred in drawing such a presumption of fact without considering other factors.