below tissue-towards hilum, gaping. Right pulmonary artery and superior vena cava cut partially- B lumina exposed. Right pleural cavity was full of blood with clots. In my opinion all above injuries were antemortem and rescent. During internal examination of head and abdomen I found C no any injury, but the organs were pale. The stomach contains fluid with paste without any abnormal smell. I preserved blood for grouping as per police requisition. In my opinion, Abbas died due to shock and due to stab injuries. D Accordingly I have issued P.M. notes. They are in my handwriting and it bears my signature. Its contents are correct. It is marked at Exh. 19. Injury No. 9 alongwith its corresponding internal injuries E was sufficient in the ordinary course to cause death. That injury could be caused by sharp edged pointed weapons. Injury No. 9 can be caused by the sword Article No. 17 now shown to me is the same. Injury Nos. 1 and 2 were incised injuries alongwith underlined fractured bones. Injury Nos. 1 to 8 are possible by Article No. 16- sickle or Article No. 17 F sword, as both are having sharp edges. Initially, I had issued the provisional death certificate. The certificate now shown to me is the same. It bears my signatures its contes are correct. It is now marked at Exhibit 20.” 53. In to appreciate the question, it will be profitable to refer G to the definition of murder as provided in Section 300 of the Indian Penal Code which is quoted below: “300. Murder.—Except in the cases hereinafter excepted, culpable homicide is murder, if the act by which the death is caused is done with the intention of causing death, or— H BALU SUDAM KHALDE & ANR. v. THE STATE OF 881 MAHARASHTRA [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] Secondly.—If it is done with the intention of causing such A bodily injury as the offender knows to be likely to cause the death of the person to whom the harm is caused, or— Thirdly.—If it is done with the intention of causing bodily injury to any person and the bodily injury intended to be inflicted is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause B death,— Fourthly.—If the person committing the act knows that it is so imminently dangerous that it must, in all probability, cause death or such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, and commits such act without any excuse for incurring the risk of C causing death or such injury as aforesaid. Illustrations (a) A shoots Z with the intention of killing him. Z dies in consequence. A commits murder. D (b) A, knowing that Z is labouring under such a disease that a blow is likely to cause his death, strikes him with the intention of causing bodily injury. Z dies in consequence of the blow. A is guilty of murder, although the blow might not have been sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause the death of a person in a sound state of health.