3, 4 and 239A – Conversion of B an existing State into one or more Union territories – Power of the Parliament – Conjoint reading of Arts. 3,4 and 239A – Held: Parliament by making a law can convert an existing State into one or more Union territories. Practice and Procedure – Constitutional validity of a statute C – Challenge to – Challenge has to be specifically pleaded – Held: When a party wants to challenge the constitutional validity of a statute, he must plead in detail the grounds on which the validity of the statute is sought to be challenged – The Constitutional Courts cannot interfere with the law made by the Legislature unless it is specifically challenged by incorporating specific grounds of D challenge in the pleadings – The reason is that there is always a presumption of the constitutionality of laws – The burden is always on the person alleging unconstitutionality to prove it – A Constitutional Court cannot casually interfere with legislation made by a competent Legislature only by drawing an inference from the E pleadings that the challenge to the validity is implicit. Interpretation of Statutes – Held: A statute cannot be interpreted in a manner that will render some of its provisions otiose – A statute must be construed and interpreted in such a manner as to make it workable. F Doctrines/ Principles – Equality – Two unequals cannot be treated as equals. Words and Phrases – Word “endeavour” – Use of the word in Sub-section (6) of s.10 of the Delimitation Act, 2002. Dismissing the writ petition, the Court G HELD: 1. Issue of applicability of Article 170 having the title “Composition of the Legislative Assemblies” to the Union Territory of J & K. 1.1. Article 170 forms part of Chapter III under the title H “The State Legislature”. Chapter III has been incorporated in HAJI ABDUL GANI KHAN & ANR. v. UNION OF INDIA & 507 ORS. Part VI of the Constitution which deals with the States. Though A much emphasis was laid on the violation of the provisions contained in the second Proviso to Clause (3) of Article 170 by the petitioners, but the said Article does not deal with the legislatures of Union Territory at all. Articles 239A and 239AA which are included in Part VIII of the Constitution are the Articles B that deal with the creation of a body to function as legislature and Council of Ministers for certain Union Territories. [Para 18][532- B-D] 1.2. Article 239A as it originally stood provided that Parliament may by law create for the Union Territory of C Puducherry a body to function as a Legislature for the Union Territory or a Council of Ministers or both. Such a body to act as a Legislature of the Union Territory covered by Article 239A may be elected or partly nominated and partly elected. By virtue of Section 13 of the J&K Reorganisation Act, with effect from 31st October 2019, Article 239A became applicable to the Union D Territory of J and K. As noted by clause (2) of Article 239A, the law contemplated by clause (1) of Article 239A shall not be deemed to be an amendment to the Constitution for the purposes of Article 368 notwithstanding that it contains any provision which amends or has the effect of amending the Constitution.