No doubt, certain allegations are levelled against the Government and the Chief Minister; however, such allegations are vague and general in nature. Mala fide motives are required to be affirmatively pleaded and B proved. However, no foundation in that behalf has been laid and naturally so, the High Court even did not examine whether exception could have been taken to the FIR on the ground of mala fide. 72. Secondly, neither the head of the political executive (the incumbent Chief Minister) nor that of the administrative executive (the C Chief Secretary) was personally arrayed as a party to any of the proceedings. Now, law is well-settled that the person against whom mala fide or bias is imputed should be impleaded as a party respondent to the proceedings eo nomine and that in his/her absence no inquiry into the allegations can be made. This is what the decision in State of Bihar vs. P.P. Sharma10 lays down. Having regard thereto, since the incumbent D holding the office of Chief Minister of the State against whom mala fide is alleged is not on record, we are loath to attach any importance to the allegations of mala fide even if there be any. 73. Thirdly, it must be remembered that when an information is lodged at the police station and an offence is registered in respect of a E disproportionate assets case, it is the material collected during the investigation and evidence led in court that is decisive for determining the fate of the accused. To our mind, whether the first information report is the outcome of mala fide would be of secondary importance. In such a case, should the allegations of mala fide be of some prima facie F worth, would pale into insignificance if sufficient materials are gathered for sending the accused up for a trial; hence, the plea of mala fide may not per se form the basis for quashing the first information report/ complaint. 74. Finally, following the above, what is of substantial importance G is that if criminal prosecution is based upon adequate evidence and the same is otherwise justifiable, it does not become vitiated on account of significant political overtones and mala fide motives. We can say without fear of contradiction, it is not in all cases in our country that an individual, who is accused of acts of omission/commission punishable under the 10 1992 Supp. (1) SCC 222 H 162 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A P.C. Act but has the blessings of the ruling dispensation, is booked by the police and made to face prosecution. If, indeed, in such a case (where a prosecution should have been but has not been launched) the succeeding political dispensation initiates steps for launching prosecution against such an accused but he/she is allowed to go scot-free, despite there being materials against him/her, merely on the ground that the action initiated B by the current regime is mala fide in the sense that it is either to settle scores with the earlier regime or to wreak vengeance against the individual, in such an eventuality we are constrained to observe that it is criminal justice that would be the casualty.