(iv) Relying upon Rakesh Kumar Sharma Vs. State (NCT of Delhi) & Ors.5, it has been submitted that the eligibility criteria/conditions should be examined as on the last date G of the receipt of the application. The appellants having acquired the requisite certificates after the cut-off date of last date of submission of applications, they were rightly not considered for selection for the post in question. 4 (2007) 4 SCC 54 H 5 (2013) 11 SCC 58 SAKSHI ARHA v. THE RAJASTHAN HIGH COURT AND 625 OTHERS [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] (v) The reservation under the category of OBC-NCL and EWS A is on the basis of the current economic status of the candidates, whereas the caste status of person i.e., a candidate being SC, ST or OBC would be dependent on the birth of the person which factor remains static. Hence, considering the dynamic state of the category of OBC-NCL B and EWS, the Government had issued the circulars dated 08.08.2009 and 09.09.2015 for issuing the requisite certificates by the competent authority, and the appellants accordingly had to produce the valid certificates issued by such competent authorities as per the said circulars, which the appellants had failed to produce in the instant cases. C Analysis and Reasoning: 14. At the outset, it deserves to be noted that the certificates to the persons belonging to the reserved categories like SC/ST/OBC-NCL/ MBC-NCL/EWS are being issued by the competent authorities of the D respective State Governments keeping in view the provisions contained in the Constitution of India and the guidelines/principles laid down by this Court from time to time. The status of a person whether he belongs to SC or ST category depends on the caste which he belongs to by birth, and such status would remain unchanged and would be static, however, the status of a person whether he belongs to OBC-NCL/MBC-NCL/ E EWS would depend upon his/her social and economic status, and such status would keep on changing depending on his/her income and therefore would be dynamic. It is very well settled position of law that the persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes were and are treated as a separate category, and the principle of “creamy layer” does F not apply to the said categories. It applies only to the persons belonging to the socially and the economically backward classes. Ergo, the date of issuance of certificate to the persons belonging to OBC-NCL/MBC- NCL/EWS categories assumes significance for the purpose of ascertaining as to whether the candidate claiming to belong to a particular reserved category on the date when he/she applied for the post in question G under such category, in fact belonged to the said category on the date on which such application was made or on the date prescribed in the advertisement. 15. In this regard, before adverting to the submissions made by the learned counsels for the parties, let us peep into the brief history of H 626 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R.