A seeds, is quashed and set aside, being in direct conflict with the terms of the contract governing the parties and the relevant circular. The impugned dated 21-10-2009 is modified to the aforesaid extent.” 19.3. The aforesaid had not been a case of the fundamental B alteration of the terms of contract during the currency of contract and for that matter, the parties having definitely exchanged communication and having brought into existence an agreement which, even if construed as supplemental to original one, had been of material difference in regard to the use of particular fuel and then raising of invoices on that basis with reference to fluctuating price of fuel as also the exchange rate of C foreign currency (US dollar). 20. The matter can be examined from yet another angle. If the terms agreed to by the parties with exchange of communications commencing from 20.03.2013 were to be ignored, the result would be of ignoring such terms of contract of the parties which had come into D existence and which were binding on both. Viewed thus, coupled with the fact that only the limited dispute was presented for arbitration (i.e., as to whether power was to be supplied on the basis of fixed rate of fuel and fixed rate of currency or on variable charges), the Arbitral Tribunal, in our view, has been justified in focusing on the core issue raised, rather E than going astray and entering into such an analysis which was not germane to the issue at hand. 21. For the reasons aforesaid, in our view, no ground for challenge under Sections 34 or 37 of the Act was made out in relation to the award pertaining to variable charges. Hence, the High Court has not been right in setting aside the award relating to variable charges on the ground of F so-called non-consideration of clauses 12.1.4 to 12.1.7 of PPA. 21.1. Putting it in other words, the High Court, even while reminding itself of the limitation of jurisdiction, has committed the same error by extensively dissecting the evidence while assuming that clauses 12.1.4 to 12.1.7 were decisive of the matter without taking a close look G at the material propositions which formed the dispute and which were presented by the parties before the Arbitral Tribunal. As regards variable charges, the core question before the Tribunal had been as to whether the claimant agreed to supply electricity on fixed charges with fixed rate of foreign currency while using the alternate fuel. This question was H essentially to be determined with reference to the new contract that RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 437 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] came into existence with exchange of communications between the A parties. The Arbitrator precisely decided the matter with reference to, and after analysis of, that evidence. It had neither been a case of the Arbitrator not taking into consideration the terms of contract applicable to the issue at hand nor of any such finding which no fair-minded or reasonable person could have possibly rendered ever.