H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 15 per AJAY RASTOGI, J. A 1. Indian democracy will work only when the institutions which have the responsibility to preserve democracy work. Each institution in our Constitution has its demarcated role, which can only be fulfilled if the people who are running these institutions are responsible. The people who run these institutions need to B be accountable to the people, and therefore the process of selecting them has to ensure the independence of the institution. To strengthen the democratic processes, the institution of the Election Commission needs to be independent and demonstrate transparency and accountability. This reason is enough in itself C to call this Court to examine the institutional structure of the Election Commission of India. [Paras 25 and 28][191-B, E-F] 2. By virtue of Article 326, the right to vote became a constitutional right granted to citizens. The said right was given effect by Section 62 of Representation of the People (ROP) Act, 1951. Section 62(1) of ROP Act provides: “No person who is not, D and except as expressly provided by this Act, every person who is, for the time being entered in the electoral roll of any constituency shall be entitled to vote in that constituency.” The legal position is that the relevant provision of the ROP Act is derived from the text of the Constitution, which in this case, is E Article 326. The right to take part in the conduct of public affairs as a voter is the core of the democratic form of government, which is a basic feature of the Constitution. The right to vote is an expression of the choice of the citizen, which is a fundamental right under Article 19(1)(a). The right to vote is a part of a citizen’s life as it is their indispensable tool to shape their own destinies F by choosing the government they want. In that sense, it is a reflection of Article 21. In history, the right to vote was denied to women and those were socially oppressed. Our Constitution took a visionary step by extending franchise to everyone. In that way, the right to vote enshrines the protection guaranteed under G Article 15 and 17. Therefore, the right to vote is not limited only to Article 326, but flows through Article 15, 17, 19, 21. Article 326 has to be read along with these provisions. It is declare the right to vote in direct elections as a fundamental right, subject to limitations laid down in Article 326. [Paras 46 and 68][197-D-F; 205-G-H; 206-A-B] H 16 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 3. The right to vote is not merely a constitutional right, but a component of Part III of the Constitution as well, it raises the level of scrutiny on the working of the Election Commission of India, which is responsible for conducting free and fair elections. As it is a question of constitutional as well as fundamental rights, this Court needs to ensure that the working of the Election B Commission under Article 324 facilitates the protection of people’s voting rights.