169. The deletion of Paragraph 3 impacts the proceedings under Paragraph 2(1)(b) as well. When there are two Whips appointed by two or more factions of the political party, the Speaker, as held in the preceding D section of the judgement, decides which of the two Whips represents the political party. Thus, the adjudication of the Speaker on whether a member must be disqualified under Paragraph 2(1)(b) would also depend on the decision of the Speaker recognising one of the two (or more) Whips. We accordingly answer the question referred to us as noted in E Paragraph 32(f) of this . vii. The exercise of discretion by the Governor in directing Mr. Thackeray to face a floor test 170. The facts relevant to the determination of this issue have been narrated in the introductory part of this judgement. To recount, F thirty-four MLAs of the Shiv Sena met and passed a resolution on 21 June 2022. The resolution reaffirmed that Mr. Eknath Shinde “continues to be” the Group Leader of the SSLP, cancelled the appointment of Mr. Sunil Prabhu as the Chief Whip, and appointed Mr. Bharat Gogawale in his place. The signatories also expressed their discontent and G dissatisfaction with the Shiv Sena for forming the Government in alliance with the INC and the NCP. Separately, on 28 June 2022, the Governor received letters from the Leader of Opposition at the time, Mr. Devendra Fadnavis, and seven MLAs who were elected as independent candidates requesting him to direct Mr. Thackeray to prove his majority on the floor of the House. On the same day, the Governor issued the communication H 954 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A impugned in WP(C) 470 of 2022 to Mr. Thackeray, directing him to prove his majority on the floor of the House on 30 June 2022. Mr. Thackeray resigned on 29 June 2022 after this Court declined to stay the trust vote. Thus, WP(C) 470 of 2022 has been rendered infructuous. This Court is no longer called upon to set aside the letter dated 28 June 2022. However, the question of whether the Governor exercised the B discretion vested in him by the Constitution in accordance with law is required to be addressed by this Court in view of the enormity of the responsibility entrusted with the gubernatorial office as well as the significance of the consequences which follow from the exercise of such discretion. C 171. The letter sent by the Governor to the then-Chief Minister indicates that he relied on the following circumstances in arriving at the conclusion that a floor test was required: a. A letter received from the then Leader of Opposition stating that Mr. Thackeray no longer enjoyed the confidence of D the House; b. Letters received from seven independent MLAs requesting the Governor to direct Mr. Thackeray to prove his majority on the floor of the House; c. The resolution dated 21 June 2022 signed by thirty-four E members of the SSLP stating that they were dissatisfied with the Shiv Sena for forming an alliance with the INC and the NCP; d. A letter dated 21 June 2022 addressed by Mr. Shinde to the Deputy Speaker stating that the appointment of Mr. Ajay F Choudhari as the Leader of the SSLP was illegal; and e. A letter dated 25 June 2022 received from thirty-eight members of the SSLP stating that the security provided to them by the State Government had been withdrawn illegally and that their lives were in danger.