B Nothing in this section applies to the charge of a trustee on the trust property for expenses properly incurred in the execution of his trust, and, save as otherwise expressly provided by any law for the time being in force, no charge shall be enforced against any property in the hands of a person to whom such property has C been transferred for consideration and without notice of the charge.” There cannot, thus, be any doubt or dispute that a provision of law must expressly provide for an enforcement of a charge against the property in the hands of the transferee for value without notice D to the charge and not merely create a charge.” 23. The aforesaid decisions in the cases of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and AI Champdany Ltd. had been concerning the issue relating to liability of auction purchaser of property in Court sale towards arrears of municipal taxes due on the date of sale, which E are of statutory charge on the property sold and of which, the purchaser had no notice. On interpretation and application of second part of Section 100 of the Act of 1882, this Court held that the auction purchaser without notice, in the absence of stipulation in the terms of sale or any statutory provision, could not be made liable for such dues. In the fact situation of the present case, the principles aforesaid operate heavily against the F case of the appellant. 24. It has rightly been argued on behalf of the contesting respondents, with reference to Section 100 of the Act of 1882 and the decision of this Court in AI Champdany Ltd. (supra), that in absence of any statutory provision, the auction purchaser without notice of any charge G could not be made liable for the arrears of tax in question during the post-liquidation period. The provisions of the M.P. Act of 1956 were not creating any such encumbrance or charge on the property which would attach to the property for all times and under all circumstances nor they could be said to constitute any encumbrances which diminish the value H 1116 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A of the property. In contrast, they would only qualify as expenses for “preserving, realising or getting in” the assets of the company and thus, shall have to be paid in priority and before any other payment in the course of distribution of the assets of the company or value thereof. 25. There remains another significant factor in the present case B that the property in question was indisputably governed by Section 185 of the M.P. Act of 1956, which clearly provides that all sums due from any person in respect of taxes on any land or building shall be of first charge upon the said land or building and upon any movable property found within or upon such land or building. The proviso thereto further makes it clear that no arrears of any such tax would be recoverable C from any occupier who is not the owner, if such arrears were for a period during which the occupier was not in occupation.