Therefore, the question is whether the respondent had raised a dispute describable as a ‘pre-existing dispute’ so as to entail dismissal of application of the appellant under Section 9, IBC. In Mobilox Innovations (P) Ltd. (supra), B particularly at paragraphs 33 and 51, this Court held thus: - “33.The scheme under Sections 8 and 9 of the Code, appears to be that an operational creditor, as defined, may, on the occurrence of a default (i.e. on non-payment of a debt, any part whereof has become due and payable and has not been C repaid), deliver a demand notice of such unpaid operational debt or deliver the copy of an invoice demanding payment of such amount to the corporate debtor in the form set out in Rule 5 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Application to Adjudicating Authority) Rules, 2016 read with Form 3 or 4, as the case may be [Section 8 (1)]. Within a period of 10 days D of the receipt of such demand notice or copy of invoice, the corporate debtor must bring to the notice of the operational creditor the existence of a dispute and/or the record of the pendency of a suit or arbitration proceeding filed before the receipt of such notice or invoice in relation to such dispute E [Section 8(2)(a)]. What is important is that the existence of the dispute and/or the suit or arbitration proceeding must be pre-existing i.e. it must exist before the receipt of the demand notice or invoice, as the case may be. […] It is only if, after the expiry of the period of the said 10 days, the operational creditor does not either receive payment from the corporate F debtor or notice of dispute, that the operational creditor may trigger the insolvency process by filing an application before the adjudicating authority under Sections 9(1) and 9(2). [. .. ] It may also reject the application if the notice of dispute has been received by the operational creditor or there is a record G of dispute in the information utility [Section 9(5)(ii)(d)}. Section 9(5)(ii)(d) refers to the notice of an existing dispute that has so been received, as it must be read with Section 8(2)(a). Also, if any disciplinary proceeding is pending against any proposed resolution professional, the application may be rejected [Section 9(5)(ii)(e)]. H 214 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 51. It is clear, therefore, that once the operational creditor has filed an application, which is otherwise complete, the adjudicating Authority must reject the application under Section 9(5)(2)(d) if notice of dispute has been received by the operational creditor or there is a record of dispute in the information utility. It is clear that such notice must bring to B the notice of the operational creditor the “existence” of a dispute or the fact that a suit or arbitration proceeding relating to a dispute is pending between the parties. Therefore, all that the adjudicating Authority is to see at this stage is whether there is a plausible contention which requires further C investigation and that the “dispute” is not a patently feeble legal argument or an assertion of fact unsupported by evidence.