Therefore, as such it is not a case of further investigation, but is a case of reinvestigation D by another agency. The passed by the Secretary (Home) transferring the investigation/ing further investigation by another agency and that too, on the basis of the application/ complaint submitted by mother of the accused is unknown to law. [Para 7][651-F-H; 652-A-B] E 1.2 There cannot be any dispute that even after the chargesheet is filed, it is the right of the investigating officer to further investigate in respect of offence even after a report under sub-section (2) of Section 173 of Cr.PC forwarded to a Magistrate and as observed and held by this Court the prior approval of the Magistrate is not required. However, as per the settled position F of law, so far as the reinvestigation is concerned, the prior permission/approval of the Magistrate is required. In the present case, the Secretary (Home) has passed an for further investigation by CBCID and thereafter, the CBCID has sent the intimation to the Magistrate. No prior approval/permission as G observed by the High Court has been accorded by the Magistrate. The High Court in the impugned and has observed that the further investigation is ed with the concurrence of the Magistrate, which is factually incorrect. In any case, as it is a case of reinvestigation, the same is not permissible and that too by another agency without the prior permission of the Magistrate H 646 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A even while exercising the powers under Section 173(8) of the Cr.PC. So far as the investigation is concerned under the scheme of the Cr.PC, the Police Officer of the concerned Police Station, who is the investigating officer, has to investigate/further investigate the case under the supervision of Superintendent of Police. So far as the Secretary (Home) is concerned, he does not B come into picture at all. If such powers are given to the Secretary (Home) in that case any accused who is already chargesheeted may approach the Secretary (Home) and may get an of further investigation or reinvestigation by another agency and obtain the fresh report nullifying the earlier chargesheet and get himself discharged. If the accused is aggrieved by the C chargesheet in that case, the remedy available to him would be either to file the quashing petition under Section 482 of Cr.PC and/or to move an appropriate application for discharge before the Magistrate and it is for the High Court and/or the Magistrate as the case may be, to quash criminal proceedings or discharge the accused. The Secretary (Home) and/or any accused who is D already chargesheeted cannot be permitted to circumvent such provision. In the present case, respondent No. 8 – accused earlier did file the quashing petition, but failed. [Paras 7.1, 7.2][652-D- H; 653-A-E] 1.3 Section 173(3) read with Section 158 does not permit E the Secretary (Home) to for further investigation/ reinvestigation by another agency, other than the officer in charge of the concerned Police Station and/or his superior officer.