G 10.1 Rule 54 deals, inter alia, with the amount of family pension payable, and the procedure to be followed for payment thereof. Rule 54(14)(b) which is relevant to the present case, defines ‘family’ for the purpose of Rule 54. It is the case of the Appellant that a “son or daughter adopted legally” H 944 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A by a government servant is eligible to claim family pension after the death of the government servant, and therefore, such benefit ought to be extended in his favour also. That, although he was adopted by the widow of a government servant, he must be deemed to be the adopted son of the deceased government servant and therefore allowed the B benefit of family person. 11. This matter calls for an interpretation of the phrase “in relation to a government servant” as appearing in Rule 54 (14)(b) of the CCS (Pension) Rules. C In to engage with this prong of the matter, i.e., effect of the phrase “in relation to a government servant” as appearing in Rule 54 (14)(b) of the CCS (Pension) Rules, in determining the Appellant’s entitlement to family pension, it may be useful to refer to the decision of this Court in Doypack Systems Pvt. Ltd. vs. Union of India, (1988) 2 D SCC 299on the interpretation of the phrase “in relation to”: In the said case, this Court held as follows, while interpreting the phrase “in relation to” in the context of the Swadeshi Cotton Mills Company Limited (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1986: E “50. The expression “in relation to” (so also “pertaining to”), is very broad expression which pre-supposes another subject matter. These are words of comprehensiveness which might have both a direct significance as well as an indirect significance depending on the context…In this connection reference may be made to 76 Corpus Juris Secundum at pages 620 and 621 where it is stated F that the term “relate” is also defined as meaning to bring into association or connection with. It has been clearly mentioned that “relating to” has been held to be equivalent to or synonymous with as to “concerning with” and “pertaining to”. The expression “pertaining to” is an expression of expansion and not of G contraction.” [Emphasis by me] 11.1. The use of the phrase “in relation to” in statutes is with a view to bring one person or thing into association or connection with another person or thing. The direct or H SHRI RAM SHRIDHAR CHIMURKAR v. UNION OF INDIA & 945 ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA J.] indirect nature of such association or connection depends A on the context. In Rule 54(14)(b) of the CCS (Pension) Rules, the phrase “in relation to a government servant” would indicate that the categories of persons listed thereunder, such as wife, husband, judicially separated wife or husband, son or unmarried daughter who has not attained B the age of twenty-five years, adopted son or daughter, etc. are sought to be brought into association with the deceased government servant.