of Qasim Ali Khan unsuccessfully appealed before the Settlement A Officer. A Revision carried by them before the Deputy Director proved equally unsuccessful as it was dismissed by dated 29.01.1969. The was passed on merit. It reads, inter alia: “3. That I find that Wakf is admitted between the parties. The disputed land was sir. It after the execution of wakf, the sir should B have been converted into ex-proprieto tenancy. It could have been inferred that the rights of ex-proprieto tenancy which ultimately converted at sirdari right after the date of vesting, did not belong to the wakf and then there was justification for continuances of the applicants a successors of their father. But, the position is C otherwise, when the father of the parties created at wakf, the disputed land which was sir, was not converted into expropriatory tenancy and was recorded bhundhary after the date of vesting. It has therefore, to be concluded that absolute rights in the land were transferred to the almighty and the proper course, therefore, was to record the opp. Party as Mutwalli and expunge the names D of the applicants. In the litigation in regular courts, the civil court had also held the same view but the matter could not become final in these courts. On account of advent of consolidation. In these circumstances, I come to conclusion that the s of the Lower Courts are sound and deserves no interference.” E 32. The defendants, viz., Kasim Ali Khan and Raza Ali Khan filed a Restoration Application which came to be dismissed by dated 02.03.1972. Yet another Restoration Application was filed. It is in the same that a compromise was entered into between Qasim Ali Khan, Kasim Ali Khan and Raza Ali Khan, all the three brothers, on 13.02.1974. F They purported to disown the waqf. They proclaimed that it had not taken effect. It was based on this compromise that the second Restoration Application was allowed. The earlier s rejecting the Revision and the Restoration being dismissed, were set aside by the Deputy Director. The compromise dated 13.02.1974 formed the basis for the same. It is acting on the said compromise and the passed thereon that Qasim G Ali Khan purported to convey his one-third share to his nephew by sale deed dated 12.09.1974. 33. The 1960 Act was in force. Section 69 of the Act provided as follows: H 972 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A “69. Bar to compromise of suits by or against mutawallis. – No suit or proceeding pending in any court by or against the mutawalli of a wakf relating to title to wakf property or the rights of the mutawallis shall be compromised without the sanction of the Board.” B 34. Also, Sections 49A and 49B of the said Act read as follows: “49A Transfer of immovable property of waqf- Notwithstanding anything contained in the deed or instrument, if any, by which the waqf has been created, no transfer by way of- (i) sale, gift, mortgage or exchange; or C (ii) lease for a period exceeding three years in the case of agricultural land, or for a period exceeding one year in the case of non-agricultural and or building of any immovable property of the waqf shall be valid without the previous sanction of the Board.” D 49-B.