In the appointment of Judicial Magistrate First Class, when the candidates are tested by written examination and viva voce, the similar procedure to be adopted for appointment in the District and State Commissions; H THE SECRETARY MINISTRY OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS v. DR. 307 MAHINDRA BHASKAR LIMAYE [M. R. SHAH, J.] (e) The transparency and selection criteria are absent in the A Rules, 2020; (g) In absence of transparency in the matter of appointments of Chairman and Members, there is strong apprehension of political and executive interference. B 4.3 It is further submitted that even the Law Commission in its 272nd Report suggested that the members of the newly constituted tribunals should possess the qualifications akin to the judges of the High Court and District Court. The Report further recommended uniformity in the appointments. C 4.4 It is further submitted that as such this Court in the case of UPCPBA (supra) directed to frame model rules under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986. It is submitted that by the said , model rules were approved by this Court and accepted by all the parties. It is submitted by adopting the model rules, many states notified the Consumer Protection (Appointment, Salary, Allowances and Conditions of Service D of President and Members of State Commission and District Forum) Rules, 2017 (hereinafter referred to as the Rules, 2017). It is further submitted that the State of Maharashtra also adopted and approved the model rules on 24.05.2019 in exercise of powers conferred under the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986. It is further submitted E that even prior thereto, model rules 2012 were already in existence in the State of Maharashtra under Section 30 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 and the said rules already had the provision of written examination of 100 marks for aspiring candidates/applicants for the post of President and Members of District Consumer Forum under Rule 10. 4.5 It is further submitted that as observed hereinabove this Court F approved the uniform model rules for appointment, salary, service condition etc., for the effective adjudication of consumer disputes under the Act, 1986. The said model rules were adopted by all the parties. It is submitted that the adjudicatory powers of the consumer fora/commissions are judicial functions. There is no change in the judicial functions of the G President and Members of the State and District Commission. There is no change in the judicial functions of President and Members of the State and District Commission even post-Consumer Protection Act, 2019 (Act, 2019) which have come into force with effect from 20.07.2020. It is submitted that there is no change in the legislative scheme concerning H 308 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A adjudication of consumer disputes under the Act of 2019. It is submitted that as such the Consumer Protection Act, 2019 has come into force with effect from 20.07.2020 by repealing the erstwhile statute Consumer Protection Act, 1986. It is submitted that the sole intention of the legislature is to provide adequate safeguards to the consumers due to drastic changes in the modern market and the constantly emerging B vulnerability of the consumers.