10.2 PW 2- Robi Phukan, brother of the deceased, is an eye- witness as also alleged to be injured. According to him, the deceased, his mother and Jogmaya his wife and he himself were present at home on E the fateful day at about 12 noon when the accused persons armed with dao etc. came to their house and enquired about Pradip (deceased). On seeing the accused persons coming, the deceased went out through the back door of the house then the accused persons chased him. The deceased entered Bhuban’s (PW-5) house (which is the same house as Anjana’s (PW-4) as they are husband and wife). The accused also entered F Bhuban’s house and assaulted Pradip, the deceased. Kuleswar hit him with a dao while he was trying to enter. Then I did not see who assaulted with dau on the deceased’s neck. Thereafter the accused persons came near him and caused injury by assaulting with lathis. The police arrived there a little later and took him to the hospital for treatment. He further G states that he sustained injuries on his head and hands. In the cross- examination he states that the police did not question him with regard to the incident. When the accused persons came, he was outside the house. However, on seeing the accused persons entering the house, he also came in. He came out when the deceased was chased by the accused. He then states that the police personnel and the accused persons caught H 626 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A hold of him. He claims to have seen the hacking of his brother. He denies the suggestion that actually he did not see anything. He admits that before the police he had not stated that Kuleswar and Dhule had assaulted the deceased. He further goes on to say that the police personnel had come along with the accused to his house. Another relevant fact which he mentions in the cross-examination is that prior to the incident B of his brother’s murder, police had registered a case against them on the basis of allegation made by Pulen Phukan. They had appeared in the court while the police were searching for them. On the day of the occurrence police along with the accused came to his house searching for him and his brother (deceased). C 10.3 Jogmaya Phukan (PW-3) is the wife of Robi Phukan (PW- 2). She has given a similar version that while she was sitting at home with her husband, the deceased and her mother-in-law at around 12 noon the accused persons armed with dao and axes came to their house. The deceased on seeing them went out through the back door and entered D Anjana’s house. He was chased by the accused who also entered into Anjana’s house. She saw Kuleswar assaulting the deceased with an iron rod and Dulen assaulting on the neck with an axe. The neck had almost separated from the body and it was hanging. The accused persons took her husband Robi Phukan (PW2) to the Police Station assaulting him.