10 of 2012. With Miscellaneous Application No. 1710 of 2023 in C.A. No.5401 of 2019. Appearances: Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Mukul Rohatgi, Sajan Poovayya, Vipin Sanghi, Sr. Advs., Milanka Chaudhary, Ms. Naina Dubey, Alok Tripathi, Mahesh Agarwal, Ms. Amrita Narayan, Manu Krishnan, Mohit D. Ram, Ashwin Rakesh, Abhishek Kakkar, Arshit, Anubhav Sharma, Advs. for the Appellant. K.M. Nataraj, A.S.G., Apoorv Kurup, Pranay Ranjan, Ritwiz Rishabh, Durga Dutt, Sarthak Karol, Ms. Yogya Rajpurohit, Amrish Kumar, Sachin 804 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Sharma, Anil Kumar Gulati, Ms. Nur Tandon, Naman Sharma, Kunal Jindia, Chitran Singhal, Shewta Bharti, Yashodhara Burmon Roy, Ritesh Kumar, Ms. Neelam Rathore, Shubham Seth, Anuj Panwar, Nikilesh Ramachandran, Buddy Ranganadhan, Ms. Nishtha Kumar, Prantar Basu Choudhary, Sahil Tagotra, Arjun Mahajan, Sumit R. Sharma, Raghvendra Budholiya, Piyush Gautam, Advs. for the Respondents. / OF THE SUPREME COURT SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J. 1. We thought that our in Delhi International Airport Limited v. Airport Economic Regulatory Authority of India1 would have resolved all the issues. It appears not. 2. Applications have been fi led by both Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) and Mumbai International Airport Limited (MIAL) predicated on the discovery of what is stated to be a ‘new and important piece of evidence’, which was not within the knowledge of the applicants even after exercising due diligence. The applicants have referred to a letter dated 24.05.2011, which is an internal correspondence between the Ministry of Civil Aviation (for short ‘MoCA’) and the Airport Economic Regulatory Authority (for short ‘AERA’) inter alia stating that “Accordingly, in this case the proposed approach is to back solve the initial aeronautical Asset Base given the aeronautical charges. In the State Support Agreement, in Schedule-I the method for calculating Asset Base for the fi rst regulatory period has been defi ned.” 3. The aforesaid is stated to have given rise to an error apparent on the face of the record in paras 50 and 63 of the . 4. If we turn to our under the heading “Calculation of Hypothetical Regulatory Asset Base (HRAB)”, we have proceeded on the basis that the two airports in question were not set up de novo but instead, existing airports were taken over. Consequently, assets as refl ected in the 1 2022 SCC Online SC 850. DELHI INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT LTD. v. AIRPORTS ECONOMIC 805 REGULATORY AUTHORITY & ORS. [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] books of accounts would record depreciation. This had created diffi culty in arriving at a value of the Regulatory Base for the fi rst year of the fi rst control period. Apart from this, there was a common book of assets for several airports across India. Thus, the State Support Agreement (for short ‘SSA’) provided for HRAB to be derived by working backwards, which would have a cascading eff ect for successive years and was thus crucial. In the formula in question this would imply that the term ‘RB’ as defi ned, thus, base calculation for RB0 would have an impact on the calculation of RB1 and for further years.