The submission that the assertion about the appellant having strangled the victim, by pressing her saree around the neck, does not correlate with the post-mortem examination is also untenable. As noticed, the medical officers have clearly H 946 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A established that the child suffered strangulation with a wound measuring 20 cm in length and 2 cm in breadth around the neck and with thyroid cartilage bone having been fractured. PW8 also opined that if outer end of the saree was twisted and put around the neck and the person was strangled, there was a chance of such a wound. The saree in question had been duly recovered B from the appellant and was said to be carrying blood stains. [Para 17][983-D-E] 8. In the given set of facts and circumstances, the motive as suggested by the prosecution, i.e., the desire of the appellant not to live in her matrimonial house and, on being forced to do so C only because of the child, she being not interested in the existence of the child, though presents a somewhat difficult proposition but, at the same time, cannot be ruled out altogether, particularly looking to the fact that, until 18.06.2007, the appellant was living with her parents and she was forced to come to Perambalur for D the purpose of upbringing of the child with the family of her husband. [Para 18][983-F] 9. Another submission made on behalf of the appellant, that her husband has not been examined by the prosecution, does not take her case any further. Her husband was not shown to be E in the country at the time of incident and he was not a direct witness in relation to the material facts to be established by the prosecution. Other way round, if at all the appellant considered him to be a material witness, nothing prevented her from making a prayer to the Court for his examination and nothing prevented her from making specific submissions in that regard during her F examination under Section 313 CrPC. [Para 19][983-G-H; 984- A] 10. As regards the statement under Section 313 CrPC, the appellant has not given any explanation whatsoever and has not made any statement except denying the circumstances put to G her. In the facts of the present case, when the prosecution evidence categorically established the fact that the victim child was last seen alive with the appellant only; she was required to explain the circumstances leading to the demise of the child. Upon her failure to do so and failure to give the explanation with regard to the circumstances under which death may have taken place, H VAHITHA v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU 947 burden of Section 106 of the Evidence Act operates heavily against A the appellant, as noticeable from the decisions above referred, particularly in the cases of Satpal and Sabitri Samantaray . [Para 20][984-B-C] 11. The submissions made in the alternative that in the given set of circumstances, the present case could only be of culpable B homicide not amounting to murder has only been noted to be rejected.