15. Counter affi davits have been fi led on behalf of the Union of India in these proceedings. The Learned Attorney General has submitted that 108 women offi cers have been empaneled for promotion as Colonels on the same basis which would indicate that there has been no discrimination. The Attorney general has relied on the explanation tendered in the Counter Affi davit of the Union of India. 16. In the counter affi davit, it has been explained that there is a distinction between the procedure which is followed for the conduct of Special No 3 SB and Special No 5 SB. In the latter, the offi cer who is considered for the grant of PC gets only one ‘look’ by the Board. On the 520 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. other hand, in the case of Special No 3 SB, each offi cer gets a mandatory three looks (fresh look, fi rst review and fi nal review) by the Board. For each look, there is a cutoff date for the CR. Ordinarily, these three looks in Special No 3 SB are given to the offi cers of the Indian Army in a span of three years. However, in the case of the women offi cers in question, the three mandatory looks were given at the same time in January 2023 to ensure that (i) women offi cers who had just received PC should not wait for another two or three years for being considered for promotion in No 3 SB; and (ii) once they are empanelled, they would be posted to command appointments to enable them to earn requisite experience for being considered for further promotion by No 2 SB. It has been submitted that the profi le of women offi cers has not been compared with the male counterparts, but with women offi cers who were their batch mates. In this context, it would be appropriate to extract from the following averments which are contained in the counter affi davit: “To elaborate, every offi cer is given three looks for promotion by Selection Board. If an Offi cer is not empanelled in their Fresh (1st) look, then he/she is considered for promotion in Second look (First Review) with additional input of one more Confi dential Report. If again not empanelled, then Third look (Final Review) with one more additional input of Confi dential Report is granted to the Offi cer. It is for this reason that not all the latest CRs are taken into consideration for the reason that the second and third look would then be rendered otiose. If the contention of the Petitioners/Applicants of considering their CRs as on date is accepted, then the review looks (second and third looks) for promotion would not have any additional input and the Special No.3 SB would be considering the same profi le all three times and that too, with Confi dential Reports covered only in the rank of Lt Col. This would have been contrary to laid down Selection Board policies which mandate additional inputs for second and third look.