As already explained, Article 13 (1) only has the eff ect of nullifying or rendering all inconsistent existing laws ineff ectual or nugatory and devoid of any legal force or binding eff ect only with respect to the exercise 57 In short, “1931 Act” CBI v. R.R. KISHORE 43 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] of fundamental rights on and after the date of the commencement of the Constitution. It has no retrospective eff ect and if, therefore, an act was done before the commencement of the Constitution in contravention of the provisions of any law which, after the Constitution, becomes void with respect to the exercise of any of the fundamental rights, the inconsistent law is not wiped out so far as the past act is concerned, for, to say that it is, will be to give the law retrospective eff ect. There is no. fundamental right that a person shall not be prosecuted and punished for an off ence committed before the Constitution came into force. So far as the past acts are concerned the law exists, notwithstanding that it does not exist with respect to the future exercise of fundamental rights.” However, Justice Fazal Ali was of the view that though there can be no doubt that Article 13(1) will have no retrospective operation and transactions which are past and closed, and rights which have already vested will remain untouched. However, with regard to inchoate matters which were still not determined when the Constitution came into force, and as regards proceedings not begun, or pending at the time of enforcement of the Constitution and not yet prosecuted to a fi nal , the answer to this question would be that the law which has been declared by the Constitution to be completely ineff ectual, can no longer be applied. To be precise, paragraph no. 63 of the report from SCC Online referred has been reproduced hereunder: “There can be no doubt that Article 13(1) will have no retrospective operation, and transactions which are past and closed, and rights which have already vested, will remain untouched. But with regard to inchoate matters which were still not determined when the Constitution came into force, and as regards proceedings whether not yet begun, or pending at the time of the enforcement of the Constitution and not yet prosecuted to a fi nal , the very serious question arises as to whether a law which has been declared by the Constitution to be completely ineff ectual can yet be applied.” (iii) In the case of Behram Khurshed Pesikaka (supra), a seven- judge Bench of this Court was considering the legal eff ect of the declaration made in the case of State of Bombay Vs. F.N. 44 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Balsara58, whereby part of Section 13 clause (b) of the Bombay Prohibition Act (Act 25 of 1949) was declared unconstitutional. It was held by the majority opinion that declaration of such provision as invalid and unconstitutional will only mean that it is inoperative and ineff ective and thus unenforceable.