for the Respondent. The of the Court was delivered by S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J. F 1. The appellant had imported a “Cutter Suction Dredger” along with other accessories and equipments including Pipes, Anchor Boats, Multicats, Dredging pumping units, Engines and other spares and accessories. These were classified under the Chapter Heading 8905 10 00 of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (hereinafter “the Act”). The appellant G claimed the benefit of Nil rate of duty, in terms of Notification No. 21/ 2002- CUS dated 01.03.2002. The appellant had relied upon a certificate dated 27.02.2008 issued by the Chartered Engineer, based on the inspection of the goods. After verification of the Bill of Entry, the Assistant Commissioner was of the opinion that the multicats, M.S. pipes, imported H M/S DHARTI DREDGING AND INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. COMM’R OF 741 CUSTOMS AND CENTRAL EXCISE, GUNTUR [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] dredging pumping units and other goods were classifiable under different A tariff headings and were not entitled toexemption under the notification as “DREDGERS”. 2. Feeling aggrieved, the assessee appellant preferred an appeal to the Commissioner of Customs (Appeals), Guntur (hereinafter “the Appellate Commissioner”). The Appellate Commissioner, by an B dated 30.06.2008, after elaborately analysing the functions of each individual part, granted relief and held that nine items were entitled to exemption. These were set out in paragraph 25 of the Appellate Commissioner’s , which is extracted for easy reference: C D E 3. The Appellate Commissioner had while granting relief, relied upon the previous of the CESTAT reported as Boskalis Dredging India Pvt. Ltd. Vs Commissioner of Customs, Bhubaneshwar, [2001 (135) E.L.T. 1396] (“hereinafter as “Boskalis Dredging India Pvt. F Ltd”). 4. The revenue appealed to the CESTAT. The CESTAT relied upon other previous decisions and took into consideration Chapter Note to Section XVII of the Act which states that ‘parts’ and ‘parts of accessories’, could not apply to certain articles, whether or not they are G identifiable, as far as the goods of that section were concerned. Note 2(e) was interpreted to held that the parts – which the Appellate Commissioner held were essential to a Cutter Dredger, were separate articles. CESTAT upset the findings of the Appellate Commissioner and restored the of the Assistant Commissioner. H 742 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 5. The appellant urges that the impugned wrongly interfered with the Appellate Commissioner’s determination. It was submitted that each article, that were denied the benefit of exemption, performed functions integrally connected with a Cutter Dredger. Learned counsel relied upon the decision in Commissioner of Customs Vs. Boskalis Dredging India Pvt. Ltd. [2002 (139) ELT A 313 (SC)] by which this B Court affirmed the CEGAT’s in Boskalis Dredging India Pvt. Ltd. (Supra). 6. Learned counsel for the revenue relied upon the decision of this Court in Steel Authority of India Ltd. vs. Commissioner, Central Excise & Customs, Bhubaneshwar [2022 SCC Online (SC) 1232]. In C that decision, this Court had to deal with the question as to whether transportation of hot coke from a coke oven battery with the aid of a guide car resulted in transport vehicle i.e., the guide car being an integral part of the coke oven battery.