As such, there was no individual rejection but a general rejection without applying one’s mind to the contents of the certifi cate. It was, thus, highly improper for the appellant to reject the candidature of the third respondent outright in the absence of a proper appreciation of the certifi cate. 18. Even if it is assumed that the certifi cate was duly looked into, we are inclined to the view on facts (given the contents of the certifi cate produced by the third respondent and in the absence of conclusive information as to the nature of education imparted to the third respondent at the intermediate level) that the appellant ought to have, in the least, requested for a clarifi cation from the said Board as to whether the third respondent could be treated to have cleared the intermediate examination of 1991 in “vocational stream” or in the category of ‘Regular’ and, thus, was (in)eligible to compete for UNION OF INDIA v. UZAIR IMRAN & ORS. 1147 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] appointment in terms of the 1990 Rules, as amended. It was not within the province of the appellant to scrutinise the certifi cate of the third respondent with an approach of “one eye open, one eyed closed” and declare that his intermediate education was in a “vocational stream”, overlooking or ignoring that the self-same certifi cate bore the remark ‘Regular’. The determination of the appellant, in the present case, undoubtedly hinged on its scarce knowledge of the nature of the third respondent’s education, evincing that his exclusion was not on the basis of a valid and proper reason and was, decidedly, arbitrary. 19. The principle that if two views are reasonably possible on a given set of facts and that the courts would stay away from interference and not substitute its view for the view taken by the employer, may not apply in a case of the present nature where the confl icting views could be resolved by a mere reference to the certifi cate issuing authority to clarify what the certifi cate connoted. After all, the future of a prospective appointee called for an approach consistent with the preambular promise of securing justice and equality of opportunity, which the appellant failed to secure. 20. The third respondent, in our view, has been discriminated against and arbitrarily deprived of the fruit of selection. At this distance of time, it would not be worthwhile to a remand particularly when the appellant is responsible for the lis being prolonged in excess of two decades. There has been utter carelessness on its part in not producing the Amendment Rules and the gazette notifi cation before the Tribunal. The third respondent, therefore, cannot suff er for such carelessness and has to be given what is due to him. At the same time, we cannot overlook that by passage of time, the third respondent has crossed the maximum age for entry into public employment. He is 50 years old now and the age of superannuation is reported to be 60 years.