The High Court accordingly concluded that the provisions of Sections 4(1), 4(8) and 9 of E the Act of 2007, in substance, empowered the AFRC to be only satisfied that the fee proposed by private professional educational institutions did not amount to profiteering or commercialization of education and was based on the factors mentioned in Section 9(1) of the Act of 2007 and held that the Act of 2007, therefore, did not violate the right of the private F professional educational institution to charge its own fee. Accepting the said interpretation, this Court observed that the AFRC which is set up for that purpose is discharging only a regulatory function, as the fee which a particular educational institution seeks to charge from its students has to be suggested by the said educational institution itself and the AFRC is empowered to satisfy itself that the fee proposed by the educational G institution did not amount to profiteering or commercialization of education and was based on the intelligible factors mentioned in Section 9(1) of the Act of 2007. This Court, therefore, concluded that it was only a regulatory measure and did not take away the power of the educational institutions to fix their own fees. H ICON EDUCATION SOCIETY v. STATE OF MADHYA 735 PRADESH & OTHERS [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] 14. The supplementing opinion of R. Banumathi J noted that, though A Section 9 of the Act of 2007 empowered the AFRC to determine the fees, the High Court had read down Sections 4(1), 4(8) and 9 of Act of 2007, by holding that those provisions “in substance empower the committee to be only satisfied that the fee proposed by a private professional educational institution did not amount to profiteering B or commercialization of education and was based on the factors mentioned in Section 9(1) of the Act 2007...”. The learned Judge accordingly held that the State had the legislative competence to enact the Act of 2007 and regulation of fixation of the fees was to protect the right of the students in having access to higher education without being subjected to exploitation in the form of profiteering. The learned Judge C concurred with the majority view in upholding the validity of the impugned legislation and affirmed the decision of the High Court. 15. It is, therefore, too late in the day for the appellant society to again seek to challenge the validity of the Act of 2007, as the provisions of this enactment have already been read down by this Court to mean D that the AFRC would have the power only to regulate the fee once the same is proposed by the educational institution itself, keeping in mind the parameters encapsulated in Section 9(1) thereof. 16. Therefore, as matters stand, the Act of 2007 has been interpreted to mean that the AFRC, constituted thereunder, exercises E only the power of ‘regulation’ in respect of the fees proposed by the institution, conditioned by the parameters in Section 9(1) of the Act of 2007.