On the partition of ancestral property, the property falling to the share of the parents of such children is regarded as their self-acquired and absolute property, and there is no reason why such children will have no share in such property since such children are equated under the amended law with legitimate off spring of a valid marriage. However, the only limitation is that during the lifetime of their parents such children cannot ask for partition but they can exercise this right only after the death of the parent; 368 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. (x) The interpretation of the Court must be guided by the constitutional principle of individual dignity. Hence, though, the relationship between the parents may not be sanctioned by law but the birth of a child in such a relationship must be viewed independently. However, there still exists some limitation of the property rights of the children in that their right is confi ned to the property of their parents; and (xi) Section 16(3), as amended, does not impose any restriction on the property right of such children except limiting it to the property of their parents and hence such children will have a right to whatever becomes the property of their parents, whether self-acquired or ancestral. 53.There is a degree of contradiction in the referring which needs to be clarifi ed and set at rest at this stage. The two judge Bench has, on the one hand, specifi cally noted that “the prohibition contained in Section 16(3) will apply to such children with respect to property of any person other than their parents”.49 The Court has also noted that “in the case of joint family property such children will be entitled only to a share in their parents’50 property but they cannot claim it on their right”. The Court then holds that logically on the partition of an ancestral property, the property falling in the share of the parents of such children is regarded as their self-acquired and absolute property and there is no reason why such children will have no share in such property since they are equated under the law with legitimate off -spring. At the same time, during the life-time of the parents, such a child cannot seek partition. Moreover, the right is confi ned to the property of their parents. From the above observations it appears that the Court has recognised that while conferring legitimacy in terms of sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of Section 16 to children born from void or voidable marriages, Parliament has circumscribed the entitlement to the property of such children by observing that nothing contained in those provisions shall be construed as conferring a right in or to the property of any person other than the parents. Having noticed 49 Revanasiddappa v. Mallik Arjun, (2011) 11 SCC 1 50 Para 38 page 11 REVANASIDDAPPA & ANR. v. MALLIKARJUN & ORS. 369 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] this, the Court has also observed that in the case of joint family property such children will be entitled only to a share in their parent’s property but cannot claim it of their own right as a consequence of which they cannot seek partition during the life-time of their parents.