6, herein), which we here refer as the “Federation”. The Federation in turn appointed Lokhandwala Kataria Constructions (respondent No. 5) as its Developer. SRA consequently issued a Letter of Intent (LoI) on 16.04.2005, in favour of the Developer, approving the proposed Slum Rehabilitation Scheme, submitted before them. 9. The work for construction of the nine towers commenced but was stalled shortly afterwards in 2007. Since then, the project was moving only in fi ts and starts. This was due to the interference caused by a minority section of the slum dwellers. These slum dwellers are also members of the Federation though have formed a separate minority society for themselves, 732 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. called “Sayunkta Sangharsh Samiti” (hereinafter referred to as ‘SSS’), which is the present appellant no. 1 before us, and to which we would refer in a while. 10. Based on the provisions of law regarding redevelopment of a slum, the procedure for the implementation of a Slum Rehabilitation Scheme has been summarised and published by SRA in form of “Guidelines for the Implementation of Slum Rehabilitation Schemes in Greater Mumbai” which was published in September, 1997. The procedure mandates that: “70% or more of the eligible hutment-dwellers in a slum or pavement in a viable stretch at one place have to show their willingness to join Slum Rehabilitation Scheme and come together to form a cooperative housing society of all eligible hutment-dwellers through a resolution to that eff ect.” 11. This Court has upheld this procedure in a catena of s which include Ram Chandra Mahadev Jagpat and Ors. vs Chief Executive Offi cer and Others (2006) 11 SCC 6611; Pramila Singh Suman vs State of Maharashtra and Others (2009) 2 SCC 7292; Balasaheb Arjun Torbole and Others vs Administrator and Divisional Commissioner and Others (2015) 6 SCC 5343 12. In 2007, the project being stalled by a minority section of the Federation, the Developer fi led a civil suit before the City Civil Court, Bombay seeking injunction against the defendant nos.1 to 15 who were inhabitants of the slum, and as per the scheme had an entitlement for a fl at each in the residential complex which was to be constructed by the developer i.e., the plaintiff , but these defendants were not letting the Developer make construction of the nine towers which had to be constructed within a stipulated time. Defendant no.16 was the federation and the recitals of the plaint clearly states that defendant no.16 is only a proforma party, it is actually defendant nos.1 to 15 who were creating obstructions in the construction of the towers, which the plaintiff was mandated to construct as per the scheme. To our mind, this Civil Suit was not even maintainable in view of Section 42 of the 1971 Act, which bars the jurisdiction of Civil 1 Para 28 2 Para 18 3 Paras 14 & 15 SAYUNKTA SANGARSH SAMITI & ANR v. THE STATE OF 733 MAHARASHTRA [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] Courts in matters relating to slum development.