10, No. 1 (Winter, 1969), pp 53-61 216 See Madhu Kishwar v. State of Bihar, (1996) 5 SCC 125; Ashoka Kumar Thakur v. Union of India, (2008) 6 SCC 1; Indian Medical Assn. v. Union of India, (2011) 7 SCC 179; Indra Sawhney v. Union of India, 1992 Supp (3) SCC 217 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1371 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] prohibits discrimination on the ground of sexual orientation because it is an ascribed characteristic, and the argument of the learned Solicitor General that sexual orientation is not a ascribed characteristic (and is thus, not protected under Article 15) fails to give eff ect to the full purport of the anti-discrimination principle encompassed in Article 15. A core diff erence between ascribed and achieved status is that the former is considered to be irreversible (where a person is born with it) but the latter is reversible.217 The assumption that Article 15 only protects the status that a person is born with and not an identity they choose runs the risk of viewing persons as helpless individuals. It also misses the crucial point that a person who chooses an identity can also be discriminated against. A few of the grounds stipulated in Article 15 may be reversed by the exercise of choice. For example, persons undergo sex-reassignment surgeries to alter their body to align it with their gender. When a person wishes to choose a diff erent label for their gender, they face other forms of discrimination and stigma diff erent from the discrimination that they faced earlier. Merely because a person by exercise of choice changes their sex, it cannot be argued that the protection provided under Article 15 is not available to them. 250. The Court must also be conscious of the fact that a person may face discrimination both due to their chosen identity and imposed identity. For example, even after a person changes their religion, it is possible that they face discrimination due to their new religious identity and their old caste or religious identity. This is not to say that all persons choose to change the characteristics that they are born with. While a few people by exercising their choice (successfully and unsuccessfully) alter what is assumed by the society to be their ascribed status, a few others may not wish to change their trait. 251. The discussion above clearly elucidates that the distinction between ascribed and achieved status is not as clear-cut as it may seem. The understanding of Article 15(1) cannot be premised on the distinction between ascribed and achieved status. Such an understanding does not truly capture the essence of the anti-discrimination principle. The anti- discrimination principle incorporated in Article 15 identifi es grounds on the basis of which a person shall not be discriminated. These grounds 217 Ibid. 137 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. are markers of identity. The reason for constitutionally entrenching these fi ve markers of identity (that is, religion, caste, race, sex, and place of birth) is that individuals (and groups) have historically and socially been discriminated against based on these markers of identities.