In the instant case, the trial court, which had jurisdiction to allow or dismiss the review application, dismissed the review application on merits. If it had granted the review, the aggrieved party would have had a right to fi le an appeal under XLIII Rule 1 (w) read with XLVII Rule 7 of the CPC. And if it had allowed the review and simultaneously altered/ modifi ed/reversed the decree, the aggrieved party would have had a right to fi le an appeal against the said decree. But, if the revisional court does the same, as has been done by the High Court while passing the impugned , an anomalous situation would arise. The decree passed by the trial RAHIMAL BATHU & OTHERS v. ASHIYAL BEEVI 713 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] court would stand modifi ed by the High Court. Therefore, if the defendant(s) against whom the decree is passed were to challenge the same, they would be at a disadvantage on account of the merger. Whereas, from the stand point of the plaintiff -respondent, even if we assume that the trial court’s decree is inconsistent with its fi nding on the validity of the gift in favour of Khaja Mohideen, she can challenge the same in an appeal against the decree even after rejection of the review application. In the event of such an appeal by the plaintiff , the defendant(s), even if they had themselves not fi led an appeal against the trial court’s decree, would have a right to take objection to the adverse fi nding(s) under XLI Rule 22 of the CPC. However, if the revisional court’s is allowed to stand, owing to modifi cation of the decree by the revisional court, to which in normal course an appeal would lie, the right of an appeal to the aggrieved party would get seriously prejudiced. 28. For all the reasons above, we are of the considered view that where an appealable decree has been passed in a suit, no revision should be entertained under Section 115 of the CPC against an rejecting on merits a review of that decree. The proper remedy for the party whose application for review of an appealable decree has been rejected on merits is to fi le an appeal against that decree and if, in the meantime, the appeal is rendered barred by time, the time spent in diligently pursuing the review application can be condoned by the Court to which an appeal is fi led. 29. In view of our conclusion above, the revision of the respondent against rejection of her application for review of an appealable decree ought not to have been entertained by the High Court. The appeal is, therefore, allowed. The impugned and of the High Court is set aside. 30. However, this will not aff ect the right of the plaintiff /respondent to fi le an appeal against the decree of the trial court along with an application to condone the delay, if any, in fi ling the appeal.