The Fundamental Rights can be regulated by law made under Article 19(2) to Article 19(6). Could F it be said that, in view of the power to regulate the Fundamental Right, no right exists?We are conscious that in the case of Fundamental Rights under Article 19, it could be said that the Right exists and it is only made subject to a law, which may be made. However, could it be said that whenever a law is made by Parliament, acting even within the boundaries G of Article 326, by amending or adding to the disqualifications, even if it be limited by the disqualifications declared in Article 326, that such a law could be described as falling foul of the Constitution, as contained in Article 326? 137. Take for instance, a new corrupt practice is added by law. H Would it be vulnerable on the ground that it takes away the Constitutional ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 123 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] right under Article 326? We would think that it may not. What would be A the position if the Legislature had not provided for any corrupt practice or a crime as a disqualification. Then there would be no such disqualification.However, the appropriate Legislature is also limited in the matter of the disqualifications by Article 326. In that sense, it could be said that Article 326 provides a constitutional right, subject to B restrictions which the law provides for, which must finally be traced to its shores. Section 62(1) of the 1950 Act provides the fulfilment of the goal of adult suffrage guaranteed in Article 326. Article 326(3) and Article 326(4) are only meant to provide against the misuse of the right. Section 62(2) is clearly reconcilable with Article 326. Section 62(5) again appears to be a restriction. C 138. In regard to Article 326, we may observe, when the Founding Fathers clearly created a right on the citizen, who was an adult, (the age was originally 21 years and it was lowered to 18 years), to have his name entered in the electoral roll unless he has incurred disqualifications, which, in turn, were limited to those mentioned in Article 326, they were D to be provided by law. It is clear that a law necessarily had to be made. The law was, indeed, made as we have noted by the 1950 and 1951 Acts, providing for the true contours of the disqualification limited to what was provided in Article 326. Imagine a situation, if Parliament had not passed 1950 and 1951 Acts, it would have led to a situation where the foundational democratic process of holding elections to the House of E the People and the Legislative Assemblies would have been rendered impossible. A law had to be made and it was made. Not making the law would have led to a constitutional breakdown. We make these remarks to remind ourselves that treating the Constitution as the grundnorm, providing the very edifice of the State and the Legal System, the making F of the law by the Legislative Body, which is a power entrusted to the Legislative Branch, may come with a duty.