[2023] 14 S.C.R. 959 : 2023 INSC 934 CASE DETAILS INDRAKUNWAR v. THE STATE OF CHHATTISGARH (Criminal Appeal No. 1730 of 2012) OCTOBER 19, 2023 [ABHAY S. OKA AND SANJAY KAROL, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether, in explaining the purported incriminating circumstance against her, the convict-appellant ought to have disclosed, over and above denial of any relationship with the deceased child, the specifi cs of her miscarriage and its aftermath; particularly when the prosecution has failed to discharge its burden of establishing such relationship between the deceased and the convict -appellant. Constitution of India – Right to Privacy – Personal life of a woman accused of committing a crime – Failure of Prosecution to discharge its duty: Held: The essence of a woman’s fundamental right to equality and privacy, regarding private matters of bodily and psychological integrity is the ability to make autonomous decisions about her own body and reproductive choices – It is entirely within the realm of privacy of a woman to decide whether or not to bear a child or abort her pregnancy (within the framework of law) – In the instant case, the guilt has been placed on appellant-convict without any solid foundation thereto since no relationship of any nature whatsoever could be established between her and the deceased child discovered in the dabri – The conclusion drawn is simply on the basis that the convict-appellant was a woman living alone and had been pregnant (as admitted in the statement u/s. 313 CrPC) – This, in the Court’s view, was in itself suspect since she had been ‘deserted’ by her husband – Her statement, nowhere refl ects an answer to a question concerning the particulars of the child that she was admittedly carrying but denied that the deceased was not the one recovered from the dabri – Although there is a requirement by law 959 960 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. to disclose the aspects required to adjudicate in a criminal matter, such duty cannot unreasonably and unwarrantedly step over the fundamental right of privacy. [Paras 27, 36] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s. 313 – Principles as evolved over period of time for statements u/s. 313 Cr.PC. : Held: 1. The object, evident from the Section 313 Cr.PC. itself, is to enable the accused to themselves explain any circumstances appearing in the evidence against them; 2. The intent is to establish a dialogue between the Court and the accused – This process benefi ts the accused and aids the Court in arriving at the fi nal verdict; 3. The process enshrined is not a matter of procedural formality but is based on the cardinal principle of natural justice, i.e., audi alteram partem; 4. The ultimate test when concerned with the compliance of the Section is to enquire and ensure whether the accused got the opportunity to say his piece; 5. In such a statement, the accused may or may not admit involvement or any incriminating circumstance or may even off er an alternative version of events or interpretation – The accused may not be put to prejudice by any omission or inadequate questioning; 6.