Section 11(2) of the EPF Act sounds attractive, but if the two provisions are read in the light of the objects sought to be achieved by the legislature by C enacting the same, it is not possible to agree with the learned counsel. As noted earlier, the object of the amendment made in the EPF Act by Act 40 of 1973 was to treat the dues payable by the employer as first charge on the assets of the establishment and to ensure that the same are recovered in priority to other debts. As against this, the amendments made in the Companies D Act in 1985 are intended to create a charge pari passu in favour of the workmen on every security available to the secured creditors of the company for recovery of their debts. There is nothing in the language of Section 529-A which may give an indication that the legislature wanted to create first charge in E respect of the workmen’s dues, as defined in Sections 529(3)(b) and 529-A and debts due to the secured creditors. 44. Another rule of interpretation of statutes is that if two special enactments contain provisions which give an overriding effect to the provisions contained therein, then the Court is required to F consider the purpose and the policy underlying the two Acts and the clear intendment conveyed by the language of the relevant provisions.” 102. Apparently, the Court apart from noticing the objects sought to be achieved by the enactment took into consideration the fact that Section 529A of the Companies Act did not give any indication that the G lawgiver wanted to create a first charge in respect of the preferred creditors under the said provision whereas a first charge stood created under the EPF Act. 103. In the context of Section 28 of the Nationalisation Act read with the object of the Act and bearing in mind the scheme of the Act and H 880 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A the language employed as it is, we would think that the later enactment must prevail. This is subject to what we shall hold hereinafter. 104. We do not think that the appellants have indicated any decision of this Court which would establish the appellants’ case. 105. In Ashoka Smokeless Coal India (P) Ltd. v. Union of B India25, the Court was concerned with the validity of the decision taken by the first appellant herein to go in for e-auction of coal. It must be noticed that the was pronounced on 01.12.2006. At that time, coal was an essential commodity under the Essential Commodities Act. This aspect is echoed in the . The Court went on to hold that the holding of e-auction did not amount to price fixation. In the course of C its , the Court, inter alia held: “106. It may not be correct to say that any action which is not in consonance with the provisions of Part IV of the Constitution would be ultra vires but there cannot be any doubt whatsoever that the principles contained therein would form a relevant D consideration for determining a question in regard to price fixation of an essential commodity.