[2023] 13 S.C.R. 152 : 2023 INSC 864 CASE DETAILS BTL EPC LTD. v. MACAWBER BEEKAY PVT LTD AND OTHERS (Civil Appeal No. 5968 of 2023) SEPTEMBER 18, 2023 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI, J.B. PARDIWALA AND MANOJ MISRA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: The issue pertains to the pre-qualifi cation requirement for bidders, notifi ed by the contractor; and whether the bid submitted by the successful bidder was liable to be rejected on the ground that the Chinese company with whom it had entered into a consortium agreement was not registered with the competent authority in terms of the Public Procurement . Contract – Complex technical contract – Power of judicial review – Writ petition by the competing bidder challenging the contract awarded to the successful bidder on the ground that it was in breach of conditions, the tender submitted did not meet the technical requirements – Dismissed by the Single Judge of the High Court, however the Division Bench set aside the – Interference with: Held: In contracts involving complex technical issues, the Court should exercise restraint in exercising the power of judicial review – Even if a party to the contract is ‘State’ within the meaning of Art. 12 of the Constitution, amenable to the writ jurisdiction of the High Court or the Supreme Court, the Court should not readily interfere in commercial or contractual matters – Court ought to defer to the discretion of the tender inviting authority which is best placed to interpret their terms – Courts to review the decision-making process and examine arbitrariness or mala fi des, if any – Neither the State Power Generation Company nor the contractor raised any dispute as regards the eligibility of the successful bidder to bid for the contract – Challenge was addressed by the competing bidder whose bid was much higher than 152 BTL EPC LTD. v. MACAWBER BEEKAY PVT LTD AND 153 OTHERS the successful bidder – Primary decision on whether the successful bidder meets the technical requirements of the tender on account of its collaborator being a Chinese company that was not registered had to be determined by the contractor – Contractor has not found that there was any breach – Contractor and the State Power Generation Company found that the agreement with the Chinese company was in the nature of a service agreement and not a “consortium” under the pre-qualifi cation requirements, thus, the registration requirement did not apply – Division Bench ought to have proceeded with circumspection and interfered only when the suff erred from perversity or error – Interference of the Division Bench in the of the Single Judge not warranted – Furthermore, setting aside the award of the contract would cause insuperable diffi culties in the implementation of the contract since the work under the contract has progressed, and both the State Power Generation Company and the contractor, being public entities have invested funds for the realization of the project – Thus, the of the Division Bench set aside and that of the Single Judge restored – Judicial restraint – Constitution of India.