A affirmed the and passed by the learned Single Judge. However, The High Court restricted the payment at the rate of Rs.533/ - per day to the Home Guards from January, 2020, instead of 10.11.2016, as directed by the learned Single Judge. 2.3 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned B and passed by the Division Bench of the High Court in W.A.No.319 of 2020, the original writ petitioners – Home Guards as well as the State of Orissa have preferred the present appeals. 3. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State of Orissa has vehemently submitted that the High Court has materially erred in directing C the State to pay Rs.533/- per day as Duty Call-up Allowance (hereinafter referred to as “DCA”) to the Home Guards working in the State and the same would be much more than the amount being paid to the Constables at the entry level recruited as per Odisha Group-C & Group-D (Contractual Appointment) Rules, 2013 (hereinafter referred to as the D Rule, 2013). 3.1 It is submitted that the High Court has failed to appreciate that earlier as per the 6th Pay Commission entitlement, the Constables at the entry level recruited as per Rule 2013 used to get Rs.7,200/- per month at entry level. Therefore, Home Guards in the State of Orissa E were entitled to get Rs.240/- per day as Daily Pay allowance/ Duty Call-up Allowance. It is submitted that however, after the 7th Pay Commission, the pay of Police Constable at entry level was revised to a consolidated remuneration of Rs.9,000/- per month as against Rs.7,200/- per month. It is submitted that therefore and accordingly, the payment to the Home Guards was also revised to Rs.300/- per day from Rs.240/- F per day apart from Rs.25/- per month towards Washing Allowance. It is submitted that therefore the State of Orissa as such complied the of this Court in the case of Grah Rakshak (supra). 3.2 It is further submitted that even the High Court has materially G erred in taking into consideration the recommendations made by the Director General, as apart from the fact that the recommendations made by the Director General were not binding on the State Government, the Director General had also not taken into consideration the remuneration of the Constables at entry level appointed under Rule 2013. It is submitted that rather the recommendations are based on the comparative daily H PRAKASH KUMAR JENA & ORS. v. THE STATE OF ODISHA 495 & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] allowances of the Home Guards paid by other States in the country. It is A submitted that the facts peculiar to the State of Orissa has not at all been taken into consideration by the Director General in the recommendations. It is submitted that therefore the High Court has failed in error by solely relying upon the recommendations of the Director General. 3.3 It is further submitted by learned counsel appearing on behalf B of the State that if the Home Guards in the State are paid daily pay allowance / Duty Call-up Allowance at the rate of Rs.533/- per day as directed by the High Court, it would create an anomalous situation because the Constables at entry level as per 7th Pay Commission would get only Rs.9,000/- per month, whereas at the rate of Rs.533/- per day, the Home C Guards would get more than Rs.15,000/- per month.