Article 189(2) is extracted below: “(2) A House of the Legislature of the State shall have power to act notwithstanding any vacancy in the membership thereof, and G any proceedings in the Legislature of a State shall be valid notwithstanding that it was discovered subsequently that some 28 See Shivraj Singh Chouhan (supra) and Pratap Gouda Patil (supra) where this Court observed that MLAs will be reflected in the strength of the House until they are disqualified and will have the right to participate in the proceedings. H 920 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A person who was not entitled so to do sat or voted or otherwise took part in the proceedings.” The provisions of Article 189(2) will have no bearing on the determination of this issue because members of the House lose their right to participate in the proceedings of the House only upon their B disqualification. The decision of the Speaker does not relate back to the date when the MLA indulged in prohibitory conduct. The decision of the Speaker and the consequences of disqualification are prospective. 93. Article 189(2) would only apply where it is subsequently discovered that an MLA was not entitled to have voted. That situation C does not arise here. Therefore, it was not necessary for the respondents to take recourse to Article 189(2). The proceedings of the House cannot be subject to the decision in the disqualification petitions when the decision is prospective. Moreover, the interpretation advanced by the petitioners would render the parliamentary system of governance unworkable. Parliament undertakes innumerable functions on the floor D of the House, including passing legislations and approving the annual budget. These actions of the legislators are irrevocable except in accordance with law. The constitutional sanctity of the proceedings in Parliament or the state legislatures cannot be set in a state of uncertainty. To allow the validity of such proceedings to be subject to a future decision E would lead to chaos. For the above reasons, the action of the House in electing the Speaker, Mr. Rahul Narwekar, on 3 July 2022 is not invalid merely because some MLAs who participated in the election faced disqualification proceedings. We accordingly answer the question referred to us as noted in Paragraphs 32(d) and 32(e) of this . iv. The power to appoint the Whip and the Leader of the Legislature F Party 94. The respondents have challenged the communication of the Deputy Speaker dated 21 June 2022 appointing Mr. Ajay Choudhari as the Leader of the SSLP. The petitioners have challenged the communication of the Speaker dated 3 July 2022 by which (i) the G appointment of Mr. Ajay Choudhari was cancelled and Mr. Shinde was appointed as the Leader of the SSLP; and (ii) Mr. Gogawale was appointed as the Chief Whip in place of Mr. Sunil Prabhu. Before adjudicating on the validity of the impugned communications, it is necessary to answer the preliminary objection that the courts cannot H SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 921 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] inquire into communications recognizing the Whip and the Leader of a A legislature party because of the bar under Article 212 of the Constitution.