A sector. While upholding the Constitutionality of the provision, which required all schools, private and State-funded, to reserve 25% of its intake for students from disadvantaged background, this Court held: “222. The provisions referred to above and other B provisions of international conventions indicate that the rights have been guaranteed to the children and those rights carry corresponding State obligations to respect, protect and fulfil the realisation of children’s rights. The obligation to protect implies the horizontal right which casts an obligation on the State to see that it is not C violated by non-State actors. For non-State actors to respect children’s rights casts a negative duty of non- violation to protect children’s rights and a positive duty on them to prevent the violation of children’s rights by others, and also to fulfil children’s rights D and take measures for progressive improvement. In other words, in the spheres of non-State activity there shall be no violation of children’s rights.” (xv) In Jeeja Ghosh vs. Union of India79, the petitioner, a disabled person suffering from cerebral palsy, was E unceremoniously ed off a SpiceJet aircraft by the flight crew on account of the disability. The petition was filed for putting in place a system to ensure such a violation of human dignity and inequality is not meted out to similarly placed persons. This Court observed as follows: “10. It is submitted by the petitioner that the Union of F India (Respondent 1) has an obligation to ensure that its citizens are not subject to such arbitrary and humiliating discrimination. It is a violation of their fundamental rights, including the right to life, right to equality, right to move freely throughout the territory of India, and right to G practise their profession. The State has an obligation to ensure that these rights are protected — particularly for those who are disabled. …” H 79 (2016) 7 SCC 761 KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 677 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] This Court awarded compensation to the petitioner against A the private Airline on the ground that the airline, though a private enterprise, ought not to have violated her fundamental right. (xvi) In Zee Telefilms Ltd. vs. Union of India80, this Court held that though BCCI does not fall within the purview of the B term “State”, it discharges public duties and that therefore even if a remedy under Article 32 is not available, the aggrieved party can always seek a remedy before the ordinary courts of law or by way of a writ petition under Article 226. This Court pointed out that the violator of a C constitutional right could not go scot-free merely because it is not a State. The said logic was extended by this Court to a “Deemed to be University” in Janet Jeyapaul vs. SRM University81, on the ground that though it is a private university, it was discharging “public functions”, by imparting education. D 77. All the above decisions show that on a case-to-case basis, this Court applied horizontal effect, considering the nature of the right violated and the extent of obligation on the part of the violator.