[Paras 50, 51, 52, 53, 56] Negligence – Medical Negligence – Essential ingredients for determination: Held: The three essential ingredients in determining an act of medical negligence are: (1) a duty of care extended to the complainant, (2) breach of that duty of care, and (3) resulting damage, injury or harm caused to the complainant attributable to the said breach of duty – However, a medical practitioner will be held liable for negligence only in circumstances when their conduct falls below the standards of a reasonably competent practitioner. [Para 36] Negligence – Medical Negligence – A line of treatment undertaken should not be of a discarded or obsolete category in any circumstance: Held: Due to the unique circumstances and complications that arise in diff erent individual cases, coupled with the constant advancement in the medical fi eld and its practices, it is natural that there shall always be diff erent M.A BIVIJI v. SUNITA & ORS. 115 opinions, including contesting views regarding the chosen line of treatment, or the course of action to be undertaken – In such circumstances, just because a doctor opts for a particular line of treatment but does not achieve the desired result, they cannot be held liable for negligence, provided that the said course of action undertaken was recognized as sound and relevant medical practice – This may include a procedure entailing a higher risk element as well, which was opted for after due consideration and deliberation by the doctor – Therefore, a line of treatment undertaken should not be of a discarded or obsolete category in any circumstance. [Para 37] Negligence – Medical Negligence – A higher threshold limit must be met to hold a medical practitioner liable for negligence: Held: To hold a medical practitioner liable for negligence, a higher threshold limit must be met – This is to ensure that these doctors are focused on deciding the best course of treatment as per their assessment rather than being concerned about possible persecution or harassment that they may be subjected to in high-risk medical situations – Therefore, to safeguard these medical practitioners and to ensure that they are able to freely discharge their medical duty, a higher proof of burden must be fulfi lled by the complainant – The complainant should be able to prove a breach of duty and the subsequent injury being attributable to the aforesaid breach as well, in to hold a doctor liable for medical negligence – On the other hand, doctors need to establish that they had followed reasonable standards of medical practice. [Para 38] LIST OF CITATIONS AND OTHER REFERENCES Jacob Mathew vs. State of Punjab (2005) 6 SCC 1 : [2005] 2 Suppl. SCR 307; Kusum Sharma vs. Batra Hospital (2010) 3 SCC 480 : [2010] 2 SCR 685; Savita Garg v. Director, National Heart Institute (2004) 8 SCC 56 : [2004] 5 Suppl. SCR 359 – relied on. OTHER CASE DETAILS INCLUDING IMPUGNED AND APPEARANCES CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.3975 of 2018. From the and dated 16.02.2018 of the National Consumer Disputes Resolution Commission, New Delhi in Consumer Case No.48 of 2005.