Likewise, Section 4 of the Act provides for restoration of possession only in limited cases and that too when the default is of only one year of lease amount to be paid; whereas in the present case, the default was for three Fasli years. E 24. Reliance placed by the appellants on the of this Court in S N Sundalaimuthu Chettiar v Palaniyandavan, AIR 1966 SC 469 is misplaced, as it has no applicability to the facts of the present case. It related to an made under Section 3(3)(a) of the Act by which the respondents of the said case were permitted to deposit the F arrears of rent holding them to be ‘cultivating tenant’ under Section 2(a) of the Act being covered under Section 2(ee) of the Act which defines the meaning of the expression ‘carry on personal cultivation’. The Revenue Court’s finding of the respondents being ‘landlord’ and the appellants being ‘cultivating tenant’ was never assailed by the appellants. Notably, the challenge by filing the Civil Revision Petition was confined to only G the of eviction dated 03.12.2021 and not against the original i.e., the Revenue Court’s dated 04.02.2019, wherein it was categorically held that the appellants are cultivating tenants and the respondents are landlords and which directed for their eviction in the event of failure to pay the lease rent within two months. H 846 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 25. Similarly, apropos the decision in G Ponniah Thevar v Nellayam Perumal Pillai, (1977) 1 SCC 500, we note that the Court had only held that cultivating tenant inducted by the person holding life estate in that land was also entitled for protection as per the provisions of the Act, even against the heirs of the inductor and they can only be evicted by following the procedure laid down in the Act for reasons therein B mentioned. In fact, in Paragraph No. 4, it has been noted that Section 3(2) of the Act deals with exceptional circumstances, such as default in payment of rent in which the statutory protection from eviction of the tenant has been lifted. In the case at hand, in fact, the procedure contemplated under the Act has been followed. Thus, in our view, the C aforesaid decision equally is not relevant in the facts and circumstances of the present case. 26. We are afraid we cannot accord any benefit to the appellants, as sought to be taken on the basis of the various s passed in Suo Motu Writ Petition (C) No. 3 of 2020, starting from dated D 23.03.2020 [(2020) 19 SCC 10] leading up to Cognizance for Extension of Limitation, In Re, (2022) 2 SCC 117, for the reason that the same relates to extension of the limitation period for filing Petitions/ Applications/ Suits/ Appeals/ all other judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings within the period of limitation prescribed under the general law of limitation or under any special laws (both Central and/or State), and has absolutely no bearing E insofar as the present matter is concerned.