It is obvious that having been a partyto the gift it may not lie in his mouth to impeach the same. [See in this regard the of this Court in D Narayanrao Jagobaji (supra)]. It is not as if the members of the Vasanth Apartment Owners Association claim to have an assignment of the right over the land which is gifted from the original owner. Therefore, as far as the members of the Vasanth Apartment Owners Association are concerned, on the factual basis available, it may not lie in their mouth, E noticing two other features as well, to contend that the Court must invalidate the Rule. The gift was executed in the year 1994. The Writ Petition is filed almost 12 years after. Secondly, the first Writ Petition, filed by the members of the Vasanth Apartment Owners Association, was by drawing support from the gift deed. They wanted that the property must be continued as recreational and OSR area. A learned Single Judge F allowed the writ petition. Thereafter, there were two Writ Appeals filed, one by persons who claimed that the area was being used as a public road, and another, by the Corporation of Chennai and the CMDA. There was an interim passed by the Division Bench. It is thereafter, that the second Writ Petition is filed by them challenging the Rule. While,it is G true that mere passage of time will not make an unconstitutional provision valid, the delay, with which a prevailing Statute is impugned, becomes a factor, which the Court would not ignore. In this case, as if such factors were not sufficient, we notice the further development. The Rules came to be repealed by the Regulations in the year 2008 and the Regulation stood repealed in the year 2019 by Statutory Rules made in the said H ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1147 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] year. The challenge to the Rule, on the basis of Article 300A and, indeed, A Article 14 as well by Association of Vasanth Apartment Owners Association must fail, as it cannot even be their case that their right in property was deprived. The appellants never had any proprietary right in the property to allege deprivation of the same. Even if the Rule is found bad, there can be no question of voiding the gift at the appellant’s B instance. 152. In the case of M/s. Keyaram Hotels Pvt. Ltd., their complaints, apart from those dealing with legality of the Rule on other grounds, which we had noticed and discussed, remain the following. Before we go to the other complaints, we have already noticed, in C paragraph 10 of the Writ Petition, the appellant/petitioner (M/s. Keyaram Hotels Pvt. Ltd.) has expressed its willingness for stipulating open space as required for communal and recreation use of the occupiers and lawful uses of the building and it was specifically averred that it would satisfy the public interest. It is specifically undertaken that they will keep 10 D percent of the area as open space for communal and recreational purpose.