If this is also held against the offender the offence of murder is established.” (Emphasis supplied) H 1122 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 51. In the case of Anda v. State of Rajasthan, AIR 1966 SC 148, the two relevant Sections 299 and 300 respectively are brilliantly analysed and the relevant observations are made at page 151 in para 7. Before we refer to those observations, we would refer to certain observations made earlier. They are as under:- B “The offence of culpable homicide involves the doing of an act (which term includes illegal omissions) (a) with the intention of causing death, or (b) with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death or (c) with the knowledge that the act is likely to cause death. If the death is caused in any of these three circumstances, the offence of C culpable homicide is said to be committed……. Intention and knowledge in the ingredients of the section postulate the existence of a positive mental attitude and this mental condition is the special mens rea necessary for the offence. The guilty intention in the first two conditions contemplates the intended D death of the person harmed or the intentional causing of an injury likely to cause his death. The knowledge in the third condition contemplates knowledge of the death of the person. Sec. 300 tells us when the offence is murder and when it is culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Sec. 300 begins by setting out the circumstances when culpable homicide turns E out into murder which is punishable under sec. 302 and the exceptions in the same section tell us when offence is not murder but culpable homicide not amounting to murder punishable under sec. 304. Murder is an aggravated form of culpable homicide. The existence of one of four conditions F turns culpable homicide into murder while the special exceptions reduce the offence of murder again to culpable homicide not amounting to murder.” (Emphasis supplied) 52. We will now refer to the relevant observations made in para G 10 at page 151. They are as under:- “The third clause views the matter from a general stand-point. It speaks of an intention to cause bodily injury which is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death. The emphasis here is on the sufficiency of the injury in the H ANBAZHAGAN v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY THE 1123 INSPECTOR OF POLICE [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] ordinary course of nature to cause death. The sufficiency is A the high probability of death in the ordinary way of nature and when this exists and death ensues and the causing of such injury is intended the offence is murder. Sometimes the nature of the weapon used, sometimes the part of the body on which the injury is caused, and sometimes both are relevant. B The determinant factor is the intentional injury which must be sufficient to cause death, that is to say, the probability of death is not so high, the offence does not fall within murder but within culpable homicide not amounting to murder or something less.