“Superior Service” referred to in B the Orissa Service Code shall mean posts in Classes I, II and III and “Inferior Service” shall mean posts in Class IV.” Regulation 52 of the Regulations of 1960, which is of direct relevance in the present appeal, reads as under: C “52. Retirement benefits.- The employees of the Board shall not be entitled to any pension except the gratuity and the Contributory Provident Fund benefits admissible under these regulations.” Regulations 53 to 57 deal with the matters related to the Contributory Provident Fund4, subscriptions, realization of subscriptions, D and contributions etc. 4. The factual aspects of the matter are not of much dispute. However, a few background aspects and their salient features may be noticed, particularly concerning the proposition for providing pension to the employees of the Board and for amendment of the above-noticed E Regulation 52 of the Regulations of 1960. 4.1. It would appear that the proposition for providing pensionary rights to the employees of the Board had been a matter of several communications between the Board and the State Government and had also been the subject of a few litigations in the past. Shorn of unnecessary F details, it could be noticed that from 06.10.1982 onwards, various proposals were mooted by the Board for providing pensionary benefits to its employees and requests were also made to the State Government to amend the Regulations of 1960 in this regard. On 25.02.1985, the Industries Department of the Government of Orissa sought for the views G of the Director of the Industries on the proposal to provide pension to the employees of the Board and in response, on 31.10.1985, the Additional Director of Industries, Government of Orissa opined that there should not be any objection to allow the pensionary benefits to the employees of the Board. Thereafter, on 18.12.1985, the Industries Department, H 4 ‘CPF’, for short. STATE OF ORISSA v. ORISSA KHADI AND VILLAGE INDUSTRIES 1057 BOARD KARAMCHARI SANGH [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] Government of Orissa sought for certain information from the Board as A regards the annual requirement of funds if pension was paid to the employees of the Board and as to whether the amount required for payment of pension was more or less in comparison to Employees’ Provident Fund5 amount as also the details of the employees to be retired in the coming 5 years and the amount required for payment of pension to B them. This was followed by the letter dated 15.05.1990 from the President of the Board stating justification for payment of pension to the Board’s employees. On 19.09.1991 and then, on 08.10.1992, the Industries Department again sought for information regarding functioning of the Board, its objectives and updated financial statements as also the calculation of expenditure, if the pensionary benefits were extended to C the employees of the Board. In response to this, on 18.12.1992, the Secretary of the Board furnished a reply to the State Government with justification for extending the pension scheme to the employees of the Board.