12. In a given case, while passing an of conviction for an offence which is punishable with death penalty, the Trial Court may come to a conclusion that the case is not a ‘rarest of the rare’ case. In H SHIVA KUMAR @ SHIVA @ SHIVAMURTHY v. STATE OF 677 KARNATAKA [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] such a situation, depending upon the punishment prescribed for the A offence committed, the Trial Court can impose other punishment specifically provided in Section 53 of the IPC. However, when a Constitutional Court finds that though a case is not falling in the category of ‘rarest of the rare’ case, considering the gravity and nature of the offence and all other relevant factors, it can always impose a fixed-term B sentence so that the benefit of statutory remission, etc. is not available to the accused. The majority view in the case of V. Sriharan1cannot be construed to mean that such a power cannot be exercised by the Constitutional Courts unless the question is of commuting the death sentence. This conclusion is well supported by what the Constitution Bench held in paragraph 104 of its decision, which reads thus: C “104. That apart, in most of such cases where death penalty or life imprisonment is the punishment imposed by the trial court and confirmed by the Division Bench of the High Court, the convict concerned will get an opportunity to get such verdict tested by filing further appeal by way of special leave to this Court. By way D of abundant caution and as per the prescribed law of the Code and the criminal jurisprudence, we can assert that after the initial finding of guilt of such specified grave offences and the imposition of penalty either death or life imprisonment, when comes under the scrutiny of the E Division Bench of the High Court, it is only the High Court which derives the power under the Penal Code, which prescribes the capital and alternate punishment, to alter the said punishment with one either for the entirety of the convict’s life or for any specific period of more than 14 years, say 20, 30 or so on depending upon the gravity of the crime F committed and the exercise of judicial conscience befitting such offence found proved to have been committed.” (emphasis added) 13. Hence, we have no manner of doubt that even in a case where G capital punishment is not imposed or is not proposed, the Constitutional Courts can always exercise the power of imposing a modified or fixed-term sentence by directing that a life sentence, as contemplated by “secondly” in Section 53 of the IPC, shall be of a fixed period of more than fourteen years, for example, of twenty years, thirty years and H 678 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A so on. The fixed punishment cannot be for a period less than 14 years in view of the mandate of Section 433A of Cr.P.C. 14. Now, we come to the facts of the case.