(c) Documents in respect of father,— (i) An extract of birth register. (ii) Primary school leaving certificate. H MAH. ADIWASI THAKUR JAMAT SWARAKSHAN SAMITI v. 1121 THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] (iii) Extract of school admission register. A (iv) Scheduled Tribe Certificate. (v) If a father is in service, the extract of the pages of the service record (book) which contain religion and tribe entry. B (vi) If a father is illiterate, the primary school leaving certificate of the real elderly blood relatives of the paternal side of the applicant and extract of school admission register. (d) Other documents,— C (i) Revenue record like, birth register, extract of 7/12, Sale Deed etc. (ii) Any other relevant documents in support of his Scheduled Tribe claim. D (iii) Affidavits of the near relatives whose Validity Certificates are submitted in support of the Scheduled Tribe claim of the applicant. (3) The applicant shall submit original certificates and documents for verification whenever required by the Scrutiny Committee.” E 18. Rule 12 lays down the procedure to be followed by the Scrutiny Committee. It contains a provision regarding forwarding a case to the Vigilance Cell to hold an enquiry. Rule 12 reads thus: “12. Procedure to be followed by Scrutiny Committee. (1) On receipt of the application, the Scrutiny Committee or a F person authorised by it shall scrutinise the application, verify the information and documents furnished by the applicant, and shall acknowledge the receipt of the application. The Member Secretary shall register the application, received for verification, in the-register prescribed by the Chairman. G (2) If the Scrutiny Committee is not satisfied with the documentary evidence produced by the applicant the Scrutiny Committee shall forward the applications to the Vigilance Cell for conducting the school, home and other enquiry. H 1122 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A (3) The Vigilance Officer shall go to the local place of residence and original place from which the applicant hails and usually resides, or in case of migration, to the town or city or place from which he originally hailed from. (4) The Vigilance Officer shall personally verify and collect B all the facts about the social status claimed by the applicant or his parents or the guardian, as the case may be. (5) The Vigilance Cell shall also examine the parents or guardian or the applicant for the purpose of verification of their Tribe, of the applicant. C (6) After completion of the enquiry, the Vigilance Cell shall submit its report to the Scrutiny Committee who will in turn scrutinise the report submitted by the Vigilance Cell. and if the Scrutiny Committee is satisfied that the claim of the D applicant is genuine and true, the Scrutiny Committee may issue the validity certificate. The validity certificate shall be issued in Form G. (8) If the Scrutiny Committee, on the basis of the Vigilance Cell report and other documents available, is not satisfied about the E claim of the applicant, the Committee shall issue a show cause notice to the applicant and also serve a copy of the report of the Vigilance Officer by registered post with acknowledgment due.