1 to 3 appear to have been issued on the basis of the school record. “Niranaram” was admitted in the school on 01/04/ E 1986. Thus, the transfer certificate dated 15/08/2001 i.e. the document at serial no.1 is the first Certificate. 45) The Police Officer collected the copies of letter given by “Mukhram” to the Rajkiya Adarsh Uccha Madhyamik Vidyalaya, Jalabsar for obtaining birth certificate of his F brother. Such copies are produced with report Exh.16. Similarly, a fresh certificate, addressed to the Police Officer was also given by the Head Mistress dated 23/02/2019 and it is collected and filed with his report by the Police Officer with Exh.16. Hence, the documents at serial nos.1 to 3, has a G genuine source and those are authentic documents. It is a fact that, these documents have not disclosed the name “Narayan” thereon. This aspect will be considered later on, since the purpose of sending the Police Officer was to verify the authenticity of documents only. He was not expected to express his own opinion. It is sufficient that, the documents at H 1078 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A serial nos.1 to 3 were issued by the school, the stamp of which is appearing thereon. Therefore, the documents at serial nos. 1 to 3 are found to be trustworthy and authentic documents. 46) The documents at serial nos. 4 and 5 (Annexure- ‘I-4 & ‘I-5’) are the documents of Bona fide Residence and OBC B Caste Certificate issued by the Tahasildar, Shridungargarh. The document at serial no.6 (Annexure- ‘I-6’) has not been disputed and it shows that, with effect from 01/04/2001 Tahasil-Shridungargarh, which was earlier in District Churu was removed therefrom and included in the District Bikaner. Hence, though the certificate dated 15/08/2001 (document C no.1) mentions the District Churu, by virtue of the notification dated 23/03/2001, village Jalabsar from Shridungargarh has been included into Bikaner District. The certificates at document serial nos. 4 and 5 has a mention of District Bikaner for village Jalabsar and Tahasil Shridungargarh. These D certificates are dated 10/08/2009. Therefore, it is obvious that, the name of District Bikaner has been mentioned thereon. 47) The documents at serial nos.4 and 5 i.e. the certificates issued by Tahasildar can be said to be authentic and genuine. The Police Officer had visited the office of Tahasildar and E verified the entries made of both the certificates in the register maintained by the Tahasildar. A statement of Tahasildar named Bhawanisingh s/o Prabhudan was also recorded by the Police Officer. His statement is sufficient to show that, both the certificates at serial nos.4 and 5 were issued by the office of Tahasildar, Shridungargarh, District Bikaner. Copies of F concerned registers have been collected by the Police Officer and submitted with his report. The serial numbers of the entry made in the registers are matching to the serial numbers on the certificates in the documents at serial nos.4 and 5. Therefore, there is no reason to consider that, the register G was not properly kept.