[2023] 3 S.C.R. 47 47 S. MURALI SUNDARAM A v. JOTHIBAI KANNAN & ORS. (Civil Appeal Nos.1167-1170 of 2023) FEBRUARY 24, 2023 B [M. R. SHAH AND C.T. RAVIKUMAR, JJ.] Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – Or. XLVII r 1, s.114 – Review of under –Appellant filed writ petition before the High Court against the of the Tiruchirappalli City Municipal C Corporation in respect of the pathway – High Court allowed the writ petition of the appellant on merits after considering a survey report – High Court discarded the survey report – Thereafter, the respondent filed the review petition before the High Court – High Court allowed the review petition after considering the same survey report and set aside its holding the same to be erroneous D – Whether in the facts and circumstances of the case the High Court justified in allowing the review application filed u/Or.47, r.1 CPC and setting aside the reasoned and passed in the main writ petition – Held: It is settled that power of review can be exercised for correction of mistake but not to substitute a view – In E the instant case, the High Court exceeded in its jurisdiction and exercised the jurisdiction not vested in it while exercising the review jurisdiction u/Or.47, r.1 r/w. s.114 CPC – Once the survey report fell for consideration before the High Court while deciding the main writ petition thereafter the same could not have been considered again while deciding review application – If a sought to F be reviewed is erroneous, cannot be subject of review u/Or.47, r.1 but can be challenged by way of appeal. Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1. In the case of Perry Kansagra this Court has G observed that while exercising the review jurisdiction in an application under 47 Rule 1 read with Section 114 CPC, the Review Court does not sit in appeal over its own . It is observed that a rehearing of the matter is impermissible in law. It is further observed that review is not appeal in disguise. It is observed that power of review can be exercised for correction of H 47 48 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A a mistake but not to substitute a view. Such powers can be exercised within the limits of the statute dealing with the exercise of power. It is further observed that it is wholly unjustified and exhibits a tendency to rewrite a by which the controversy has been finally decided. [Para 5.1][52-C-E] B 2. In the case of Shanti Conductors (P) Ltd., it is observed and held that scope of review under 47 Rule 1 CPC read with Section 114 CPC is limited and under the guise of review, the petitioner cannot be permitted to reagitate and reargue questions which have already been addressed and decided. It is further observed that an error which is not self-evident and has C to be detected by a process of reasoning, can hardly be said to be an error apparent on the face of record justifying the court to exercise its power of review under 47 Rule 1 CPC.