6-2-2018). H M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 877 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] the fair value and the liquidation value to every member of the A committee in electronic form, on receiving an undertaking from the member to the effect that such member shall maintain confidentiality of the fair value and the liquidation value and shall not use such values to cause an undue gain or undue loss to itself or any other person and comply with the requirements under sub- B section (2) of section 29. (3) The resolution professional and registered valuers shall maintain confidentiality of the fair value and the liquidation value.” 65[36A. Invitation for expression of interest.- (1) The resolution professional shall publish brief particulars of the invitation C for expression of interest in Form G of the Schedule at the earliest, not later than seventy-fifth day from the insolvency commencement date, from interested and eligible prospective resolution applicants to submit resolution plans. (2) The resolution professional shall publish Form G- D (i) in one English and one regional language newspaper with wide circulation at the location of the registered office and principal office, if any, of the corporate debtor and any other location where in the opinion of the resolution professional, the corporate debtor conducts material business operations; E (ii) on the website, if any, of the corporate debtor; (iii) on the website, if any, designated by the Board for the purpose; and (iv) in any other manner as may be decided by the committee. F (3) The Form G in the Schedule shall - (a) state where the detailed invitation for expression of interest can be downloaded or obtained from, as the case may be; and (b) provide the last date for submission of expression of interest G which shall not be less than fifteen days from the date of issue of detailed invitation. (4) The detailed invitation referred to in sub-regulation (3) shall- 65 Subs. by Notification No. IBBI/2018-19/GN/REG031, dated 3rd July, 2018, for regulation 36A (w.e.f. 4-7-2018). H 878 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A (a) specify the criteria for prospective resolution applicants, as approved by the committee in accordance with clause (h) of sub- section (2) of section 25; (b) state the ineligibility norms under section 29A to the extent applicable for prospective resolution applicants; B (c) provide such basic information about the corporate debtor as may be required by a prospective resolution applicant for expression of interest; and (d) not require payment of any fee or any non-refundable deposit for submission of expression of interest. C 66[(4A) Any modification in the invitation for expression of interest may be made in the manner as the initial invitation for expression of interest was made: Provided that such modification shall not be made more than once.] D (5) A prospective resolution applicant, who meet the requirements of the invitation for expression of interest, may submit expression of interest within the time specified in the invitation under clause (b) of sub-regulation (3).