v. The nature of fundamental rights: positive and negative postulates 153. Before we embark on an analysis of whether the Constitution recognises the right to marry, it is imperative that we discuss how the courts recognise unenumerated rights or derivative rights. The Ninth Amendment to the US Constitution states that the “enumeration in the Constitution of certain rights shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people”. Though the Indian Constitution does not contain such a provision, it is implied that the rights enumerated in Part III are not exhaustive. The fundamental rights recognised in Part III are identifi ed in the level of abstraction- that is, equality, liberty, and expression. The Constitution does not provide a detailed enumeration of the facets of each enumerated right. The Courts, while determining the scope of an enumerated right, lay 138 Section 5 of the Citizenship Act 1955 states that citizenship can be acquired through naturalization by a person who is married to a citizen of India and is ordinarily resident in India for seven years. Section 7A stipulates a foreign origin person whose spouse is a Indian citizen or overseas citizen of India shall apply for OCI if their marriage is registered and they have lived in India for a continuous period of two years. 139 Section 2(i) of the Act defi nes “near relative” to include a spouse. 140 Martha C. Nussbam, A right to marry? (2010) California Law Review Vol 98(3) 132 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. down its facets and conceptions. For example, Courts have held that the true essence of the right to equality is not encompassed in formal equality where all persons are treated alike irrespective of the unequal socio-economic status but in substantive equality.141 Similarly, this Court has in numerous s held that the right to life and liberty recognised under Article 21 would be obscure if other crucial facets of liberty are not recognised. It is in this vein that this Court recognised, inter alia, the right to livelihood,142 the right to speedy trial,143 and the right to education.144 154. Fundamental rights are characterized as positive rights and negative rights. In fact, some draw a distinction between fundamental rights (Part III) and the Directive Principles of State Policy (Part IV) by arguing that the former consists of negative rights and the latter of positive rights. In constitutional theory, negative rights are understood to involve freedom from governmental action whereas, positive rights place a duty on the State to provide an individual or a group with benefi ts which they would not be able to access by themselves. 155. Indian jurisprudence on the scope of fundamental rights can be divided into two thematical facets. In the fi rst facet, the distinction between negative rights and positive rights faded with the harmonious reading of fundamental rights and Directive Principles of State Policy by the courts.145 The Courts used the Directive Principles to inform the scope of fundamental rights. In Unnikrishnan v. State of Andhra Pradesh146, the issue before this Court was whether the Constitution guarantees a fundamental right to education to its citizens.