In his concurring opinion, Justice Madan Lokur, for the bench, relied on Mohindhr Singh Gill case to reiterate that: “... wide discretion is fraught with tyrannical potential even in high personages. Therefore, the jurisprudence of prudence C demands a fairly high degree of circumspection in the selection and appointment to a constitutional position having important and significant ramifications.” 115. Justice Lokur also analysed the previous s of this Court on judicial review of the selection process, and noted: D “115. In Centre for PIL [Centre for PIL v. Union of India, (2011) 4 SCC 1 : (2011) 1 SCC (L&S) 609] this Court struck down the appointment of the Central Vigilance Commissioner while reaffirming the distinction between merit review pertaining to the eligibility or suitability of a selected candidate and judicial review pertaining to the recommendation-making process.… E Acknowledging this, this Court looked at the appointment of the Central Vigilance Commissioner not as a merit review of the integrity of the selected person, but as a judicial review of the recommendation-making process relating to the integrity of the institution. It was made clear that while the personal integrity of F the candidate cannot be discounted, institutional integrity is the primary consideration to be kept in mind while recommending a candidate. It was observed that while this Court cannot sit in appeal over the opinion of HPC, it can certainly see whether relevant material and vital aspects having nexus with the objects of the Act are taken into account when a recommendation is made. G This Court emphasised the overarching need to act for the good of the institution and in the public interest. Reference in this context was made to N. Kannadasan [N. Kannadasan v. Ajoy Khose, (2009) 7 SCC 1 : (2009) 3 SCC (Civ) 1] .” (emphasis added) 74 (2013) 5 SCC 1 H 240 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 116. It was also held that the selection process of a constitutional post cannot be equated with the selection process of a bureaucratic functionary. If the Executive is left with the exclusive discretion to select the candidate, it may destroy the fabric of the constitutional institution. This Court held: “A constitutional position such as that of the Chairperson of a B Public Service Commission cannot be equated with a purely administrative position—it would be rather facetious to do so. While the Chief Secretary and the Director General of Police are at the top of the ladder, yet they are essentially administrative functionaries. Their duties and responsibilities, however onerous, C cannot be judged against the duties and responsibilities of an important constitutional authority or a constitutional trustee, whose very appointment is not only expected to inspire confidence in the aspirational Indian but also project the credibility of the institution to which he or she belongs. I am, therefore, unable to accept the view that the suitability of an appointee to the post of Chairperson D of a Public Service Commission should be evaluated on the same yardstick as the appointment of a senior administrative functionary… The Chairperson takes the oath of allegiance to India and to the Constitution of India—not an oath of allegiance to the Chief Minister.