16. The learned counsel laid much stress on the fact that it was the appellant who visited the house of the victim at 9 o’clock in the morning of 31.05.2015 and lured the victim to come to his house to watch TV. It was argued that all the witnesses have deposed that the victim went to the house of the appellant in the morning on 31.05.2015 to watch TV and thereafter she went missing. He submitted that the sister of the victim namely Priya Kumari (PW 3) immediately informed her mother Kiran Devi (PW 2) who at the relevant point of time was at the house of her sister at a diff erent village. No sooner the mother of the victim came to know that her daughter was missing, then she immediately rushed back to her house and started enquiring as regards the whereabouts of her minor daughter. It was argued that the victim could be said to have been last seen with the appellant. It was also argued that when the house was opened, the dead body of the victim was recovered beneath a cot and the room from where the dead body was recovered was of the ownership of the appellant. He submitted that it was for the appellant to explain, how the dead body of the victim was recovered from the room of his house over which he had full control. It was also argued that the PW 3 Priya Kumari in her deposition stated that she had seen the appellant locking the door of his room. This is suggestive of the fact that the keys of the room were with the appellant. The learned counsel submitted that the facts established are consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the appellant convict and are of a conclusive nature and tendency. He submitted that the chain of evidence is so complete that it does not leave MUNNA PANDEY v. STATE OF BIHAR 1023 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused. 17. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel prayed that there being no merit in these appeals, those may be dismissed. ANALYSIS 18. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the High Court committed any error in passing the impugned ? 19. The case on hand is one of a very gruesome rape and murder of a 10-year old girl. It is the case of the prosecution that on the fateful day the victim had gone to the house of the appellant to watch TV. According to the prosecution, it is the appellant who came to the house of the victim and persuaded her to come at his house to watch TV. The elder sister of the victim, PW 3 Priya Kumari was at home when her younger sister left for the house of the appellant to watch TV.