The court will be failing in its duty if appropriate punishment is C not awarded for a crime which has been committed not only against the individual victim but also against the society to which both the criminal and the victim belong.” 13. We again reiterate in this case that undue sympathy to impose inadequate sentence would do more harm to the justice system to D undermine the public confidence in the efficacy of law. It is the duty of every court to award proper sentence having regard to the nature of the offence and the manner in which it was executed or committed. The sentencing courts are expected to consider all relevant facts and circumstances bearing on the question of E sentence and proceed to impose a sentence commensurate with the gravity of the offence. The court must not only keep in view the rights of the victim of the crime but also the society at large while considering the imposition of appropriate punishment. Meagre sentence imposed solely on account of lapse of time without considering the degree of the offence will be counterproductive F in the long run and against the interest of the society. 14. In a recent decision in State of M.P. v. Bablu [(2014) 9 SCC 281 : (2014) 6 SCC (Cri) 1] , after considering and following the earlier decisions, this Court reiterated the settled proposition of law that one of the prime objectives of criminal law is the imposition G of adequate, just, proportionate punishment which is commensurate with the gravity, nature of crime and the manner in which the offence is committed. One should keep in mind the social interest and conscience of the society while considering the determinative factor of sentence with gravity of crime. The punishment should not be so lenient that it shocks the conscience of the society. It is, H STATE OF PUNJAB v. DIL BAHADUR 777 [M. R. SHAH, J.] therefore, the solemn duty of the court to strike a proper balance A while awarding the sentence as awarding lesser sentence encourages any criminal and, as a result of the same, the society suffers. 5.4 Applying the law laid down by this Court in the case of Surendra Singh (supra) to the facts of the case on hand, the impugned B and passed by the High Court interfering with the sentence imposed by the learned Trial Court confirmed by the First Appellate Court by showing undue sympathy to the accused is unsustainable and the same deserves to be quashed and set aside. 6. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the C present appeal succeeds. The impugned and passed by the High Court reducing the sentence while maintaining the conviction for the offence under Section 304A of IPC from two years RI to eight months SI is hereby quashed and set aside. The sentence imposed by the learned Trial Court confirmed by the First Appellate Court (learned D Sessions Court) is hereby restored.