He ran away from the place of occurrence due to fear as he was released from jail in the recent past. DYING DECLARATIONS: 34. We shall now look into the two dying declarations. 35. The deceased Irshad in his dying declaration recorded on 07.08.2014 stated thus: 806 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. “Statement of Irshad, s/o-Mo. Ayub, r/o Mohalla- Muglushah, P.S. Nazivabad, Distrinct-Bijnor, U.P., age- 20 years. Stated that I am residing at the place mentioned above. I am running a mobile phone shop at Nazivabad. I was sleeping with my brother Naushad and nephew Islamuddin in the house. We were sleeping in the same room. Then at around 12.30 at night my brother Irfan locked the door from outside and set fi re in the room with some infl ammable substance. As the room was on fi re, we raised alarm. We all seriously got burnt and after a long time neighbours took us out of the room and they got us admitted at the Pooja Hospital, Nazivabad. After fi rst aid they got admitted us at Dr. R.M.L. Hospital New Delhi and my treatment is continuing here. Heard the statement, it is correct.” 36. The deceased Islamuddin, in his dying declaration recorded on 07.08.2014, stated thus: “Statement of Islamuddin, s/o-Irfan, r/o- Mohalla- Muglushah, P.S. Nazivabad, Distrinct-Bijnor, U.P., age- 16 years. Stated that I am residing at the place mentioned above. I am running a mobile phone shop at Nazivabad. I was sleeping with my uncle Irshad and Naushad in the house. We were sleeping in the same room. Then at around 12.30 at night my father Irfan locked the door from outside and set fi re in the room with some infl ammable substance. After the room was on fi re, we raised alarm. We all seriously got burnt and after a long time neighbours took us out of the room and they got us admitted at the Pooja Hospital, Nazivabad. After fi rst aid they got admitted us at Dr. R.M.L. Hospital New Delhi and my treatment is continuing here. Heard the statement, it is correct. ” ANALYSIS 37. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the prosecution could be said to have proved its case against the appellant-convict beyond reasonable doubt. IRFAN @ NAKA v. THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 807 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 38. The jurisdiction of this Court in criminal appeals fi led against concurrent fi ndings is circumscribed by principles summarised by this Court in Mst. Dalbir Kaur and Others v. State of Punjab reported in (1976) 4 SCC 158, para 8, as follows: “8. Thus the principles governing interference by this Court in a criminal appeal by special leave may be summarised as follows: (1) that this Court would not interfere with the concurrent fi nding of fact based on pure appreciation of evidence even if it were to take a diff erent view on the evidence; (2) that the Court will not normally enter into a reappraisement or review of the evidence, unless the assessment of the High Court is vitiated by an error of law or procedure or is based on error of record, misreading of evidence or is inconsistent with the evidence, for instance, where the ocular evidence is totally inconsistent with the medical evidence and so on; (3) that the Court would not enter into credibility of the evidence with a view to substitute its own opinion for that of the High Court; (4) that the Court would interfere where the High Court has arrived at a fi nding of fact in disregard of a judicial process, principles of natural justice or a fair hearing or has acted in violation of a mandatory provision of law or procedure resulting in serious prejudice or injustice to the accused; (5) this Court might also interfere where on the proved facts wrong inferences of law have been drawn or where the conclusions of the High Court are manifestly perverse and based on no evidence.” (Emphasis supplied) DYING DECLARATIONS VIS-A-VIS ORAL EVIDENCE OF THE EYE-WITNESSES ON RECORD 39.