B No one does not qualify as qualifi es unitary consumption as is less than 1.95% captive and not within the user Others 49 74 - 10% variation. A or B independently do not satisfy the shareholding and consumption requirements. By virtue of Rule 3(2) of Electricity Rules, 2005, they cannot claim captive user status Once the above standard is met and satisfi ed, the person satisfying the requirement will be treated as a member of the group captive users. 45. The aforesaid interpretation checks, “gaming”, by owners, which would amount to misuse and abuse of the Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules. Instances of gaming are where a 1% or an insignifi cant shareholder of the CGP disproportionately uses the electricity generated, in which 378 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. case he should not be treated as a group captive user and, therefore, should be denied the benefi ts that are given under the Act to the captive users. Gaming or misuse should be checked to protect interests of the Distribution Licensee. 46. This brings us to the question of applicability of the second proviso of Rule 3(1)(a) in cases where there is a change in ownership or shareholding of the CGP. An issue arises with respect to calculation of proportional consumption of electricity under the second proviso to Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules when an existing captive user exits/transfers their shareholding/ ownership to a new captive user. It may happen in multiple situations. The APTEL in Tamil Nadu Power47 had postulated that such issue would be resolved if the minimum consumption and shareholding requirements are verifi ed only at the end of the fi nancial year. However, we have held that the minimum consumption and shareholding requirement are required to be maintained continuously and not just at the end of the year. It is only with respect to determining the ownership proportionate to consumption of electricity that requires our attention, with respect to the second proviso to Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules. 47. In case of change of ownership, shareholding, or consumption, the principle of weighted average should be applied to ensure compliance of the proportional electricity consumption requirement stipulated under the second proviso to Rule 3(1)(a). For instance, if a captive consumer exits or drops out in the middle of the year, transferring its shareholding to another or new captive user, it would be fair to hold that the captive user who has become a shareholder in the middle of the year, is required to consume proportionately to the electricity generated. In a given case, existing captive users taking advantage of the variation, may enhance their consumption. The concept of weighted average shareholding comes in aid to calculate the relevant average shareholding of the captive user in the year and the proportionate electricity required to be consumed by him. To borrow from the illustrations provided by learned Senior Advocate Mr. Basava Prabhu Patil, appearing on behalf of Tata Power Company Limited, this comes in aid in instances where the shareholding of a captive user 47 Supra note 6.