E 44. We further reiterate that ordinarily the nature of the insurance contract is always to indemnify the losses. Insurance contracts are contracts of indemnity whereby one undertakes to indemnify another against loss/damage or liability arising from an unknown or contingent event and is applicable only to some contingency or act likely to come in future. F 45. This Court in United India Insurance Company Limited v. Levis Strauss (India) Private Limited10 has held as under: “53.A contract of insurance is and always continues to be one for indemnity of the defined loss, no more no less. In the case of G specific risks, such as those arising from loss due to fire, etc. the insured cannot profit and take advantage by double insurance. Long ago, Brett, LJ in Castellain v. Preston [Castellain v. Preston, (1883) 11 QBD 380] said that : (QBD p. 386) H 10 (2022) 6 SCC 1 NATIONAL INSURANCE CO. LTD. v. HARSOLIA MOTORS 471 AND OTHERS [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] “….. the contract of insurance … is a contract of indemnity. A … and that this contract means that the assured, in the case of loss … shall be fully indemnified, but shall never be more than fully indemnified.”” (emphasis added) B 46. Thus, it can be concluded that in the instant case hiring of insurance policy is clearly an act for indemnifying a risk of loss/damages and there is no element of profit generation and still what has been expressed by this Court is illustrative; it will always open to be examined on the facts of each case, as to the transaction in reference to which the claim has been raised has any close and direct nexus with profit C generating activity. 47. We do not agree with the submission made on behalf of the appellant that if insurance claims are covered under the Act, 1986, then virtually all insurance matters will come within the purview of the Act, 1986 and this will render the Act, 2015 nugatory. In our view, both these D Acts have different scope and ambit and have different remedial mechanism, are in different sphere having no internal co-relationship. 48. Consequently, the appeals are without substance and accordingly dismissed. No costs. E 49. Let the State Commission may adjudicate the complaint of the respondents on its own merits in accordance with law and since it is an old matter, be decided expeditiously as possible, but in no case later than one year. 50. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. F CIVIL APPEAL NO(S).5354 OF 2007 – (United India Insurance Company Limited v. M/s Diwakar Goiram Porkhayat) 51. The present appeal is directed against the passed by the National Commission dated 3rd December, 2004 holding that the insurance policy taken by the respondent (commercial unit) in the facts of the case G was only to indemnity the loss which the respondent/complainant has suffered and the transaction in reference to which the insurance claim has been repudiated by the appellant, had no direct nexus with the profit generating activity and was a “consumer” as defined under Section 2(1)(d) of the Act, 1986.