State of Maharashtra in exercise of its powers under Section 3(1) of MMC Act decided to expand the territorial limits of the PMC and, consequently, the geographical area of 38 villages which were part F of the Pune ZP were merged into the PMC with effect from 01.11.1999. Post the merger, primary teachers as well as employees from other departments who were serving in those villages were given the option to have themselves transferred and absorbed into the services of PMC. 5. In this context, Sections 3(1) & 3(3) of the MMC Act being G relevant are reproduced below: - “3. Specification of larger urban areas and constitution of Corporations. [(1) The Corporation for every City constituted under this Act existing on the date of coming into force of the Maharashtra Municipal Corporations and Municipal Councils H 986 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A (Amendment) Act, 1994, specified as a larger urban area in the notification issued in respect thereof under clause (2) of Article 243-Q of the Constitution of India, shall be deemed to be a duly constituted Municipal Corporation for the larger urban area so specified forming a City, known by the name “The Municipal Corporation of the City of....”; B xxx xxx xxx (3) [(a)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), the State Government] may also from time to time after consultation with the Corporation by notification in the Official Gazette, alter the C limits specified for any larger urban area under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) so as to include therein, or to exclude therefrom, such area as is specified in the notification. (b) Where any area is included within the limits of the [larger urban area] under clause (a), any appointments, notifications, notices, taxes, s, schemes, licences, permissions, rules, bye- D laws or forms made, issued, imposed or granted under this Act or any other law, which are for the time being in force in the [larger urban area] shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force but save as otherwise provided in section 129A or any other provision of this Act, apply to and be in E force in the additional area also from the date that area is included in the City. xxx xxx xxx” 6. Respondent Nos. 5 to 79 were working as Primary Teachers in the Pune ZP. They were appointed on different dates prior to 01.11.1999. F They too were given option for their merger in the PMC. They opted to accede to the absorption and joined the PMC. It may be relevant to mention at this stage that with a view to regulate the conditions of service of employees who are merged from the Zilla Parishad to Municipalities, the State Government had passed a Resolution (hereinafter “GR”) dated G 13.08.1990, the relevant part whereof reads as follows: - “xxx xxx xxx government was considering whether to consider service provided for Zilla Parishad by said teachers should be considered for pay fixing, seniority, retirement benefit, etc.in Municipal Council/ H MAHARASHTRA RAJYA PADVIDHAR PRATHAMIK SHIKSHAK VA 987 KENDRA PRAMUKH SABHA v. PUNE MUNICIPAL CORPORATION AND ORS.