6. Physical fitness of the woman for the termination of pregnancy: (a) Yes( ) (b) No( ) ” By its dated 9 October 2023, this Court allowed the petition and permitted the medical termination of the pregnancy on the ground that continuing with the pregnancy could seriously imperil the mental health of 450 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. the petitioner. The was pronounced in Court and the reasons were to follow later. 5. On 10 October 2023, a doctor from AIIMS (who was a member of the Medical Board which examined the petitioner) emailed Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, learned ASG, stating that the foetus has a strong chance of survival and seeking directions from this Court as to whether the foetal heartbeat ought to be stopped. The email also stated that if the foetal heartbeat was not stopped, the baby would be placed in an intensive care unit and that there was a high possibility of immediate and long-term physical and mental disability. AIIMS sought a direction from the Court as to whether a foeticide should be carried out. The email is extracted below: “… This is regarding the Supreme Court dated 9.10.2023, regarding termination of pregnancy of Ms .... Before proceeding for termination, we would request the following clarifi cations from the Hon Supreme Court: As the baby is currently viable (will show signs of life and have a strong possibility of survival), we will need a directive from the Supreme court on whether a feticide (stopping the fetal heart) can be done before termination. We perform this procedure for a fetus which has abnormal development, but generally not done in anormal fetus. If fetecideis not performed, this Is not a termination, but a preterm delivery where the baby born will be provided treatment and care. A baby who Is born preterm and also of such low birth weight will have a long stay in intensive care unit, with a high possibility of immediate and long term physical and mental disability which will seriously jeopardise the quality of life of the child. In such a scenario, a directive needs to be given as to what is to be done with the baby? If the parents agree to keep the child this will take amajor physical, mental, emotional and fi nancial toll on the couple. If it is to go for adoption, the process needs to be spelt out clearly as to needs to clear that baby who comes into the world will have a better chance at life if the delivery happens after at least 8 weeks. X v. UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. 451 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] It Is also to be kept In mind that the consequences of delivery which have happened in the previous two babies can happen at this time also, with a delivery now at this time. We would be obliged if a directive on these is given by the Hon Supreme Court to ease out the process. … ” 6. Ms. Bhati mentioned the case at 4 pm on 10 October 2023 before the Bench presided over by the Chief Justice.