On the other hand, for NCTD, the Constitution itself (in terms of Article 239AA) has created B a Legislative Assembly and a Council of Ministers. The constitutionally coded status of NCTD results in a creation of a significant degree of variance in the governance structure when compared to other States and Union territories. 39. The concurring opinion of Justice Chandrachud in the 2018 C Constitution Bench expressly discussed this aspect and held that no single homogeneous class of Union Territories exits. Instead, Union Territories fall in various categories: “453. The of the majority [New Delhi Municipal Council v State of Punjab] also holds that all Union Territories D are not situated alike. The first category consists of Union Territories which have no legislature at all. The second category has legislatures created by a law enacted by Parliament under the Government of Union Territories Act, 1963. The third category is Delhi which has “special features” under Article 239-AA. Though the Union Territory of Delhi “is in a class E by itself”, it “is certainly not a State within the meaning of Article 246 or Part VI of the Constitution”. Various Union Territories — the Court observed — are in different stages of evolution… 475.1. The introduction of Article 239-AA into the Constitution F was the result of the exercise of the constituent power. The Sixty- ninth Amendment to the Constitution has important consequences for the special status of Delhi as the National Capital Territory, albeit under the rubric of a Union Territory governed by Part VIII of the Constitution.” G (emphasis supplied) 40. This variance in the constitutional treatment of Union Territories as well as the absence of a homogeneous class is not unique only to Union Territories. The Constitution is replete with instances of special arrangements being made to accommodate the specific regional needs H 528 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A of States in specific areas. Therefore, NCTD is not the first territory which has received a special treatment through a constitutional provision, but it is another example - in line with the practice of the Constitution - envisaging arrangements which treat federal units differently from each other to account for their specific circumstances. For instance, Article 371 of the Constitution contains special provisions for certain areas in B various States as well as for the entirety of some States. The marginal notes to various articles composed under the rubric of Article 371 provide an overview of a number of States for which arrangements in the nature of asymmetric federalism are made in the spirit of accommodating the differences and the specific requirements of regions across the nation: C “371. Special provision with respect to the States of [* * *] Maharashtra and Gujarat 371-A. Special provision with respect to the State of Nagaland 371-B. Special provision with respect to the State of Assam D 371-C. Special provision with respect to the State of Manipur 371-D. Special provisions with respect to the State of Andhra Pradesh or the State of Telangana] 371-E.