It refers … to the media upon which the plaintiff asks the Court to arrive at a conclusion in his favour.” 57. Cause of action should also be distinguished from ‘remedy’ which is the means or method whereby the cause of action or D corresponding obligation is effectuated and by which a wrong is redressed and relief obtained. The one precedes and gives rise to the other, but they are separate and distinct from each other and are governed by different rules and principles. The cause of action is the obligation from which springs the “action”, defined as the right to enforce an obligation, E A cause of action arises when that which ought to have been done is not done or that which ought not to have been done is done. The essential elements of a cause of action are thus the existence of a legal right in the plaintiff with a corresponding legal duty in the defendant, and a violation or breach of that ‘right or duty’ with consequential injury or damage to the plaintiff for which he may maintain an action for appropriate relief or F reliefs. The right to maintain an action depends upon the existence of a cause of action which Involves a combination of a right on the part of the plaintiff and the violation of such right by the defendant. The duty on the part of the defendant may arise from a contract or may be imposed by positive law independent of contract, it may arise of contractus or G ex delicto. A cause of action arises from the invasion of the plaintiff’s right by violation of some duty Imposed upon the defendant in favour of the plaintiff either by voluntary contract or by positive law. (See: Sardar Balbir Singh v. Atma Ram Srivastava reported in AIR 1977 ALL 211 (FB)) H 926 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 58. Secondly, the cause of action must be distinguished from the evidence upon which, that cause of action is proved and though the one has no relation to the other, still the nature of the cause of action may be indicated by the nature of the evidence by which it is supported. This again is made clear in Mohammad Khalil Khan (supra) para. 61 at P. 86 in points Nos. 3 and 4, which are put as follows:— B “(3) If the evidence to support the two claims is different, then the causes of action are also different. … (4) The cause of action in the two suits may be considered to be the same if in substance they are identical. …” C 59. The decision of the Privy Council in Mohammad Khalil Khan (supra) was taken notice of by this Court in the case of Suraj Rattan Thirani and Others v. Azamabad Tea Co. Ltd. and Others reported in AIR 1965 SC 295. This Court, while explaining the true purport of IX Rule 9 of the CPC observed in paras 29 & 30 resply as under:- D “28.