If the applicants were in the meanwhile in judicial custody, their applications for regular bail could be considered by the competent Court, uninfl uenced by the observations made in the . 14. After marshalling the entire range of juridical materials on the subject of anticipatory bail and the perception of its abuse, the Constitution Bench in Sushila Aggarwal held the judgements of this Court that postulated greater limitations on the grant of anticipatory bail to be not good law. 15. The upshot of the above discussion is that the march of criminal law has been towards chiselling an equitous remedy that strikes a delicate balance between the imperative of personal liberty with that of eff ective administration of criminal law. 16. This Court, while being seized of a challenge to grant extra- territorial anticipatory bail, had kept the question of law open in the following two cases: (i) In Brojen Gogol, this Court considered the Assam Police’s challenge to the Bombay High Court’s grant of anticipatory bail to an accused who was allegedly involved in off ences perpetrated in Guwahati. Accordingly, it held that the anticipatory bail application ought to be made before the Gauhati High Court as the alleged activities had been perpetrated within its territorial jurisdiction. Consequently, this Court set aside the impugned of the Bombay High Court granting anticipatory bail on the ground that the prosecuting agency was not heard. However, this Court held that it did not think it necessary to decide whether the Bombay High Court had jurisdiction to entertain the anticipatory bail application. It was held that status quo would be maintained until the High Court of Gauhati passed appropriate (s) on the anticipatory bail application. 560 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. (ii) This Court also had the occasion to adjudicate upon Teesta Atul Setalvad vs. State of Maharashtra, Special Leave Petition (Criminal) No. 1770 of 2014, whereby the applicant seeking extra-territorial anticipatory bail had appealed against the Bombay High Court’s . The Bombay High Court had permitted the applicant for extra-territorial anticipatory bail to move before the appropriate Court in Gujarat for the said relief and granted transit bail for four weeks so as to enable the same. This Court disposed of the Special Leave Petition No. 1770 of 2014 on 24.02.2014 without interfering with the Bombay High Court’s judgement while observing that the question of law about the jurisdiction of the High Court was kept open. (iii) Therefore, the present appeal constitutes the third of the cases where this crucial question of public importance has been raised before this Court by the appellant who is the complainant. Discussion: 17. Before proceeding further, the reasoning and outcome of some of the High Court judgements on the grant of extra-territorial anticipatory bail under Section 438 of CrPC are tabulated as under: Case Name High Court Outcome and Reasoning 1. Pritam Singh vs. Delhi High Court The High Court allowed accused’s plea State of Punjab, regarding FIR under Section 438 of CrPC and directed 1980 SCC registered in the that the accused be released in the event OnLine Del 336 State of Punjab of arrest upon furnishing personal bond and surety.