Post Mohd. Arif, this happens when the judges who were members of the original B bench have demitted office by the time the open court review comes for hearing. The data involves the 13 review cases re-opened and re-decided post Mohd. Arif after an oral hearing as well as 10 fresh review cases which were decided post Mohd. Arif. Out of 13 post Mohd. Arif cases which were re-opened, we have already noted that only 4 led to re- confirmation of the award of the death penalty, while in 7 cases the C sentence was commuted to life imprisonment, 1 resulted in an acquittal and 1 stood abated. Out of the 10 fresh review cases, in 7 the death sentence was confirmed while in 3 the sentence was commuted. 6. In the cases where the sentence of death was commuted to life imprisonment, i.e. 7 cases from the first lot of 13 re-opened review D cases and 3 cases from the second lot of 10 fresh review cases, all of the benches in review were of a different composition from the bench that decided the appeal. The 1 case which resulted in acquittal also had a different bench in review from the one in appeal. On the other hand, in the 11 cases which re-confirmed the death sentence, 7 benches had a E composition of one or all the judges being the same as the bench that decided the appeal. The report notes that: The stage of review is rendered almost superfluous for the purpose envisaged by the majority, i.e., a further reconsideration of a death sentence, when the same bench (as in criminal appeal) F is called upon to decide the review petition. This is in fact demonstrated by the data. As predicted by Justice Chelameswar, when heard by the same bench as the appeal, review petitions resulted in the death sentence being maintained. 4 out of 11 confirmation s rendered at the stage of review had the same bench. While the remaining 7 confirmation s in review were rendered by G benches of different composition, it is relevant to note that in 1 of these s one judge was common to both the benches that decided the review and the appeal, and in yet another, two judges were common to both benches. On the other hand, all of the 10 s that resulted in commutation at the review stage, H 1028 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A were rendered by benches having a different composition from the bench that decided the appeal. Therefore, the data suggests that a review petition filed within 30 days of the rendered in appeal, decided by the same bench, will not demonstrate considerable differences in approaches or outcome, unlike those decided by a different bench. B (emphasis supplied) 7. While the above data is not conclusive and the correlation may not necessarily equate to causation, we find it appropriate to mention as the present case is also one of those being re-opened and re-heard as a result of the decision in Mohd.