There may have existed suffi cient grounds to appeal against the bail s, but the circumstances did not warrant the circumvention of ordinary criminal procedure to resort to an extraordinary measure of the law of preventive detention. 52. In Vijay Narain Singh vs. State of Bihar20, Hon’ble E.S. Venkataramiah, J. (as the Chief Justice then was) observed: 32. ...It is well settled that the law of preventive detention is a hard law and therefore it should be strictly construed. Care should be taken that the liberty of a person is not jeopardised unless his case falls squarely within the four corners of the relevant law. The law of preventive detention should not be used merely to clip the wings of an Accused who is involved in a criminal prosecution. It is not intended for the purpose of keeping a man under detention when under ordinary criminal law it may not be possible to resist the issue of s of bail, unless the material available is such as would satisfy the requirements of the legal provisions authorising such detention. When a person is enlarged on bail by a competent criminal court, great caution should be exercised in scrutinising the validity of an of preventive detention which is based on the very same charge which is to be tried by the criminal court.” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 53. Resonance of these principles are traceable in Banka Sneha Sheela vs. The State of Telangana21. There, while examining an of detention passed with reference to 5 (fi ve) off ences involving sections 420, 406 and 506 of the IPC, in respect whereof the detenu had obtained s of bail/ anticipatory bail, this Court had the occasion to say that: 20 (1984) 3 SCC 14 21 (2021) 9 SCC 415 AMEENA BEGUM v. THE STATE OF TELANGANA 995 & ORS. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] “A close reading of the Detention would make it clear that the reason for the said is not any apprehension of widespread public harm, danger or alarm but is only because the Detenu was successful in obtaining anticipatory bail/bail from the Courts in each of the fi ve FIRs. If a person is granted anticipatory bail/bail wrongly, there are well-known remedies in the ordinary law to take care of the situation. The State can always appeal against the bail granted and/or apply for cancellation of bail. The mere successful obtaining of anticipatory bail/bail s being the real ground for detaining the Detenu, there can be no doubt that the harm, danger or alarm or feeling of security among the general public spoken of in Section 2(a) of the Telangana Prevention of Dangerous Activities Act is make believe and totally absent in the facts of the present case.” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 54. On the ground of consideration of extraneous materials too, the Detention is unsustainable. 55. A pernicious trend prevalent in the state of Telangana has not escaped our attention. While the Nation celebrates Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav to commemorate 75 years of independence from foreign rule, some police offi cers of the said state who are enjoined with the duty to prevent crimes and are equally responsible for protecting the rights of citizens as well, seem to be oblivious of the Fundamental Rights guaranteed by the Constitution and are curbing the liberty and freedom of the people.