103. This court held in Hajee Abdul Shukoor(supra) that: “The State legislature is free to enact laws which would have retrospective operation. Its competence to make law for a certain past period, depends on its present legislative power and not on what it possessed at the period of time when its enactment is to have operation. We therefore do not agree with this contention. The matter can be looked at in a diff erent way. The 1939 Act required no assent of the President. The State Legislature was doing in 1963 what the legislature enacting the 1939 Act was supposed to have enacted and therefore its enactment was not governed by the Constitutional requirement for an Act to be enacted during the period Act LII of 1952 was in force. Lastly, it has been urged for the petitioner that hides and skins have been declared to be of special importance in inter-State trade or commerce by s.14 of the Central Sales Tax of 1956. The tax imposed by sub-section (1) of s. 2 of the Act is a tax on the sale of hides and skins in the course of inter-State trade or commerce and therefore fen within entry No. 92A of list 1 of Seventh Schedule and that therefore the State legislature was not competent to impose it. It could impose by virtue of entry No. 54 in List II of Seventh Schedule tax on the sale or purchase of goods subject to the provisions of entry No. 92A of List 1. There is no force in this contention. The tax is imposed on the sale which took place within the State. The State legis- lature is competent to impose such a tax. The mere fact that the article sold in the State had been brought from outside the State does not make the sale of that article a sale in the course of inter-State trade or commerce. It is only when A, in State X, purchased through a commission agent in a State Y and receives the articles purchased through the commercial agency that the sale comes within the expression ‘in the course of inter-State trade’: See State of Travancore Cochin v Shanmugha Vilas Cashew Nut Factory . (supra at p. 70). It has been argued for the State that the Act is not aff ected by the provisions of Arts. 301 to 304 of the Constitution as they aff ect the legislative power with respect to Acts to operate in the future and not 204 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. the power to enact Acts which would operate in the past. We do not consider the contention sound. The Act makes provision for a period subsequent to the commencement of the Constitution and therefore is to be subject to the provisions of the Constitution. We therefore hold that sub-section (1) of S. 2 of the Act discriminates against imported hides and skins which were sold up to the 1st of August 1957 upto which date the tax on sale of raw hides and skins was at the rate of 3 pies per rupee or 19/16th percent.