A Board of Directors and not on the respondent as Company Secretary, the Tribunal has relied on the provisions of Regulation 19(3) of the SEBI (Buyback of Securities) Regulations 1998 which is in the following terms: “19(3) The company shall nominate a compliance officer and investors service centre for compliance with the buy-back B regulations and to redress the grievances of the investors.” 8. The manner in which the Tribunal has construed the above regulation is indicated in paragraph 18 of the impugned which reads as follows : “18. The aforesaid provision indicates that the company will C nominate a Compliance Officer to redress the grievances of the investors. The appellant being a Company Secretary was also a Compliance Officer and thus the role of the Compliance Officer was only limited to redress the grievance to the investors.” 9. Mr Arvind Datar, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the D appellant urges that : (i) Ex facie, the interpretation which has been placed on Regulation 19(3) is erroneous; (ii) Section 77A of the Companies Act 1956 which deals with the power of the company to purchase its own securities lays E down various requirements; (iii) In terms of Section 215 of the Companies Act 1956, the balance sheet and profit and loss account have to be approved by the Board of Directors before they are signed on behalf of the Board and before they are submitted to the auditors for their F report; (iv) The duty of authentication cannot be confined to merely a signature on the relevant statutory documents; (v) There was a patent failure on the part of the respondent since G as a Company Secretary, it was his duty to duly certify statutory compliances; (vi) The Tribunal was not justified in absolving him on the ground that it was for the Board of Directors to ensure compliance; and H SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA v. 423 V SHANKAR [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (vii) The observation in paragraph 18 of the impugned to A the effect that the role of the Company Secretary is only confined to redressing the grievance of investors is plainly contrary to Regulation 19(3). 10. On the other hand, Mr. Somasekhar Sundaresan, counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent submitted that : B (i) The primary finding that has been arrived at is in regard to the failure of the Board of Directors to ensure statutory compliance; (ii) The respondent was acting as a Company Secretary and C cannot be held liable for the default on the part of the Board of Directors; (iii) Moreover, the finding is that the accounts of the companies were found to be erroneous and the default lies with the Board of Directors and not with the Company Secretary. D 11. Regulation 19(3) of the SEBI (Buyback of Securities) Regulations 1998 requires the company to nominate a compliance officer and an investors’ service centre. The purpose of the nomination is twofold, namely (i) to ensure compliance with the buyback Regulations; and (ii) to redress the grievances of investors.