III. In a proceeding for contempt, the High Court can decide D whether any contempt of court has been committed, and if so, what should be the punishment and matters incidental thereto. In such a proceeding, it is not appropriate to adjudicate or decide any issue relating to the merits of the dispute between the parties. E IV. Any direction issued or decision made by the High Court on the merits of a dispute between the parties, will not be in the exercise of “jurisdiction to punish for contempt” and, therefore, not appealable under Section 19 of the CC Act. The only exception is where such direction or decision is F incidental to or inextricably connected with the punishing for contempt, in which event the appeal under Section 19 of the Act, can also encompass the incidental or inextricably connected directions. V. If the High Court, for whatsoever reason, decides an G issue or makes any direction, relating to the merits of the dispute between the parties, in a contempt proceedings, the aggrieved person is not without remedy. Such an is open to challenge in an intra-court appeal (if the was of a learned Single Judge and there is a provision for an intra- H SNEHASIS GIRI AND ORS. v. SUBHASIS MITRA 309 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] court appeal), or by seeking special leave to appeal under A Article 136 of the Constitution of India (in other cases).” 13. It is thus, apparent, that if this court were to pronounce upon the merits of the respondents’ position, it would necessarily have to consider the facts of each case, and decide whether the stand of the B alleged contemnors – wherever a decision adverse to the petitioners is taken, is correct on its merits. That exercise, plainly is not admissible in proper exercise of contempt jurisdiction. 14. The above observations would have ordinarily been conclusive and dispositive of the present petitions. However, this court is conscious C of the fact that the process of verification undertaken by the state would result in further delay and may lead to multifarious litigation, spelling uncertainty to individuals and members of staff of madrasas who were appointed after following all norms and procedures. 15. During the hearing this court had suggested constitution of a D committee which would examine all relevant factors and verify the claims of the petitioners which could then be considered and acted upon by the same. This suggestion was acceptable to the state, the commission and concerned madrasas who are represented by Mr. Rakesh Dwivedi, Mr. C.U. Singh, Sr. Advocates and other counsel. E 16. During the hearing, the court had suggested constitution of a committee which would go into all relevant factors and verify the claims of the petitioners which would then be considered and acted upon by the same. This suggestion was acceptable to the state, the concerned madrasas and the petitioners, represented by M/s. Rakesh Dwivedi, F C.U. Singh, and Huzeffa Ahmadi, Sr. Advocates, Ms. Madhumita Bhattacharjee, Mr. Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya, and other counsel.