125 Jonathan Rauch, ‘Conventional Wisdom’, (Reasons, February 2000) 132 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 145. The DV Act has come the closest to recognising the existence of relationships in forms other than marriage. The Act defi nes “domestic relationship” as a relationship between two persons who live together in a shared household, when they are related by consanguinity, marriage, or ‘through a relationship in the nature of marriage. In Indra Sarma v. VKV Sarma126, the issue before this Court was whether live-in relationships can be considered to be a relationship in the nature of marriage. A two-Judge Bench of this Court observed that a relationship in the nature of marriage is distinct from a marriage. It was further observed that for a relationship to be considered to be in the nature of marriage, factors such as the duration of the relationship, whether the couple live in a shared household, the pooling of resources and fi nancial arrangements such as long-term investment plans which indicate the existence of a long standing relationship, and domestic arrangements such as entrusting the responsibility especially on women to run the household and do household activities, the sexual relationship, procreation, socialisation in public, and the intention and conduct of the parties must be considered. 146. The observations of this Court in Indra Sarma (supra) elucidate that a relationship is in the nature of marriage only when an inference can be drawn from the surrounding circumstances that it will be a long-lasting relationship. Thus, while there is a positive presumption that marriages are long-lasting, there is also a negative inference that all other relationships which are not in the form of marriage are short-lived. 147. In addition, the observations of this Court in Indra Sarma (supra) indicate that marriage has always been understood and continues to be understood in terms of the stereotyped traditional gender roles. The wife is entrusted with the responsibility of taking care of household chores and the husband is expected to be the breadwinner of the family. The public- private divide is stark. Women are relegated to the private sphere where their contribution towards running the household is diminished. An inherent feature of the institution of marriage is the unequal heteronormative setting in which it operates. It is important for us to observe that the State while recognising the relationship between two heterosexual individuals in the 126 (2013) 15 SCC 755 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1323 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] form of marriage does not recognise or promote the gendered division of labour in the home. The State by regulating marriage has sought to redefi ne heterosexual relationships by emphasising on the autonomy of both parties. 148. The intangible benefi ts of marriage extend beyond the conferment of social recognition to the relationship of the couple. It also confers benefi ts which cannot be measured in tangible form to the children born of the marital relationship. The law confers on children who are born of wedlock with benefi ts in succession.