The purpose which the condition seeks to serve (collaboration between the federal units and representative democracy) would be lost if the President secures his own concurrence while exercising the power. 427. However, in the present case, the President seeking the concurrence of the Union Government instead of the Government of the State to issue CO 272 is not invalid because: a. The eff ect of applying all the provisions of the Constitution to the State through the exercise of power under Article 370(1)(d) is the same as an exercise of power under Article 370(3) notifying that Article 370 shall cease to exist, that is, all provisions of the Constitution of India will apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir, except for the fact that the former can be reversed while the latter cannot; b. The President has the power under Article 370(3) to unilaterally notify that Article 370 shall cease to exist; c. Consultation and collaboration between both the units will only be necessary where the application of the provisions of the Indian Constitution to the State would require amendments to the State Constitution because as explained above the purpose of the requirements of consultation and collaboration is for the smooth functioning of governance in the State and to ensure that the provisions of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Constitution of India; d. The principle of consultation and collaboration underlying the provisos to Article 370(1)(d) would not be applicable where the eff ect of the provision is the same as Article 370(3). Since the eff ect of applying all the provisions of the Constitution to Jammu and Kashmir through the exercise of power under Article 370(1)(d) is the same as issuing a notifi cation under Article 370(3) that Article IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 249 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 370 ceases to exist, the principle of consultation and collaboration are not required to be followed; e. The President in exercise of the power under Article 370(1)(d) issued CO 272 applying all the provisions of the Constitution to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Thus, the concurrence of the Government of the State under the second proviso to Article 370(1) (d) was not required to be secured in the fi rst place; and f. The exercise of power is mala fi de only if power was exercised with an intent to deceive. Deception can only be proved if the power which is otherwise unavailable to the authority or body is exercised or if the power that is available is improperly exercised. Since the concurrence of the State Government was not required for the exercise power under Article 370(1)(d) to apply all provisions of the Constitution to the State, the President securing the concurrence of the Union of India (on behalf of the State Government) is not mala fi de. 428. In view of the above discussion, the concurrence of the Government of the State was not necessary for the President to exercise power under Article 370(1)(d) to apply all provisions of the Constitution to Jammu and Kashmir.