In the case of Rai Chand Jain -vs- Miss Chandra Kanta Khosla [(1991) 1 SCC 422], dispute arose as to whether certain premises were let out for residential purpose or as to whether there was an oral agreement of letting out the premises to the tenant, for running a press. It was in that perspective, it was held in the said case that a lease deed though unregistered, could be considered for collateral purposes to show the purpose for which the premises was leased out. Thus, the lease deed was referred to for the sole purpose to defeat the claim of subsistence of an oral agreement. The ratio of this authority has been considered in the case of K.B. Saha and Sons Private Limited (supra) and we follow that ratio. In the case of Satish Chand Makhan (supra), another coordinate Bench of this Court declined to accept admissibility of an unregistered lease agreement for determining duration of the lease (9 years in that case) on the reasoning that terms of lease would not constitute collateral purpose. It was observed in this that “nature and character of possession” could constitute collateral purpose but that was not the point which was directly in lis before this Court. In our opinion, nature and character of possession contained in a fl awed document (being unregistered) in terms Section 107 of the 1882 Act and Sections 17 and 49 of the Registration Act can form collateral purpose when the “nature and character of possession” is not the main term of the lease and does not constitute the main dispute for adjudication by the Court. In this case, the nature and character of possession constitutes the primary dispute and hence the Court is excluded by law from examining the unregistered deed for that purpose. In respect of the suit out of which this appeal arises, purpose of lease is the main lis, not a collateral incident. 14. We, however, need not further dilate on this question. The lease was for use by the predecessor of the appellants “for the purpose of his business M/S PAUL RUBBER INDUSTRIES PVT. LTD. v. AMIT 45 CHAND MITRA [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] and/or factory.” The property was described in the schedule to be estimated 16 cottahs of land “with a factory shed/godown space”. Such description would not be suffi cient to establish that the same was for manufacturing purpose. In the decision of this Court in Allenbury Engineers Pvt. Ltd. -vs- Ramkrishna Dalmia and Others [(1973) 1 SCC 7], the expression ‘manufacturing purpose’ as employed in Section 106 of the 1882 Act was explained to mean:- “8…The expression “manufacturing purposes” in Section 106, thus, means purposes for making or fabricating articles or materials by physical labour, or skill, or by mechanical power, vendible and useful as such. Such making or fabricating does not mean merely a change in an already existing article or material, but transforming it into a diff erent article or material having a distinctive name, character or use or fabricating a previously known article by a noval process.” 15.