Having E gone through the decision of this Court in the case of Piara Singh (supra), we are of the opinion that the High Court has materially erred in relying upon the decision of this Court in the case of Piara Singh (supra). 6.3 In the case of Piara Singh (supra) the assessee was found F to be in the business of smuggling of currency notes and to that it was found that confiscation of currency notes was a loss occasioned in pursuing his business i.e. a loss which sprung directly from carrying on of his business and was incidental to it. Due to this, the assessee in the said case held entitled to deduction under Section 10(1) of the Income G Tax Act, 1922. In view of the above fact situation this Court in the case of Piara Singh (supra) distinguished the decisions of this Court in the case of Haji Aziz & Abdul Shakoor Bros. reported in AIR 1961 SC 663, and the decision in the case of Soni Hinduji Kushalji & Co. vs. CIT, (1973) 89 ITR 112(AP) and not agreed with the decision of the Bombay High Court in the case of J.S. Parkar vs. VB Palekar, (1974 H THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX JAIPUR v. PRAKASH 99 CHAND LUNIA (D) THR. LRS. & ANR. [M. R. SHAH, J.] 94 ITR 616 (Bom). It is to be noted that in all the aforesaid three cases A which were relied upon by the Revenue in the case of Piara Singh (supra) were found to be involved in legitimate businesses and not smuggling business but however they were found to have smuggled goods contrary to law which resulted in an infraction of law and resultant confiscation by customs authorities. B 6.4 In the case of Haji Aziz (supra) the assessee claimed for deduction of fine paid by him for release of his dates confiscated by customs authorities was rejected on the ground that the amount paid by way of penalty for breach of law was not a normal business carried out by it. In the case of Soni Hinduji Kushalji (supra) and JS Parkar C (supra), the customs authorities had confiscated gold from assessees otherwise engaged in legitimate businesses. In the aforesaid two cases the assessee claimed the value of gold seized as a trading/business loss. It was held that the assessees are not entitled to the deductions as claimed as business loss. D 6.5 In the case of Soni Hinduji (supra), the Andhra Pradesh High Court held that when a claim for deduction is made, the loss must be one that springs directly from or is incidental to the business which the assessee carries on and not every sort or kind of loss which has absolutely no nexus or connection with his business. It was observed that confiscation of contraband gold was an action in rem and not a E proceeding in personam and thus, a proceeding in rem in the strict sense of the term is an action taken directly against the property (i.e.