10. Teesta Atul Bombay High The High Court granted transit bail for Setalvad vs. State Court regarding four weeks and allowed the applicant of Maharashtra, off ence registered to move before the appropriate Court in ABA No.14/2014 in the State of Gujarat for said relief. Gujarat (Teesta Atul Setalvad) 11. Gameskraft Karnataka High The High Court recognized that it is a Technologies Court regarding well-settled proposition of law that though vs. State of off ence registered the alleged off ence had not taken place Maharashtra, in the State of within the jurisdiction of the said Court, it 2019 SCC Maharashtra. can grant bail though it has no jurisdiction. OnLine Kar 520 The High Court allowed the application, (Gameskraft directing that they must be immediately Technologies) released if they are arrested, subject to the condition that the applicant ‘shall appear before the jurisdictional Court within 15 days or within 15 days from the date of their arrest by the concerned police whichever was earlier. 12. Surya Pratap Delhi High The High Court granted two weeks to Singh vs. State of Court regarding the applicant to make an appropriate Karnataka, 2019 off ence registered application before the concerned Court. SCC Online Del in the State of Protection was granted for two weeks. 9533 (Surya Karnataka. Pratap Singh) 566 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Case Name High Court Outcome and Reasoning 13. Nikita Jacob Bombay High Reasoned that the imperative of temporary vs. State of Court r egarding relief to protect liberty and to avoid Maharashtra, off ence registered immediate arrest may be relied upon to 2021 SCC in New Delhi. grant interim bail for an off ence that was OnLine Bom allegedly committed outside the Court’s 13919 (Nikita territorial jurisdiction. Jacob) 14. Ajay Agarwal Allahabad High The High Court noted that transit bail vs. The State of Court regarding is protection from arrest for a certain U.P.,2022 SCC off ence registered defi nite period as granted by the Court OnLine All 689 in the State of granting such transit bail. Therefore, the (Ajay Agarwal) Maharashtra. Court granted protection to the accused for a period of six weeks to enable him to approach the competent Court for seeking appropriate relief. 15. Amita Garg Allahabad High The High Court noted that there is no vs. State of Court regarding legislation or law which defi nes “transit U.P., 2022 SCC off ence registered or anticipatory bail’ in definitive or Online All 463 in the State of specifi c terms. The said Court explained (Amita Garg) Rajasthan. that the transit anticipatory bail precedes detention of the accused and is eff ective immediately at the time of the arrest. Transit bail is protection from arrest for a certain defi nite period as directed by the Court granting such transit bail. Therefore, when an accused is arrested in accordance with the of a Court and whereas the accused needs to be tried in some other competent Court having jurisdiction in the aforementioned matter, the accused is given bail for the transitory period i.e., the time period required for the accused to reach that competent Court from the place he is arrested in.