92 (1975) 2 SCC 148 93 AIR 1967 SC 1836 H 684 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A The Court went on to hold that “the expression “personal liberty” in Art. 21 takes in the right of loco-motion and to travel abroad, but the right to move throughout the territories of India is not covered by it inasmuch as it is specially provided in Art. 19.” 89. Satwant Singh (supra) was the case of a businessman, who B was directed to surrender his passport, with a view to prevent him from travelling out of India, on account of an investigation pending against him under the Export and Import Control Act. It must be noted that this case was before the enactment of The Passports Act, 1967. 90. After The Passports Act came into force, the decision of the C 7-Judge Bench in Maneka Gandhi vs. Union of India94 came. It was held therein that the right to travel abroad is part of the right to personal liberty and that the same cannot be deprived except according to the procedure established by law. 91. Next came the decision in Bandhua Mukti Morcha vs. Union of India & Ors.95. It was a case where a letter addressed by an NGO D to the Court exposing the plight of persons working in stone quarries under inhuman conditions, was treated as a public interest litigation. Some of those workers were actually bonded labourers. After this Court issued notice to the State Governments and the lessees of the quarries, a preliminary objection was raised as to the maintainability of the writ E petition. While rejecting the preliminary objection, this Court broadly indicated how the fundamental rights of those bonded labourers were violated and what were the duties of the State and the Court in cases of that nature. The relevant portion of the decision reads thus: “9. … We should have thought that if any citizen brings before F the Court a complaint that a large number of peasants or workers are bonded serfs or are being subjected to exploitation by a few mine lessees or contractors or employers or are being denied the benefits of social welfare laws, the State Government, which is, under our constitutional scheme, charged with the mission of bringing about a new socio-economic where there will be G social and economic justice for everyone and equality of status and opportunity for all, would welcome an enquiry by the Court, so that if it is found that there are in fact bonded labourers or even 94 (1978) 1 SCC 248 H 95 (1984) 3 SCC 161 KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 685 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] if the workers are not bonded in the strict sense of the term as A defined in the Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act, 1976 but they are made to provide forced labour or are consigned to a life of utter deprivation and degradation, such a situation can be set right by the State Government.