[DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] Regulations, in carrying out valuation of non-core assets of corporate A debtor alongwith several other procedural errors; and for consideration of his proposal under Section 12-A of the Code with the option to modify the same on the request of the members of CoC. 14.3. Two applications were filed by Dharani Finance Limited seeking that resolution professional be directed to admit its claim of B Rs.1,94,14,024, as operational creditor in application bearing MA No.18 of 2021; and of Rs. Rs.4,81,62,175/- as financial creditor in application bearing MA No.48 of 2021. In both the applications, the common relief sought for was not to be treated as a related party of the corporate debtor and not to be discriminated in the resolution plan. C 15.The Adjudicating Authority dismissed the applications and allowed the resolution plan as approved by CoC. The observations and findings of the Adjudicating Authority in its dated 15.07.2021 had been as follows: 15.1. As regards the questions surrounding the valuation of assets D and valuation reports, the Adjudicating Authority referred to the minutes of second, third, sixth and seventh CoC meetings, taking note of the appointment of valuers and the proceedings conducting by them. The Adjudicating Authority further extracted Regulations 27 and 35 of the CIRP Regulations and thereafter, recorded its satisfaction that RP had E arrived at a fair value and a liquidation value based on average of the three valuers in accordance with the requirements of Regulations. The Adjudicating Authority also referred to the passed by NCLAT on 05.05.2021 in Company Appeal (AT) (Ins) Nos. 19 and 20 of 2021 and observed that the Appellate Tribunal had rendered finding that resolution plan amount had been arrived at after following the prescribed procedure. F Thus, the Adjudicating Authority found no error committed by IRP or RP in appointing registered valuers and further found that there was no error in regard to the valuation submitted by those registered valuers. Accordingly, the objections in relation to valuation were overruled. 15.1.1. The relevant observations and findings of the Adjudicating G Authority in regard to the questions pertaining to valuation and the valuation reports, after extensive extraction of the relevant minutes of the meetings of CoC had been as under: - “(I) VALUATION REPORT:- *** *** *** H 808 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 80. In the present case, it is seen from the minutes extracted supra from the 6th CoC meeting that RP further apprised the CoC members, that due to significant difference in the value of land and building submitted by the valuers appointed by IRP, the RP had to appoint third valuer in accordance with provisions of Regulation 35 of CIRP Regulations, 2016. Accordingly, the third B valuer has submitted his report before the RP and accordingly the fair value and the Liquidation value in relation to the Corporate Debtor was arrived at by the Resolution Professional. 81. Thus, it is clear that the RP has arrived at a Fair Value and the Liquidation Value based on the average of all the three valuers C and the same has been done in accordance with Regulation 35 of the IBBI (IRPCP) Regulations 2016.