Thus, the circumstance of extra judicial confession is also not proved beyond doubt. E (iv) Accused taking the deceased from home on a bicycle In respect of this circumstance, the only evidence is of PW4 i.e. the daughter of the accused and the deceased. Her evidence has been doubted by the High Court, inter alia, on the ground that the two witnesses Ganga Bai (PW1) F and Sushila (PW12) have not supported her statement. PW4 stated that when she followed her parents who were going on a bicycle she met Sushila (PW12) and she narrated the incident to her. PW12, who appeared as a witness, denied having met PW4 on that fateful day. Similarly, Ganga Bai (PW1) who were to corroborate PW4 on that aspect was G declared hostile. Even, if we assume that the testimony of those two witnesses would not damage the testimony of PW4 as they may have their own reasons for not supporting the prosecution case yet, when we peruse the detailed reasons recorded by the High Court in its (i.e. H 622 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A paragraphs 31 to 35 thereof) to hold that the testimony of PW4 is not of a stellar quality as to merit conviction solely on its basis, we find no such perversity in the High Court’s conclusion as may warrant a reversal of acquittal into a conviction in exercise of jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution. B The argument that doctrine falsus in uno, falsus in omnibus is not applicable in India hence PW4’s testimony, even if not acceptable on certain aspects, could be relied to prove other circumstances, is not acceptable because the High Court, on basis of analysis of the entire evidence, has C discarded the witness as not reliable while observing: “that her statement is full of embellishments, exaggerations and material discrepancies and, therefore, we find ourselves unable to pick out the grain of truth from the falsehood of her statement.’’ D Further, even if we accept PW4’s testimony that the accused, on that fateful day, took the deceased on a bicycle to the fields that by itself is not conclusive to indicate that he took her to kill her; because, admittedly, the accused held agricultural holding and it is quite possible that he may E have taken his wife to assist him in the agricultural operations. It is common practice in villages for ladies to help their menfolk in agricultural operations. The allegation that while taking her a declaration was made that she would be killed does not inspire our confidence for the reason that the motive set out by the prosecution for such a quarrel has F not been proved. Otherwise also, quarrels and disputes between husband and wife are every day phenomena and not such an event which may create a strong suspicion of an impending crime much less murder. More so, where, as in the present case, marriage is subsisting since long with G children out of the wedlock.