The fact that a disability is created by the of blacklisting indicates that the relevant authority is to have an objective satisfaction. Fundamentals of fair play require that the person concerned should be given an opportunity to represent his case before he is put on the blacklist.” E 45. In Joseph Vilangandan v. Executive Engineer33, the issue before the two-judge pertained to debarment of a government contractor from seeking any further contract with the government without providing an opportunity of being heard. The material sentence of the notice there read as follows: F “You are therefore requested to show cause ... why the work may not be arranged otherwise at your risk and loss, through other agencies after debarring you as a defaulter....” (emphasis original) This Court applied the position of law in Erusian Equipment & G Chemicals Ltd (supra) to hold that the Executive Engineer ought to have given the contractor adequate opportunity to represent against the proposed action of debarment. 32 (1975) 1 SCC 70 H 33 (1978) 3 SCC 36 STATE BANK OF INDIA & ORS v. RAJESH AGARWAL & ORS 511 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 46. In Raghunath Thakur v. State of Bihar34, a two-judge bench A of this Court held that since blacklisting entails civil consequences an of blacklisting should be issued only after following the principles of natural justice: “4. […] Insofar as the contention that there is no requirement specifically of giving any notice is concerned, the respondent is B right. But it is an implied principle of the rule of law that any having civil consequence should be passed only after following the principles of natural justice. It has to be realised that blacklisting any person in respect of business ventures has civil consequence for the future business of the person concerned in any event. C Even if the rules do not express so, it is an elementary principle of natural justice that parties affected by any should have right of being heard and making representations against the . […]” 47. In Gorkha Security Services v. Govt (NCT of Delhi)35, the issue before this Court pertained to the form and content of a show- D cause notice that is required to be served before blacklisting the noticee. A two-judge bench of this Court observed that that an blacklisting a person is stigmatic. The relevant observation is extracted below: 16. It is a common case of the parties that the blacklisting has to be preceded by a show-cause notice. Law in this regard is firmly E grounded and does not even demand much amplification. The necessity of compliance with the principles of natural justice by giving the opportunity to the person against whom action of blacklisting is sought to be taken has a valid and solid rationale behind it. With blacklisting, many civil and/or evil consequences follow. It is described as “civil death” of a F person who is foisted with the of blacklisting. Such an is stigmatic in nature and debars such a person from participating in government tenders which means precluding him from the award of government contracts.