On reaching LNJP, Burari a PCR call information was recorded in Roznamacha and a copy of the report was sent to SI Balwant Singh through Ct. Rameshwar, 5053/DHG. Sd/- HC/DO //True Translated Copy//” 14. A perusal of the dying declaration as above shows it to have been recorded in the third person, that is to say, that ASI Anoop Singh had reported on the incident of the victim being burned and that she had told him that her friend Abhishek Sharma had done so. Undoubtedly, Section 32 IEA is an exception to the rule of hearsay, however, the same would not be applicable in the present case. 15. The statement before the court is that the operator came into ‘DO room’ and reported that ASI Anoop Singh (PW16) had found a girl burning, and it is to him that she stated that Abhishek Sharma, convict-appellant, had done this to her. So, as is evident, this statement is three degrees removed from the deceased and thereby unprotected by this exception as the statements far removed from the original maker of the statement cannot be exempted more so when reliance on the same results in a penal consequence. Had the statement of the deceased, as told to PW16, been before the court as it is, the same could have been considered a dying declaration within the meaning of this section. 16. DD-II is, in fact, an entry in the Medico-Legal Inquiry Register made by Dr. Raj (PW8) at 2:15 AM dt. 21.09.2007, which records “alleged h/o burn at …in front of Queen Mary School, North Campus, Model Town, Delhi at around 1:40 AM dated 21/09/07 as told by the patient” then considerable gap exists in this record and below this is recorded “by Abhishek.” 17. It is true that a dying declaration is not to be discarded on account of brevity, but it is equally true that it must contain the proximate cause of the deceased’s condition and the reason therefor. Here, it states the presence of burn injuries and says that the same was caused by Abhishek, which, 906 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. arguably, is insuffi cient. There is no particular identifi cation of the convict- appellant, nor is there a mention of the means through which the injuries were infl icted (petrol). 18. DD-III was made at 3:30 AM to PW-17, and the same is extracted below: “Statement of Mandeep Kaur D/o Sardar Harinder Singh R/o AJ-55C, Shalimar Bagh, Delhi aged 22 years, Mobile No. 9811448556. I am residing with my brother Inderjeet Singh on the abovementioned address and working as offi ce manager in call centre of said telecom at Saraswati Vihar. Today I got free from my duty at 1 AM, I was coming back from duty with my friend Abhishek Sharma who is residing at Model Town. Abhishek Sharma was threatening me from so many day to kill and today he forcibly took me to Queen Mary School Model Town III inspite of dropping me at my residence in Shalimar Bagh and after stopping the car at Queen Mary School Model Town III, he got down from his car also got me down from the car poured the bottle of oil on me which he had kept in his car and told me that you don’t love me and you only love to the company’s boss.