The High Court while H PREM KISHORE & ORS. v. BRAHM PRAKASH & ORS. 643 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] allowing the civil revision Petition filed by the respondents herein observed A as under:- “17. In the present case in hand, Sh. Samey Singh, the predecessor- in-interest of the respondents/landlords failed to produce any evidence to establish the relationship of landlord and tenant between the parties in the first eviction petition filed by him under Section B 14(1)(a) of the Act. As the said decision was not taken in appeal by any of the parties, the same attained finality. Having been afforded an opportunity to lead evidence and having failed to produce any evidence in the Court, it has to be taken as a decision on merits under XVII Rule 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure C for the purpose of Section 11 of the Code. 18. By filing a subsequent eviction petition, the respondents cannot be permitted to do directly, what they could not do indirectly. Failure to adduce evidence, resulting in dismissal of the claim of the respondents for want of proof, is in reality, a decision on merits. D Just as if the petitioner therein had produced evidence, which the Court had considered as inadequate proof and had dismissed it upon the said ground. Applicable to such a situation is the legal maxim, ‘De non apparentibus et non existentibus eadem est ratio’. It is a rule which applies to those things, which do not appear, and to things which do not exist. So, for maintaining his E right to claim arrears of rent, if Sh.Samey Singh was required to prove that he was the landlord of the petitioner, but he failed to do so, the Rent Controller had no option but to decide the issue against him on account of non-production of evidence. In other words, what does not appear, must be regarded as non-existent. F 19. In these circumstances, the decision of the Rent Controller dated 27.01.1998, has to be taken as a decision on the merits of the matter. Merely because a subsequent cause of action has been pleaded by the respondents in the second eviction petition by claiming arrears of rent not only for the period for which the first eviction petition was filed, G but also for the subsequent period upto 18.05.2001, cannot be a ground to hold that the second eviction petition was maintainable. The relationship of landlord and tenant between the parties was not established in the earlier proceedings and the same point is directly and substantially in issue in the second petition wherein the foundation to claim the arrears of rent is the stand of the respondents (petitioners therein) that they are H 644 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A the landlords of the petitioner herein. The findings returned by the Rent Controller in his dated 27.01.1998 passed in the first petition have to be held to be findings on merits and having been adjudicated conclusively, are final in nature and act as a bar of res judicata on the second eviction petition preferred by the respondents.