In fact, the improbability of the witness’s ignorance of the fact (that Haseen was missing) is evident, if one considers the G testimony of PW-1 who deposed: “Firstly, we searched him in the village, we also got made proclamation on the same day in the evening.” 20. PW-2 Murad Ali’s father was the brother PW-1 Bisarat. Likewise, Sayed, PW3 is also related; he is PW-1’s second cousin, and H JABIR & ORS. v. THE STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 979 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] like him, similarly related to PW-2. In his testimony, PW-2 deposed he A had seen the boy with Husn Jahan, the third accused. He also stated that the dead body was found at about 1 PM and “I told the Bisarat on that very day when the dead body of Haseen was found that perhaps Husn Jehan has kidnapped the child.” B He further deposed to telling Bisarat “at about 12 in the noon” that he saw Husn Jehan taking Haseen in her house holding his hand. He again deposed that: “I told this fact to Bisarat at the place where the dead body was found. I told this fact to Bisarat 2-4 minutes C before the arrival of the police. When the police came near the dead body of Haseen, then I did not tell the police regarding the fact that I saw Husn Jehan taking Haseen holding his hand. I told to the police that “that I had suspicion that perhaps the child Haseen has been D disappeared. I cannot tender any explanation if this fact is not written in my statement. If these facts are true, there is no explanation why PW-1 (as well as other witnesses, such as PW-2, and PW-3) did not mention about the involvement of Husn Jahan, at least in the inquest proceedings. PW-7 Mansab, deposed that many family members of PW-1, as well as he, E were present during the inquest proceedings: “At the time when the inquest was being prepared many persons of the village were collected there. At that time the complainant of the case Bisarat, Suleman s/o Bashir Jhoja, Munfait s/o Mohd. Ali, Sayeed s/o Sharif and Murad Ali s/ F o Ali Hasan were also present.” PW-7’s testimony, (about the presence of PW-1 to PW-5 during the inquest) not only renders suspect the deposition of PW-2, but also fatally weakens the testimony of PW-5 who claims to have left the village, on 09-10-1999 and returned only on 12-10-1999. This aspect assumes G importance, because PW-7 was not declared hostile, and he is a witness to the inquest proceedings. 21. A basic principle of criminal jurisprudence is that in circumstantial evidence cases, the prosecution is obliged to prove each circumstance, beyond reasonable doubt, as well the as the links between H 980 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A all circumstances; such circumstances, taken cumulatively, should form a chain so complete that there is no escape from the conclusion that within all human probability, the crime was committed by the accused and none else; further, the facts so proved should unerringly point towards the guilt of the accused.