The fi nal report dated 21.02.2007 given by the Inspecting Judge has already been referred to above. 16. On behalf of the writ petitioner before the High Court, it was submitted that their parents were not made free and they were still under the clutches and remote control of the accused. The Division Bench, therefore, did not close the proceedings of the case and adjourned the matter awaiting the result of the enquiry by Justice C.K. Prasad, as he was the Inspecting Judge. HARENDRA RAI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. 415 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] 17. The Division Bench further records that in the meantime two complaints were fi led regarding the abduction of Lalmuni Devi and her husband; one was fi led by their daughter in law Girija Devi at Panapur Police Station registered as Case No. 81 of 2006 and the other was lodged at Masrakh Police Station Dist. Saran registered as Case No.129 of 2006 at the instance of one Shankar Rai. Later on Shankar Rai retracted and had fi led a written note stating that he had fi led the complaint under some misunderstanding. The said Shankar Rai was one of the persons from the side of the abductees accompanying Lalmuni Devi at the time of her appearance before the Trial Court on 03.11.2006. The Division Bench directed that both these complaints be thoroughly investigated and the reports of investigation be submitted under the signature of the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Saran range. 18. On 17.11.2006, Lalmuni Devi appeared before the Division Bench and fi led an affi davit duly sworn in by her. In the said affi davit, it was stated that she and her husband Rama Rai were abducted by the men of Prabhunath Singh and were under their complete control all along. She appeared before the Court and gave oral statement before the Division Bench. The Court has recorded that she was an old and rustic village woman and seemed to be under stress and looked quite vulnerable. She spoke only Bhojpuri in which one of the members of the Division Bench Justice S.P. Singh was fl uent. She stated before the Court that she and her husband were in fact abducted by the men of Prabhunath Singh. They had used force against her and had threatened her. Both her statements before the Trial Court on 03.11.2006 and her statement under Section 164 CrPC were not free and voluntary but under duress and intimidation. 19. At this stage also the Advocate General reiterated that nothing further survives in the matter with regard to the abduction. However, the Division Bench declined to close the proceedings noting that it was evident that lurking behind the surface, were much larger and far better issues than the alleged abduction of two old villagers. The Registrar General of the High Court was given direction for making arrangements of stay of Lalmuni Devi at the Judges’ Guest House at Patna so that she was isolated from any infl uence and that her statement was to be recorded at the Guest House on 20.11.2006 by a Magistrate.