13 which lays down that the person may be detained in pursuance of any detention made under the Act which has been confi rmed u/s. 12. [Paras 23, 26, and 39] Constitution of India – Art. 22(4)(a) – Relevance of Art. 22(4)(a): Held: Reading of Art. 22(4)(a) would clearly indicate that no law providing for preventive detention shall authorize the detention of a person for a period beyond three months – Thus, an of detention cannot be for a period longer than three months unless, the Advisory Board has reported before the expiration of the said period of three months that there is, in its 522 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. opinion such suffi cient cause for detention – If the Advisory Board does not give its opinion within a period of three months from the date of detention, in such a case, the of detention beyond the period of three months would become illegal and not otherwise – If within the period of three months, the Advisory Board opines that there was no suffi cient cause for such detention then, the State Government would have to release the detenu forthwith – Thus, Art. 22(4)(a) in substance deals with the of detention and has nothing to do with the delegation of the power of detention by the State Government to an Offi cer as stipulated u/s. 3(2) – Period of three months stipulated in Art. 22(4)(a) is relatable to the initial period of detention up to the stage of receipt of report of the Advisory Board and does not have any bearing on the period of detention, which is continued subsequent to the confi rmatory being passed by the State Government on receipt of the report of the Advisory Board – Continuation of the detention pursuant to the confi rmatory passed by the State Government need not also specify the period of detention; neither is it restricted to a period of three months only – If any period is specifi ed in the confi rmatory , then the period of detention would be upto such period, if no period is specifi ed, then it would be for a maximum period of twelve months from the date of detention – State Government need not review the s of detention every three months after it has passed the confi rmatory . [Paras 41–44] Andhra Pradesh Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Boot- leggers, Dacoits, Drug Off enders, Goondas, Immoral Traffi c Off enders and Land Grabbers Act, 1986 – Preventive detention – Appellant indulging in distributing, storing, transporting and selling ID Liquor – Four FIRs against detenu, if suffi cient to arrive at a subjective satisfaction that activities of detenu as a boot-legger is prejudicial to the maintenance of public : Held: For determining the connection of ground of detention with the maintenance of public , the object of detention, is not an intrinsic quality of the act but rather its latent potentiality – Thus, for determining whether the ground of detention is relevant for the purposes of public or not, merely an objective test based on the intrinsic quality of an act would not be a safe guide – Potentiality of the act has to be examined in the light of the surrounding circumstances, posterior and anterior for the off ences under the Prohibition Act – Just because four cases have been registered against PESALA NOOKARAJU v. THE GOVERNMENT OF 523 ANDHRA PRADESH & ORS.