25. It was lastly urged that the introduction of Notification No. A 01/2019-Cus dated 10-01-2019 by the Union, whereby, condition (xii) requiring the ‘pre-import condition’, was omitted, could not be a ground to say that for the period such a condition existed, it could be disregarded. It was argued that the said latter notification could not by a process of judicial reasoning, be given retrospective effect to, as even the substantive B provisions of FTDRA did not permit subordinate retrospective legislation. V. Contentions of the Respondent-Exporters 26. Ms. Meenakshi Arora, learned senior counsel, argued that an AA under the FTP could be issued either to a manufacturer-exporter or a merchant exporter tied with a supporting manufacturer with past export C performance (in at least the preceding two financial years). The entitlement in terms of CIF value of imports provided was up to 300% of the FOB value of the physical export and / or FOB value of deemed export in preceding financial year or ¹ 1 crore, whichever was higher. On fulfilment of the conditions prescribed under paragraph 4.03 of the FTP, D respondents were issued AA licenses. 27. Upon notification of the levy IGST, the benefits of upfront exemption granted to exporters through AA in the erstwhile FTP regime were rescinded through the amendment introduced in the scheme by Notification No. 26 / 2017-Customs dated 29 June 2017 (“Amending E GST Notification”). 28. It was submitted that the AA scheme was operating without hitch or misuse, from its inception since 1986, without any ‘pre- import condition’. It had been successfully operating even from 10.01.2019 onwards when the Central Government deleted the ‘pre-import condition’ in public interest. Thus, there was no rationale or justification in imposing F the ‘pre-import condition’ only for a limited period from 13.10.2017 to 09.01.2019 to a scheme operating successfully without any such condition. 29. It was urged that the ‘pre-import condition’ was made applicable for such limited period only for exemption from IGST and G compensation cess, whereas other import duties, namely, BCD, ADD, Safeguard Duty etc. were exempt even during this period of about 13 months without the ‘pre-import condition’. 30. It was submitted that no reason or justification was provided for subjecting IGST and compensation cess to this ‘pre-import condition’, H 206 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A and not applying this condition for other types of import duties. If ‘pre- import condition’ was applicable for AA, then the whole scheme would be nullified because it was impossible for any manufacturer-importer to satisfy the ‘pre-import condition’ when the export s were to be executed by supplying the final products within a short period of 4 weeks to 8 weeks after receiving the purchase s from overseas customers. B In a typical case, the manufacturer-exporter could export goods only after more than six months from receiving the purchase s, if the ‘pre-import condition’ was to be satisfied. Consequently, the delivery schedule of about 4 to 8 weeks from receiving purchase s could not have been fulfilled.