Further, that the of the F Family Court was contrary to the presumption provided under Section 112 of the Indian Evidence Act and the provisions of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 and was contrary to the fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. 4.7. By the impugned dated 22nd November, 2021 the G High Court dismissed the Writ Petition filed by the appellant herein and upheld the of the Family Court dated 12th August, 2021. The pertinent findings of the High Court may be epitomized as under: i. That the respondent had carried out a DNA Test of Master “X” at DNA Labs India and had produced the report of the H 698 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A same dated 24th November, 2016 wherein the possibility of the respondent being the biological father of Master “X” was stated to be 0%. Thus, the very foundation for taking recourse of moving an application for a direction to conduct the DNA Test was expressly and strongly laid down by the respondent. B ii. As regards the question as to whether an directing DNA test of the appellant’s minor child would encroach on the legal or Constitutional rights of the appellant, the High Court held that fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India are always subject to C reasonable restrictions. Reliance was placed on Sharda vs. Dharmpal, (2003) 4 SCC 493 to hold thata matrimonial court has the power to direct a person to undergo medical tests and such a direction would not amount to a violation of the personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the D Constitution of India. iii. That Section 112 of the Indian Evidence Act provides for the presumption of conclusive proof of legitimacy. However, such a presumption is rebuttable. One way of rebutting such presumption is by pleading and establishing a strong prima E facie case like the one demonstrated by the respondent. iv. That a Court is required to be sensitive to the fact that but for the medical/DNA test, it would be impossible for the respondent to establish the assertions made in the pleadings. v. That the Family Court had been adequately sensitive in F taking note of the statement of the respondent to the effect that he would not disown Master “X” even if the paternity test establishes that he is not the biological father. That the respondent had also made prayers for the custody of the said child, therefore, the interest of the child was not jeopardized in allowing the DNA test. G vi. That if the appellant failed to comply with the directions of the Family Court, the Court can draw a presumption of the nature contemplated under illustration (h) of Section 114 of the Evidence Act. H APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 699 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 4.8. Aggrieved by the of the Family Court dated 12th August, A 2021, as well as the impugned , the appellant has assailed the same in the present appeal.