C 2.4 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned and , the original writ petitioner – the victim has preferred the present appeal. 3. Shri Mahesh Jethmalani, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant has vehemently submitted that the entire D investigation was conducted by the investigating agency of the State in a sham and casual manner because one of the accused was the influential Minister of the State. 3.1 It is submitted that despite the fact that the name of Mr. Jitendra Awhad, Minister and his other men were disclosed in the FIR and a E clear case of kidnapping and causing grievous hurt was alleged, no FIR was lodged against the Minister, Mr. Jitendra Awhad and his other men. It is submitted that only after various s were passed by the High Court in the pending writ petition and the Hon’ble High Court was monitoring the investigation, chargesheet / supplementary chargesheet came to be filed and Mr. Jitendra Awhad was arrayed as an accused in F the supplementary chargesheet after a period of two years of the incident. 3.2 It is further submitted that even the chargesheet is filed with the lesser offences, like for the offences under Sections 324 and 365 and other lesser offences only. It is submitted that despite a clear case is made out for the offence under Section 326 (grievous hurt), which is G established from the photographs and a clear case of kidnapping for the offence under Section 367, the chargesheet has not been filed for the offences under Section 326 read with Section 367 IPC. 3.3 It is further submitted that even the relevant evidence in the form of CDR of the mobile of the appellant as well as that of the H 62 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A concerned accused have not been collected. It is submitted that even the CCTV footage has also not been collected, which goes to the root of the investigation and the allegations against the accused persons. 3.4 It is further submitted that as observed and held by this Court in the case of Dharam Pal Vs. State of Haryana and Ors., (2016) 4 B SCC 160 (para 25), the Constitutional Courts are envisaged with the power to fresh, de novo or re-investigation and as observed and held the commencement of a trial and examination of some witnesses cannot be an absolute impediment for exercising the said constitutional power, which is meant to ensure a fair and just investigation. C 3.5 It is further submitted by Shri Jethmalani, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant that as observed and held by this Court in the case of Bharati Tamang Vs. Union of India and Ors., (2013) 15 SCC 578, in case of deficient / unsatisfactory investigation, it is the duty of the Courts to ensure effective conduct of prosecution and the Courts have powers to direct re-investigation in D exceptional circumstances in case it warrants due to deficient / unsatisfactory investigation.