1046 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 48. In our opinion, in a case of the present description where the evidence given in a Court implicates persons who are not mentioned in the fi rst information report or police statements, it is always advisable and far more important for the Trial Judge to look into the police papers in to ascertain whether the persons implicated by witnesses, at the trial had been implicated by them during the investigation. 49. In the aforesaid context, we may refer to and rely on a three-Judge Bench decision in the case of V.K. Mishra v. State of Uttarakhand, (2015) 9 SCC 588, wherein this Court, after due consideration of Section 161 of the CrPC and Section 145 of the Evidence Act, observed as under:- “16. Section 162 CrPC bars use of statement of witnesses recorded by the police except for the limited purpose of contradiction of such witnesses as indicated there. The statement made by a witness before the police under Section 161(1) CrPC can be used only for the purpose of contradicting such witness on what he has stated at the trial as laid down in the proviso to Section 162(1) CrPC. The statements under Section 161 CrPC recorded during the investigation are not substantive pieces of evidence but can be used primarily for the limited purpose: (i) of contradicting such witness by an accused under Section 145 of the Evidence Act; (ii) the contradiction of such witness also by the prosecution but with the leave of the Court; and (iii) the re-examination of the witness if necessary. 17. The court cannot suo motu make use of statements to police not proved and ask questions with reference to them which are inconsistent with the testimony of the witness in the court. The words in Section 162 CrPC “if duly proved” clearly show that the record of the statement of witnesses cannot be admitted in evidence straightaway nor can be looked into but they must be duly proved for the purpose of contradiction by eliciting admission from the witness during cross- examination and also during the cross-examination of the investigating offi cer. The statement before the investigating offi cer can be used for contradiction but only after strict compliance with Section 145 of the Evidence Act that is by drawing attention to the parts intended for contradiction. MUNNA PANDEY v. STATE OF BIHAR 1047 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 18. Section 145 of the Evidence Act reads as under: “145.Cross-examination as to previous statements in writing.—A witness may be cross-examined as to previous statements made by him in writing or reduced into writing, and relevant to matters in question, without such writing being shown to him, or being proved; but, if it is intended to contradict him by the writing, his attention must, before the writing can be proved, be called to those parts of it which are to be used for the purpose of contradicting him.” 19. Under Section 145 of the Evidence Act when it is intended to contradict the witness by his previous statement reduced into writing, the attention of such witness must be called to those parts of it which are to be used for the purpose of contradicting him, before the writing can be used.