A 7.2 Thus, even as observed in paragraph 9 by this Court in the case of Malabar Industrial Co. Ltd. (supra) that the scheme of the Act is to levy and collect tax in accordance with the provisions of the Act and this task is entrusted to the Revenue. It is further observed that if due to an erroneous of the Income Tax Officer, the Revenue is losing tax lawfully payable by a person, it will certainly be prejudicial to B the interests of the Revenue. However, only in a case where two views are possible and the Assessing Officer has adopted one view, such a decision, which might be plausible and it has resulted in loss of Revenue, such an is not revisable under Section 263. 7.3 Applying the law laid down by this Court in the case of Malabar C Industrial Co. Ltd. (supra) to the facts of the case on hand and even as observed by the Commissioner, the passed by the Assessing Officer is erroneous as well as prejudicial to the interest of the Revenue. Having gone through the assessment as well as the passed by the Commissioner of Income Tax, we are also of the opinion that the D assessment was not only erroneous but prejudicial to the interest of the Revenue also. In the facts and circumstances of the case, it cannot be said that the Commissioner exercised the jurisdiction under Section 263 not vested in it. The erroneous assessment has resulted into loss of the Revenue in the form of tax. Under the Circumstances and in the facts and circumstances of the case narrated hereinabove, the High E Court has committed a very serious error in setting aside the passed by the Commissioner passed in exercise of powers under Section 263 of the Income Tax Act. 8. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, present appeal succeeds. The impugned and passed by the High F Court is hereby quashed and set aside and that the passed by the Commissioner passed in exercise of powers under Section 263 of the Income Tax Act is hereby restored. In result, present appeal is allowed. However, in the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no as to costs. G Ankit Gyan Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Abhishek Pratap Singh, LCRA) H