29. The material inconsistency in Kallu’s case is the contradiction in the depositions of the I.O. and the complainant. The I.O. deposed that he, upon the disclosure by co-accused Jaihind, successfully recovered a sum of Rs. 3,000.00 (comprised of three one-thousand-rupee notes), seized the same in the presence of witnesses, and prepared a seizure panchnama; however, when one looks at the complainant’s version, it is wholly inconsistent. She stated in her deposition that the accused persons did not take away any one- thousand-rupee note from her house. It does not escape our attention that the conviction of Kallu entirely hinges on the alleged recovery of Rs. 3,000.00 and both the courts below heavily relied on this aspect to convict him of criminal conspiracy. However, it does not appear from a perusal of the Trial Court’s as to who exactly the seizure witnesses were in whose presence Rs. 3,000.00 was recovered although it does seem that none of the several prosecution witnesses, who were witnesses of arrest and seizure, had supported the prosecution case. Although there could be evidence aliunde to establish the guilt of the co-accused Jaihind, Arif and Suleman, there was absolutely no evidence worthy of consideration which could have been relied on to convict Manoj and Kallu. 30. It is clear as crystal that the sole connecting evidence against Manoj and Kallu was the recovery based on their disclosure statements, along with those of the other co-accused but this evidence, in our opinion, is not suffi cient to qualify as “fact … discovered” within the meaning of Section 27. Having regard to such nature of evidence, we view the same as wholly untrustworthy. Statements under Section 313, Cr.PC 31. Another glaring flaw in Manoj’s case revolves around his examination under Section 313, Cr.PC. The manner in which the Trial Court 260 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. framed questions for answer by Manoj left a lot to be desired. We need not reiterate the exposition of law by this Court in multiple decisions on Section 313, Cr.PC, wherein trial courts have been cautioned against recording statements in a casual and cursory manner. What holds importance is not the mere quantity of questions posed to the accused but rather the content and manner in which they are framed. 32. Upon reading the questions put to Manoj under Section 313, Cr.PC, it becomes evident that the Trial Court treated this process as an empty formality. None of the material circumstances forming the basis of his conviction were put to him. Astonishingly, not even a single question regarding the stolen articles was posed to him. Instead, irrelevant and abstract questions about the main incident of robbery that took place on 14th April, 2010 were asked, even though his alleged involvement occurred much later when the robbed items were allegedly sold to him by the co-accused. The prosecution’s entire case is premised on the disclosure statements made by the co-accused, but Manoj was never given the opportunity to explain the circumstances. Conviction of Manoj under Section 411, IPC 33.