Determination or quantifi cation of the tax at the time of passing of the assessment in terms of the Sales Tax Act, Sales Tax Offi cer, Petlad (supra) holds, was not relevant. We need not refer to the Sales Tax Act relevant in Sales Tax Offi cer, Petlad (supra) for the purpose of the present case. On the other hand, we would have to refer to the provisions of the Customs Act to ascertain the date on which the customs duty in respect of the goods in question became ‘due and payable’. We are answering this question, though not necessary, as the appellant – IDBI is an overriding preferential creditor under Section 529A of the Companies Act and at best, if the requirements of clause (a) to Section 530(1) of the Companies Act are satisfi ed, the customs dues would fall under Section 530 of the Companies Act and will be categorized as preferential payment. To decide this question, we shall also be examining the question of whether the Customs Act creates a fi rst charge overriding the charge in favour of the secured creditor, namely, the appellant – IDBI. 20. This Court in Dena Bank (supra), while examining the issue of priority of government dues or Crown debts over the dues of other creditors, opined that the Crown’s preferential right to recovery of debts over other creditors is confi ned to ordinary or unsecured creditors. The common law principles of equity and good conscience, as applicable in India and the common law of England, do not accord the government or Crown dues a preferential right for recovery of dues or debts over a mortgagee, pledgee of goods or a secured creditor. The common law doctrine giving preferential rights to the Crown debts confi ned to ordinary or unsecured creditors constitutes ‘law in force’ within the meaning of Article 372(1) of the Constitution of India, and accordingly, this law continues to be in force. This Court in Dena Bank (supra) specifi cally refers to and approves the statement of law made in ‘Rashbehary Ghose: Law of Mortgage’28 – “It seems a government debt in India is not entitled to precedence over a prior secured debt.” This principle also emanates from the decision of the Constitution bench of this Court in Builders Supply Corporation v. Union of India and Others29, which was followed by a three judges’ bench 28 TLL, 7th Edn., p. 386. 29 (1965) 2 SCR 289. IDBI (THROUGH STRESSED ASSETS STABILIZATION FUND 1075 CONSTITUTED BY THE GoI)v. SUPT. OF CENTRAL EXCISE AND CUSTOMS AND OTHERS [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] in Collector of Aurangabad and Another v. Central Bank of India and Another30. At the same time, we must record for clarity that this principle, which vents from the ‘law in force’ within the meaning of Article 372(1) of the Constitution of India, must give way to a statutory charge which may be created by an enactment, whereby a fi rst charge is given to government dues or Crown debts, notwithstanding the charge of the secured creditors.