328. I also disagree with the observations of Bhat J that in the absence of a legal regime, the power of this Court to issue directions to enable the facilitation of rights is limited. In Sheela Barse v. Union of India282, the 281 In the context of the right to speedy trial, see SC Advocates-on-Record Association v. Union of India, (1993) 4 SCC 441 (paragraph 505-507) and State of Punjab v. Ajaib Singh, (1995) 2 SCC 486 (paragraph 6); in the context of the right to environment, see MC Mehta v. Union of India, (2004) 6 SCC 588 (paragraphs 40 and 42); in the context of the right to freedom from noise pollution, see Noise Pollution (I), in re (2005) 5 SCC 727; in the context of the right to legal aid, see State of Maharashtra v. Manubhai Pragji Vashi, (1995) 5 SCC 730 282 (1993) 4 SCC 204 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1409 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] petitioner, a social activist brought to the attention of this court that the State of West Bengal jailed persons with mental disabilities who are not suspected, accused, charged of, or convicted for, committing any off ence but only for the reason that they are mentally ill. The decision to jail them was made based on an instant assessment of their mental health. This Court held that the admission of such mentally ill persons to jails was illegal and unconstitutional. This Court also directed that hospitals shall be immediately upgraded, psychiatric services shall be set up in all teaching and district hospitals, including fi lling posts for psychiatrists, and integrating mental health care with the primary health care system. In PUCL v. Union of India283, the petitioner submitted that the right to livelihood implies that the State has a duty to provide food to people. In a series of s, this Court identifi ed government schemes which constituted legal entitlements of the right to food and outlined the manner of implementing these schemes. 329. My learned brother relies on the example of Article 19(1)(d) to buttress his point. He states that in the absence of a law which casts a duty on the State to provide transportation through roads, a citizen cannot approach the court and seek the construction of a road to enforce the right to move freely. The opinion of my learned brother fails to have noted the of a three-Judge Bench of this Court in State of Himachal Pradesh v. Umed Ram Sharma284. In this case, a letter petition was written to the High Court claiming that the construction of a road which would benefi t the residents of the village and in particular, the members of the Dalit community was stopped by the State. The High Court directed the Superintending Engineer of the Public Works Department to complete the construction of the road. This Court dismissed the appeal against the of the High Court observing that the Constitution places a duty on the State to provide roads for residents of hilly areas because access to roads is encompassed in their right to secure a quality life.