This argument may be subtle but is not sound. The words “ any law “ in that clause can only mean an Act passed or made factually, notwithstanding the prohibition. The result of such contravention is stated in that clause. A plain reading of the clause indicates, without any reasonable doubt, that the prohibition goes to the root of the matter and limits the State’s power to make law; the law made in spite of the prohibition is a still- born law. (emphasis supplied)” CBI v. R.R. KISHORE 47 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] (vi) In the case of Mahendra Lal Jaini (supra), again a Constitution Bench dealing with validity of the U.P. Land Tenures (Regulation of Transfers) Act, 1952 as also the amendment of 1956 in the Forests Act, 1957 had the occasion to analyse the diff erence between Article 13(1) and 13(2). Paragraph nos. 23 and 24 of the report contains the relevant discussion. In paragraph No. 23, it was laid down that the distinction between the voidness in one case arises from the circumstance that it was a pre-Constitutional law and the other is post-Constitutional law. However, the meaning of the word void is used in both the sub-Articles clearly making the law ineff ectual and nugatory, devoid of any legal force or binding eff ect in both the cases. Further in paragraph no. 24 of the report, the Bench proceeds to deal with the eff ect of an amendment in the Constitution, with respect to the pre-Constitutional laws, holding that removing the inconsistency would result in revival of such laws by virtue of doctrine of eclipse as the pre-existing laws were not still born. However, in the case of the post-Constitutional laws, the same would be still born, and as such doctrine of eclipse would not be applicable to the post-Constitutional laws. Doctrine of eclipse does not apply in the present case, for Section 6A of the DSPE Act has been struck down as unconstitutional. There is no attempt to re-legislate this provision by removing the illegality resulting in unconstitutionality. We may benefi cially reproduce paragraph nos. 23 and 24 of the said report hereunder: “23. It is however urged on behalf of the respondents that this would give a diff erent meaning to the word ‘void” in Art. 13 (1). as compared to Art. 13 (2). We do not think so. The meaning of the word “void” in Art. 13 (1) was considered in Keshava Madhava Menon’s caseand again in Behram Khurshed Pesikaka’s caseIn the later case, Mahajan, C. J., pointed out thatthe majority in Keshava Madhava Menon’s case (3) clearly held that the word “void” in Art. 13(1) did not mean that the statute stood repealed and therefore obliterated from the statute book; nor did it mean that the said statute was void ab initio. This, in our opinion if we may say so with respect, follows clearly from the language of Art. 13(1), which presupposes that the existing laws are good except 48 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R.