G Hoping for your best co-operation Thanking you, For Shah Alloys Limited Authorized Signatory” H 216 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 35. The learned Senior Counsel for the appellant would contend that last para of the said letter dated 04.01.2013 would reveal the fact that the respondent had agreed to effect the payments or bills and requested only to wait for the old bills payments till restructuring is agreed by BIFR and in other words, non-existence of a dispute. That apart, the appellant heavily relied on paragraph 2.7 and 2.10 (iv) of Annexure 40 B which is the proceeding of BIFR in Case No.13 of 2010 dated 09.09.2015, to canvass the position that the contention of the respondent regarding existence of a pre-existing dispute with respect to the dues payable to it, is bereft of any basis. The aforesaid relevant paragraphs in Annexure A-40 are as under: - C “2.7 The Bench then took MA No. 432/2013. The ld advocate representing the applicant (Sabarmati Gas Ltd.) sought time to appear prepared in the next date of hearing, since they have been engaged recently in this case. The ld advocate representing the company submitted that the applicant is an D unsecured creditor and he accepted the dues of the applicant. He assured that their reconciled dues will be taken care of in the DRS, as unsecured creditor and they will be paid as per the terms of DRS, as and when it would be approved by the Board. E 2.10 Having considered the submissions made during the hearing and material on record the Bench issued following directions: … (iv) MA 432 filed by Sabarmati Gas Ltd. is disposed off with F the direction to the company to incorporate the dues of the applicant in the DRS.” 36. True that paragraph 2.7 of Annexure 40 carries the recording of the submissions made on behalf of the respondent before the BIFR by the learned advocate, as above. Citing all such aspects, the learned G Senior Counsel for the appellant contended that the contention of the respondent regarding ‘pre-existing dispute’ is only a patently feeble legal argument/assertion of fact unsupported by evidence and therefore, it was to be rejected by the Tribunals. It is further contended by the applicant that directions at paragraph 2.10 (iv) also is relevant in this context as it would reveal that the Misc. Application No.432 of 2013 filed by the H SABARMATI GAS LIMITED v. SHAH ALLOYS LIMITED 217 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] Appellant herein was disposed of with the direction to the respondent A company to incorporate the position of the appellants/applicant therein in the DRS. 37. Per contra, the learned counsel for the respondent would submit that a scanning of paragraph 2.7 itself would reveal that what was assured by the counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent before B the BIFR was not full payment of the amountas claimed by the appellant thereunder and what was assured was that the reconciled dues towards the appellant would be taken care of in the DRS, as unsecured creditor and that it would be paid as per the terms of DRS, as and when it is approved by the Board.