This Court in Chhattisgarh State Power25observes that the provisions of the Act which deal with captive generation and use have been made not only with the view to secure reliable, quality and cost-eff ective power, but also to felicitate creation of employment opportunities through speedy and effi cient growth of industry. The policy states that provisions relating to the CGP, which can be set up by a group of consumers, are primarily made for enabling small and medium industries and other consumers, who may not be individually be in a position to set up a power plant of optimum size, in a cost-eff ective manner. Effi cient expansion and growth of small and medium industries across the country leads to creation of employment opportunities. Lastly, the captive and standby generating stations in India can supply electricity continuously or during certain time periods. The policy which is issued under Section 3 of the Act, contains the statutory fl avour. In case of ambiguity, an interpretation which advances the object and purpose of the Act as underlined and stated in the policy has to be preferred. 25 Supra note 18. 362 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 19. At this stage, we must distinguish an earlier decision of this Court in SESA Sterilite Limited v. Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission and Others.26 In this case the appellant industry had set up a unit in Special Economic Zone27, and was the developer of the SEZ. The appellant- industry had entered into a power purchase agreement with a third party. The contention raised by the appellant industry was that it was not drawing or utilising any electricity from the distribution licensee and, therefore, is not a consumer of the distribution licensee, and accordingly not liable to pay the cross-subsidy surcharge. This was not a case of a captive user. The contention of the appellant-industry was rejected by this Court referring to the rationale behind cross-subsidy surcharge. Bulk consumers who avail of open access are burdened with relatively high rates, as this subsidises supply of electricity to marginalised and vulnerable sections of the society. Thus, the exit of consumers has an adverse eff ect on fi nances of the existing distribution licensee. Cross subsidy surcharge intends to compensate the existing distribution licensee in a two-fold manner: fi rst, to compensate on the requirements of current levels of cross-subsidy, and secondly, to compensate for the fi xed cost incurred by the distribution licensee as a part of its obligation to supply electricity to a consumer on demand, sometimes referred to as the stranded cost. Cross subsidy and surcharge are meant to compensate the distribution licensee on both counts. Thus, this decision does not deal with and decide the legal issue in question before us which relates to the defi nition of the CGP and use of electricity by the captive users. 20. In addition to the reasons given in Chhattisgarh State Power28 and Maharashtra State Electricity29, we will also like to refer to Section 38 of the Act30, which prescribes that the Central Government may notify 26 (2014) 8 SCC 444; for short, “SESA Sterlite”.