[2023] 2 S.C.R. 661 661 SHANKAR A v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA (Criminal Appeal No. 954 of 2011) MARCH 15, 2023 B [AJAY RASTOGI AND C. T. RAVIKUMAR, JJ.] Penal Code 1860: s. 302 r/w 34 – Conviction under, on basis of circumstantial evidence – Sustainability of – Prosecution case that the victim assaulted with sharp weapons, sustained 22 ante- C mortem injuries leading to instantaneous death – On the fateful day, the victim went to the house of PW 8, the accused persons also came there and the appellant in the latter appeal hurled abuses on the victim and asked him why he along with his friend had assaulted his brother, though the victim denied the assault – Later, the accused invited the victim for drinks and all of them left the house of PW 8 D on motorcycles – An hour later, the dead body of the victim was found by the complainant – There was no eye-witness – Based on the circumstantial evidence, the trial court convicted the appellants u/s. 302/34 and sentenced them to life imprisonment – High Court upheld the same – On appeal, held: If doubt lingers with respect to E the probability or conclusiveness of any circumstance relied on by the prosecution, forming a link in the chain of circumstances pointing to the guilt of convict, despite the existence of concurrent findings, the evidence has to be scrutinized by this Court so as to ensure that the totality of the evidence and circumstances relied on, did constitute a complete chain and it points to the guilt of the convict – On facts, F correctness of the last seen version emanating from PW-8 becomes doubtful, especially against the appellants – Oral testimonies of PW-8 and PW-10 are at variance about the last seen and it becomes inconclusive – Prosecution failed to prove the alleged motive – Though the victim met with a homicidal death, it cannot be said that G the rest of the circumstantial evidence culled out by the courts below unerringly point to the culpability of the appellants in the homicidal death of the deceased – Even the recovery of the weapon and the dress, at the instance of the appellant not conclusive – Conviction of the appellants cannot be maintained, thus, given benefit of doubt and are acquitted – Evidence. H 661 662 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1In view of the law relating circumstantial evidence and the scope of interference in exercise of power under Article 136 of the Constitution of India in respect of cases where concurrent findings are recorded by the lower courts, if doubt B lingers with respect to the probability or conclusiveness of any circumstance relied on by the prosecution, forming a link in the chain of circumstances pointing to the guilt of convict, despite the existence of concurrent findings, the evidence has to be scrutinized by this Court so as to ensure that the totality of the evidence and circumstances relied on, did constitute a complete C chain and it points to the guilt of the convict and it did not brook any hypothesis other than the guilt of the convict.