In the complaint filed by him on 17th April 2000, in the form of his statement recorded by the Anti- Corruption Bureau, he stated that pursuant to the application dated 6th May 1996, a meter was installed in his shop and after a few months, he found that the meter was removed. As the shopkeepers in the area had got the electricity meters installed through the appellant, he met her. On 17th April 2000, he received a C telephone call at 7:30 a.m. from the appellant who was working as an Inspector in the D.V.B./electricity department in the local area. She called him at her residence to discuss the issue of the electricity meter. At 8:00 a.m., when the complainant met her, she demanded a sum of Rs.15,000/- for getting the meter installed and ultimately after negotiations, D she settled the demand at Rs.10,000/-. According to the complainant, the appellant stated that she would come to his shop between 3:00 and 4:00 p.m. when the complainant should hand over the papers for the electricity meter and Rs.10,000/- as a bribe. The complainant stated that he had no option but to accept her demand for a bribe. E 3. The prosecution’s case is that on the basis of the aforesaid complaint, a trap was laid. PW-5, Mr. S. K. Awasthi, was the shadow witness. When he along with the complainant as well as members of the raiding party visited the complainant’s shop at 3:50 p.m., the appellant was not present there. At about 4:40 p.m., a telephone call was received by the complainant that the appellant would come at around5:30/6:00 F p.m. At 5:20 p.m., the appellant came with the co-accused and demanded the documents and bribe of Rs.10,000/-, which was paid by the complainant. The Special Court held that there was sufficient circumstantial evidence on record to prove the guilt of the appellant. In fact, a finding was recorded on the basis of circumstantial evidence that G the demand and acceptance were proved. The of conviction of the learned Special Court as regards the appellant has been confirmed by the High Court in the impugned . 4. While hearing this appeal, a bench of two Hon’ble Judges of this Court came to a conclusion that the decisions of this Court of the H 1002 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A benches of three Hon’ble Judges in the cases of B. Jayaraj v. State of Andhra Pradesh1and P.Satyanarayana Murthy v. District Inspector of Police, State of Andhra Pradesh & Anr.2 were in conflict with an earlier three-Judge bench’s decision in the case of M. Narsinga Rao v. State of A.P.3 Accordingly, the following question was referred to the larger bench: B “The question whether in the absence of evidence of complainant/ direct or primary evidence of demand of illegal gratification, is it not permissible to draw inferential deduction of culpability/guilt of a public servant under Section 7 and Section 13(1)(d) read with Section 13(2) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 based on C other evidence adduced by the prosecution.” 5.