G 2. In the last 40 years, a new creed of litigants has cropped up. Those who belong to this creed do not have any respect for truth. They shamelessly resort to falsehood and unethical means for achieving their goals. In to meet the challenge posed by this new creed of litigants, the courts have, from time to time, evolved H STATE OF ORISSA & ANR. v. LAXMI NARAYAN DAS (DEAD) 1075 THR. LRS & ORS. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] new rules and it is now well established that a litigant, who attempts A to pollute the stream of justice or who touches the pure fountain of justice with tainted hands, is not entitled to any relief, interim or final.” (emphasis supplied) 45. In Moti Lal Songara Vs. Prem Prakash @ Pappu and another (2013) 9 SCC 199, this Court, considering the issue regarding B concealment of facts before the Court, observed that “court is not a laboratory where children come to play”, and opined as under: “19. The second limb of the submission is whether in the obtaining factual matrix, the passed by the High Court discharging the accused-respondent is justified in law. We have clearly stated C that though the respondent was fully aware about the fact that charges had been framed against him by the learned trial Judge, yet he did not bring the same to the notice of the revisional court hearing the revision against the taking cognizance. It is a clear case of suppression. It was within the special knowledge of D the accused. Any one who takes recourse to method of suppression in a court of law, is, in actuality, playing fraud with the court, and the maxim supressio veri, expression faisi , i.e., suppression of the truth is equivalent to the expression of falsehood, gets attracted. We are compelled to say so as there has been a E calculated concealment of the fact before the revisional court. It can be stated with certitude that the accused- respondent tried to gain advantage by such factual suppression. The fraudulent intention is writ large. In fact, he has shown his courage of ignorance and tried to play possum. F 20. The High Court, as we have seen, applied the principle “when infrastructure collapses, the superstructure is bound to collapse”. However, as the has been obtained by practising fraud and suppressing material fact before a court of law to gain advantage, the said cannot be allowed to stand.” G (emphasis supplied) 46. In a recent , ABCD Vs. Union of India and others (2020) 2 SCC 52, this Court in a matter where material facts was concealed, while issuing notice to the petitioner therein, exercising its suo-motu contempt power, observed as under : H 1076 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A “15. Making a false statement on oath is an offence punishable under Section 181 of the IPC while furnishing false information with intent to cause public servant to use his lawful power to the injury of another person is punishable under Section 182 of the IPC.