Merely because a person is having a licence G and doing business in a particular shop, he is not entitled to the auction platform as a matter of right and that too, in front of and/or adjacent to his shop. No such rule and/or regulation and/or guideline supporting such a claim has been brought to the notice of the High Court or even this Court. H 1054 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 6.7 Now so far as the allotment of the auction platform in favour of respondent No. 5 is concerned, it is required to be noted that according to the Market Committee and respondent No. 5, respondent No. 5 has been holding the licence and doing business since 1970, whereas the appellant herein got the licence on 16.07.2007. It appears that at the relevant time when the allotment of the newly B constructed shed was made, the licence of respondent No.5 was not renewed and/or not valid due to non-renewal and the case for grant of licence was pending for consideration in the office of the Committee, which was granted in the month of February, 2010. Thereafter, the shed has been allotted in favour of respondent No. 5 C being a licencee of the Market Committee and being in possession of the shed prior to collapse of the shed. All these aspects in detail have been considered by the Market Committee while deciding the representation. 7. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above and D in absence of any specific rule/regulation to the contrary and when the allotment of the sheds is made as per the principles/guidelines of the Secretary, Agriculture, reproduced hereinabove, and in absence of any specific rule in favour of appellant(s), right to claim the allotment just in front of his shop and/or adjacent to the same and when the allotment in favour of respondent No. 5 is made as per the E policy and guidelines, both the learned Single Judge and Division Bench of the High Court have rightly held against the appellant and have rightly dismissed the writ petition(s) and appeal(s). We are in complete agreement with the view taken by the High Court. 8. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the F present appeals lack merit and the same deserve to be dismissed and are accordingly dismissed. No costs. Divya Pandey Appeals dismissed. (Assisted by : Shevali Monga, LCRA) G H