(ii) In Rajeev Metal Works and Others v. Mineral & Metal B Trading Corporation of India Ltd.9, a manufacturer imported raw material through statutory authority that acted as a canalizing agency for manufacture and sale of the finished product. The appellant approached the National Commission alleging that the respondent had not supplied C the required quantity demanded by the appellant. This Court held that the purchase was for a commercial purpose and the manufacturer was not a “consumer” for the purpose of the Act, 1986. (iii) The bank which had taken bankers indemnity insurance D policy from the insurance company and suffered loss owing to some of transactions in one of its branches, raised an insurance claim stating that it is owing to dishonesty of Branch Manager and the claim was repudiated by the insurance company stating that the alleged loss was because of some dishonesty of the Branch Manager and this being E for commercial purpose, may not be a consumer. (iv) The complainant is a private limited company running a diagnostic clinic and alleges that X-ray machine purchased by the complainant from the opposite party was defective. If an objection is raised that as machine was purchased for F commercial purpose and the complainant cannot be said to be a consumer as defined under the Act, 1986 as he has been employed for commercial purpose and has been carrying out business for profit indeed the complainant is not a consumer under the Act, 1986. G (v) A company purchased the EPBX system for the better management of the business of the company for commercial purpose and the complaint filed for alleged supply of 8 (2000) 1 SCC 512 9 (1996) 9 SCC 422 H 470 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A defective system may not be covered by the explanatory clause of Section 2(1)(d) of the Act, 1986 as the transaction has no nexus to generate profits. 42. Thus, what is finally culled out is that each case has to be examined on its own facts and circumstances and what is to be examined B is whether any activity or transaction is for commercial purpose to generate profits and there cannot be a straight-jacket formula which can be adopted and every case has to be examined on the broad principles which have been laid down by this Court, of which detailed discussion has been made. C 43. Applying the above principles in the present case, what needs to be determined is whether the insurance service had a close and direct nexus with the profit generating activity and whether the dominant intention or dominant purpose of the transaction was to facilitate some kind of profit generation for the insured or to the beneficiary and our answer is in the negative and accordingly we are of the view that the D complaint filed by the respondent insured herein has no close or direct nexus with the profit generating activity and the claim of insurance is to indemnify the loss which the respondent insured had suffered and the Commission has rightly held that the respondent is a “consumer” under Section 2(1)(d) of the Act, 1986.