C 38. In this context the meaning of the word “reconciliation” is to be looked into. Going by Black’s Law Dictionary, 10th Edition, the apt meaning suitable to the situation in relation to accounting, reads thus: “an adjustment of amounts so that they agree, especially by allowing for outstanding items”. It is submitted by the learned counsel for the D respondent that such a reconciliation had not taken place and also that indisputably, DRS was not formulated and approved. The aforesaid facts revealed from Annexure 40 together with the stand taken by the respondent in the letter dated 04.01.2013 (Annexure 36) would reveal the existence of a pre-existing dispute between the parties. In the contextual situation it is only apposite to be remindful of the observation E in Mobilox Innovations (P) Ltd. (supra) that in doing the act of separating the grain from chaff the Court need not to be satisfied that the defence is likely to succeed. It is enough that a dispute exists between the parties and in other words, what is to be seen is whether there was a plausible contention requiring investigation for the purpose of F adjudication. Taking note of the nature of the dispute of the respondent as referred hereinbefore in respect of the claim made by the appellant, we do not find any reason to disagree with the concurrent findings of the Tribunals that there existed a ‘pre-existing dispute’ between the parties before the receipt of demand notice under Section 8, IBC. In other words, the dismissal of the application under Section 9, IBC on the ground of G ‘pre-existing dispute’ cannot be held to be patently illegal or perverse. We also do not find any reason, in the facts and circumstances, to hold that the case set up by the respondent was a patently feeble legal argument. At any rate, we are not inclined to brush aside the case of the respondent as spurious. We may hasten to add here that we shall not be H 218 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A understood to have held that the dispute set by the respondent regarding the dues is ultimately to be upheld. Certainly, when the expression ‘pre- existing dispute’ is used it will only indicate the existence of a dispute prior to the receipt of a demand notice under Section 8, IBC, and the correctness or its truthfulness is a matter of evidence. In short, the respondent has succeeded in raising a dispute describable as ‘pre-existing B dispute’. In that view of the matter once we find that the Tribunals have rightfully held that there existed a ‘pre-existing dispute’ between the parties there cannot be an of remand of the matter to the Tribunal for reconsideration of Section 9 application under IBC. 39. In the contextual situation, it is also relevant to refer to the C fact, rightly taken note of by the NCLT, that the respondent herein had filed a Commercial Suit No.92 of 2017 on 28.04.2017 before the Commercial Court in Ahmedabad, claiming damages for the loss suffered by it due to discontinuation of gas supply.