C Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 Corroboration of the testimony of a child witness is not a rule but a measure of caution and prudence. A child witness of tender age is easily susceptible to tutoring. However, that by itself is no ground to reject the evidence of a child witness. The D Court must make careful scrutiny of the evidence of a child witness. The Court must apply its mind to the question whether there is a possibility of the child witness being tutored. Therefore, scrutiny of the evidence of a child witness is required to be made by the Court with care and caution. Before recording evidence of E a minor, it is the duty of a Judicial Officer to ask preliminary questions to him with a view to ascertain whether the minor can understand the questions put to him and is in a position to give rational answers. The Judge must be satisfied that the minor is able to understand the questions and respond to them and understands the importance of speaking the truth. Therefore, F the role of the Judge who records the evidence is very crucial. He has to make a proper preliminary examination of the minor by putting appropriate questions to ascertain whether the minor is capable of understanding the questions put to him and is able to give rational answers. It is advisable to record the preliminary G questions and answers so that the Appellate Court can go into the correctness of the opinion of the Trial Court. [Paras 8 and 9][1028-H; 1029-A-D] 1.2 In the facts of the case, the preliminary examination of the minor is very sketchy. Only three questions were put to the H PRADEEP v. THE STATE OF HARYANA 1023 minor on the basis of which the learned Sessions Judge came to A the conclusion that the witness was capable of giving answers to each and every question. Therefore, the oath was administered to him. The Sessions Judge has not done his duty. In the examination- in- chief, he stated that on the night of 30th December 2002, the accused entered his house by breaking a window. While B the appellant held his mother by his hands, accused no.1 assaulted her with a knife. When he tried to rescue his mother, accused no.1 gave a blow on his back by knife. He stated that he was hiding in the house after the accused fled and he disclosed the incident to milkman who came to the house at 5 a.m. In the examination- in -chief, he deposed about the incident of cutting C of crops on their family land by accused nos.1 and 2, which had taken place 6 to 7 months prior to the date of the offence. He stated that though the accused indulged in the said act, no action was taken as the appellant’s father apologised. In the cross-examination when the witness was confronted with his D statement recorded by the police, he admitted that this incident was not recorded therein.