These appellant Clubs just like Bangalore Club are social clubs, and it is the surplus funds earned through various activities of the Clubs which are deposited as fi xed deposit in the banks so as to earn an interest owing to the business of banking. In the absence of the said fi xed deposits being utilized by the banks for their transactions with their customers, no interest can be payable on the fi xed deposits. This is so in respect of any customer of a bank who would deposit surplus funds in a bank. It may be that the interest income would be ultimately used for the benefi t of the members of the Clubs but that is not a consideration which would have an impact on satisfying the triple test of mutuality. It was observed in Bangalore Club that even if ultimately the interest income and surplus funds in the fi xed deposit are utilized for the benefi t of the members of the clubs,the fact remains that when the fi xed deposits were made by the clubs in the banks,they were exposed to transactions with third parties,i.e., between the banks and its customers and this would snap the principle of mutuality breaching the triple SECUNDRABAD CLUB ETC. v. C.I.T.-V ETC. 1029 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] test. When the reasoning of this Court in Bangalore Club is considered in light of the s of overseas jurisdictions, it is noted that this proposition would squarely apply even to fi xed deposits made in banks which are members of the clubs. In other words, it is only profi t generated from the payments made by the members of the clubs, which would not be taxable. This was also the reasoning in the case of Royal Western India Club (supra), wherein it was observed that where services are rendered by the club to both members and non-members,the dealings of the Club with non-members is in the ordinary course of the business carried on with a view to earn the profi ts, as in any other commercial concern and hence, subjected to tax. This is on the principle that complete identity between the contributors and the recipients is absent. 34. The question asked therefore is - at what point does the relationship of mutuality end and that of trading begin. If there is an entry of a third party or non-member to deal with the contributions of or funds of the club or to utilize the funds of the club and return the same with interest, then, the relationship of the parties is not on the basis of a privity of mutuality. The essential condition of mutuality, i.e., identity between the contributors and participators would end. The relationship would then be like any other commercial relationship such as that between a customer and a bank where the fi xed deposit is made by the customer for the purpose of earning an interest income. 35. If the principle of mutuality is to apply, then, where a number of people contribute to a fund are ultimately paid the surplus from the fund, it is a mere repayment of the contributors’ own money.