In our considered opinion, the expression “all the goods and wares made of glass” occurring in Notifi cation dated:07.09.1981 must be taken to refer to all articles of glass except those specifi cally excluded in the entry itself. 27. It would not be out of context or in other words it would be apposite to refer to the of this Court in the matter of Ramavatar Budhaiprasad Etc. Vs. Assistant Sales Tax Offi cer - (1962) 1 SCR 279 wherein challenge to the imposition of sales tax on beetle leaves by the revenue came to be upheld by arriving at a conclusion that the legislature by using two distinct and diff erent items that is item 6 “vegetables” item 36 “beetle leaves” had indicated its intention. It was held that the word “vegetables” in taxing statues is to be understood as in common parlance that is denoting class of vegetables which are grown in a kitchen garden or in a farm and are used for the table. It was further held: “3. The Schedule was amended …………... But this word must be construed not in any technical sense nor from the botanical point of view but as understood in common parlance. It has not been defi ned in the Act and being a word of every day us it must be construed in its popular sense meaning “that sense which people conversant with the subject-matter with which the statute is dealing would attribute to it”. It is to be construed as understood in common language; Craies on Statute Law, p.153 (5th Edn.). It was so held……………….. 28. This Court examined in M/s. Indo International Industries vs Commissioner of Sales Tax, Uttar Pradesh (1981) 2 SCC 528 almost similar issue namely whether hypodermic clinical syringes could be regarded as “glass ware” under Entry 39 of First Schedule of UP Sales Tax Act, 1948 and negatived the plea of the assessee by opining that in taxing statues, words and phrases must be construed as understood in popular or commercial parlance and not technically. It came to be further held: M/S TRIVENI GLASS LIMITED REP. BY ITS DEPUTY 1115 GENERAL MANAGER (SALES AND P.R.) SHRI R.K. SINHA v. COMMISSIONER OF TRADE TAX, U.P. [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] “5. Having regard to the aforesaid well settled test the question is whether clinical syringes could be regarded as “glassware” falling within Entry 39 of the First Schedule to the Act? It is true that the dictionary meaning of the expression “glassware” is “articles made of glass” (see Webster’s New World Dictionary). However, in commercial sense glass ware would never comprise articles like clinical syringes, thermometers, lactometers, and the like which have specialised signifi cance and utility. In popular or commercial parlance a general merchant dealing in “glassware” does not ordinarily deal in articles like clinical syringes, thermometers, lactometers, etc. which articles though made of glass, are normally available in medical stores or with the manufacturers thereof like the assessee. It is equally unlikely that consumer would ask for such articles from a glass ware shop.