G 25. In his concurring opinion in the 2018 Constitution Bench , Justice Bhushan also interpreted the said phrase in the following terms: “551. The provision is very clear which empowers the Legislative Assembly to make laws with respect to any of the matters H 522 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A enumerated in the State List or in the Concurrent List except the excluded entries. One of the issue is that power to make laws in State List or in Concurrent List is hedged by phrase “in so far as any such matter is applicable to Union territories”. 552. A look of the Entries in List II and List III indicates B that there is no mention of Union Territory. A perusal of the List II and III indicates that although in various entries there is specific mention of word “State” but there is no express reference of “Union Territory” in any of the entries. For example, in List II Entry 12, 26, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42 and 43, there is specific mention of word “State”. Similarly, in List C III Entry 3, 4 and 43 there is mention of word “State”. The above phrase “in so far as any such matter is applicable to Union Territory” is inconsequential. The reasons are two fold. On the commencement of the Constitution, there was no concept of Union Territories and there were only Part A, D B, C and D States. After Seventh Constitutional Amendment, where First Schedule as well as Article 2 of the Constitution were amended which included mention of Union Territory both in Article 1 as well as in First Schedule. Thus, the above phrase was used to facilitate the automatic conferment of powers to make laws for Delhi on all matters E including those relatable to the State List and Concurrent List except where an entry indicates that its applicability to the Union Territory is excluded by implication or any express Constitutional provision. 553. Thus, there is no difficulty in comprehending the Legislative F power of the NCTD as expressly spelled out in Article 239AA…” (emphasis supplied) 26. Justice Bhushan also agreed that the phrase “in so far as any such matter is applicable to Union territories” cannot be used to restrict the legislative power of the Legislative Assembly of Delhi. He held that G the “phrase was used to facilitate the automatic conferment of powers to make laws for Delhi on all matters including those relatable to the State List and Concurrent List” except for excluded entries. 27. The of the majority did not make a direct observation on the interpretation of the said phrase. However, the reasoning indicates H GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 523 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] that the phrase was to be considered in a broader sense. As noted A previously, the of the majority held that the executive power of NCTD is coextensive with its legislative power on subjects except the excluded subjects under Article 239AA(3)(a).