Ultimately, we noticed something very shocking. The shocking aspect, we shall discuss about hereinafter, if would have gone unnoticed at our end too, then it would have led to a serious miscarriage of justice. 34. We thought fi t to call for the papers of the charge sheet and look into the FIR lodged by PW 2 Kiran Devi; the further statement of PW 2 recorded under Section 161 of the CrPC in furtherance of the FIR lodged by her and the police statements of PW 1 Babloo Saw, and PW 3 Priya Kumari, the elder sister of the victim and elder daughter of PW 2 (fi rst informant). Reading the FIR and the police statements of the aforesaid witnesses left us aghast. 35. We fi rst start with the FIR lodged by PW 2 which reads thus:- “Fardbayan of Kiran Devi aged about 40 years w/o Arvind Sah, at Thateri Tola, Police Station- Sabour, District Bhagalpur recorded by S.I. cum S.H.O. Rita Kumari Sabour P.S. in house of Naval Kishore Ojha @ Fuchan Pandey dated 01-06-15 at 12:45 P.M. My name is Kiran Devi, aged about 40 years old, w/o Arvind Sah, Rio Thateri Tola Sabour Police Station- Saber, District- Bhagalpur. I am giving this statement without any pressure, in presence of the In- charge of Sabour Police Station today on 01 June, 2015 at the house of Naval Kishore (Fucchan Pandey) that yesterday on 31st May, 2015, I went to my late elder sister Sakila Devi’s home situated in Jamunia Parbatta. In the meantime, at about 12 pm, my elder daughter Priya MUNNA PANDEY v. STATE OF BIHAR 1037 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] Kumari informed me through telephone that my younger daughter, X is nowhere to be found. Then I left for Sabour immediately. When I reached home, my elder daughter Priya informed me that X went to watch TV at Munna Pandey’s home. When she didn’t come back till 11 am then my elder daughter called me. When I went to Munna Pandey’s home to fi nd X, I found that Munna Pandey’s house was locked. We started searching for X along with our relatives but X was nowhere to be found. When Munna Pandey was asked to open the lock, he said that he docs not have the keys. Then I called Munna Pandey’s brother Fucchan Pandey who was at his in-law’s house (sasural). Today on 1st June, 2015, Naval Kishore Pandey @ Fucchan Pandey came at around 12 pm and opened the lock of the room where it was found that Pritam Tiwari, S/o Dilip Tiwari R/o Shobhapur, Police Station: Rajmahal, District was hiding inside the room. The room was locked from outside. When Munna Pandey’s room was opened, the dead body of my daughter was found under the bed. I am certain that Pritam Tiwari, s/o Dilip Tiwari, r/o Shobhapur, Police Station: Rajmahal District Sahebanj and Munna Pandey s/o Late Bir Bahadur Pandey r/o Thatcri Tola, Police Station: Sabour, District Bhagalpur, jointly conspired and had committed rape on my 11 y/o daughter (X) and after that strangulated her and killed her and then hid her dead body in the room.