24 constituencies covered by the Pakistan E occupied area were obviously not covered by the Delimitation . Thus, by virtue of sub-section (5) of Section 14, the delimitation of 83 constituencies of the Legislative Assembly of the Union Territory of J & K was incorporated in the form of the Third Schedule which sets out the boundaries of and the areas incorporated in the new individual 83 constituencies. F 26. Now we come to Part V of the of J&K Reorganisation Act which deals with the Delimitation of Constituencies. By virtue of clause (a) of sub-section (1) of Section 62, the provisions of the Delimitation Act, 2002 were made applicable to the Union Territory of J & K with effect from 31st October 2019. For the sake of convenience, we are G reproducing Sections 60 to 63 of the J&K Reorganisation Act which read thus: 60. (1) Without prejudice to sub-sections (3) of section 14 of this Act, the number of seats in the Legislative Assembly of Union territory of Jammu & Kashmir shall be increased H 536 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A from 107 to 114, and delimitation of the constituencies may be determined by the Election Commission in the manner hereinafter provided— (a) the number of seats to be reserved for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes in the Legislative B Assembly, having regard to the relevant provisions of the Constitution; (b) the assembly constituencies into which the Union territory shall be divided, the extent of each of such constituencies and in which of them seats shall be reserved C for the Scheduled Castes or for the Scheduled Tribes; and (c) the adjustments in the boundaries and description of the extent of the parliamentary constituencies in each Union territory that may be necessary or expedient. (2) In determining the matters referred to in clauses (b) and (c) of D sub-section (1), the Election Commission shall have regard to the following provisions, namely:— (a) all the constituencies shall be single-member constituencies; (b) all constituencies shall, as far as practicable, be geographically compact areas, and in delimiting them, regard shall be had to E physical features, existing boundaries of administrative units, facilities of communication and conveniences to the public; and (c) constituencies in which seats are reserved for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes shall, as far as practicable, be located in areas where the proportion of their population to the F total population is the largest. (3) The Election Commission shall, for the purpose of assisting it in the performance of its functions under sub-section (1), associate with itself as associate members, four persons as the Central Government may by specify, being persons who are the G members of the Legislative Assembly of the Union territory of Jammu & Kashmir or four members of the House of the People representing the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir: Provided that none of the associate members shall have a right to vote or to sign any decision of the Election Commission.