Paragraph 2(1)(b) also has no applicability in the facts of the present case; d. After the deletion of Paragraph 3 from the Tenth Schedule, the Speaker has no jurisdiction to take cognizance of a split H 23 (2022) 2 SCC 759 SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 899 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] in a political party. The ECI has the exclusive jurisdiction to A decide a split in a political party under Paragraph 15 of the Symbols ; and e. The of this Court on 27 June 2022 granting additional time to the respondents to reply to the disqualification petitions was in accordance with the principles of natural B justice. 46. Mr. Mahesh Jethmalani, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondents made the following submissions: a. The concept of ‘deemed disqualification’ does not exist under the Constitution. Disqualification must be actual and C there is a mandated procedure for disqualification proceedings under Rule 7(7) of the 1986 Rules; b. The Speaker decides disqualification proceedings with reference to the date of on which action due to which the MLA is alleged to have incurred disqualification, is D committed. However, in view of Articles 189(2) and 191(2) of the Constitution, the of disqualification only has prospective effect; and c. The petitioners instituted disqualification petitions against sixteen out of the thirty-nine MLAs who were part of Mr. E Shinde’s faction to entice those against whom petitions were not filed to gravitate towards Mr.Thackeray’s faction. The petitioners knew that if all thirty-nine MLAs were disqualified, the MVA government would fall. Later, on 27 June 2022, a second disqualification petition was filed against F the remaining twenty-three MLAs. 47. Mr. Harish Salve, learned senior counsel for the respondents made the following submissions: a. During the pendency of the disqualification petitions, MLAs are entitled to participate in the proceedings of the House. G Article 189(2) of the Constitution indicates that the subsequent disqualification of a member does not vitiate any actions in the House; and b. The petitioners argued that but for the interim of the Supreme Court, the disqualification would have followed, H 900 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A that Mr. Thackeray would not have resigned, and that he would have survived the trust vote. This Court should not enter into the realm of speculation while deciding constitutional matters. In the eventuality that Mr. Thackeray faced the floor test, he would not have had the support of the majority of the legislators. Mr. Thackeray’s resignation B on the eve of the trust vote is a testament to the fact that he had lost the confidence of the House. E. Analysis i. Reference of Nabam Rebia’s case to a larger Bench C 48. Article 179 stipulates that a Speaker (or a Deputy Speaker) may be removed from their office by a resolution passed by a majority of “all the then members of the Assembly.” Article 179 of the Constitution reads as follows: “179. A member holding office as Speaker or Deputy Speaker of D an Assembly— … (c) may be removed from his office by a resolution of the Assembly passed by a majority of all the then members of the Assembly: E Provided that no resolution for the purpose of clause (c) shall be moved unless at least fourteen days’ notice has been given of the intention to move the resolution: Provided further that, whenever the Assembly is dissolved, the Speaker shall not vacate his office until immediately before the F first meeting of the Assembly after the dissolution.” 49.