But in cases where offi cers coming under this rule are under suspension on the date of superannuation or thereafter the date of superannuation or on the date of suspension whichever is later. If, however, the day on which the teaching staff (including Principals of Colleges) attain the age of 55 years falls within the period of one month beginning with the day of re-opening of the institutions they shall cease to be on duty with eff ect from the date of such re-opening and they shall be granted additional leave from the date of re-opening to the last day of the month in which they attain the age of 55 years. They shall be entitled to the benefi t of increment if it falls due before the actual date on which they attain the age of 55 years.” 6. Rule 60 (a) which is more relevant for our discussion, reads as follows: “60. (a) : Except as otherwise provided in these rules the date of compulsory retirement of an offi cer shall take eff ect from the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of 298 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 55 years. He may be retained after this date only with the sanction of government on public grounds which must be recorded in writing, but he must not be retained after the age of 60 years except in very special circumstances.” 7. As can be gathered from the above, Rule 60 (a) of the K.S. Rules is a general provision and is not applicable to the teaching staff for whom a separate provision has been specifi cally incorporated, i.e., Rule 60(c) that prescribes their age of retirement and classifi es them as a separate class in the matter of retirement. Rule 60 (c) prescribes that even if the teaching staff completes the age of 55 years during the course of an academic year, subject to the conditions stipulated in the said Rule, they would continue in service till the end of the academic year. Quite apparently, the object behind carving out this exception for the teaching staff is to safeguard the interest of the students whose studies may not get adversely aff ected due to the superannuation of a teacher midway through an academic session. 8. After notice was issued in the present appeal on 16th December, 2010, some subsequent developments took place as brought out in an application moved by the appellants. In the year 2012, the respondent No.1 – State Government issued three G.O.s in a space of ten days, namely, G.O. dated 30th March, 2012, G.O. dated 7th April, 2012 and G.O. dated 9th April, 2012. In G.O. dated 30th March, 20129, taking note of the earlier G.O. dated 14th January, 2010 whereby, the retirement age of Doctors in the Medical category under Medical Education Service had been enhanced from 55 years to 60 years, the State ed that the retirement age of doctors working in Government Dental Colleges and the Dental Wings in the Medical Colleges be also enhanced from the age of 55 years to 60 years, so as to avoid problems that may be faced by the research students due to retirement of experienced faculty working as Guides.