The two proceedings, criminal and departmental, are entirely diff erent. They operate in diff erent fi elds and have diff erent objectives. [Ajit Kumar Nag v. Indian Oil Corpn. Ltd., (2005) 7 SCC 764 ]In the disciplinary proceedings, the question is whether the respondent is guilty of such conduct as would merit his removal from service or a lesser punishment, as the case may be, whereas in the criminal proceedings, the question is whether the off ences registered against him under the PC Act are established, and if established, what sentence should be imposed upon him. The standard of proof, the mode of inquiry and the rules governing inquiry and trial in both the cases are signifi cantly distinct and diff erent. [State of Rajasthan v. B.K. Meena, (1996) 6 SCC 417] (Emphasis supplied) 17.3 This observation was quoted with profi t in the State of Karnataka v. Umesh.9 18. It is a matter of record that concerning the incident(s) in question, the FIR was registered sometime in 1996, and disciplinary proceedings were initiated on 8th December 1999. With the completion thereof in the year 2002 and pursuant to further completion of formalities mandatorily required to be complied with, including the principles of natural justice, the delinquent employee was dismissed from service with the passing of the dated 28th March 2003. 19. An appeal preferred by the delinquent employee was also dismissed in 2004. It is only after the completion of the entire process of disciplinary 9 (2022) 6 SCC 563 750 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. proceedings that the delinquent employee, in February 2005, seeking reliance upon clause 4 of the MoS, fi led a writ petition challenging the action, which, to our mind, was a belated attempt, only to forestall its implementation. 20. Repetitive as it may sound, we reiterate the principle of law enunciated in Neelam Nag (supra) that the completion of trial must be construed as completion “within the reasonable time frame” and that the clause cannot come to the aid of the employee “more so”, for “prolongation on the trial”. In the instant case, the completion of the trial concerning the crime registered in the year 1996 is nowhere nearing completion. 21. As a principle of law, we have already observed that a departmental proceeding pending criminal trial would not warrant an automatic stay unless, of course, a complicated question of law is involved. Also, acquittal in a criminal case ipso facto would not be tantamount to closure or culmination of proceedings in favour of a delinquent employee. 22. Having perused the delinquent employee’s response to the initiation of inquiry proceedings, most signifi cantly, we notice that no plea of MoS was ever taken. No specifi c plea of postponement of disciplinary proceedings awaiting conclusion of a criminal trial was made. 23. It is seen that the offi cer neither pleaded nor indicated the prejudice caused to him as a consequence of the initiation of criminal proceedings or simultaneous continuation of both proceedings. 24.