However, no such statute was forthcoming pursuant to the decision in Navtej (supra). Although the primary issue in Navtej (supra) was whether Section 377 of the IPC was constitutional, the ruling of this Court made it amply clear that sexual 137 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. orientation cannot be a valid ground for discrimination or hostile treatment. The decision in Navtej (supra) was a clear indication of the fact that the LBGTQ community is entitled to equal treatment before law. Parliament is yet to enact a law to this eff ect. This Court is of the opinion that there is an urgent need for a law which inter alia prohibits discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gives full eff ect to the other civil and social rights of LGBTQ persons. In the absence of such a law, members of the LGBTQ community will be unable to exercise their rights and freedoms to the fullest extent and will have to approach the courts for their enforcement on a case- by-case basis. This is not a desirable outcome. As in this case, courts are not always equipped to deal with all issues which are brought before them. Even if the courts are institutionally equipped to address the grievances in the case before them, no citizen should have to institute legal proceedings for the enforcement of their rights every time they seek to exercise that right. This would be contrary to the very concept of the guarantee of rights. c. Transgender persons in heterosexual relationships can marry under existing law 264. We are in agreement with the submission of the Union of India that the issue of whether transgender persons can marry ought to be decided separately from the issues arising under the SMA in relation to homosexual persons or those of a queer sexual orientation. Parliament has recognized the rights of the transgender community by enacting the Transgender Persons Act. This Court is therefore bound to apply this statute while adjudicating the issue of whether transgender persons can marry under existing law. I. The right against discrimination under the Transgender Persons Act 265. The right of transgender persons to equality under the Constitution and the right against discrimination was recognized by this Court in NALSA (supra). To be equal means to be able to live without discrimination. Section 3 of the Transgender Persons Act codifi es the prohibition against discrimination in the following terms: “3. Prohibition against discrimination. — No person or establishment shall discriminate against a transgender person on any of the following grounds, namely: — SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1379 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (a) the denial, or discontinuation of, or unfair treatment in, educational establishments and services thereof; (b) the unfair treatment in, or in relation to, employment or occupation; (c) the denial of, or termination from, employment or occupation; (d) the denial or discontinuation of, or unfair treatment in, healthcare services; (e) the denial or discontinuation of, or unfair treatment with regard to, access to, or provision or enjoyment or use of any goods, accommodation, service, facility, benefi t, privilege or opportunity dedicated to the use of the general public or customarily available to the public; (f) the denial or discontinuation of, or unfair treatment with regard to the right of movement; (g) the denial or discontinuation of, or unfair treatment with regard to the right to reside, purchase, rent, or otherwise occupy any property; (h) the denial or discontinuation of, or unfair treatment in, the opportunity to stand for or hold public or private offi ce; and (i) the denial of access to, removal from, or unfair treatment in, Government or private establishment in whose care or custody a transgender person may be.” (emphasis supplied) 266.