H 104 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (xxvi)It is further submitted that the of this Court in the case of Nabha Power Limited (NPL) v. Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) and another3 would also not be applicable to the facts of the present case inasmuch as the said case was under Case-2. (xxvii)It is submitted that the inability of a Generator to seek B sufficient relief from the Coal Companies cannot be a reason to claim relief from the Distribution Licensees/DISCOMS or the consumers. The DISCOMS cannot be penalized on account of failure by the Coal Companies of supplying sufficient coal. C (xxviii) An additional ground in Civil Appeal No.6927 of 2021 raised is that CERC has erred in holding that the principle of late payment surcharge envisaged in Articles 8.3.5 and 8.8.3 of the PPA is applicable towards payment of the balance amounts by MSEDCL in respect of the relief under Change D in Law. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE GENERATING COMPANIES 44. As against this, it is submitted on behalf of the Generating Companies as under: E (i) It is submitted that under the NCDP 2007, 100% normative coal requirement of Generating Companies was assured to be supplied by the CIL. However, by NCDP 2013, the responsibility of CIL to supply coal was reduced to 65%, 65%, 67% and 75% of ACQ for the remaining years of the 12th Five Year Plan i.e. Financial Year 2013-14 to Financial F Year 2016-17. (ii) It is submitted that the NCDP has been held to be a law for the purposes of the Electricity Act. It is, therefore, submitted that the Generating Companies are entitled to compensation for the shortfall of coal in terms of NCDP 2013 and the G same has to be paid on actuals, i.e. to the extent the shortfall in coal supply actually exists. (iii) It is submitted that the said issue is no more res integra and is covered by the of this Court in the case of 3 (2018) 11 SCC 508 H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 105 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] Energy Watchdog (supra) and in Adani Rajasthan case A (supra). (iv) It is submitted that, as per the guideless issued by the MoP, for Case-1 bidding, SHR and GCV are not bid parameters. The SHR and GCV mentioned in the bid is part of technical information and is not relevant for computing Change in B Law compensation. It is submitted that there are substantial distinctions between Case-1 and Case-2 bid. The first one is that in Case-1 bid, SHR and GCV are not bid parameters, whereas in Case-2, SHR and GCV are bid parameters. Secondly, in Case-1 bidding, energy charge is not computed since the energy charge forms part of quoted tariff, whereas C in Case-2 bidding, energy charge is computed based on the net heat rate quoted in the financial bid. Thirdly, in Case-1 bidding, the PPA has no definition of quoted Net Heat Rate/ SHR, whereas in Case-2 bid, the PPA defines quoted Net Heat Rate/SHR.