Despite cross-examination in full, the evidence of P.W.2 the child remained unshaken. Following the ratio laid down in the above decision by the Apex E Court, this Court is of the considered opinion that the evidence of P.W.2 has got to be accepted. 20. Added further, P.W.2 at the time of the identification parade, was able to identify A-1 properly as could be seen from the identification parade proceedings Ex.P4. Apart from that, the F evidence of P.W.2 stood fully corroborated by the evidence of P.W.3. P.W.3 was a native of the same village, and all these persons were already known to him. P.W.3 was sufficiently matured and aged 41. According to him, he was actually coming on the way, and when the school van was stopped, P.W.2 and the deceased Suresh got down, and the child was called by A-1, and on some G reason, the child was taken in the bike which was noticed by him. P.W.3 also took part in the identification parade and has also identified A-1 properly. Now, the comment made by the learned Counsel for the appellant that as regards the identification parade, there were infirmities noticed cannot be countenanced in law. As H 1046 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A far as the comment made that there was no requisition made by the Investigating Officer for the test identification parade or the signature of A-1 was not obtained is concerned, the same cannot be accepted for the reason that insofar as the identification parade conducted by P.W.10, it was pursuant to the s of the Chief Judicial Magistrate only on the requisition made by the Investigating B Officer; otherwise, it could not have taken place at all. The conduct of the identification parade in to identify A-1 in which P.Ws.2 and 3 have participated, was never denied by the appellant before the trial Court. Under the circumstances, this Court is of the considered opinion that the test identification parade was properly C done, and the trial Judge was perfectly correct in accepting the evidence adduced by the prosecution in that regard. 21. Apart from the above, it is pertinent to point out the legal position in respect of the identification parade. It is settled proposition of law that the identification parade is only a D corroborative piece of evidence and the identification done in the Court, is a substantive piece of evidence. The Court must look into whether at the time when the witnesses saw the accused in the company of the deceased, such a thing would have caused a dent in their memory. In the instant case, the child was only 7 years old, and both the child and P.W.2 Kamali who was coming E along with the child, got down together, and the appellant/A-1 came there and took the child on the flimsy reason. In such a situation, naturally the same would have caused a dent in the memory of P.W.2, and and it would not fail ordinarily, and equally so the memory of P.W.3, a man aged about 41.