After the police authorities came, seeing that the child was dead, the police authorities brought me and the margin accused, my daughter- F in-law to the police station. I had deposed the same particulars that I had deposed in the chief examination, in the police station also. If anyone call loudly in front of my house, it would be heard by the persons in the house of my daughter Mumtaz. My son Shamsudeen and his wife Asha Begum both were staying in a house in some other street. When I bought idli and came back, G Asha Begum and Shamsudeen were not available in the house of my daughter Mumtaz……. If it is said that as we did not take any steps to admit our grand daughter in the school, on 20th morning the father of the accused had left our grand daughter Farhana in our house and left for Kollakudi village, it is incorrect. When I H saw the child was dead and when I came out of the house and VAHITHA v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU 955 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] shouted at about 10 or 15 feet distance, Mumtaz and Asha Begum A were coming. The name of my house owner is Majid. I was residing in a portion of the portico which was covered with asbestos sheet. It has only one door. As the place wherein I resided is a portico, there are no windows. When I got the idli and came back, the door of the house was closed tight. I had knocked it strongly B and opened. …. It is incorrect to state that I had not deposed during the police investigation that on the next day at 6.00 A.M. I went to get the society milk and brought the milk. It is incorrect to state that I had not deposed during the police investigation that after making the tea and giving it to my daughter-in-law the margin accused gave me Rs.100/- to get idli and that I went to the C farmer’s market to get the idli and when I got the idli and was coming back, through my daughter Mumtaz she said that Abdul Raheem spoke to my daughter Mumtaz over phone. It is incorrect to state that as deposed during my chief examination, I did not mention in the complaint statement as well as during the police D investigation, that when I came back the tea which had been kept for my grand daughter was as it is, and that when I asked the accused, why she did not wake up granddaughter and give her the tea, she was sitting quiet, and that when I asked again the accused said that she had killed the child. … My eldest son Jamal Mohammed and my another son Shamsudeen, alone were sending E money to be from abroad. It is incorrect to state that as Abdul Raheem did not take care of me, after his marriage, I am angry with him. It is incorrect to state that in the event that my son Abdul Raheem and the accused did not take care of me, they had handed over my grand daughter Farhana to me.