This Court held that a person having only security interest B over the assets of corporate debtor, even if falling within the description of “secured creditor” by virtue of collateral security extended by the corporate debtor, would not be covered by the financial creditors as per definitions contained in clauses (7) and (8) of Section 5. What has been held by this Court as noted above is fully attracted in the present case where corporate debtor has C only extended a security by pledging 40,160 shares of GEL. The appellant at best will be secured debtor qua above security but shall not be a financial creditor within the meaning of Section 5 clauses (7) and (8). 37. Mr Vishwanathan tried to distinguish the of this Court D in Jaypee Infratech Ltd. [Jaypee Infratech Ltd. Interim Resolution Professional v. Axis Bank Ltd., (2020) 8 SCC 401] by contending that the above has been rendered in the specific facts scenario which does not apply to the present case at all. Shri Vishwanathan submits that in Jaypee Infratech Ltd. [Jaypee E Infratech Ltd. Interim Resolution Professional v. Axis Bank Ltd., (2020) 8 SCC 401] corporate debtor had created mortgage for the loan obtained by the parent Company and no benefit of such loan has been received by the corporate debtor whereas in the present case corporate debtor has been the direct and real beneficiary of the loan advanced by assignor to the parent Company of the F corporate debtor.” 5.6 We have specifically quoted paragraph 37 in the decision of Phoenix ARC (supra) as the counsel for the appellant therein, had also argued before us to distinguish the decisions of Anuj Jain (supra) and Phoenix ARC (supra) from the instant case, on the ground that the G Short Term Loan Facilities (STL Facilities) advanced by the Appellant No. 1 - Vistra in the present case to the group companies of the Corporate Debtor – Amtek Auto Limited (Amtek) i.e., Brassco Engineering Limited (Brassco) and WLD Investments Private Limited (WLD) vide Facility Agreement dated 30.06.2016 (Facility Agreement), was in fact for the end-use and benefit of the Corporate Debtor – Amtek. The said reasoning H M/S VISTRA ITCL (INDIA) LTD v. MR. DINKAR 821 VENKATASUBRAMANIAN [M. R. SHAH, J.] does not appeal to us for the reason that the liability to repay the STL A Facilities advanced to Brassco and WLD is that of the said companies, and that not of the Corporate Debtor - Amtek, even if the latter was, as per the terms of the Facility Agreement, the ultimate beneficiary of the amount disbursed through the STL Facilities. The aforesaid decisions cannot be distinguished on the ground that the loans were not for the end B use and benefit of JIL or Doshion Veolia. The Corporate Debtor – Amtek was not liable to repay the loans advanced by the predecessor-in-interest of the appellant -Vistra, in respect of which there were detailed and separate agreements executed by the lenders with Brassco and WLD.