The trial does not abate nor does it result in an of acquittal of the accused public servant. (g) In so far as Section 7 of the Act is concerned, on the F proof of the facts in issue, Section 20 mandates the court to raise a presumption that the illegal gratification was for the purpose of a motive or reward as mentioned in the said Section. The said presumption has to be raised by the court as a legal presumption or a presumption in law. Of course, the said G presumption is also subject to rebuttal. Section 20 does not apply to Section 13(1)(d) (i) and (ii) of the Act. (h) We clarify that the presumption in law under Section 20 of the Act is distinct from presumption of fact referred to above in point H NEERAJ DUTTA v. STATE (GOVT. OF N.C.T. OF DELHI) 1007 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] (e) as the former is a mandatory presumption while the latter is A discretionary in nature.” (emphasis added) The referred question was answered in paragraph 76 of the aforesaid , which reads thus: B “76. Accordingly, the question referred for consideration of this Constitution Bench is answered as under: In the absence of evidence of the complainant (direct/ primary, oral/ documentary evidence), it is permissible to draw an inferential deduction of culpability/guilt of a public C servant under Section 7 and Section 13(1)(d) read with Section 13(2) of the Act based on other evidence adduced by the prosecution.” (emphasis added) 11. Even the issue of presumption under Section 20 of the PC Act D has been answered by the Constitution Bench by holding that only on proof of the facts in issue, Section 20 mandates the Court to raise a presumption that illegal gratification was for the purpose of motive or reward as mentioned in Section 7 (as it existed prior to the amendment of 2018). In fact, the Constitution Bench has approved two decisions by E the benches of three Hon’ble Judges in the cases of B. Jayaraj1and P. Satyanarayana Murthy2. There is another decision of a three Judges’ bench in the case of N. Vijayakumar v. State of Tamil Nadu5, which follows the view taken in the cases of B. Jayaraj1 and P. Satyanarayana Murthy2. In paragraph 9 of the decision in the case of B. Jayaraj1, this Court has dealt with the presumption under Section F 20 of the PC Act. In paragraph 9, this Court held thus: “9. Insofar as the presumption permissible to be drawn under Section 20 of the Act is concerned, such presumption can only be in respect of the offence under Section 7 and not the offences under Sections 13(1)(d)(i) and (ii) of the Act. In any G event, it is only on proof of acceptance of illegal gratification that presumption can be drawn under Section 20 of the Act that such gratification was received for doing or forbearing to do any official act. Proof of acceptance of illegal 5 2021 (3) SCC 687 H 1008 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R.