Fairly, he answered in the negative. If only Mr. E Sangwan could have invited our attention to any such decision, which were acceptable to us, the issue decided by the Tribunal could have been reopened on the ground that it is a debatable issue and interference with the final s passed by the Revisional Authority may not have been resorted to, leaving the appellant to pursue the appellate remedy under the VAT Act. F 36. There is also substance in the contention of Mr. Lakshmikumaran that suo motu power of revision, on the terms of section 34, could have been exercised only if the s sought to be revised suffered from any illegality or impropriety. 37. A decision may be questioned as suffering from an illegality if G its maker fails to understand the law that regulates his decision making power correctly or if he fails to give effect to any law that holds the field and binds the parties. On the other hand, having regard to the purpose section 34 seeks to serve, to take exception to a decision on the ground of lack of propriety of any proceedings or passed in such H M/S GODREJ SARA LEE LTD. v. THE EXCISE AND TAXATION 891 OFFICER-CUM-ASSESSING AUTHORITY [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] proceedings, it essentially ought to relate to a procedural impropriety. It A is incumbent for the accuser to show that the decision maker has failed to observe the standard procedures applicable in case of exercise of his power. Additionally, to impeach an on the ground of moral impropriety, it has to be shown that the weight of facts together with the applicable law overwhelmingly points to one course of action but the B decision has surprisingly gone the other way, giving reason to suspect misbehaviour or misconduct in the sphere of activity of the decision maker warranting a revision. 38. There is nothing on record to justify either illegality or (procedural/moral) impropriety in the proceedings before the Assessing C Authority or the s passed by him, as such. As noted above, the Assessing Authority was bound by the of the Tribunal and elected to follow it having no other option. Such decision of the Tribunal was even binding on the Revisional Authority. In such circumstances, to brand the s of the Assessing Authority as suffering from illegality and impropriety appears to us to be not only unjustified but also demonstrates D thorough lack of understanding of the principle regulating exercise of suo motu revisional power by a quasi-judicial authority apart from being in breach of the principle of judicial discipline, while confronted with s passed by a superior Tribunal/Court. We are inclined to the view that it is not the Assessing Authority’s s but those passed by the E Revisional Authority, which suffer from a patent illegality. 39. For the foregoing reasons, we have no other option but to invalidate the impugned final revisional s dated 2nd March, 2009 for the Assessment Years 2003-04 and 2004-05. It is ed accordingly.