Pursuant to the Amendment Act, this criterion was then changed to “ability, standing at the Bar or special knowledge or experience in law”. Therefore, the higher judiciary in India has the sole discretion to designate an advocate as a Senior Advocate based on such parameters. B 6. With regard to the High Court, there was no uniform criteria and different High Courts in the country had different criterion for designation of Senior Advocates. 7. In the Supreme Court, the applications for Senior Advocates were subject to deliberation by the Full Court and were put to vote through C secret ballots. Therefore, the designation was not based on any objective criteria. The 2017 : 8. Ms. Indira Jaising, Senior Advocate, filed a writ petition under D Article 32 of the Constitution of India in 2015. She submitted that the existing system of designation of Senior Advocates was flawed as it was not objective, fair, and transparent, and thus did not take into account considerations of merit and ability. She inter alia sought the system of voting to be abandoned and to be replaced by a permanent Selection Committee. At this stage, we may note that the petitioner did not press E for Section 16 of the Advocates Act or Rule 2 of IV of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013 to be declared unconstitutional. 9. Vide an elaborate dated 12.10.2017, a three Judge Bench of this Court laid down a series of guidelines to bring in greater transparency and objectivity in the designation process.1 This was done F while retaining the suo motu designation power of the Court. These guidelines have been set forth in paragraph 73 of the . These inter alia, provided for the constitution of a Permanent Committee consisting of five Members, to be headed by the Chief Justice and two senior-most Judges. The Attorney General/Advocate General of the State G was also to be a Member of this Committee. In to provide further representation, the fifth Member was to be nominated from the Bar by the aforementioned four Members of the Permanent Committee. The 1 Indira Jaising v. Supreme Court of India through Secretary General and Others, (2017) 9 SCC 766 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘2017 ’). H 438 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A Permanent Committee was empowered to assess applications on the basis of a point based format, as is provided below: “73.7. The Permanent Committee will examine each case in the light of the data provided by the Secretariat of the Permanent Committee; interview the advocate concerned; and make its overall B assessment on the basis of a point-based format indicated below: Sl.No. Matter Points 1. Number of years of practice of the applicant 20 points advocate from the date of enrolment. [10 points for 10-20 years of practice; 20 C points for practice beyond 20 years] 2. s (reported and unreported) which 40 points indicate the legal formulations advanced by the concerned advocate in the course of the proceedings of the case; pro bono work done by the advocate concerned; domain expertise D of the applicant advocate in various branches of law, such as Constitutional law, Inter-State Water Disputes, Criminal law, Arbitration law, Corporate law, Family law, Human Rights, Public Interest Litigation, International law, law relating to women, etc.