H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 153 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] However, as per sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act, A bank notes can cease to be legal tender when the Central Government issues a notification in the Gazette of India declaring that with effect from such date as may be specified in the said notification any series of bank notes of any denomination shall cease to be legal tender. Such a B notification may be issued on the recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank. There is a challenge to the vires of the said provision and also the validity of the Notification dated 8th November, 2016 issued by the Central Government. As a result of the said Notification, all series of Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/- denomination notes were C demonetised or ceased to be legal tender by issuance of a notification on the said date. At this stage itself, it may be mentioned that subsequent to the notification there was an Ordinance called “The Specified Bank Notes (Cessation of Liabilities) Ordinance, 2016” (hereinafter referred to as D “the 2016 Ordinance” for the sake of brevity) promulgated by the Hon’ble President of India, which was later made an Act of the Parliament, namely,”The Specified Bank Notes (Cessation of Liabilities) Act, 2017" (hereinafter called “2017 Act” for the sake of brevity) and was notified on 1st March 2017, replacing the Ordinance. The issuance E of the aforesaid Notification and the action of the Central Government ofdemonetisation of all series of Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/- are assailed in these Writ Petitions. The Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934: An overview F 7. Before proceeding further, it would be useful to refer to the provisions of the Act for the sake of convenience. 7.1 The object and purpose of the Act is to constitute a Reserve Bank of Indiato regulate the issue of bank notes and for keeping reserves with a view to secure monetary stability in India, and to generally operate the currency and credit G system of the country to its advantage. 7.2 The Preamble of the Act states that it is essential to have a modern monetary policy framework to meet the challenge of an increasingly complex economy and the primary H 154 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A objective of the monetary policy is to maintain price stability while keeping in mind the objective of growth. The monetary policy framework in India shall be operated by the Reserve Bank of India. 7.3 The followingprovisions of the Act are relevant for the B purposes of this case and are extracted as under: “Section 2- Definitions: In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context, - xxxx [a(ii)] “the Bank” means the Reserve Bank of India C constituted by this Act; [a(iii)] “Bank for International Settlements” mean the body corporate established with the said name under the law of Switzerland in pursuance of an agreement dated the 20th January, 1930, signed at the Hague;] D [a(iv)] “bank note” means a bank note issued by the Bank, whether in physical or digital form, under section 22;] xxxxx E (b) “the Central Board” means the Central Board of Directors of the Bank; xxxx (cc) “International Monetary Fund” and “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development” means F respectively the “International Fund” and the “International Bank”, referred to in the International Monetary Fund and Bank Act, 1945;] xxxx G (d) “rupee coin” means (***) rupees which are legal tender in India under the provisions of the Coinage Act, 2011 (11 of 2011)” 7.4 Chapter II of the Act deals with Incorporation, Capital, Management and Business.