Delhi.—Delhi should be constituted into such a centrally-administered territory; the question of creating a municipal Corporation with substantial powers should be considered. (Paragraphs 580 to, 594). 2. Manipur.—Manipur should be a centrally-administered territory for the time being. The ultimate merger of this State in Assam should be kept in view. (Paragraphs 723 to 732). 3. Andaman and Nicobar Islands.—The status quo in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands should continue. (Paragraph 753).”336 (emphasis supplied) 332 Ibid 333 Paragraph 237, Report of the States Reorganisation Commission 1955 334 Paragraph 246 to 268, Report of the States Reorganisation Commission 1955 335 Paragraphs 270, 271 Report of the States Reorganisation Commission 1955 336 Summary and Conclusions, Report of the States Reorganisation Commission 1955 IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 279 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 490. From the information noticed in these paragraphs, the following aspects need to be underscored: a. The Commission recommended that the constituent units which were “viable administrative units” with financial, administrative and technical resources be classified as States. The States were to be the primary constituent units and were autonomous; b. The Commission recommended that some Part C States which were not viable administrative units merge with adjoining States. Such mergers resulted in the retention or development of the features of federalism and representative democracy for the unit which was absorbed because the State into which that unit was absorbed had these features. Crucially, this had the effect of imparting autonomy to the territory which was absorbed; c. Where the Commission recommended that certain constituent units be centrally administered, it largely envisaged the development of autonomy through eventual mergers with other States or the conferral of State-like characteristics. It recommended the creation of a municipal corporation with substantial powers for Delhi. It envisaged the merger of Manipur with the State of Assam. As for the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, it noted that some time may elapse before they de jure became a part of India and that it was not desirable to fetter the discretion of the Union Government at the stage at which it submitted its report;337 and d. The Commission recommended that some territories remain under temporary central supervision and envisaged that they too would become fully autonomous (either by merging with an adjoining state or otherwise). 491. Union territories were, therefore, created when certain areas were not “viable administrative units” and did not have requisite resources 337 Paragraph 753, Report of the States Reorganisation Commission 1955 280 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. to sustain themselves. In addition, strategic, security, or other compelling reasons could play a role in the decision to create a Union territory. Regardless of the category into which they were initially slotted, the recommendations of the Commission evince its opinion that most Union territories or other centrally supervised territories were on a journey towards becoming viable administrative units and attaining autonomy. It appears that the report submitted by the Commission was accepted – the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act 1956 and the States Reorganisation Act 1956 implemented most of its recommendations.