In Jai Prakash v. State (Delhi Admin. ), (1991) 2 SCC 32, this Court, after an exhaustive review of various decisions, more particularly, the principles laid down in Virsa Singh’s case (supra), F concluded as under:- “18. In all these cases, injury by a single blow was found to be sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death. The Supreme Court took into consideration the circumstances such as sudden quarrel, grappling etc. as mentioned above G only to assess the state of mind namely whether the accused had the necessary intention to cause that particular injury i.e. to say that he desired expressly that such injury only should be the result. It is held in all these cases that there was no such intention to cause that particular injury as in those circumstances, the accused could have been barely aware i.e. H ANBAZHAGAN v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY THE 1121 INSPECTOR OF POLICE [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] only had knowledge of the consequences. These circumstances A under which the appellant happened to inflict the injury it is felt or at least a doubt arose that all his mental faculties could not have been roused as to form an intention to achieve the particular result. We may point out that we are not concerned with the intention to cause death in which case it will be a B murder simplicitor unless exception is attracted. We are concerned under clause 3rdly with the intention to cause that particular injury which is a subjective inquiry and when once such intention is established and if the intended injury is found objectively to be sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death, clause 3rdly is attracted and it would be C murder, unless one of the exceptions to Section 300 is attracted. If on the other hand this ingredient of ‘intention’ is not established or if a reasonable doubt arises in this regard then only it would be reasonable to infer that clause 3rdly is not attracted and that the accused must be attributed D knowledge that in inflicting the injury he was likely to cause death in which case it will be culpable homicide punishable under Section 304 Part II IPC.” (Emphasis supplied) 50. In the case of Rajwant Singh (supra), after referring to the E relevant clauses of Section 300 of the IPC, the following observations have been made:- “10. … The mental attitude is thus made of two elements (a) causing an intentional injury and (b) which injury the offender has the foresight to know would cause death…. F 11. … For the application of clause three it must first be established that the injury is caused, next it must be established objectively what the nature of that injury in the ordinary course of nature is. If the injury is found to be sufficient to cause death, one test is satisfied. Then it must be proved that G there was an intention to inflict that very Injury and not some other injury and that it was not accidental or unintentional.