PW-10 also stated that the site plan of the place of arrest and recovery was prepared on 06.12.2001 at his instance. PW-10 denied the suggestions F that, — the dead body was brought by the complainant to the police station; the second complaint (Ex.Ka-2) was got written at his instance; and the accused were falsely implicated by preparing false documents while sitting at the police station. G PW-10 admitted that, — the deceased had criminal antecedents and had gone to jail many times; Mahender Khurana (PW-5) had not come to him for getting his statement recorded, rather PW-10 went to his house to record his statement; Mahender Khurana’s statement was recorded four hours after information was provided by Man H RAVI MANDAL v. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 15 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] Singh (PW-1) on 01.11.2011; Mahender Khurana in his A statement had told that Govind was also present. Statement under section 313 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 (Cr.P.C. ):- 6. In his statement recorded under section 313 Cr.P.C., Ravi B Mandal denied the incriminating circumstances put to him. He also denied recovery of the knife and claimed that nothing incriminating was recovered from his possession. However, he led no evidence in defence. 7. Similarly, Shabbir Ahmad in his statement under section 313 Cr.P.C. denied the incriminating circumstances appearing against him C and stated that nothing incriminating was recovered from his possession. However, what is pertinent to note is that the ballistic expert report with regard to the use of the pistol allegedly recovered from Shabbir was not put to him while recording his statement under section 313 Cr.P.C. Trial Court Findings:- D 8. The Trial Court relied on the testimonies of PW-2 (Chandan Singh) and PW-5 (Mahendra Khurana) to conclude that the deceased was last seen alive in the company of the accused going towards that forest/place from where body of the deceased was recovered; that PW- 5 heard noise of gunshot coming from the forest soon after the deceased and the two accused entered that forest and, soon thereafter, saw the E accused exiting that place minus the deceased. This, according to the Trial Court, was a clinching circumstance. The Trial Court also used the testimony of other witnesses including PW-6 to corroborate the testimony of the two main witnesses with regard to the deceased being last seen alive with the two accused around midnight in that area from where, F next day morning, dead body of the deceased was recovered. The Trial Court noticed that there was no dispute with regard to the presence of moonlight on that night and there was no challenge to the capacity of the witnesses to identify the accused and the deceased. The Trial Court also noticed that as per FSL report the empty cartridge recovered from the spot was fired from the same pistol which was recovered from the G possession of Shabbir. And since the autopsy report had confirmed that death of the deceased was caused by use of firearm, the Trial Court concluded that it was proved beyond doubt that the accused persons had committed murder of the deceased and to hide the evidence dumped the body of the deceased in the forest.