Remaining debt 7. Surplus to shareholders.”23 30. The explanation to this appears in the Report of the Insolvency B Law Committee (2020):24 “7.3. The Committee noted that the Code aims to promote a collective liquidation process, and towards this end, it encourages secured creditors to relinquish their security interest, by providing them second-highest priority in the C recovery of their dues, as under Section 53(1)(b). Thus, they are not treated as ordinary unsecured creditors under the Code, as they would have been under the Companies Act, 1956. It was noted that, to some extent, this provision intends to replicate the benefits of security even where it has been D relinquished, in to promote overall value maximisation. However, even if secured creditors realise their security interest, they would only recover to the extent of their security interest, and would claim any excess dues remaining unpaid under Section 53(1)(e) of the liquidation waterfall. Thus, the Committee was of the view that this provision could not have E been intended to provide secured creditors who relinquish their security interest, priority of repayment over their entire debt regardless of the extent of their security interest, as it would tantamount to respecting a right that has never existed. Further, if the “debts owed to a secured creditor” is not F restricted to the extent of the security, there would be broad scope for misuse of the priority granted under Section 52(1)(b), as even creditors who are not secured to the full extent of their debt would rely on the mere fact of holding any form of security, to recover the entire amount of their unpaid dues in priority to all other stakeholders. G 7.4. On the basis of the above discussion, the Committee agreed that the priority for recovery to secured creditors under 23 The Bankruptcy Law Reforms Committee Report (2015), Heading 5.5.8 – Establishing Priority of Payout in Liquidation. 24 Report of the Insolvency Law Committee (2020) – Heading 7.3 – Realisation or H Relinquishment of Security Interest by a Secured Creditor (pg. 76). PASCHIMANCHAL VIDYUT VITRAN NIGAM LTD. v. RAMAN 1247 ISPAT PRIVATE LIMITED & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] Section 53(1)(b)(ii) should be applicable only to the extent of A the value of the security interest that is relinquished by the secured creditor. The Committee was of the opinion that this issue stands clarified in terms of the reasoning provided above and does not necessitate any further amendment to the provisions of the Code.” B 31. The Preamble to the IBC expressly recognizes the shift in the law, with respect to ing priority of claims, especially with respect to government dues: “An Act to consolidate and amend the laws relating to reorganization and insolvency resolution of corporate persons, C partnership firms and individuals in a time bound manner for maximization of value of assets of such persons, to promote entrepreneurship, availability of credit and balance the interests of the stakeholders including alteration in the of priority of payment of Government dues and to establish D an Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India, and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.” 32.