This is because a State law within the parameters of Entry 25 of List III is subject to Entry 66 of List I and therefore, the State law must yield to the Central law. Learned ASG contended that such an arrangement under the Constitution points towards federal supremacy having regard to Article 246 of the Constitution. C 14. Therefore, according to Sri Nataraj, learned ASG, the State law is null and void and has been rightly struck down by the Division Bench of the Gauhati High Court. He, however, contended that the High Court has applied the doctrine of repugnancy to strike down the State enactment which was wholly unnecessary. Though the reasoning may D not be appropriate, the conclusion is correct. Bearing in mind the aforesaid submissions of the learned ASG, we may proceed to consider the matter further. Interplay between Entry 66 of List I and Entry 25 of List III: E 15. Since these appeals concern interpretation, inter alia, of Entry 66 of List I and Entry 25 of List III, it would be useful to refer to the following decisions of this Court, which examine the interplay of the aforesaid Entries: i) In Gujarat University, Ahmedabad vs. Shri Krishna Ranganath Mudhoklar, AIR 1963 SC 703, (“Gujarat F University, Ahmedabad”) the contest before a Constitution Bench of this Court pertained to the fixation of an exclusive medium of instruction in University Education and the Legislative competence of the State Legislature to do so. This Court considered, inter alia, the question as to whether G the Gujarat University Act, 1949, which authorized the University to prescribe Gujarati or Hindi or both as an exclusive medium of instruction and examination in the affiliated colleges, would infringe Entry 66 of List I. One of the arguments raised in that case was that under Entry 66 H 952 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A of List I of the Seventh Schedule the power of co-ordination and determination of standards in institutions for higher education or research in scientific and technical institutions was conferred upon Parliament and that these matters must be regarded as having been excluded from Entry 11 of List II (as it then stood), which read thus: “Education, including B universities, subject to the provisions of Entries 63, 64, 65 and 66 of List I and Entry 25 of List III.” Addressing such a contention, J.C. Shah, J., speaking for the majority (Subba Rao J. dissenting) observed that the power of the State Legislature to legislate with respect C to higher scientific and technical education and vocational and technical training of labour, is controlled by the five items in List I and List III mentioned in Entry 11 of List II. Items 63 to 66 of List I are carved out of the subject of education and in respect of these items the power to legislate D is vested exclusively in the Parliament. That power of the State to legislate in respect of education including Universities must, to the extent to which it is entrusted to the Parliament, be deemed to be restricted.