(ii) for a declaration that [IIT Patna] is obliged to reimburse service tax paid by the [SPCL] on the service of construction of its building premises. (iii) alternatively for a direction to the [Commissioner, Customs Central Excise and Service Tax] to refund the amount of service tax paid by [SPCL] on the service of construction of building premises of [IIT Patna] in pursuance of the contract.” f) Vide the impugned , the Patna High Court allowed the writ petition of SPCL and held that IIT Patna would indeed be covered within the defi nition of a “governmental authority” under clause 2(s). In its interpretation of clause 2(s), the Court observed that provisions contained in sub-clauses (i) and (ii) of clause 2(s) are independent disjunctive provisions and the expression “90% or more participation by way of equity or control to carry out any function entrusted to a municipality under Article 243W of the Constitution” is related to sub-clause (ii) alone because sub-clause (i) is followed by the punctuation “;” and then by the conjunction “or”. According to the Court, any authority set up by an Act of Parliament or by an Act of the State Legislature as envisaged in sub-clause (i), therefore, cannot be made subject to the condition of “90% or more participation by way of equity or control” and it is only an authority or a board or any other body established by the Government as envisaged under sub-clause (ii) of clause 2(s) that has to meet the requirement of governmental participation of 90% or more by way of equity or control. It was, accordingly, ruled that 430 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. the construction activity undertaken by SPCL is exempt from payment of service tax in terms of the Exemption Notifi cation read with the Clarifi cation Notifi cation, followed by a direction that the service tax collected by the Revenue shall be refunded to SPCL or IIT Patna, as the case may be. 10. The relevant facts, leading to the presentation of CA-II, are as follows: a) SPCL was awarded a works contract vide Work dated 22nd February, 2013 by NIT Rourkela to carry out construction projects at its campus. The total value of the contract was Rs.302,82,39,866.00 (Rupees Three Hundred Two Crore Eighty-Two Lakh Thirty-Nine Thousand Eight Hundred Sixty- Six only). Clause 12 of the Work stated that the aforesaid price shall be inclusive of all taxes except service tax which may be reimbursed as applicable. b) SPCL sought clarifi cations from the Service Tax Commissionerate regarding the applicability of service tax on services rendered to NIT, Rourkela. c) SPCL, however, discharged its service tax liability amounting to Rs 5,79,17,168.00 (Rupees Five Crore Seventy-Nine Lakh Seventeen Thousand One Hundred Sixty-Eight only) to the Service Tax Department and raised all the bills to NIT, Rourkela charging service tax. However, no service tax was paid by NIT, Rourkela claiming that the work executed is exempt from the payment of service tax. d) Aggrieved, SPCL approached the Orissa High Court for reimbursement of such service tax payment.