89 Mulheim Pipecoatings GmbH v. Welspun Fintrade Ltd., 2013 SCC OnLine Bom 1048 IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1139 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] and therefore from the outside appears as a part of the main agreement, it still does not constitute a single provision of the main agreement but an independent agreement of a special nature.”90 However, Gary Born points out that although an arbitration agreement could be separated from the underlying contract, it can never be independent or autonomous from such contract.91 This is largely due to the fact that in certain situations, the defects in the underlying contract could also invalidate the arbitration agreement. 94. To properly understand the contours of the separability presumption, it is necessary to understand its origin and development in the international context. Such an analysis is important because any ruling by this Court on the separability presumption ought to be with the aid of international best practices. d. United Kingdom 95. The separability presumption developed gradually in English law starting with the decision of the House of Lords in Heyman v. Darwins.92 The issue before the House of Lords was whether an arbitration agreement contained in an underlying contract could survive the termination of such contract for a repudiatory breach. It was held that an arbitration agreement is collateral to the substantive contract and could survive its termination. Lord Macmillan observed that an arbitration agreement is materially diff erent from other ordinary contracts, the reason being that breach of obligations under ordinary contracts cannot (in general) be specifi cally enforced and breach of them results only in damages, but an arbitration agreement can be specifi cally enforced by the machinery of the arbitration Acts. Lord Macmillan concluded that repudiation or breach of a contract does not extinguish the arbitration agreement, because it survives for the purpose of resolving the outstanding claims arising out of the breach: “I am, accordingly, of the opinion that what is commonly called repudiation or total breach of a contract, whether acquiesced in by the other party or not, does not abrogate the contract, though it may 90 of 7 October 1933, Tobler v. Justizkommission des Kantons Schwyz, DFT 59 | 177 (1933) 91 Gary Born (n 62) 377 92 [1942] AC 356 114 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. relieve the injured party of the duty of further fulfi lling the obligations which he has by the contract undertaken to the repudiating party. The contract is not put out of existence, though all further performance of the obligations undertaken by each party in favour of the other may cease. It survives for the purpose of measuring the claims arising out of the breach, and the arbitration clause survives for determining the mode of their settlement. The purposes of the contract have failed, but the arbitration clause is not one of the purposes of the contract.” 96. In subsequent decisions, the English courts reiterated the separability presumption.