However, the members of the Constituent Assembly discussed the import of the phrase D “all the then members” occurring in other provisions of the Constitution. Dr. BR Ambedkar clarified that the phrase “all the then members” has been used to indicate all members who are members of Parliament and whose seats are not vacant, and it does not mean members sitting or E present and voting. This Court appears not to have noticed the entirety of the discussion in the Constituent Assembly regarding the phrase “all the then members” while using the Constituent Assembly Debates as an internal aid of interpretation; F c. Article 181 of the Constitution provides that the Speaker shall not preside over a sitting of the Legislative Assembly while a resolution for their removal is under consideration./ It appears that the majority in Nabam Rebia (supra) did not consider the effect and import of Article 181, and whether the Constitution envisages the imposition of any G restriction on the functions of the Speaker beyond the limited restriction imposed by Article 181; d. The second proviso to Article 179 provides that whenever the Assembly is dissolved, the Speaker shall not vacate their office until immediately before the first meeting of the H SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 909 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] Assembly after the dissolution. This Court did not consider A if the Constitution envisages a restriction on the continuous performance of the functions of the Speaker under the Tenth Schedule in view of this provision; e. Rule 11 of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly Rules stipulates that upon the expiry of the period of fourteen B days provided under the proviso to Article 178, leave is granted to move the motion only when twenty-nine members vote in favour of it. This Court did not consider the possibility that a notice of intention to move a resolution for the removal of the Speaker may not culminate in such a motion being C moved. The Speaker may be effectively barred from adjudicating disqualification petitions based on the mere issuance of a notice of intention to move a resolution by one member of the House; f. It appears that the following aspects were not considered D in Nabam Rebia (supra): i. Whether the temporary disablement of the functions of the Speaker under the Tenth Schedule is prone to misuse by MLAs who anticipate that disqualification petitions will be instituted against them or by MLAs E against whom disqualification petitions have already been instituted; and ii. Whether a “constitutional hiatus” in the operation of the Tenth Schedule ensues because of the temporary disablement of the Speaker. F 71. To give quietus to the issue, we refer the following question (and any allied issues which may arise) to a larger Bench: whether the issuance of a notice of intention to move a resolution for the removal of the Speaker restrains them from adjudicating disqualification petitions under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution. The matter may be placed before the Chief Justice for appropriate s. We accordingly answer G the question referred to us as noted in Paragraph 32(a) of this .