THE STATE OF TELANGANA & ORS. v. M/S TIRUMALA 179 CONSTRUCTIONS [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] V. Analysis and reasoning 70. In the Telangana batch of cases, the facts are that the amendment to the State VAT Act was confi ned to two provisions which are Sections 21 and 32. Their eff ect was to prolong or extend the period of limitation to issue notice of reassessment and reopen cases as well as extend the period of limitation for deciding pending revisions and proceedings. These were subjected to a time limit of four years in the existing law. By virtue of the amendment, these were enlarged by a further period of two years (i.e., to six years). This became the subject matter of challenge before the Telangana High Court which culminated in the impugned . 71. So far as the Gujarat set of cases is concerned, the facts are that the Gujarat VAT Act came into force on 01.07.2017. After that date, the Gujarat legislature repealed the State VAT Act. The High Court had set aside an assessment, based on an interpretation of the existing VAT Act, much before 16.9.2016. The Gujarat Legislature amended the VAT Act (after its repeal) by introducing a new provision, Section 84A, which was given retrospective eff ect. The eff ect of this amendment was to exclude the period spent during the pendency of any appeal or revision before the appellate authority or High Court, for the purpose of revision or reopening which in the interest of the revenue, was necessary to reopen. These became the subject matter of challenge on diverse grounds before the High Court. The High Court, by its elaborate and reasoned , held the amendment to be unconstitutional on the ground that the legislature lacked competence to enact the provision having regard to Section 19 of the 101st amendment and furthermore that the amended provision was manifestly arbitrary. In the Maharashtra batch of matters, subject matter of the proceedings was MVAT and amendments made to it. MVAT came into force on 01.03.2005 to consolidate laws regarding the collection of tax in sales and purchase of goods. 101st CAA came into eff ect in 16.09.2016 and by the CAA, the power of the state government to levy tax on sales and purchase of goods under Entry 54 of List II was sought to be restricted only with respect to the 6 goods mentioned therein. The state government amended Section 26 of the MVAT Act and inserted sections 6A, 6B and 6C requiring assessee to deposit 10% of the disputed tax amount, failing which the appeal of the concerned assessee will be dismissed. HC upheld the amendment made to 180 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. the MVAT Act requiring assessee’s to deposit 10% of the disputed amount before fi ling the appeal A. Interpretation of Section 19 72. The petitioners contended that the language of Section 19 of the Amendment Act does not attach itself to the body of the Constitution unlike the other provisions.