Paragraph 3 of the Uplinking Guidelines (and paragraph 2 of the Downlinking Guidelines) prescribe the eligibility criteria for uplinking and downlinking a news and current affairs TV channel. Paragraph 9 of the Uplinking Guidelines (and Paragraph 8 of the Downlinking Guidelines) prescribe B the “procedure for grant of permission of channels”. The provision is extracted below: “9. PROCEDURE FOR GRANT OF PERMISSION OF CHANNELS 9.1. The applicant company can apply to the Secretary, Ministry C of Information & Broadcasting, in triplicate, in the prescribed format “Form 1” along with all requisite documents including a demand draft for an amount equal to processing fee wherever prescribed, payable at par at New Delhi, in favour of the Pay & Accounts Officer, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Shastri D Bhawan, New Delhi. 9.2. On the basis of information furnished in the application form, if the applicant is found eligible, its application will be sent for security clearance to the Ministry of Home Affairs and for clearance of satellite use to the Department of Space (wherever E required). […]” (emphasis supplied) 28. Paragraph 9.2 stipulates that an application which is found to be eligible would be sent to MHA for security clearance. Paragraphs 3 F and 9 indicate that upon the receipt of the application form, MIB will undertake an exercise to determine if the conditions of eligibility prescribed in Paragraphs 2 and 3 are fulfilled. If the conditions are fulfilled, the application is sent to MHA for security clearance. Thus, Paragraph 9.2 prescribes a condition in addition to those stipulated in Paragraphs 2 G and 3 of the Uplinking guidelines. 29. The heading of Paragraph 9,namely, “procedure for obtaining permission,’ does not detract from the prescription of a substantive condition. Paragraph 10.4 excludes the eligibility criteria of net worth of the company and managerial experience from the consideration of the H 630 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A renewal application. All other conditions prescribed by the guidelines for permission are applicable for renewal of permission. The requirement of security clearance arises at a stage subsequent to the fulfilment of conditions prescribed under Paragraphs 2 and 3. If the preliminary conditions prescribed are applicable at the time of renewal, there is no reason to exclude the application of the requirement of the security B clearance for renewal of permission. 30. Further, Paragraph 10. 4 of the Uplinking Guidelines stipulates that the conditions ‘as modified by the permission letter’ are applicable at the time of renewal of the license. The annexure to the ‘permission letter’ does not specify any condition modifying or eliminating the condition C of security clearance. Rather, the annexure provides that the licence shall be revoked on grounds of ‘public and national security’. Though in view of Paragraph 10 of the Uplinking Guidelines, the licensee does not have a vested interest for renewal of the permission, the grounds for denying a renewal of license cannot be materially different from the D grounds for revoking the licence. This is because both non-renewal of license and revocationof license are restrictions on the right to freedom of press.