Section 10 requires the State Government to place before the Advisory Board the detention and the grounds on which such may have been made along with the representation made by the detenu as well as the report of the offi cers made under Section 3(3) of the Act within three weeks from the date of detention. Under Section 11 the Advisory Board is required to consider the materials placed 556 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. before it and after hearing the detenu, to submit its report to the State Government within seven weeks from the date of detention of the person concerned. In a case where the Advisory Board forms opinion, that there was no suffi cient cause for the detention the State Government shall revoke the detention but if in its opinion suffi cient cause was made out, the State Government may confi rm the detention and continue the detention of the person concerned for such period not exceeding the maximum period as specifi ed in Section 13 of the Act. Section 13 provides the maximum period for which a person can be detained in pursuance of any detention made and confi rmed under the Act. According to this provision the maximum period of detention shall be twelve months from the date of detention. The State Government has, however, power to revoke detention at any time it may think proper. 10. Provisions of the aforesaid sections are inbuilt safeguards against the delays that may be caused in considering the representation. If the time frame, as prescribed in the aforesaid provisions is not adhered to, the detention is liable to be struck down and the detenu is entitled to freedom. Once the of detention is confi rmed by the State Government, maximum period for which a detenu shall be detained cannot exceed 12 months from the date of detention. The Act nowhere requires the detaining authority to specify the period for which the detenu is required to be detained. The expression “the State Government are satisfi ed that it is necessary so to do, they may, by in writing direct that during such period as may be specifi ed in the ” occurring in sub-section (2) of Section 3 relates to the period for which the of delegation issued by the State Government is to remain in force and it has no relevance to the period of detention. The legislature has taken care to entrust the power of detention to the State Government; as the detention without trial is a serious encroachment on the fundamental right of a citizen, it has taken further care to avoid a blanket delegation of power, to subordinate authorities for an indefi nite period by providing that the delegation in the initial instance will not exceed a period of three months and it shall be specifi ed in the of delegation. But if the PESALA NOOKARAJU v. THE GOVERNMENT OF 557 ANDHRA PRADESH & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] State Government on consideration of the situation fi nds it necessary, it may again delegate the power of detention to the aforesaid authorities from time to time but at no time the delegation shall be for a period of more than three months.