A a private limited company. The same notwithstanding, as held by this Court in Dale & Carrington Invt. (P) Ltd. (supra), the conduct of the Directors is to be judged on a higher yardstick. The question would, in the ultimate analysis, trickle down to, whether the Directors acted in the best interest of the Company or were they motivated to consolidate their power in the Company or maintain the power in the Company. Did the B Directors act bonafide in that, when a decision was taken to increase the Authorised Share Capital, they were driven by the intention to side- line the other stakeholders in the Company? 33. The fact that the Directors may also benefit from a decision taken primarily with the intention to promote the interest of the Company, C cannot vitiate the decision. In other words, if in the implementation of the decision taken primarily with a view to safeguard the interest of the Company, the appellants have made a gain, it cannot by itself render the decision vulnerable. 34. An observation is found in the impugned that wife of D the first appellant had 20 shares and she has been allotted 96000 shares. At first blush, this leads to suspicion and even shock. However, let us examine what exactly happened. The Board of Directors took a decision to increase the Authorised Share Capital from Rs.1 crore to Rs.2 crores, following the advice given by the Bank of Baroda. This was a perfectly justified decision, being the need of the hour. Since, the Authorised Share E Capital is part of the Memorandum of Association of the Company, an increase in the same would be permissible only after it is endorsed in a meeting of the shareholders. Such a meeting was convened on 27.01.2010. It is true that even prior to such a meeting, the Board of Directors had resolved to invite applications from shareholders. The form F of application has been produced before us, which we have extracted. The shareholder could, in terms of the form, do four things: i. Since the Board had resolved to allot shares in a ratio of 1:1, the shareholder could apply for one share for every one share held by him; G ii. The application form further contemplated that the shareholder could indicate that he wished to apply for lesser number of shares than he was entitled to; iii. A shareholder could apply for more number of shares than he was entitled to; H HASMUKHLAL MADHAVLAL PATEL v. AMBIKA FOOD 269 PRODUCTS PVT. LTD. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] iv. Lastly, he could express his disinclination to apply for any A shares. 35. It is in the backdrop of this form that we must continue with the narrative. The shareholders from the V.P. Patel Group and the Sheth Group, admittedly, did not apply seizing the opportunity given to them. They did not participate in the Extraordinary General Body Meeting B held on 27.01.2010 by which the Authorised Capital was increased. Though there is some controversy sought to be raised that the shareholders were not sent any intimation by way of reminder of their right to apply for the shares, we are inclined to hold that the communication was indeed sent in keeping with the decision taken by the Board of C Directors, following the Extraordinary General Body Meeting held on 27.01.2010.