Interestingly, the index or cover page to the complaint was made part of the additional written submissions of the developer dated 12th February 2018 (before the NCLAT). This index to the pleadings in the complaint did not refer to the Pay . It cannot be for a moment disputed that the complainant was perhaps under a belief that filing such B an original Pay established that she was not interested in receiving refund, but was interested only to secure possession of the flat. Nevertheless, it was necessary for her to apply through counsel for an appropriate to ensure that the amount was deposited in an interest-bearing account. That step unfortunately was not taken – C perhaps she was not advised to do so. It was only when for the first time when this was highlighted in the previous proceedings on 29th April 2016, that the developer sought and obtained permission to apply to the COMPAT for revalidation. The facilitating that step was made on 18th May 2016, and eventually the Pay was revalidated on 22nd June 2016. D 27. From the impugned , it is evident that the Tribunal accepted the explanation of Citibank that since the Pay in question had become stale, its proceeds / funds were moved to its ‘Unclaimed Sundry Account’, and did not attract any interest in terms of the RBI directions. The bank had also deposed that the Pay was cancelled on the E request of the developer through its letter dated 26th May 2016 and that the funds were credited back to the account of the developer on 16th June 2016. It was further noticed that the amount for issuing the Pay was deducted from the current account of the developer. After noticing these facts, the Tribunal appears to have been swayed by the F circumstance that the developer was held liable for unfair trade practice, and directed to pay compensation (in terms of the previous s of the COMPAT) affirmed by this court, i.e., 15% compound interest on ` 4,53,750/-. 28.In the opinion of this court, the impugned has not rested G its findings on any principle of law, much less any statutory provision. The Tribunal appears to have been completely swayed by the complainant’s plight. In doing so, it did not give due consideration to the fact that ` 4,53,750/- was debited from the account of the developer. The complainant, for reasons best known to her, filed the original Pay due to perhaps lack of proper advice or instruction. Apparently, H K. L. SUNEJA & ANR. v. DR. (MRS.) MANJEET KAUR 1093 MONGA (D) THROUGH HER LR [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] no contemporaneously was sought from the MRTP Commission, A which would have protected the interests of the complainant with respect to the money received even while ensuring that her contentions on the merits with respect to entitlement towards the flat were preserved. Many avenues / alternatives were available. Firstly, the complainant could have sought for a deposit of the proceeds of the Pay in an account, B to be maintained by the Registrar of the Commission.