On the same analogy, if the Generator is required to obtain the fuel/ H 100 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A coal at a higher price then he/it cannot be heard to say that he/it should be compensated for the same. (x) It is submitted that, as a matter of fact, till 31st July 2013 i.e. when the NCDP 2013 was brought into effect, there could have been no claims from the Generators for increase in B tariff to be allowed for higher coal cost on account of imported coal supply. It is submitted that if the NCDP 2013 had not brought about a Change in Law, the position as prevalent before would have continued. It is submitted that this Court has consistently held that an unprecedented increase in input cost cannot be a ground for a supplier not C to perform the obligations under a binding contract or seek higher price or compensation for such performance. (xi) It is the submission of the DISCOMS that the benefit on account of the Change in Law brought into effect by the NCDP 2013 has to be restricted only to the extent of shortfall D as provided by the said policy. It is submitted that if it was the intention of the NCDP 2013 to provide for relief through the Change in Law/policy decision for the shortfall even below the specified percentages i.e. for entire shortfall on actual basis, then there was no rationale in specifying the E percentages in the NCDP 2013. (xii) It is further contended by the DISCOMS that the contention of the Generating Companies that Shakti Policy 2017 was a continuation of NCDP 2013 is incorrect. It is submitted that the first part under (A) of the Shakti Policy 2017 deals with the old regime of LoA/FSA which is the NCDP aspect. F The second part under (B) deals with the new transparent coal allocation policy called SHAKTI. It is submitted that, as a matter of fact, SHAKTI and allocation of coal thereunder was admissible only to Entities which did not have any LoA/FSA under the NCDP 2007 or the NCDP G 2013. Reliance in this respect has been placed on the of this Court in the case of Jaipur Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Ltd. and others v. Adani Power Rajasthan Limited and another2 (hereinafter referred to as “Adani Rajasthan case”) H 2 2020 SCC Online SC 697 MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 101 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] (xiii) It is submitted that the law laid down by this Court in the A case of Energy Watchdog (supra) has been applied by the learned APTEL in a patently erroneous and perverse manner. (xiv) It is submitted that the total quantum of coal required is to be computed not in an abstract manner but is to be B necessarily based on the SHR of the power station. It is submitted that the SHR has nothing to do with coal quality or GCV of coal.