D 17.1 Having observed so, it is necessary to examine the proposal to carry out demonetisation, in the present case, which originated from the Central Government. For this purpose, reference may be had to the recitals of the affidavits filed by the Union of India and the Bank, and to the extent E permissible, to the records submitted by the Union of India and the Bank in a sealed cover. 17.2 I have perused the following photocopies of the original records submitted on behalf of the Union of India and the Reserve Bank of India: F i) Letter by the Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, dated 7th November, 2016, bearing F. No. 10.03/2016 Cy.I, addressed to the Governor of the Bank; ii) Draft Memorandum of the Deputy Governor of the Bank, placed before the Central Board of the Bank G at its 561st Meeting; iii) Minutes of the 561st Meeting of the Central Board of the Bank, convened at New Delhi, on 8th November, 2016, at 05:30 p.m., and signed on 15th November, 2016; H 212 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A iv) Letter addressed by the Deputy Governor of the Bank to the Central Government on 8th November, 2016. 17.3 On a reading of the records listed hereinabove, the following facts emerge: 1) A letter bearing F. No. 10.03/2016 Cy.I dated 7th B November, 2016 was addressed by the Secretary, Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs, Government of India, to the Governor of the Bank, referring to certain facts and figures to indicate the following two major threats to the security and financial integrity of the country: C i) Fake Infusion of Currency Notes (FICN); ii) Generation of black money in the Indian economy. The desire of the Central Government to proceed with the measure of demonetisation was expressed in the D said letter and a request was made to the Bank to consider recommending the such measure, in terms of the relevant clauses of the Act. 2) Further, the Draft Memorandum of the Deputy Governor of the Bank, placed before the Central E Board of the Bank, categorically states that the need for a meeting to deliberate on the proposed measure of demonetisation, had arisen pursuant to the letter addressed to the Bank from the Central Government dated 7th November, 2016. The Draft Memorandum F further records that the Government had “recommended” that the withdrawal of the tender character of existing Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/- notes, is apposite. Further, the said document records that “as G desired” by the Central Government, a draft scheme for implementation of the scheme of demonetisation had also been enclosed. 3) In view of the contents of the Draft Memorandum, the Central Board of the Bank in its 561st Meeting commended the Central Government’s proposal for H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 213 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] demonetisation and directed that the same be A forwarded to the Central Government. 4) Accordingly, a letter was addressed by the Deputy Governor of the Bank to the Central Government on 8th November, 2016, stating therein that the proposal of the Central Government pertaining to withdrawal B of legal tender of bank notes of denominational values of Rs.