[2023] 15 S.C.R. 421 : 2023 INSC 910 CASE DETAILS COMMISSIONER, CUSTOMS CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, PATNA v. M/S SHAPOORJI PALLONJI AND COMPANY PVT. LTD. & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 3991 of 2023 Etc.) OCTOBER 13, 2023 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT AND DIPANKAR DATTA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether the educational institutions-Indian Institute of Technology, Patna and the National Institute of Technology, Rourkela are covered by the defi nition of “governmental authority” in Mega Service Tax Exemption Notifi cation inter alia exempting various services from the tax network rendered to government, governmental, or local authorities. Tax/Taxation – Service tax – Exemption from – Eligibility – Educational institutions-IIT Patna and NIT Rourkela if covered by the defi nition of ‘Government authority’ in Mega Service Tax Exemption Notifi cation No. 25/2012, G.S.R 467(E) dated 20th June, 2012, exempting various service from service tax: Held: Educational institutions-IIT Patna and NIT Rourkela fall under the amended defi nition of ‘Government authority’ under clause 2(s) and are eligible for the benefi t in the Exemption Notifi cation to the educational institutions and exempted from service tax – Amended definition of ‘government authority’ in clause 2(s) by way of Clarifi cation Notifi cation, has widened the exemption base for service tax to be provided even to an authority or a board or any other body, set up by an Act of Parliament or a State Legislature without the condition of having been established with 90% or more participation by way of equity or control by Government to carry out any function entrusted to a municipality u/Art. 243W – Clarifi cation Notifi cation introduced an amended version of clause 2(s), which re-defi ned 421 422 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. “governmental authority” with a purpose to make the clause workable in contra-distinction to the earlier defi nition – Decisions of the Patna High Court and the Orissa High Court rightly extending the benefi t of the Exemption Notifi cation to the educational institutions, and a fortiori, to SPCL, is upheld – Thus, the impugned s and s are upheld – Constitution of India – Art. 243W. [Paras 30, 34] Circular/Government /Notifi cation – Mega Service Tax Exemption Notifi cation – Clause 2(s)(as amended by clarifi cation Notifi cation), defi ning ‘Government Authority’ – Interpretation of word ‘or’ employed in clause 2(s): Held: Word “or” employed in clause 2(s) manifests the legislative intent of prescribing an alternative – Going by the golden rule of interpretation that words should be read in their ordinary, natural, and grammatical meaning, the word “or” in clause 2(s) clearly appears to have been used to refl ect the ordinary and normal sense, that is to denote an alternative, giving a choice; and, a diff erent meaning cannot be assigned unless it leads to vagueness or makes clause 2(s) absolutely unworkable – Word “or” between sub-clauses (i) and (ii) indicates the independent and disjunctive nature of sub-clause (i), meaning thereby that “or” used after sub-clause (i) cannot be interpreted as “and” so as to tie it with the condition enumerated in the long line of clause 2(s) which is applicable only to sub-clause (ii) – Literally read, the conjunction ‘or’ between sub-clauses (i) and (ii) clearly divides the two clauses in two parts with the fi rst part completely independent of the second part – First part is by itself complete and capable of operating independently – While the Clarifi cation Notifi cation introduced an amended version of clause 2(s), “governmental authority” was re-defi ned with a purpose to make the clause workable in contra-distinction to the earlier defi nition – Thus, this Court cannot overstep and interpret “or” as “and” so as to allow the alternative outlined in clause 2(s) to vanish – There exists no ambiguity insofar as the interpretation of clause 2(s) is concerned – Notifi cation No.