B IV 22. Mr. Pallav Sisodia, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the State of Kerala, urged that the correct test to be applied is whether the product is capable of use as a medication. He relied on Collector C of Central Excise v CIENS Laboratories19 (hereafter “CIENS Laboratories”) to say that this court had elaborately considered all relevant factors, and devised the following test: “19. Thus, the following guiding principles emerge from the above discussion. Firstly, when a product contains pharmaceutical ingredients that have therapeutic or D prophylactic or curative properties, the proportion of such ingredients is not invariably decisive. What is of importance is the curative attributes of such ingredients that render the product a medicament and not a cosmetic. Secondly, though a product is sold without a prescription of a medical E practitioner, it does not lead to the immediate conclusion that all products that are sold over across the counter are cosmetics. There are several products that are sold over-the- counter and are yet, medicaments. Thirdly, prior to adjudicating upon whether a product is a medicament or not, Courts have to see what the people who actually use the F product understand the product to be. If a product’s primary function is “care” and not “cure”, it is not a medicament. Cosmetic products are used in enhancing or improving a person’s appearance or beauty, whereas medicinal products are used to treat or cure some medical condition. A product G that is used mainly in curing or treating ailments or diseases and contains curative ingredients even in small quantities, is to be branded as a medicament.” 17 1998 (Suppl)(2) SCR 119 181988 (Suppl)(3) SCR 933 H 19 2013 (14) SCR 38 HEINZ INDIA LIMITED v. THE STATE OF KERALA 441 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 23. It was submitted that the expression “medicated” has great A significance, because it implies that a substance is filled with, or covered in medicine, or medication. Learned counsel relied on the of this court, in Union of India (UOI) &Ors v Leukoplast Private Limited &Ors20 where the assessee’s contention that a surgical pad medicated with Nitrofurozone was not a patent or proprietary medicine, was B rejected. The court noted that the addition of a small quantity of Nitrofurozone after rendering the pad sterile, made it a medicine. 24. It was submitted that the intention of the legislature was to ensure that the article fell within the cosmetic class of products while classifying it. Therefore, the expression “medicated” was used, in C conjunction with “talcum powder”. When consciously the law classified the goods and grouped them together as part of one entry, the court has to give effect to their plain intendment. Thus, the inclusion of “talcum powder” and “medicated talcum powder” under the same entry, i.e. Entry 127 was by design, to ensure that the product was not classified elsewhere. It was submitted that mere use of “powder” or “talcum D powder” would not have covered Nycil powder as a cosmetic, because it had certain ingredients that could be preventive and curative.