[2023] 12 S.C.R. 1 : 2023 INSC 810 CASE DETAILS NHPC LTD. V. STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH SECRETARY & ORS. (Civil Appeal No.3948 of 2009) SEPTEMBER 06, 2023 [B. V. NAGARATHNA AND UJJAL BHUYAN, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issues for consideration: (i)Whether, by enacting the Himachal Pradesh Passengers and Goods (Amendment and Validation) Act of 1997, the Himachal Pradesh State Legislature had validly removed the basis of the of the Division Bench of the High Court dated 27.03.1997, whereby the Himachal Pradesh Passengers and Goods Taxation Act, 1955 had been held not to include within its scope the activity of the appellants of providing gratis transport facilities for their employees and their children. (ii) Whether the activity of the appellants of providing gratis transport facilities for their employees and their children, would now be a taxable activity under Section 3(1-A) of the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997. Himachal Pradesh Passengers and Goods Taxation Act, 1955 – Himachal Pradesh Passengers and Goods (Amendment and Validation) Act of 1997 – Validity of the Amendment and Validation Act, 1997 and taxability of transport facility provided by the appellant for their employees and children: Held: By enacting the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997, the Himachal Pradesh State Legislature has validly removed the basis of the of the Division Bench of the High Court dated 27.03.1997, inter-alia, by amending the defi nition of the term ‘business’; defi ning the terms ‘fare’, ‘freight’ and ‘road’; deleting the Explanation to Section 3(1); and inserting Section 3(1A) which brought non-fare paying passengers at par with fare-paying passengers for the purpose of levying tax under the Act – Thus, the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997 is a valid piece of Legislation – The activity of the appellant in providing gratis transportation 1 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. to its employees, and their children, would be a taxable activity under Section 3(1-A) of the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997. [Para 23(ii), (iii)] Himachal Pradesh Passengers and Goods Taxation Act, 1955 – Himachal Pradesh Passengers and Goods (Amendment and Validation) Act of 1997 – The Division Bench of the High Court passed a dated 27.03.1997 and pointed out lacunae in the Act of 1955 – By way of the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997, amendments were brought about to the Preamble and various provisions of the Act of 1955 with retrospective eff ect, viz. date of enforcement of the Act of 1955 – When a competent legislature retrospectively removes the substratum or foundation of a to make it ineff ective – Valid legislative exercise or not: Held: A legislature cannot directly set aside a judicial decision – However, when a competent legislature retrospectively removes the substratum or foundation of a to make the decision ineff ective, the same is a valid legislative exercise provided it does not transgress on any other constitutional limitation – Such a legislative device which removes the vice in the previous legislation which has been declared unconstitutional is not considered to be an encroachment on judicial power but an instance of abrogation recognised under the Constitution of India – The various decisions of the Supreme Court show that it is open to the legislature to alter the law retrospectively, provided the alteration is made in such a manner that it would no more be possible for the Court to arrive at the same verdict – In other words, the very premise of the earlier should be removed, thereby resulting in a fundamental change of the circumstances upon which it was founded – It would be permissible for the legislature to remove a defect in an earlier legislation, as pointed out by a constitutional court in exercise of its powers by way of judicial review – This defect can be removed both prospectively and retrospectively by a legislative process and previous actions can also be validated.