Moving forward, and proceeding on the basis that a person is a citizen and is not less than eighteen years on the relevant date and is not disqualified in terms of what we have indicated just herein before, viz., under any of the grounds indicated D as ‘a’ to ‘e’, then Article 326 declares that such person shall be entitled to be registered as a voter at any such election. The words ‘any such election’ would mean elections either to the House of the People or the House of the Legislative Assembly. We again reiterate that all conditions being present, as we have referred to with E reference to Article 326, the person becomes entitled to be registered as a voter. 113. Accordingly, it is that Parliament enacted in 1950, The Representation of Peoples Act, 1950 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the 1950 Act’). Part III provides for electoral rolls for Assembly F Constituencies. Section 14(b), as substituted w.e.f. 01.03.1956, defines ‘qualifying date’: “”Qualifying date”, in relation to the preparation or revision of every electoral roll under this Part, means the 1st day of January of the year in which it is so prepared or revised:” G 114. We are omitting reference to the proviso as it related only to the year 1989. Section 15 of the 1950 Act declares that for every constituency, there must be an electoral roll prepared under the said Act under the supervision, direction and control of the Election. Section 16 provides as follows: H 112 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A “16. Disqualifications for registration in an electoral roll.—(1) A person shall be disqualified for registration in an electoral roll if he— (a) is not a citizen of India; or (b) is of unsound mind and stands so declared by a competent B court; or (c) is for the time being disqualified from voting underthe provisions of any law relating to corrupt practices and other offences in connection with elections. (2) The name of any person who becomes so disqualifiedafter C registration shall forthwith be struck off the electoral roll in which it is included: Provided that the name of any person struck off the electoral roll of a constituency by reason of a disqualification under clause (c) of sub-section (1) shall forthwith be re-instated in that roll if D suchdisqualification is, during the period such roll is in force, removed under any law authorising such removal.” 115. With effect from 30.12.1958, Section 19 of the 1950 Act reads as follows: E “19. Conditions of registration. — Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Part, every person who — (a) is not less than eighteen years of age on the qualifying date, and (b) is ordinarily resident in a constituency, F shall be entitled to be registered in the electoral roll for that constituency.” 116. It will be clear, therefore, that the requirement of minimum age of eighteen years, as provided in Article 326, is to be determined with reference to such date, as may be fixed by or under any law, is to G be understood as the qualifying date and it is to be understood as the 1st day of January of the year, in which the electoral roll is prepared or revised.