A law of contempt is not made for the protection of Judges who may be sensitive to the winds of public opinion. Judges are supposed to be men of fortitude, able to thrive in a hardy climate.” [Douglas, J., Craig v. Harney, 1947 SCC OnLine US SC 79, para 14 : 91 L Ed 1546 : 331 US 367 at p. 376 (1947)]] but to inspire confidence in the sanctity and efficacy of the judiciary [ “… The object of the B discipline enforced by the Court in case of contempt of court is not to vindicate the dignity of the court or the person of the Judge, but to prevent undue interference with the administration of justice.” [Bowen, L.J. — Helmore v. Smith (2), (1886) 35 Ch D 449 at p. 455 (CA)]] , though they do not and should not flow C from the power to punish for contempt. They should rest on more surer foundations. The foundations are—the trust and confidence of the people that the judiciary is fearless and impartial.” 15. Krishna Iyer J. speaking for himself and Bhagwati J. in Baradakanta Mishra v. Registrar Orissa High Court7 (Constitution D Bench), observed- “65. … we would like to underscore the need to draw the lines clear enough to create confidence in the people that this ancient and inherent power, intended to preserve the faith of the public in public justice, will not be so used as to provoke public hostility as overtook the Star Chamber. A vague and wandering jurisdiction E with uncertain frontiers, a sensitive and suspect power to punish vested in the prosecutor, a law which makes it a crime to publish regardless of truth and public good and permits a process of brevi manu conviction, may unwittingly trench upon civil liberties and so the special jurisdiction and jurisprudence bearing on contempt F power must be delineated with deliberation and operated with serious circumspection by the higher judicial echelons. So it is that as the palladium of our freedoms, the Supreme Court and the High Courts, must vigilantly protect free speech even against judicial umbrage — a delicate but sacred duty whose discharge demands tolerance and detachment of a high .” G 16. In W.B. Administrative Tribunal v. SK. Monobbor Hossain8, (two-Judge Bench) has observed that the tenor of the dicta of this Court on the topic (contempt) is crystal clear. The Court has time 7 (1974) 1 SCC 374 H 8 (2012) 11 SCC 761 GOSTHO BEHARI DAS v. DIPAK KUMAR SANYAL & ORS. 1181 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] and again asserted that the contempt jurisdiction enjoyed by the Courts A is only for the purpose of upholding the majority of the judicial system that exists. While exercising this power, the Courts must not be hypersensitive or swung by emotions but must act judiciously. The principle of sparing use stood reiterated in Prashant Bhushan, In re9 On the aspect of Punishment under a specified statute B 17. A Bench of seven judges in Bar Council of Maharashtra v. M.V Dabholkar10 had observed as follows, in respect of the role of Bar Councils and the powers of disciplinary action vested within them, as under- C “24.