It does not require much elaboration to say that as regards prayer for eviction on the ground of bona fide requirement, the intention of legislature has specifically been to provide for a distinct and special procedure and in that regard, no appeal or second appeal is envisaged against the made by the Rent Controller in accordance with the H KUSUM LATA SHARMA v. ARVIND SINGH 509 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] procedure specified in Section 25-B of the Act of 1958. Only in terms of A the proviso to Section 25-B(8), a limited window is allowed to the extent that the High Court may call for the record, for the purpose of satisfying itself that the had been passed in accordance with law. It is but clear that under the said provision, pure finding of fact is not open for interference unless such a finding is given on a wrong premise of law. B 16. Having examined the present matters in totality, we are constrained to observe that the High Court has gone far beyond the limited scope of revision in terms of Section 25-B(8) of the Act of 1958. A bare look at the consideration of the High Court in the s impugned makes it clear that the so-called want of clear description of the suit C premises as also the identification and extent of the property available with the family has formed the principal consideration of the High Court. The High Court has examined the copy of site plan filed with the eviction petition and its caption describing it as Property No.C-586 with no reference to Property No.C-587. The High Court has noticed that when being cross-examined in relation to the availability of accommodation D with the wife of her brother-in-law, the appellant stated that Plot Nos.586 and 587 were joined together for raising construction of one building. Such evidence and the related arguments were found unacceptable by the High Court for being not based on pleadings. With respect, we are unable to endorse the approach of the High Court. E 17. A comprehensive look at the pleadings taken by the appellant along with the site-plan attached to the petition makes it evident that the appellant gave out a detailed description of the extent of accommodation available in the suit property as also the accommodation presently in her occupation and the nature and extent of her requirement. In the pleadings, F it was indeed specified that the appellant was residing on the property bearing No. “C-586/587”. The pleadings taken by the appellant in paragraph 18(a)(ii) of her petition, of course, begin with the expression “as stated above” and there had not been any earlier mention of property bearing No. “C-586/587” but, there had been detailed description in the preceding paragraphs and the site plan was also attached to the petition. G The appellant further made the position clear in her cross-examination that the building in question was constructed on Plot Nos.586 and 587 jointly and she and her sister-in-law were residing in the same building as one family.