Even in the societal mainstream, there are a signifi cant number of people who see nothing wrong in engaging in premarital sex. Notions of social morality are inherently subjective and the criminal law cannot be used as a means to unduly interfere with the domain of personal autonomy. Morality and criminality are not coextensive.” (Emphasis supplied) 27. The essence of a woman’s fundamental right to equality and privacy, regarding private matters of bodily and psychological integrity is the ability to make autonomous decisions about her own body and reproductive choices. It is entirely within the realm of privacy of a woman to decide whether or not to bear a child or abort her pregnancy (within the framework of law). 28. This Court in Suchita Srivastava v. Chandigarh Admn.11, observed that the statutory right of a woman to consent or not, to a termination of pregnancy in accordance with the Medical Termination of 8 (2018) 7 SCC 192 (3-Judge Bench) 9 (2018) 16 SCC 368 (3-Judge Bench) 10 (2010) 5 SCC 600(3-Judge Bench) 11 (2009) 9 SCC 1 (3-Judge Bench) INDRAKUNWAR v. THE STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 971 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] Pregnancy Act, 1971 is deduced from a woman’s right to privacy, dignity and bodily integrity. 29. In X v. The Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, Government of NCT of Delhi and Ors.12, this Court observed that the right of a woman to become pregnant is not married to her marital status. It is a choice irrespective thereof. In case the pregnancy is warranted, it is equally shared by both partners. However, in case of an unwanted or incidental pregnancy, the burden invariably falls on the pregnant woman aff ecting her mental and physical health. It was held that it is the woman’s decision alone to undergo medical termination of pregnancy particularly when it is her mental or physical health that is in question. 30.. Recently, this Court in XYZ v. The State of Gujarat & Ors.13 in the context of abortion reiterated that the right of every woman to make reproductive decisions, including the decision to terminate the pregnancy, is within her competence and authority. The right of every woman to make reproductive choices without undue interference from the state is central to the idea of human dignity. Deprivation of access to reproductive healthcare or emotional and physical well-being also injures the dignity of women. 31. The above discussion was only to point out that the right to privacy is inviolable. Unfortunately, the view taken and the language adopted by both the Courts below lays to waste such a right inherent in the convict- appellant. It is apparent that the guilt has been placed on her without any solid foundation thereto since no relationship of any nature whatsoever could be established between her and the deceased child discovered in the dabri. The conclusion drawn is simply on the basis that the convict-appellant was a woman living alone and had been pregnant (as admitted in the statement under 313 CrPC).