On perusal of Annexure CA-1 (Exhibit – 11 before trial court) which is a copy of deed of sale dated 03rd September, 1968 executed by the Power of Attorney holder (plaintiff No.2) in favour E of himself, the following facts emerge: (i) That Sri Braja Mohan Dey is the owner of the land in question after getting rayati jote allotment from the government land authorities. (ii) That due to the need for construction of huts and for urgent F family expenditure, the seller Braja Mohan Dey had approached the buyer, that is, Sri Dhirendra Chandra Saha, (plaintiff No.2) to lend some money, as the buyer was the tenant of the said land (suit schedule property) and the buyer agreed to lend the money to the seller. G (iii) In the year 1964, the seller received a loan amount of Rs.10,000/- (ten thousand) from the buyer and constructed huts on the aforesaid land. (iv) The seller had gone to Hatiya of East Pakistan but was unable to return and could not repay the loan amount to the H MANIK MAJUMDER AND OTHERS v. DIPAK KUMAR SAHA 179 (DEAD) THROUGH LRS. & OTHERS [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] buyer therefore, he intended to sell his land and, hence, A through a messenger, informed the buyer about the same as he was in possession of the suit schedule land, as a tenant. The said tenant/buyer agreed to buy the land in lieu of the debt that the seller had to pay. (v) The seller acknowledged this condition that in discharging B the liability of loan of Rs.10,000/- towards the buyer and to provide a registered Sale Deed in favour of the buyer, on 1st August, 1968 executed a Power of Attorney before the 1st Class Magistrate, Komilla, Komilla District, East Pakistan appointing Sri Dhirendra Chandra Saha – plaintiff No.2 as C his attorney i.e. on behalf of the seller to execute a sale deed and transfer the property to the buyer as his Attorney. (vi) That the buyer can obtain mutation against the seller in the Government records by creating a record of right in his name including his legal heirs and the successors without any objection. D 20. In Annexure CA – 2 (Exhibit – 12), which is a copy of the sale deed dated 29th October, 1968 the following recitals are recorded: (i) That the schedule land is in absolute ownership and possession of the owner namely, Sri Dhirendra Chandra E Saha (plaintiff No.2) by virtue of a registered sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968. (ii) That since the original owner, Sri Braja Mohan Dey, could not repay a sum of Rs. 10,000/- (ten thousand) to the seller (Sri Dhirendra Chandra Saha) he executed a Power of F Attorney dated 01st August, 1968 appearing before the 1st Class Magistrate, Komilla Sadar, District Komilla, East Pakistan appointing Sri Dhirendra Chandra Saha (plaintiff No.2) as his legal attorney giving power to sell or transfer himself the property in question the land in question. G (iii) That on the strength of the aforesaid power of attorney dated 03rd September, 1968, plaintiff No.2 sold the said property to himself vide registered deed dated 03rd September, 1968 as a result he became the absolute owner and in possession of the land along with the house standing thereon as a buyer.