Normally, such occasions would not be kept secret or confi dential as an adoption would usually be made with much pomp and celebration. The clandestine manner in which the alleged adoption is stated to have taken place raises a doubt but the same has not been adequately explained. Further, as already noted supra, no evidence was adduced to prove that relations between Venkubayamma and Kaliprasad, her grandson, had fallen out. The document also does not record any reasons as to why Venkubayamma was 23 AIR 1996 P & H 203 668 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. not happy with Kaliprasad, whose marriage she had performed in February 1982, just a few months earlier. 47. Pertinent to note, Pasupuleti Anasuya (PW 1) who was to play a pivotal role as the guardian of the adopted child in the event of Venkubayamma’s death, seems to have been absent at the adoption ceremony and no reason or explanation worth the name has been off ered therefor. She, herself, admitted that she was not present when the actual ‘giving and taking of the child in adoption’ took place and that she is not seen in Exs. A2 to A4 photographs. Signifi cantly, she never stated in clear terms that she was actually present at that time. Her brothers (PWs 2 and 3) also did not vouch for her presence at the adoption. If she was to play such an important role in the adopted child’s life, her absence at the ceremony and in the photographs speaks volumes. 48. PW 4 (the photographer), PW 7 (the purohit) and PW 14 (an identifying witness) were examined in addition to the family members, viz., PWs 2 and 3, to speak of their actually seeing the giving and taking of the child in adoption, but we fi nd that their depositions are also not free from doubt. The photographs allegedly taken at the time of the adoption ceremony, viz., Exs. A2 to A4, are also not convincing. PW 12 and PW 14, who stated that the woman in the photographs was Venkubayamma, conceded that she did not look like a woman aged 70 years. The identifying witness (PW 14) himself stated that the woman in the photographs looked about 45 years old. Two of the tenants of Venkubayamma, viz., DW 2 and DW 3, said that the woman in the photographs was not Venkubayamma. 49. Though the High Court opined that the woman in Exs. A2 to A4 photographs was not Venkubayamma for the reason that Venkubayamma was a woman of advanced age and it was diffi cult to believe that she would have dyed her hair at that age, the same cannot be a deciding factor by itself. However, the issue, presently, is not whether Venkubayamma would have dyed her hair at the age of 70+ years but whether the dark-haired woman in Exs. A2 to A4 photographs was Venkubayamma at all. In this regard, as already noted above, it was not just the color of her hair that raised a question.