Independent Secretariat is H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 79 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] vital to the functioning of the Election Commission as an A independent constitutional authority. In fact, the provision of independent Secretariat to the Election Commission has already been accepted in principle by the Goswami Committee on Electoral Reforms and the Government had, in the Constitution (Seventieth Amendment) Bill, 1990, made a provision also to that effect. That B Bill was, however, withdrawn in 1993 as the Government proposed to bring in a more comprehensive Bill.” (Emphasis supplied) 69. As regards expenses of Election Commission, we find the following complaint and solution: C “13. EXPENSES OF ELECTION COMMISSION TO BE TREATED AS CHARGED The Commission had sent a proposal that the expenditure of the Commission should be charged on the Consolidated Fund of India. The Government had moved in the 10th Lok Sabha “The Election D Commission (Charging of Expenses on the Consolidated Fund of India) Bill, 1994” with the objective of providing for the salaries, allowances and pension payable to the Chief Election Commissioner and other Election Commissioners and the administrative expenses including salaries, allowances and pension E of the staff of the Election Commission to be expenditure charged upon the Consolidated Fund of India. Similar provisions already exist in respect of the Supreme Court, Comptroller & Auditor General and the Union Public Service Commission, which are, like the Election Commission, independent constitutional bodies. To secure its independent functioning the Commission is of the F opinion that the Bill, which lapsed with the dissolution of the 10th Lok Sabha in 1996, needs reconsideration.” 70. The next milestone to be noticed is the Second Administrative Reforms Commission Report made in January, 2007. The Commission consisted of Shri Veerappa Moily, the then Law Minister, as its G Chairperson and five other Members.We find the following in the summary of its recommendations, inter alia. It recommended that the Collegium headed by the Prime Minister, with the Speaker of the Lok Sabha, the leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha, the Law Minister and the Deputy Chairman of the Rajya Sabha, as Members, should make H 80 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A recommendations for consideration of the President for appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioners. In the year 2010, the Ministry of Law and Justice, Government of India, had constituted a Committee on Electoral Reforms. The Report, it made, in the year 2010 indicates the background which led to the constitution of the Committee. Reference is made to various earlier Reports as also B the efforts being made by the Election Commission. It made various recommendations relating to electoral reforms. Under the head ‘measures for Election Commission’, an update on the Election Commission’s recommendations, includes the following: “ C D E F G H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 81 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] 71. In regard to appointment of Chief Election Commissioner and A other Election Commissioners, we notice the following remarks: “ B C (Emphasis supplied)” 72.