That right cannot be extended to being inquisitors of fellow citizens. An inquisitorial , where citizens’ fundamental right to privacy is breached by fellow citizens is destructive of social . The notion of fundamental rights, such as a F right to privacy as part of right to life, is not merely that the State is enjoined from derogating from them. It also includes the responsibility of the State to uphold them against the actions of others in the society, even in the context of exercise of fundamental rights by those G others.” (v) In Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Limited freedom of press and the right to fair trial were the competing rights. In this case, the Constitution Bench was dealing with a question whether an for postponement of publication of the proceedings pending before a Court, would constitute H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 647 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] a restriction under Article 19(1)(a) and as to whether such A restriction is saved under Article 19(2). This question was answered by the Constitution Bench in para 42 as follows: “42. At the outset, we must understand the nature of such s of postponement. Publicity postponement s should be seen in the context of Article 19(1)(a) B not being an absolute right. The US clash model based on collision between freedom of expression (including free press) and the right to a fair trial will not apply to the Indian Constitution. In certain cases, even the accused seeks publicity (not in the pejorative sense) as C openness and transparency is the basis of a fair trial in which all the stakeholders who are a party to a litigation including the Judges are under scrutiny and at the same time people get to know what is going on inside the courtrooms. These aspects come within the scope of Article 19(1) and Article 21. When rights of equal weight D clash, the Courts have to evolve balancing techniques or measures based on recalibration under which both the rights are given equal space in the constitutional scheme and this is what the “postponement ” does, subject to the parameters mentioned hereinafter. But, E what happens when the courts are required to balance important public interests placed side by side. For example, in cases where presumption of open justice has to be balanced with presumption of innocence, which as stated above, is now recognised as a human right. These presumptions existed at the time when the F Constitution was framed [existing law under Article 19(2)] and they continue till date not only as part of rule of law under Article 14 but also as an Article 21 right. The constitutional protection in Article 21 which protects the rights of the person for a fair trial is, in law, a valid G restriction operating on the right to free speech under Article 19(1)(a), by virtue of force of it being a constitutional provision. Given that the postponement s curtail the freedom of expression of third parties, such s have to be passed only in cases in which there is real and substantial risk of prejudice to fairness H 648 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R.