On the other hand, it is an enabling provision permitting the institution or continuation of disciplinary proceedings, if the employee is not put on trial by the prosecution within one year from the commission of the off ence or the prosecution fails to proceed against him for want of any material. 22. As can be culled out from the last sentence of Clause 4, which applies to a case where the criminal case has in fact proceeded, as in this case, for trial. The term “completion of the trial” thereat, must be construed as completion of the trial within a reasonable time-frame. This clause cannot come to the aid of the delinquent employee—who has been named as an accused in a criminal case and more so is party to prolongation of the trial.” 14. Against this backdrop, it is also imperative that we look into the position of law regarding two proceedings of similar origin continuing simultaneously. 14.1 This Court in State of Rajasthan v. B.K. Meena and Ors.5 referred to some decisions on the aspect of stay on disciplinary proceedings and observed :- “14. It would be evident from the above decisions that each of them starts with the indisputable proposition that there is no legal bar for both proceedings to go on simultaneously and then say that in certain situations, it may not be ‘desirable’, ‘advisable’ or ‘appropriate’ to proceed with the disciplinary enquiry when a criminal case is pending on identical charges. The staying of disciplinary proceedings, it is emphasised, is a matter to be determined having regard to the facts and circumstances of a given case and that no hard and fast rules can 4 (2016) 9 SCC 491 5 (1996) 6 SCC 417 STATE BANK OF INDIA v. P. ZADENGA 747 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] be enunciated in that behalf…The interest of the delinquent offi cer also lies in a prompt conclusion of the disciplinary proceedings. If he is not guilty of the charges, his honour should be vindicated at the earliest possible moment and if he is guilty, he should be dealt with promptly according to law. It is not also in the interest of administration that persons accused of serious misdemeanour should be continued in offi ce indefi nitely, i.e., for long periods awaiting the result of criminal proceedings. It is not in the interest of administration. It only serves the interest of the guilty and dishonest. While it is not possible to enumerate the various factors, for and against the stay of disciplinary proceedings, we found it necessary to emphasise some of the important considerations in view of the fact that very often the disciplinary proceedings are being stayed for long periods pending criminal proceedings. Stay of disciplinary proceedings cannot be, and should not be, a matter of course. …” (Emphasis supplied) 14.2 Further, this Court in M Paul Anthony v. Bharat Gold Mines Ltd.6 elucidated the following principles in dealing with departmental and criminal proceedings simultaneously:- a. No bar exits on both proceedings continuing simultaneously, though in an appropriate, separate forum.