2 to 4 had bought the land well before commencement of the land acquisition proceedings. Therefore issue(i) is answered accordingly. E. Maintainability i) Expansive jurisdiction of Civil Courts under Section 9, Civil Procedure Code 23. Adverting next to the appellant’s argument on maintainability of a suit, it is no more res-integra that ouster of jurisdiction of civil Courts cannot be a matter of course. Section 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure empowers the Courts to try all civil suits, unless barred. The contour of the jurisdiction of the Civil Court has been succinctly enunciated by a fi ve-judge Constitution Bench in Dhulabai(supra). Chief Justice M Hidayatullah writing for the Bench laid down the tests on the bar of jurisdiction of the civil courts. The relevant principles are extracted below: “(1) Where the statute gives a fi nality to the s of the special Tribunals the civil courts’ jurisdiction must be held to be excluded if there is adequate remedy to do what the civil courts would normally do in a suit. Such provision, however, does not exclude those cases where the provisions of the particular Act have not been complied with or the statutory Tribunal has not acted in conformity with the fundamental principles of judicial procedure. 17 (1973) 2 SCC 59 URBAN IMPROVEMENT TRUST, BIKANER v. GORDHAN 539 DASS (D) THROUGH LRS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] (2) Where there is an express bar of the jurisdiction of the court, an examination of the scheme of the particular Act to fi nd the adequacy or the suffi ciency of the remedies provided may be relevant but is not decisive to sustain the jurisdiction of the civil court. Where there is no express exclusion the examination of the remedies and the scheme of the particular Act to fi nd out the intendment becomes necessary and the result of the inquiry may be decisive. In the latter case it is necessary to see if the statute creates a special right or a liability and provides for the determination of the right or liability and further lays down that all questions about the said right and liability shall be determined by the Tribunals so constituted, and whether remedies normally associated with actions in civil courts are prescribed by the said statute or not. (7) An exclusion of the jurisdiction of the civil court is not readily to be inferred unless the conditions above set down apply.” [emphasis supplied] 24. In Ramesh Gobindram v. Sugra Humayun Mirza18, a two-Judge Bench of this Court observed that the jurisdiction of the civil courts to try suits of a civil nature is expansive and the onus to prove the ouster of the jurisdiction is on the party that asserts it. The court observed that even in cases where the jurisdiction of the civil court is barred by a statute, the test is to determine if the authority or tribunal constituted under the statute has the power to grant reliefs that the civil courts would normally grant in suits fi led before them.