The High Court, by the impugned judgement, while observing that the appeal preferred by Dhan Kaur, mother-in-law of the deceased stood abated as she had died during the proceedings; dismissed the appeals fi led by the State of Haryana and Pavitar Singh (PW-3), and partly allowed the appeals fi led by Jora Singh, father-in-law of the deceased and the appellant herein thereby acquitting Jora Singh, father-in-law of the charge levelled against him under Section 304-B of IPC, but confi rmed the conviction and sentence awarded by the learned trial court to the appellant herein. 3. Being aggrieved thereby, the present appeal. 4. We have heard Shri Rajul Bhargav, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant and Shri Samar Vijay Singh, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State. 5. Shri Bhargav submitted that the trial court as well as the High Court has grossly erred in convicting the appellant. He submits that the reliance placed on the dying declaration is totally unsustainable. He submits that the very fi rst information given by the deceased herself to the doctor while admitting to the hospital, would show that the deceased had put up kerosene on herself and set herself on fi re. He submits that as a matter of fact, it is the PHULEL SINGH v. STATE OF HARAYANA 799 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] present appellant who had tried to extinguish the fi re. The learned Senior Counsel therefore submits that the subsequent dying declaration, which is recorded after 3-4 days of the accident, could not have been relied on by the courts. He submits that the said dying declaration was a tutored one at the instance of her relatives and the conviction solely based on the same is not sustainable. The learned Senior Counsel relies on a recent of this Court in the case of Makhan Singh v. State of Haryana1 decided on 16th August 2022 to which two of us (B.R. Gavai, J., Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha, J.) were on the Bench. 6. Shri Bhargav further submitted that the case under Section 304-B of IPC is also not made out. He submitted that there is no evidence on record to show that the deceased was meted out to any harassment on account of non-fulfi llment of demand of dowry. He submitted that even if the evidence of the relatives of the deceased is taken on face value, it would not show that there was any harassment to the deceased on account of non-fulfi llment of demand of dowry. He submitted that even the evidence of independent witness Major Singh (PW-6), Sarpanch of the village would also not support the prosecution case. 7. Shri Singh, on the contrary, submitted that the prosecution has proved the case beyond reasonable doubt. He further submitted that the dying declaration is recorded by the Executive Magistrate. He further submitted that Dr. Jatinder Pal Singh (PW-8) has testifi ed that the deceased was in the sound state of mind and fi t to make the statement.