[2023] 6 S.C.R. 359 359 SHIVSHANKARA & ANR. A v. H.P. VEDAVYASA CHAR (Civil Appeal No. 10215 of 2011) MARCH 29, 2023 B [B. R. GAVAI AND C. T. RAVIKUMAR, JJ.] Abatement: Abatement of suit – Non-joinder of necessary parties – Non-impleadment of all other legal heirs of deceased defendant – Effect of – Held: In the event of death of one of the C defendants, when the estate/interest was being fully and substantially represented in the suit jointly by the other defendants along with deceased defendant and when they are also his legal representatives, by reason of non-impleadment of all other legal heirs consequential to the death of the said defendant, the suit would not abate – Such suit not bad for non-joinder of necessary parties of all his legal D heirs/representatives. Amendment: Amendment of pleadings at appellate stage – Permissibility of – Held: While dealing with such prayers, the Courts should avoid hyper technical approach – Circumstances attending to the particular case are to be taken into account to allow or not to E allow such prayer – It is allowable only in rarest of rare circumstances – It cannot be granted on the mere request, especially at the appellate stage – On facts, trial court allowed the amendment of the plaint, and the defendants were given multiple opportunities to file an additional written statement, which they did not avail and F the suit was decreed – Subsequent developments culminated in the impugned wherein the High Court declined permission to amend the written statement to the defendants – High Court observed that grant of amendment of written statement, if at that stage would have necessitated framing of fresh issues and de novo trial – Thus, no perversity or illegality with the rejection of the prayer G for amendment of the written statement. Suit: Suit for possession, based on possessory title – Facts disclosing no title in either party at the relevant time – Prior possession – Relevance of – Held: In such circumstances, when the facts disclose no title in either party, at the relevant time, prior H 359 360 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A possession alone decides the right to possession of land in the assumed character of owner against all the world except against the rightful owner. Suit: Suit for injunction and for recovery of possession by respondent against the appellants – Maintainability of – Held: On B a careful consideration of the available pleadings of the appellants, the High Court held that they did not disclose their defence in their written statement and at the same time did not even contend that they are in possession of the suit property – Thus, the High Court correct in holding the question of maintainability of the suit in the affirmative and in favour of the respondent – Trial court after C carefully considering the evidence on record held that the respondent is entitled to get back the possession of suit schedule property from which he was dispossessed – After careful consideration of the additional evidence recorded and transmitted to the High Court by the trial court and considering all contentions and aspects, the High D Court only confirmed the and decree of the trial court – Thus, when the concurrent findings of the courts below are the outcome of the rightful consideration and appreciation of materials on record, they do not call for any interference.