137.2. The rights can be claimed by the daughter born earlier with effect from 9-9-2005 with savings as provided in Section 6(1) as to the disposition or alienation, partition or F testamentary disposition which had taken place before the 20th day of December, 2004. 137.3. Since the right in coparcenary is by birth, it is not necessary that father coparcener should be living as on 9-9- 2005. G 137.4. The statutory fiction of partition created by the proviso to Section 6 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 as originally enacted did not bring about the actual partition or disruption of coparcenary. The fiction was only for the purpose of ascertaining share of deceased coparcener when he was H PRASANTA KUMAR SAHOO & ORS. v. CHARULATA SAHU 65 & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] survived by a female heir, of Class I as specified in the A Schedule to the 1956 Act or male relative of such female. The provisions of the substituted Section 6 are required to be given full effect. Notwithstanding that a preliminary decree has been passed, the daughters are to be given share in coparcenary equal to that of a son in pending proceedings for final decree B or in an appeal. 137.5. In view of the rigour of provisions of the Explanation to Section 6(5) of the 1956 Act, a plea of oral partition cannot be accepted as the statutory recognised mode of partition effected by a deed of partition duly registered under the C provisions of the Registration Act, 1908 or effected by a decree of a court. However, in exceptional cases where plea of oral partition is supported by public documents and partition is finally evinced in the same manner as if it had been affected (sic effected) by a decree of a court, it may be accepted. A plea of partition based on oral evidence alone cannot be D accepted and to be rejected outrightly.” 77. The decision of Vineeta Sharma (supra) also highlights that a change in law during the pendency of an appeal must be considered and appropriately applied. This Court relied upon United Bank of India, Calcutta v. Abhijit Tea Company Private Limited and Others reported E in (2000) 7 SCC 357, wherein, it was held that: “20. Now, it is well settled that it is the duty of a court, whether it is trying original proceedings or hearing an appeal, to take notice of the change in law affecting pending actions and to give effect to the same. (See G.P. Singh: Interpretation of F Statutes, 7th Edn., p. 406.) If, while a suit is pending, a law like the 1993 Act that the civil court shall not decide the suit, is passed, the civil court is bound to take judicial notice of the statute and hold that the suit — even after its remand — cannot be disposed of by it.” G 78. This Court in Vineeta Sharma (supra) clarified the entire position as follows: “107. Once the constitution of coparcenary changes by birth or death, shares have to be worked out at the time of actual partition.