7. On 23 March 2007, the State of Haryana constituted a Selection Committee consisting of: (i) Three-Judges nominated by the Chief Justice; (ii) The Advocate General; (iii) The Legal Remembrancer; and (iv) The Secretary of the Legislative Department. 8. The State Government has stated on affi davit that the Members of the Haryana Public Service Commission stood impeached between 2006 and 2008; and the Commission was reconstituted in September 2008. 9. Recruitment to the judicial service in the State of Haryana is governed by the Rules, as applicable to the State of Haryana. Part C of the Rules provides for ‘Examination of Candidates’. Part C is prefaced by the provision that: “The following rules and instructions, which are liable to alteration from year to year, are prescribed for the examination of candidates for admission to the Judicial Branch of Haryana Civil Service”. (emphasis supplied) 10. Rules 4 and 5 of Part C are set out below: “4. The examination papers shall be set and marks awarded by the examiners who will be appointed by the Haryana Public Service Commission. There shall also be a test in viva voce which will be conducted by the Haryana Public Service Commission. The representative of the High Court shall be one of the members of the Selection Committee and the opinion given by him with regard to the suitability of the candidate shall not be disregarded MALIK MAZHAR SULTAN v. U P PUBLIC SERVICE 689 COMMISSION [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] unless there are strong and cogent reasons for not accepting the opinion, which reasons must be recorded in writing. 5. The Judges of the High Court may, from time to time, declare what the subject of the examination shall be.” 11. From 2007, the State Government has, on the occasion of each recruitment, notifi ed amendments to the Rules in question so as to provide for the fi lling up of vacancies in the judicial service under a Committee consisting of the representatives of the High Court, the State Government and the Public Service Commission. 12. On 11 May 2007, an IA3 was fi led before this Court by the State of Haryana on which the following was passed: “So far as prayer No.1 is concerned, we may state that after considering all the points including the points raised by the State in this IA, the was passed by this Court and hence the prayer is rejected. So far as prayer No.2 is concerned, in our opinion, the passed by this Court is very clear. It is also clear from the following observations: “Before we issue general directions and the time schedule to be adhered to for fi lling vacancies that may arise in subordinate courts and district courts, it is necessary to note that selections are required to be conducted by the concerned authorities as per the existing Judicial Service Rules in the respective States/ Union Territories.” Therefore, this Court expressed that in future what course of action to be taken. In our opinion, therefore, the High Court was not right in addressing a letter to the State Government.