The Constitution of Jammu & Kashmir was urged to be a document of internal governance and not a parallel Constitution. This position was stated to be refl ected by Section 5 of the Jammu & Kashmir Constitution, which provided that the State’s law-making powers extend only to the domain left to it by the Constitution of India. Thus, the State Constitution certainly had the ‘inferior’ status vis- à-vis the Constitution of India, and Section 5 of the Jammu and Kashmir Constitution was incapable of any amendment. The State Constitution’s inferior status, thus, vis-à-vis the Constitution of India was also made unalterable by Section 147 of the Constitution of Jammu & Kashmir. iv. Individual agreements signed prior to accession have no legal force. All obligations, vis-à-vis former Princely States, are to be derived solely from the relevant Constitutional provisions. This plea was sought to be supported by the earlier judicial pronouncement in Raghunathrao Ganpatrao v. Union of India96, which upheld the Constitutional validity of the Constitution (Twenty-sixth Amendment) Act of 1971. This in Madhavrao Scindia’s case97 was thus sought to be distinguishable as it dealt with an impermissible exercise of President’s executive power to remove the provision of the privy purses and that the abolishment of the privy purses was upheld in the subsequent , post the necessary Legislative exercise. 96 1994 Supp (1) SCC 191 97 supra 338 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. v. In State of West Bengal v. Union of India98, it was opined that the features of a compact or agreement between diff erent federal units is absent in the Constitution of India. This judgement was thus cited. The said instead provides for distribution of power, which is not an index of sovereignty. Thus, legal sovereignty is vested with the people of India, as submitted by Mr. Rakesh Dwivedi, learned senior counsel. vi. It was also urged by Mr. Rakesh Dwivedi that there could not be any internal sovereignty once the Apex Court and organs of the Union are allowed to operate in Jammu & Kashmir. C.Os had been issued from time to time. Prior to the impugned CO, in terms of various C.Os, the Union Government, Parliament, Supreme Court, CAG, Delimitation Commission, Part XIII, introduction of ‘Governor’ and ‘Chief Minister’, activation of 94 out of 97 Entries in List I, Financial Provisions, Residuary powers, etc., have all been applied to Jammu & Kashmir. Thus, the foundation had been laid and what remained would be done under the impugned actions. B. Article 370, both from the Part in which it falls (Heading) as well as reading of the transitional provision. At no stage, it requires a permanency and if it had been so, the necessary amendments would have been made to the Constitution. It was also treated as a transitional provision. The proviso to Article 370(3) of the Constitution became otiose once the State Constituent Assembly dissolved itself. i. Mr. Gopalaswami Ayyangar’s statements in the Constituent Assembly were in fact supportive of the transient nature of the arrangement under Article 370, as it was meant to endure only until the situation in the State had been normalized.