They cannot now dispute the same under the Policy of 1999. That under the Policy of 1994, from the fourth year onwards, the assessee had to pay a fi xed sum per hundred subscribers. The only change that was made was in the measure, namely, that under the Policy of 1999, the amount was modifi ed to 15% of the gross revenue, but the nature and character of the payment was the same. That mere payment of an amount in instalments did not convert or change the capital payment to a revenue payment. That in to acquire the right to operate telecom services, obtaining of licence was a sine qua non. The term of the licence was twenty years from the date of commencement and therefore the expenditure is in the nature of capital expenditure. 6.9. Per contra, the contention of the assessee before the High Court was that the licence fee payable under the Policy of 1999 was in the nature of revenue expenditure. This was because the earnings are shared and the licence fee depends upon the gross revenue and is payable yearly. That the new operators under the Policy of 1999 were issued licences and were required to pay a one-time licence fee for entry and to start operations and in addition, yearly turn over based licence fee was payable. One-time payment of licence fee was capital expenditure in nature but yearly payable licence fee was revenue expenditure. It was a running expense for maintaining and operating the business of telecommunication and therefore, considered in the commercial sense, the yearly payment was in the nature of revenue expenditure. 6.10. Since the Tribunal had held that variable licence fee paid by the assessees was properly deductible as revenue expenditure, the substantial question of law raised by the High Court at the instance of appellant Revenue C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 381 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] was, “whether the variable licence fee paid by the respondents under the Telegraph Act, and Indian Wireless Telegraphy Act, 1933 payable under the New Telecom Policy 1999 or 1994 Agreement, is revenue expenditure or capital expenditure which is required to be amortized under Section 35ABB of the Act?” The pertinent observations of the High Court and the salient aspects discussed in the dated 19 December, 2013 are as under: i. Section 35ABB applies when expenditure of a capital nature is incurred by an assessee for acquiring a right for operating telecommunication services. It is immaterial whether the expenditure is/was incurred before or after commencement of the business to operate telecommunication services but what is material is that the payment should be actually made. That Section 35ABB is not a deeming provision but comes into operation and is eff ective when the expenditure itself is of a capital nature and is incurred towards acquiring a right to operate telecommunication services or for the purposes of obtaining a licence for the said services. That Section 35ABB does not help in determining and deciding the question, as to, whether licence fee paid under the Policy of 1999 or under the 1994 Agreement, was/is capital or revenue in nature.