E E. 2 Constitutionalizing principles of natural justice: the impact of Maneka Gandhi 43. Two jurisprudential developments on the interpretation of Part III of the Constitution must be noticed to understand the impact of constitutionalising the principles of natural justice. The first, is the F expansion of the meaning of the expression ‘procedure established by 26 Justice Bhagwati in Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India, (1978) 1 SCC 248 (paragraph 9) 27 NK Prasada v. Government of India, (2004) 6 SCC 299 G 28 Automotive Tyre Manufacturers Association v. Designated Authority, (2011) 2 SCC 258 29 Raeesa Vakil, Constitutionalizing administrative law in the Indian Supreme Court: Natural Justice and Fundamental Rights, (Volume 16, Issue 2, International Journal of Constitutional Law, 2018, p. 475–502 30 NK Prasada (n 27) 31 Maneka Gandhi (n 26) H 636 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A law’ as it finds place in Article 21 of the Constitution to include procedural due process. The second, is the shift from reading the provisions of Part III of the Constitution as isolated silos to understanding the overlapping tendencies of fundamental rights. 44. In AK Gopalan v. State of Madras32,the appellant contended B that the phrase ‘procedure established by law’ as it finds place in Article 21 includes within its ambit the principles of natural justice. While the majority rejected this contention, Justice Fazl Ali in his celebrated dissent held that the expression ‘procedure established by law’ cannot be given a limited meaning. The learned Judge observed that the phrase must include procedural due process which includes (i) issuance of a notice C (ii) an opportunity to be heard; (iii) an impartial tribunal; and (iv) an ly course of procedure. Justice Fazl Ali’s opinion was followed by this Court in Maneka Gandhi (supra). In Maneka Gandhi (supra), it was held that the life and liberty of a person cannot be restricted by any procedure that is established by law but only by a procedure that is just, D fair, and reasonable. In that case, the appellant challenged the of the Regional Passport Officer impounding her passport. The impounding did not disclose the reasons for such action. The Government of India declined to disclose its reasons for the action by relying on Section 10(5) of the Passports Act 1967 which stipulates that the reason for impounding the passport may not be given where the passport authority E is of the opinion that the disclosure of reasons is not in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India, security of India, friendly relations of India with any foreign country or in the interest of general public. The appellant filed a writ petition, inter alia, challenging the action of the Government of India declining to give reasons. F 45. This Court observed that the right to go abroad is an extension of the right to life and personal liberty protected under Article 21 of the Constitution. This right, it was observed, can only be taken away by a procedure that is not unfair, arbitrary, and unreasonable.