However, PW-6 claims that intimation was given to police only after his brother Satpal (husband of the deceased) arrived. PW-6 is not an eyewitness. 14. According to the prosecution’s case till 5 am, PW-1 Ajay was hiding in his house and only when the milkman Golu/Surender came at 5 am, he disclosed the incident to the said milkman. In fact, even PW-6 H PRADEEP v. THE STATE OF HARYANA 1031 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] stated that he became aware of the incident from the said milkman. The A prosecution has not explained why the milkman was not examined as a witness, though he was available. He was a very important witness who was the first person to whom PW-1 Ajay disclosed what he had allegedly seen. Till the milkman came, there was no one who could have tutored Ajay. Therefore, what the witness conveyed to the milkman would have B been crucial in the context of the allegation of tutoring. He was a very important witness available whose examination could have ruled out the possibility of the witness being tutored as he was the first person to meet the minor witness after the accident. Afterwards, the minor was in the company of his uncle (PW-6) and his father and according to the prosecution’s case, there was some dispute between the family of Ajay C and the accused over property. His statement was recorded in the hospital in presence of his father. PW-6, in the cross-examination, stated that the milkman was present outside the Court when his evidence was recorded. His evidence was recorded on 22nd December 2003. On the same day, the learned Trial Judge recorded statement of the Public Prosecutor that D he was not examining Satpal as being unnecessary and he was dropping Golu (milkman) as he was won over. Even the appellant’s father was a crucial witness. This is a case where an adverse inference will have to be drawn against the prosecution for non-examination of the milkman and the appellant’s father. E 15. There is another circumstance which is relevant as far as the appellant is concerned. According to the prosecution, there were foot marks of the shoes/footwear of the accused near the house where the incident took place. The prosecution took the moulds of the foot marks, as deposed by PW-6. The footwear/shoes of both the accused were taken into custody in the presence of PW-6. But, the shoes of the present F appellant did not match the moulds of the imprint of the shoe taken by the prosecution. 16. Apart from the non-examination of the milkman, PW-11 Mehar Singh, Investigation Officer, did not make investigation by recording the statements of the elder brothers of Ajay for verifying G whether they were away from the house on the date of the incident. After closely scrutinising the evidence of PW-1 Ajay and considering what we have already observed, the possibility of the witness being tutored cannot be ruled out. There is no support or corroboration to the testimony of PW-1 Ajay, apart from other deficiencies in the prosecution H 1032 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R.