Further, the scribe of Ex. A10 Will (PW 6) categorically stated that the instructions for scribing it were given by some other woman and not Venkubayamma, whereas Pasupuleti Anasuya (PW 1) stated that it was Venkubayamma, herself, who had given such instructions. So many suspicious circumstances surrounding Ex. A10 Will make it very diffi cult for us to accept and act upon the same, even if it had been proved as per law. MOTURU NALINI KANTH v. GAINEDI KALIPRASAD (DEAD, 663 THROUGH LRS.) [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] 35. Coming to the adoption ceremony of 18.04.1982 and Ex. A9 Adoption Deed, where under Nalini Kanth would, in the alternative, claim a half-share in Venkubayamma’s properties, we fi nd that the same are also shrouded with equally suspicious circumstances. No doubt, Ex. A9 Adoption Deed was registered and Section 16 of the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act, 1956 (for brevity, ‘the Act of 1956’), raises a presumption in favour of a registered document relating to adoption. It reads as follows: ‘16. Presumption as to registered documents relating to adoption - Whenever any document registered under any law for the time being in force is produced before any court purporting to record an adoption made and is signed by the person giving and the person taking the child in adoption, the court shall presume that the adoption has been made in compliance with the provisions of this Act unless and until it is disproved.’ The presumption, as is clear from the provision itself, is rebuttable. In G. Vasu vs. Syed Yaseen Sifuddin Quadri13, a Full Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court pointed out that presumptions are of two kinds - presumptions of fact and of law. It was noted that a presumption of fact is an inference logically drawn from one fact as to the existence of other facts and such presumptions of fact are rebuttable by evidence to the contrary. It was also held that presumptions of law may be either irrebuttable, so that no evidence to a contrary may be given, or rebuttable, and a rebuttable presumption of law is a legal rule to be applied by the Courts in the absence of confl icting evidence. This view was affi rmed by this Court in Bharat Barrel & Drum Manufacturing Company vs. Amin Chand Payrelal14 and it was held that in to disprove a presumption, such facts and circumstances have to be brought on record, upon consideration of which, the Court may either believe that the consideration did not exist or its non-existence was so probable that a prudent man would, under the circumstances of the case, act upon the plea that it did not exist. 36. In this regard, we may also note that Section 11 of the Act of 1956 stipulates the conditions to be complied with to constitute a valid adoption and, to the extent relevant, it reads as under: 13 AIR 1987 Andhra Pradesh 139 14 (1999) 3 SCC 35 664 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.