v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 967 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] concluded that that Entry 66 of List I is a very specific A Entry having limited scope and that the no provision for reservation for in service candidates could be made under the said Entry; that power to legislate on such matter is traceable to Entry 25 of List III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. B Aniruddha Bose J. in a separate but concurring observed that although the students who would gain admission into the post-graduate courses as a part of the in-service quota, may not have been admitted purely based on a uniform of merit, and this might, to some degree C have an effect on the overall standard of medical education, the term “standards” in Entry 66 of List I must not be construed in such a manner. That the phrase “coordination and determination of standards” as appearing in Entry 66 of List I should be construed as the standard of education and other institutional standards which are to be complied D with. Therefore, it was held that reservation in favour of in-service candidates, would in no way be regulated under Entry 66 of List I. 16. Bearing in mind the aforesaid discussion, we shall proceed to consider the scheme of the legislations relevant to these appeals. E 16.1. The field of legislation covered under Entry 25 of List III is subject to Entries 63, 64, 65 and 66 of List I. It is, therefore, necessary to dilate on the effect of providing that one Entry or provision is ‘subject to’ another. As per Black’s Law Dictionary, 5th Edition, Pg. 1278, “subject to” means “liable, subordinate, subservient, inferior, obedient F to, governed or affected by.” The following decisions would illustrate the above meanings of the phrase ‘subject to’: i) In K.R.C.S. Balakrishna Chetty & Sons & Co. vs. The State of Madras, AIR 1961 SC 1152, (“K.R.C.S. Balakrishna Chetty & Sons & Co.”) this Court observed G that the expression “subject to” has reference to effectuating the intention of the law and the correct meaning, of the phrase is, “conditional upon”. ii) Similarly, in The South India Corporation (P) Ltd. vs. The Secretary, Board of Revenue Trivandrum and Ors., H 968 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A AIR 1964 SC 207, (“The South India Corporation (P) Ltd.”) this court observed that the expression “subject to” conveys the idea of a provision yielding place to another provision or other provisions to which it is made subject. This understanding of the phrase “subject to” has been affirmed in K.T. Plantation (P) Ltd. vs. State of B Karnataka, (2011) 9 SCC 1, (“K.T. Plantation (P) Ltd.”). iii) In Ashok Leyland Ltd. vs. State of Tamil Nadu and Anr., (2004) 3 SCC 1, (“Ashok Leyland Ltd.”) this Court held that, “‘Subject to’ is an expression whereby limitation is C expressed.” 16.2. In the facts of the present case, the Assam Act would be subject to the provisions of the Central Act.