Evidently, no settlement was arrived at by all the C original petitioners who had instituted the proceedings. The adjudicating authority noticed that joint consent terms dated 12-2- 2020 had been filed before it. But it is common ground that these consent terms did not cover all the original petitioners who were before the adjudicating authority. The adjudicating authority was D apprised of the fact that the claims of 140 investors had been fully settled by the respondent. The respondent also noted that of the claims of the original petitioners who have moved the adjudicating authority, only 13 have been settled while, according to it “40 are in the process of settlement and 39 are pending settlements”. Eventually, the adjudicating authority did not entertain the petition E on the ground that the procedure under IBC is summary, and it cannot manage or decide upon each and every claim of the individual homebuyers. The adjudicating authority also held that since the process of settlement was progressing “in all seriousness”, instead of examining all the individual claims, it would F dispose of the petition by directing the respondent to settle all the remaining claims “seriously” within a definite time-frame. The petition was accordingly disposed of by directing the respondent to settle the remaining claims no later than within three months, and that if any of the remaining original petitioners were aggrieved by the settlement process, they would be at liberty to approach G the adjudicating authority again in accordance with law. The adjudicating authority’s decision was also upheld by the appellate authority, who supported its conclusions. 34. The adjudicating authority has clearly acted outside the terms of its jurisdiction under Section 7(5) IBC. The adjudicating H M. SURESH KUMAR REDDY v. CANARA BANK & ORS. 397 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] authority is empowered only to verify whether a default has A occurred or if a default has not occurred. Based upon its decision, the adjudicating authority must then either admit or reject an application, respectively. These are the only two courses of action which are open to the adjudicating authority in accordance with Section 7(5). The adjudicating authority cannot B compel a party to the proceedings before it to settle a dispute.” (emphasis added) 10. Thus, once NCLT is satisfied that the default has occurred, there is hardly a discretion left with NCLT to refuse admission of the application under Section 7. Default is defined under sub-section 12 of C Section 3 of the IB Code which reads thus: “3. Definitions: - In this Code, unless the context otherwise requires,- .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. D (12) “default” means non-payment of debt when whole or any part or instalment of the amount of debt has become due and payable and is not [paid] by the debtor or the corporate debtor, as the case may be;” Thus, even the non-payment of a part of debt when it becomes E due and payable will amount to default on the part of a Corporate Debtor#.