Therefore, the security clearance granted in 2011 may not be withdrawn. However, the future expansion of the company may be stopped in view of the adverse inputs.” D (emphasis supplied) 93. MHA denied security clearance for these two proposals based on the recommendation of the CoO. Though the of MHA denying security clearance on such recommendation is not annexed to the file E submitted, it finds mention in the internal notes on the file. It seems that the MHA was not aware that MIB had by then already granted the permission to uplink and downlink Media One Life. Further, in spite of the observations of CoO that the revocation may not be retrospective, MIB issued a show cause notice to MIB for revocationof the permission granted to Media One and Media One Life. The MIB requested MHA F to consider the response of MBL against the show cause notice. In this regard, MHA observed that though it had not withdrawn security clearance of the existing News and Current Affairs Channel ‘Media One’, the actions of MIB were in compliance of the guidelines dated 30 June 2015. It is crucial to note that as on the date when security clearance G was denied by MHA, both Media One and Media One Life were existing news channels. The relevant extract of the response of MHA is extracted below: “Since the MHA has not withdrawn security clearance of existing News and Current Affairs TV channel ‘Media One’, it is Ministry of I&B which has to justify its action of issuing show-cause notice H 666 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A for withdrawal of permission. At the same time, since the MHA has given leverage to the nodal Ministry in the guidelines dated 30.06.2015 to take action for retrospective application of the guidelines in the discharge of its mandate and that the MIB has taken action in accordance with their own guidelines, we may not state that MHA has not withdrawn security clearance granted B vide OM dated 17.2.2011. This would give impression if action of the nodal Ministry was not in conformity with MHA guidelines. We may simply mention the proposals to which security clearance was denied on 27.1.2016, and state that Ministry of I&B has issued SCN in discharge of its mandate it may defend its action. As C regards sharing of reason for denial of clearance, it is informed that the denial is based on inputs from intelligence Agencies which are secret in nature and cannot be disclosed to the applicant.” (emphasis supplied) D The response of MHA further notes that the security clearance was denied based on ‘inputs from intelligence agencies which are secret and cannot be disclosed to the applicant.’ 94. On 11 September 2019, MIB revoked the uplinking and downlinking permission which was granted to Media One life. MBL E submitted a representation against the revocation. MHA requested IB to furnish comments on the representation of MBL. IB concluded that the inputs attract parameters (Sl. Nos. 20 and 21) stipulated by the Guidelines issued on June 25 201873 for assessment of proposals received in the Ministry of Home Affairs for national security clearance.