6. The appellant – accused came to be tried for the said off ence and on the basis of the testimony of the mother of the deceased (PW-1) and also taking into consideration the deposition of neighbour (PW-2) who claimed to have seen the accused fl eeing away from the scene of off ence by taking into consideration the attendant circumstance, learned First Additional District Judge convicted the accused for the off ence punishable under Sections 450 & 302 IPC. The accused was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for fi ve years and to pay a fi ne of Rs.50,000/- and in default to undergo simple imprisonment for six months for the off ence under Section 450 and sentenced him and to undergo imprisonment for life and to pay a fi ne of Rs.60,000/- and in default to undergo simple imprisonment for six months for the off ence under Section 302 IPC. The sentences were ed to run concurrently. 7. The legality of the said was questioned before the High Court of Madras in Criminal Appeal (MD) No.334 of 2013 and on re- appreciation of the entire evidence, the High Court affi rmed the of the Sessions Court by arriving at a conclusion that it was the appellant who had caused the injury to the deceased resulting in her death and the act of accused in trespassing to the house of the deceased was for committing the murder, had been clearly established. It was also opined by the High Court that deceased had given up her love for the accused and she had developed relationship with one Mr. Sudhakar which enraged the accused to wreak vengeance and for this reason he had gone all the way to the house of the deceased with a determination to eliminate her and as such it would fall within the fi rst limb of Section 300 IPC and thus, he was liable to be punished under Section 302 IPC. Hence, this appeal. N. RAMKUMAR v. THE STATE REP. BY INSPECTOR 849 OF POLICE [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] 8. We have heard the arguments of learned Advocates. It is the contention of Shri M. A. Chinnasamy, learned counsel appearing for the appellant, that there has been delay in fi ling the complaint and on this ground alone the theory of the prosecution cannot be considered as trustworthy. He would also contend that conviction of the accused is based on the sole testimony of PW-1 and the contradictions in her testimony is manifestly clear and is not trustworthy and cannot be relied on to convict the appellant. The very fact that PW-1 was against the love aff air of her daughter with the accused having been admitted by her would disclose the inimical attitude against the accused. With regard to there being blood in the fl oor of the kitchen is belied by the statement of PW-12 (investigating offi cer) and so also the statement of PW-5 who have not whispered a word in that regard. He would also draw the attention of the Court that theory of the prosecution as put forth in the complaint lodged by PW-1 is that the accused had punched her daughter on the face and she fell on the kitchen slab.