(iii) Whether plain glass panes does not cover tinted/ coloured glass panes? (iv) Whether once the entry plain glass panes is specifi cally excluded from the entry “All goods and wares made of glass” the authorities were not justifi ed in imposing tax on plain glass panes (coloured and tinted glass panes) as goods made of glass wares/ (v) Whether in view of the fact that by mixing inch of colours no new commercial commodity comes into existence as tinted/coloured glass panes is a plain glass panes, still the tax can be imposed as declared commodity instead of unclassifi ed item? (vi) Whether in any view of the matter, the passed by the Trade Tax Tribunal is justifi ed? 12. The High Court has noted that authorities had taken note of the fact that during survey conducted through Special Investigation Branch Unit, Allahabad, it was noticed that manufacturing process adopted for manufacturing of tinted sheet was diff erent or distinct from the manufacturing process adopted for manufacture of glass sheet and it was also noticed that the tinted glass sheet was manufactured in a separate unit. The High Court also noted that authorities had noted that density and transparency of the tinted colour sheet glass is diff erent from that of ordinary sheet glass and the solar absorption power of tinted coloured glass sheet is much more than plain sheet glass and in the market or in the common parlance ‘tinted glass sheet’ is not treated as plain sheet glass. M/S TRIVENI GLASS LIMITED REP. BY ITS DEPUTY 1103 GENERAL MANAGER (SALES AND P.R.) SHRI R.K. SINHA v. COMMISSIONER OF TRADE TAX, U.P. [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] OUR FINDINGS 13. The tug of war between the assesses and the revenue in these appeals revolves around the plea of assessee that tinted glasses manufactured by it falls under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of Section 3A namely residuary clause and as such tax is to be levied @ 10%; whereas revenue is contending that it would fall under Entry No.4 of the notifi cation No.5784 dated 07.09.1981 which Notifi cation has been issued in exercise of the power conferred under clause(d) of Sub-section (1) of Section 3A of the Act. It is in this background, the rival contentions requires to be examined and it would be apt and appropriate to extract Section 3A of U.P. Trade Tax Act, 1948. It reads as under: “Section 3-A: Rates of tax (1) Except as provided in Section 3-D, the tax payable by a dealer under this Act shall be levied:-- (a) on the turnover in respect of “declared goods”, at the point of sale to the consumer at the maximum rate for the time being specifi ed in Section 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, or where the State Government, by notifi cation, declares any other single point or a lesser rate, at such other point or at such lesser rate; (b) the turnover in respect of such goods), other than the goods referred to in clause (a), at such point and at such rate, not exceeding fi fty per cent, as the State Government may, by notifi cation, declare, and diff erent points and diff erent rates may be declared in respect of diff erent goods (c) on the turnover in respect of goods, other than those referred to in clause (a) or clause (b), at the point of sale by manufacturer or importer at the rate of ten percent.