The impugned Regulations would constitute law for the purpose of Article 13 in this regard. The declaration of the Regulation falling foul of Fundamental Rights, would have the effect of rendering such law void F ab initio. Reliance is placed on the 2019 Rules and the repealing and saving provision [Rule 74(3)]. It is contended, in short, that the rights and obligations, apart from the express savings under the 2019 Rules, would remain intact. With reference to Sections 49 and 50 of the Act, it is contended that permissions under the Development Regulations of 2008 would continue to be governed by the Regulations. Thus, repeal G does not render the present Writ Petition academic or infructuous. The fact that the petitioner is an Association of real estate developers cannot detract from the matter being justiciable and a Constitutional Court should 8 (2019) 15 SCC 1 9 (2011) 9 SCC 1 H 10 (1955) 1 SCR 613 1048 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A not countenance technical pleas, when Fundamental Rights are at stake. When otherwise, considering the importance of this matter, bearing in mind the interplay between the Fundamental Rights and Article 300A, this Court, despite any delay, should consider the challenge. Petitioner is restricting the challenge to Regulation 29(7)(a) only to the latter part, viz., the requirement to transfer free-of-cost, the 10 per cent area reserved B for recreational purposes. Section 20(1)(d), employing the word ‘otherwise’, cannot encompass a gift. A gift would be without compensation, which would be contrary to the provisions of the Act. Sections 36 to 39 make it clear that whenever an acquisition was contemplated, it was deemed to be a public purpose and payment of C compensation has been provided for. If gift is comprehended in Section 20(1)(d), it would be in conflict with Section 39. Earmarking or reserving an area, may not constitute an injury. But the compulsory gifting of the same, without any compensation, coupled with changing of the character of the property from private to public, reaches an injury. The person must be compensated. Reliance is placed on SahuMadho Das and D others v. Pandit Mukand Ram and another11 and Rajendra Shankar Shukla and others v. State of Chhattisgarh and others12. Reliance is placed in M. Krishnasamy v. Member Secretary, Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority, Gandhi Irwin Road, Egmore, Chennai-813 to contend that a Single Judge of the Madras High Court doubted the very demand for conveying of OSR land. Regulatory law, E depriving a person of property, must be strictly construed. In this regard reliance is placed on B.K. Ravichandra and others v. Union of India and others14. Section 124, under which Regulations can be made, cannot empower any Authority to create or takeaway or deprive a person of their property, by a manner, not provided for under the Act [See Indian F Young Lawyers Association and others (Sabarimala Temple-In Re.)15]. The Regulation represents the case of action in excess of power. The lands, which have been transferred, are not being used for the purpose of open space.