10) Every establishment referred to in Section 20 (1) of the HIV Act has to designate someone, as the Complaints Offi cer who shall dispose of complaints of violations of the provisions of the HIV Act in the establishment, in such manner and within such time as may be prescribed. The rules in this regard may be formulated by the Central Government at the earliest, preferably within 8 weeks from today. 11) The Secretary, Department of Labour of every state shall ensure the collection of information and data relating to compliance with Sections 19 and 20 of the HIV Act, in regard to designation of a complaint offi cer, in all the factories, industrial establishments, commercial establishments, shops, plantations, commercial offi ces, professional organizations, and all other bodies falling within the defi nition of “establishments” [under Section 2 (f) of the HIV Act] which reads as follows: ““establishment” means a body corporate or co-operative society or any organisation or institution or two or more persons jointly carrying out a systematic activity for a period of twelve months or more at one or more places for consideration or otherwise, for the production, supply or distribution of goods or services.” Such information shall be forwarded to the Secretary, Union Ministry of Labour and Employment, within 10 weeks. The Union Labour and Employment Secretary shall fi le an affi davit of compliance containing a tabular statement, with respect to implementation of provisions of the Act, within 16 weeks from today. CPL ASHISH KUMAR CHAUHAN (RETD.) v. COMMANDING 665 OFFICER & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 12) Every court, quasi-judicial body, including all tribunals, commissions, forums, etc., discharging judicial functions set up under central and state enactments and those set up under various central and state laws to resolve disputes shall take active measures, to comply with provisions of Section 3471 of the HIV Act. Chief Justices of all High Courts, shall compile information, and device methods of collecting information in that regard, anonymizing identity of persons aff ected, appropriately and also complying with provisions of Section 34 (2) of the HIV Act. The Registrar General of the Supreme Court shall also look into the matter, and frame relevant guidelines which, after approval be issued and implemented. 94. Before concluding, this court would place on record its appreciation and gratitude to the amicus, Ms. Meenakshi Arora Senior Advocate, for her valuable assistance; the assistance given by Mr. Vikramjit Banerjee, the ASG; and Ms. Vanshaja Shukla, the amicus who painstakingly compiled the paper-book, and patiently heard the appellant with the aim of addressing all his concerns and assisted Ms. Arora. The court would also acknowledge the appellant’s perseverance and the diligent research and scholarship put in by him, in the relentless quest for justice. The respondents are directed to bear the costs quantifi ed at ₹ 5,00,000/- (Rupees fi ve lakhs only) which shall also be paid to the appellant, within six weeks. The Supreme Court Legal Services Committee shall bear the honorarium of ₹ 50,000/- (Rupees fi fty thousand only) to be paid to the amicus Ms. Shukla.