The statement of PW1, complainant, that he was attacked by Pramod with ballam at 6:00 AM on 12.08.1994 is fully corroborated by documentary evidence (FIR Ex. Ka-1 and the medical examination Ex. Ka-2) and the medical opinion of PW4 - doctor that the injury could have been probably caused by the ballam which was shown to him in Court. Also, testimonies of PW2 - Doodhnath Singh and PW3 - Arjun Singh fully corroborate the testimony of PW1. The statements could not be disbelieved merely because they are close friends of Kapil Deo. 9. The fi ndings of fact, of conviction and of sentence qua the present appellant stands affi rmed by the High Court of Allahabad vide impugned dated 19.04.2019. 10. In view of our dated 10.02.2023, the present appeal is required to be considered only qua the quantum of sentence. 11. It is a well-established principle that while imposing sentence, aggravating and mitigating circumstances of a case are to be taken into consideration. 12. A Constitution Bench of this Court in Jagmohan Singh v. State of U.P.1 (5-Judge Bench), while considering the issue of constitutionality of imposition of death penalty emphasised that aggravating and mitigating . (1973) 1 SCC 20 390 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. circumstances need to be considered in awarding sentence to a convict. The result is dependent upon facts of each case. 13. India, till date, does not have a statutory sentencing policy in place. This Court, however, has proceeded to examine the objective behind sentencing and the factors to be kept in mind while imposing such punishments. In Mohammad Giassudin v. State of Andhra Pradesh2 (2-Judge Bench), it stood observed that: “9. …. Crime is a pathological aberration, that the criminal can ordinarily be redeemed, that the State has to rehabilitate rather than avenge. The sub-culture that leads to anti-social behaviour has to be countered not by undue cruelty but by re-culturisation. Therefore, the focus of interest in penology is the individual and the goal is salvaging him for society. The infl iction of harsh and savage punishment is thus a relic of past and regressive times. The human today views sentencing as a process of reshaping a person who has deteriorated into criminality and the modern community has a primary stake in the rehabilitation of the off ender as a means of social defense. We, therefore, consider a therapeutic, rather than an “in terrorem” outlook, should prevail in our Criminal Courts, since brutal incarceration of the person merely produces laceration of his mind. …. 16. …. A proper sentence is the amalgam of many factors such as the nature of the off ence, the circumstances – extenuating or aggravating – of the off ence, the prior criminal record, if any, of the off ender, the age of the off ender, the record of the off ender as to employment, the background of the off ender with reference to education, home life, sobriety and social adjustment, the emotional and mental conditions of the off ender, the prospects for the rehabilitation of the off ender, the possibility of return of the off ender to normal life in the community, the possibility of treatment or training of the off ender, the possibility that the sentence may serve as a deterrent to crime by the off ender or by others and the current community need, if any, for such a deterrent in (1977) 3 SCC 287 PRAMOD KUMAR MISHRA v. THE STATE OF U.P.