However, an opportunity must be given to the election petitioner to cure the defect. Further, merely because the affi davit may be defective, it cannot be said that the petition fi led is not an election petition as understood by the Representation of the People Act, 1951. 22. A plain reading of Rule 15 suggests that a verifi cation of the plaint is necessary. In addition to the verifi cation, the person verifying the plaint is “also” required to fi le an affi davit in support of the pleadings. Does this mean, as suggested by the learned counsel for Siddeshwar that Prasanna Kumar was obliged to fi le two affi davits—one in support of the allegations of corrupt practices and the other in support of the pleadings? 23. A reading of Section 83(1)(c) of the Act makes it clear that what is required of an election petitioner is only that the verifi cation should be carried out in the manner prescribed in CPC. That 6 Rule 15 requires an affi davit “also” to be fi led does not mean that the verifi cation of a plaint is incomplete if an affi davit is not fi led. The affi davit, in this context, is a stand-alone document. 25. It seems to us that a plain and simple reading of Section 83(1) (c) of the Act clearly indicates that the requirement of an additional affi davit is not to be found therein. While the requirement of “also” fi ling an affi davit in support of the pleadings fi led under CPC may be mandatory in terms of 6 Rule 15(4) CPC, the affi davit is not a part of the verifi cation of the pleadings—both are quite diff erent. While the Act does require a verifi cation of the pleadings, the plain language of Section 83(1)(c) of the Act does not require an affi davit in support of the pleadings in an election petition. We are being asked to read a requirement that does not exist in Section 83(1)(c) of the Act. 400 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 37. A perusal of the affi davit furnished by Prasanna Kumar ex facie indicates that it was not in absolute compliance with the format affi davit. However, we endorse the view of the High Court that on a perusal of the affi davit, undoubtedly there was substantial compliance with the prescribed format. It is correct that the verifi cation was also defective, but the defect is curable and cannot be held fatal to the maintainability of the election petition. 38. Recently, in Ponnala Lakshmaiah v. Kommuri Pratap Reddy, (2012) 7 SCC 788 the issue of a failure to fi le an affi davit in accordance with the prescribed format came up for consideration. This is what this Court had to say: “28. … The format of the affi davit is at any rate not a matter of substance. What is important and at the heart of the requirement is whether the election petitioner has made averments which are testifi ed by him on oath, no matter in a form other than the one that is stipulated in the Rules.