The failure of the prosecution in this case to subject the appellant to medical examination is certainly fatal to the prosecution case especially when the ocular evidence is found to be not trustworthy. 83. Their failure to obtain the report of the Forensic Science Laboratory on the blood/semen stain on the salwar worn by the victim, compounds the failure of the prosecution.” MUNNA PANDEY v. STATE OF BIHAR 1035 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 29. Thus, medical examination of an accused assumes great importance in cases where the victim of rape is dead and the off ence is sought to be established only by circumstantial evidence. FURTHER STATEMENT UNDER SECTION 313 CrPC 30.. The further statement of the appellant convict was recorded under Section 313 CrPC. We were shocked to see the manner in which the Trial Court recorded the further statement of the appellant convict under Section 313 CrPC. In all, four questions were put to the appellant convict to enable him to explain the incriminating circumstances pointing towards his complicity in the alleged crime. The questions are as under:- “(1) Question :- Have you heard the evidence of the witnesses? Answer :- Yes (2) Question :- There is evidence against you that on 31.5.15, you took away X to your house by calling her, on pretext of watching TV. What have you got to say? Answer :- No Sir. (3) Question :- There is also evidence against you that you escaped after locking your house and later on the lock was broken and then the dead body of X was recovered lying under the wooden cot. What have you got to say in this regard? Answer :- No Sir. (4) Question :- It has also come in evidence against you that you in association with Preetam committed murder of X after raping her. What have you got to say? Answer :- No sir, it is wrong.” 31. However, for the purpose of holding the appellant herein guilty of the alleged crime, the Trial Court looked into the following additional circumstances:- (a) The circumstance of PW 3 seeing the Appellant lock the grill and the door of his room. (b) The circumstance that the Appellant gave false information to PW 3 that the victim had already left after watching TV. 1036 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. (c) The circumstance of the accused refusing to open the door as he did not have the key. (d) The circumstance of the Appellant giving the keys to the villagers after he was assaulted. (e) The circumstance of the alleged extra-judicial confession made by the co-accused Pritam Tiwari implicating the Appellant. 32. Indisputably, none of the aforesaid circumstances relied upon by the Trial Court were put to the appellant convict so that he could off er a proper explanation to the same. 33. Having regard to the fact that an innocent girl of 10 years was lured, raped and brutally murdered, we looked into the entire record very closely. Our mind got clouded with suspicion.