Similarly, Section 175 of the 2003 Act provides that the provisions of the Act are in addition and not in derogation of any other G law for the time being in force. Therefore, by specifically providing that the 2003 Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other laws for time being in force, the Parliament has preserved and give 106 (2015) 1 SCC 166 H 107 “RDDB Act” K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 767 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] precedence to the proceedings under SICA. Section 32 of SICA provides A an overriding effect to a scheme framed under it. Section 18 of the SICA mandates an operating agency such as BIFR to prepare a scheme providing for transfer of business, properties, assets, and liabilities of the sick industrial company on terms and conditions as may be specified in the scheme. B 289. SICA is a special statute and Section 32 read with Section 18(8) of the SICA gives an overriding effect to the Scheme. The 1996 Rehabilitation Scheme and the 2006 Revised Rehabilitation Scheme bind the appellant, but override Clause 2(j) of the terms and conditions of supply. C 290. Applying the above position of law to the facts of the present case, it is apparent that the respondent purchased ‘surplus land’ of NCSML in pursuance of the rehabilitation scheme framed by BIFR. When the respondent was given possession of the land in 2003, NCSML was a going concern as it continued to be operated by MDTLCIL. The D relevant clauses of the sale deed expressly excluded the respondent from the past dues of NCSML. In fact, the Clause 9 of the sale deed reiterated that NCSML would be responsible to pay any outstanding dues related to the land. Further, the 2006 Revised Rehabilitation Scheme solely puts the onus of clearance of electricity arrears on NCSML, while directing the appellant to release electricity connection to the respondent. E Thus, NCSML being the consumer, was obligated to clear the arrears of electricity pertaining to the said premises. The appellant could only recover dues from NCSML, since it was a going concern at the time when the respondent applied for supply of electricity. It is admittedly the case that the appellant did not institute any proceeding for recovery of dues from F NCSML. This has been observed in the dated 14 June 2010 of the High Court: “Under these circumstances, no recovery was made by Respondent against NCSML. If no recovery were made against NCSML, the demand of dues against the Petitioner (respondent G herein) which is the purchaser of portion of land owners by NCSML is not sustainable.” 291. The High Court has rightly observed that the appellant cannot selectively withhold electricity to the respondent under the guise of demand for past electricity arrears. The stance of the appellant is opposed H 768 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A to the rehabilitation scheme framed by the BIFR. The Revised Rehabilitation Scheme formulated by the BIFR will be binding on the appellant by virtue of Section 18(8) of SICA.