The exception cannot become the Rule. Yet, this what the appointments have been reduced to. It undermines the F independence of the Election Commission. The policy of the law is defeated. BB. IS THERE A VACUUM IN ARTICLE 324? SHOULD THE COURT INTERFERE, IF THERE IS ONE? 196. When Article 324(2) provides that the appointment of the G Chief Election Commissioner and the other Election Commissioners shall, subject to the provisions of any law, made in that behalf by Parliament, be made by the President, in view of Article 74, it would, undoubtedly, mean that the President is bound to make appointments in accordance with the advice of the Council of Ministers. Taking into consideration H 158 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Article 77 also and, in view of the Rules of Business made, which we have referred to in paragraph 51 of this , the appointment, till a law is made by Parliament, would be made by the President in accordance with advice of the Prime Minister. It was precisely such an appointment, which was the cause of unanimous concern to the Members of the Constituent Assembly, which we have already adverted to. B 197. The petitioners placed considerable reliance on the of this Court rendered in Vineet Narain and others v. Union of India and another67. No doubt, it is a case where the Court, inter alia, held as follows: “49. There are ample powers conferred by Article 32 read with C Article 142 to make s which have the effect of law by virtue of Article 141 and there is mandate to all authorities to act in aid of the s of this Court as provided in Article 144 of the Constitution. In a catena of decisions of this Court, this power has been recognised and exercised, if need be, by issuing necessary D directions to fill the vacuum till such time the legislature steps in to cover the gap or the executive discharges its role. It is in the discharge of this duty that the IRC was constituted by the Government of India with a view to obtain its recommendations after an in-depth study of the problem in to implement them by suitable executive directions till proper legislation is enacted. E The report of the IRC has been given to the Government of India but because of certain difficulties in the present context, no further action by the executive has been possible. The study having been made by a Committee considered by the Government of India itself as an expert body, it is safe to act on the recommendations F of the IRC to formulate the directions of this Court, to the extent they are of assistance. In the remaining area, on the basis of the study of the IRC and its recommendations, suitable directions can be formulated to fill the entire vacuum. This is the exercise we propose to perform in the present case since this exercise can no longer be delayed. It is essential and indeed the constitutional G obligation of this Court under the aforesaid provisions to issue the necessary directions in this behalf.