Based on the aforesaid principles we find no malady in the provisions in question which may be required to be cured.” 111. No doubt, the Court, in the said case also, after referring to G Rajiv Sarin and another v. State of Uttarakhand others59, found that the case at hand was not a case of no compensation. Incidentally, this Court also followed the in Shantilal Mangaldas (supra): 58 (2017) 1 SCC 667 59 (2011) 8 SCC 708 H 1120 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A “83. As already held a law seeking to acquire private property for public purpose cannot say that “no compensation” would be paid. The present case is a case of payment of “no compensation” at all. In the case at hand, the forest land which was vested in the State by operation of law cannot be said to be non-productive or unproductive by any stretch of imagination. The property in B question was definitely a productive asset. That being so, the criteria to determine possible income on the date of vesting would be to ascertain such compensation paid to similarly situated owners of neighbouring forests on the date of vesting. Even otherwise, the Revenue Authority can always make an estimation of possible C income on the date of vesting if the property in question had been exploited by the appellants and then calculate compensation on the basis thereof in terms of Sections 18(1)(cc) and 19(1)(b) of the KUZALR Act.” 112. In Rajiv Sarin (supra), the U.P. Zamindari Abolition and D Land Reforms Act, 1950, the Kumaun and Uttarakhand Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1960, introduced the U.P. Act in the Uttarakhand and Kumaun region. The rights of every intermediary in respect of forest land came to be vested with the State Government. This was as a result of an amendment. The amendment and Notice came to be challenged. This Court, speaking through a Constitution Bench, held, inter alia, as E follows: “68. The incident of deprivation of property within the meaning of Article 300-A of the Constitution normally occurred mostly in the context of public purpose. Clearly, any law, which deprives a person of his private property for private interest, will be amenable F to judicial review. In the last sixty years, though the concept of public purpose has been given quite wide interpretation, nevertheless, the “public purpose” remains the most important condition in to invoke Article 300-A of the Constitution. 69. With regard to claiming compensation, all modern Constitutions G which are invariably of democratic character provide for payment of compensation as the condition to exercise the right of expropriation. The Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act, the French Civil Code (Article 545), the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of USA and the Italian Constitution provided principles H ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1121 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] of “just terms”, “just indemnity”, “just compensation” as A reimbursement for the property taken, have been provided for. 70. Under the Indian Constitution, the field of legislation covering claim for compensation on deprivation of one’s property can be traced to Schedule VII List III Entry 42 of the Constitution.