It is in that circumstance, such land though classified as agricultural will have F to be treated as a land having non-agricultural potential more particularly for urban use. In that light, in appropriate cases depending on the location and the extent of land held by each of the land losers who is a part of the same acquisition, is required to be kept in view, while applying the yardstick to reckon the appropriate exemplar and arrive at the ultimate conclusion. Therefore, there can be no strait jacket formula that when the sale deeds G for the sale of large extent are available and large extent of lands are acquired that alone should be reckoned as the exemplar. What is material is its comparability, which would depend on case to case basis and that is for the Court to analyze based on the evidence available on record. H 926 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 17. If the above-noted criteria is kept in perspective, in the instant case as already noted and also demonstrated to us at the time of hearing with reference to the final development plan of Gurgaon-Manesar Urban Complex 2031 AD, the lands in issue are within the boundaries of the Municipal Corporation. Further, the very award dated 10.05.2006 passed by the LAO records that no crops are standing on the land. Therefore, B in that circumstance when smaller extent of land is available, the same would be used for urban development and not for agricultural purpose. Hence relying on Ex. R5 to R16 which are sale deeds of a large extent of agricultural land, would not be justified unless there was further evidence brought on record to demonstrate that the nature of the lands C sold under the said sale deeds and the lands notified are comparable to each other. In that view, though the reason assigned by the Reference Court is not appropriate on that aspect, the ultimate conclusion to eschew the said documents will stand justified. 18. If that be the position, from the documents which were relied D upon by the appellants-land losers, the most appropriate document to be relied upon was Ex.PX dated 07.12.2004 since it was earlier to the notification dated 11.01.2005 under Section 4, read with 17 of Act, 1894 and in close proximity thereto, which has been rightly done by the Reference Court. Since small extents of land belonging to the land losers, having non- agricultural potential in an urban area was notified for E acquisition, the said sale exemplar dated 07.12.2004 can be considered as comparable. The Reference Court was, therefore, justified in reckoning the same. Since the two dates are in close proximity, in our opinion, further addition of the escalation value for 35 days was not justified. The escalation of that nature is normally to be taken if there are no documents F within close proximity to the date of notification and a document of the larger time gap is the only available document to be taken into consideration, in which case, the escalation for a longer time gap is required to be given.