11 i) Notices under Sections 9 and 10 Whether awards are passed by the were not issued to the Collector in compliance with owners/interested persons for fling Sections 9, 10 and 11 of the LA Act claim statement to award and award notices as required under compensation is not done. Section 12 (2) of the Act are issued ii) Award has not been communicated and served upon the to the land owners as required E owners/interested persons and under Section 12(2) of the LA Act thereafter possession of the lands to work out their statutory rights has been taken by the State as provided under Section 18 of Government under Section 16 of the the Act. LA Act and transferred in favour of the company? Issue No. 12 i) The satellite maps issued by the (A) Whether the impugned notifications Department of Forest produced by acquiring the lands in the locality is the petitioners in the PIL petitions, legal and valid, as certain lands of clearly shows that two rivers, F them are declared for Wildlife namely, ‘Nuanal’ and ‘Nala’ are Sanctuary according to Gazette flowing in certain lands acquired notification dated 23.4.1984 and in favour of the beneficiary two rivers viz. “Nuanai" and "Nala" company. Hence, the control of are flowing in the lands in question the said rivers will be under the according to satellite map issued by said private company. If the the Department of Forest, would it acquisition proceedings are held to affect the ecology and environment be valid in law thereby the in the locality? doctrine of public trust will be violated. And ii) Requiring the beneficiary company G to maintain the flow of the above (B) If so, whether it amounts to two rivers would also affect the violation of provisions of Wildlife residents of the locality at large. (Protection) Act; Air (Prevention ii) The large scale construction for the & Control of Pollution) Act as well establishment of the proposed as Water (Prevention & Control of university will also adversely Pollution) act, and Environment affect the Wildlife Sanctuary, Protection Act of 1986 and for this entire Eco system and the reason would it affect either the ecological environment in the public interest or public injury or locality. H violation of Rule of Law? ANIL AGARWAL FOUNDATION ETC. ETC. v. STATE OF 1003 ORISSA AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] Issue Nos. 13, 14 & 15 i) Acquisition proceedings from the A 13. Whether the PIL must succeed if the stage of initiation till the date of question Nos. 12(A) & (B) are awards which in fact in law is not answered in favour of the appellants awarded and the alleged taking and for violation of any provisions over possession is in violation of of Land Acquisition Act as well as the Land Acquisition (Companies) Land Acquisition (Companies) Rules, 1963. Rules, 1963? ii) On the requisition made by the beneficiary company by B And misrepresenting facts and playing fraud on the State Government, 14.