The appellant’s track record is otherwise unquestionable. C 39. There is no quarrel with the propositions enunciated in Jitendra Kumar Srivastava (supra) and Veena Pandey (supra). The need to restate the settled position of law in, inter alia, D S Nakara v Union of India, (1983) 1 SCC 305; State of West Bengal v Haresh C Banerjee, (2006) 7 SCC 651, and; Dr Hira Lal v State of Bihar, (2020) 4 SCC D 346, is obviated – this Court has taken the consistent view that a person cannot be deprived of pension dehors the authority of law. 40. If things stood only thus, we may have considered remanding the matter back to the GSFC. But, given the long period of time elapsed, the age of the appellant, and our finding below on the evidentiary aspect, E we refrain from adopting that course of action. 41. On the alleged criminality, the undisputed and uncontroverted fact remains that the appellant was commanding the Force operating over a large area, including from where the Jerrycans allegedly moved from the Indian side to the Pakistani side. However, it is equally not in dispute that the actual manning of the area is by the subordinate personnel F of the Force. In the present instance, the subordinate personnel have been adjudged guilty, indicating their active involvement. Being the persons on the spot, it was their primary responsibility to ensure that no crimes/ offences/questionable incidents took place on their watch. Moreover, there is no direct evidence against the appellant. G 42. Illustratively, it would not be out of place to draw an analogy from a situation where a crime occurs under the jurisdiction of the Superintendent of Police and in the criminal proceedings emanating therefrom, some police personnel are held guilty, and thereafter, a criminal case as also departmental proceedings, based on such acts of H 444 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A commissions or omissions, is opened against the said Superintendent of Police, on the premise that such incident transpired under his overall watch and control. This would be an extreme and absurd extension of the principle of dereliction of duty and/or active connivance, in the absence of overwhelming material establishing guilt, or at the very least, negating the probability of his innocence. B 43. This Court would hasten to add that it should not be construed that the appellant, being the Commandant, had no responsibility/duty to prevent such incident, but to stretch it to the extent to label him an active partner and/or facilitator of such crime is wholly unjustified, having regard to the present factual matrix. Notably, solely on the strength of the C statement of Subedar Didar Singh – who is said to have confessed to his involvement in the incident but goes on to add that it was at the behest of and upon the direction of the appellant – the appellant was subjected to punishment. 44. In Mohd. Jamiludin Nasir v State of West Bengal, (2014) 7 D SCC 443, examining Sections 10 and 30 of the Evidence Act, 1872, it was held: “144.