(Please See AIR 1992, Rajasthan 181 DB). Further on the perusal of Section 3-A (3), it transpires that the tax specified therein is in substance a fine for the alleged offence of plying a vehicle without a valid permit or in any D manner not authorized by the permit to be plied. Such a penalty cannot be treated as a part of regulatory or compensatory tax and is out of the legislature competence of the State. The nature of penalty without providing any mechanism for show cause, adjudication or the appellate authority by E not providing any such mechanism, also offends the principle of natural justice. Therefore, it is held ultra vires the powers conferred in the State Legislature under Entry 56 to 57 of List-II. For this, we put our reliance on AIR 1992 Rajasthan 181 (DB).” (Emphasis added) 24. The High Court had also quashed the notifications dated F 06.01.2000, 01.04.2000 as also the decision dated 01.01.2000 being contrary to statutory provisions. Quashing of the notifications would be dealt with at a later stage after first dealing with the issue relating to declaration of Section 3A(3) as ultra vires. ANALYSIS: G A: Scope of Interference in Fiscal Statutes: 25. It is by now well settled that any tax legislation may not be easily interfered with. The Courts must show judicial restraint to interfere with tax legislation unless it is shown and proved that such taxing statute is manifestly unjust or glaringly unconstitutional. Taxing H THE STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH v. GOEL BUS SERVICE 905 KULLU ETC. ETC. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] statutes cannot be placed or tested or viewed on the same principles A as laws affecting civil rights such as freedom of speech, religion, etc. The test of taxing statutes would be viewed on more stringent tests and the law makers should be given greater latitude. It would be useful to refer to a couple of s on the above proposition. 26. In the case of R.K. Garg etc. vs. Union of India and B others, (1981) 4 SCC 675, the Constitution Bench was judging the constitutionality of economic legislation wherein challenge was to the validity of the provisions of Special Bearer Bonds (Immunities and Exemption Act, 1981) on the grounds of discrimination and violation of Article 14. P.N. Bhagwati J., speaking for himself, Chief C Justice Chandrachud, A.C. Gupta, S. Murtaza Fazal Ali and A.N. Sen, J.J., observed in paragraph 7 regarding the presumption in favour of constitutionality of the statute and that the burden is on the person who attacks it, to establish that there has been clear transgression of the constitutional principles. In paragraph 8, it was laid down that laws relating to economic activities should be viewed D with greater latitude than laws touching civil rights such as freedom of speech, religion, etc. The views of Justice Frankfurter in the case of Morey vs. Doud, 354 US 457 was relied upon. The same is reproduced hereunder: “In the utilities, tax and economic regulation cases, there are E good reasons for judicial self-restraint if not judicial deference to legislative .