Thus, while dealing with the claims of legitimate expectations, the Court has to necessarily balance the legitimate expectation of a claimant against the larger public interest. 25. In Union of India v. Hindustan Development Corporation,13 this Court clarifi ed the contours of the doctrine of legitimate expectation in the following terms: (i) legitimate expectation arises based on a representation or past conduct of a public authority; (ii) legitimacy of an expectation can be inferred only if it is founded on the sanction of law or custom or an established procedure followed in regular or natural sequence; (iii) legitimate expectation provides locus standi to a claimant for judicial review; (iv) the doctrine is mostly confi ned to a right of a fair hearing before a decision and does not give scope to claim relief straightaway; (v) the public authority should justify the denial of a person’s legitimate expectation by resorting to overriding public interest; and (vi) the Courts cannot interfere with the decision of an authority taken by way of policy or public interest unless such decision amounts to an abuse of power. 26. In Hindustan Development Corporation (supra), this Court cautioned against the use of the doctrine of legitimate expectation to safeguard a substantive right. Yet, in a series of subsequent decisions, this Court accepted that the doctrine of legitimate expectations has become a source of both procedural and substantive rights.14 In Punjab Communication Ltd v. Union of India15, this Court explained the diff erence between procedural and substantive legitimate expectation in the following terms: 13 (1993) 3 SCC 499 14 M P Oil Extraction v. State of M P, (1997) 7 SCC 592; National Building Construction Corporation v. S Raghunathan (1998) 7 SCC 66 15 (1999) 4 SCC 727 SIVANANDAN C T AND OTHERS v. HIGH COURT OF KERALA AND 691 OTHERS [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] “The procedural part of it relates to a representation that a hearing or other appropriate procedure will be aff orded before the decision is made. The substantive part of the principle is that if a representation is made that a benefi t of a substantive nature will be granted or if the person is already in receipt of the benefi t that it will be continued and not be substantially varied, then the same could be enforced.” A claim based on the doctrine of procedural legitimate expectation arises where a claimant expects the public authority to follow a particular procedure before taking a decision. This is in contradistinction to the doctrine of substantive legitimate expectation where a claimant expects conferral of a substantive benefi t based on the existing promise or practice of the public authority. The doctrine of substantive legitimate expectation has now been accepted as an integral part of both the common law as well as Indian jurisprudence. c. Substantive Legitimate Expectation 27. In R v. North and East Devon Health Authority, ex parte Coughlan16, the Court of Appeal laid down the test of abuse of power to determine whether a public authority can resile from a prima facie legitimate expectation.