i)The test, therefore, for service contracts, other than the two A contracts falling under Article 366(29A), would be ‘did the parties have in mine or intend separate rights arising out of the sale of goods? If there was no such intention, there is no sale even if the contract could be disintegrated.’; and j)The test for deciding whether a contract falls into one category B or another is, as what is the substance of the contract otherwise called, the dominant nature test. 3.4 It is submitted that therefore what is required to be considered is, did the contracting parties intend transfer of both goods and services, either separately or in an indivisible manner or in a composite manner. C 3.5 Shri N. Venkataraman, learned ASG has also submitted the following illustrations in support of his submission that the “Engineering Design & Drawings” of various models imported by the respondent for the purpose of manufacture of WTG are leviable to service tax and cannot be taxed as goods: D i) If a contracting parties A and B agree to the purchase of a huge boiler for erection, installation and commission in a factory, the intention of the contracting parties would envisage the sale of a boiler as goods and a rendition of erection, installation and commissioning as services. This contract can be either divisible, E indivisible or composite. Whatever may be the nature of the contract, the intending parties have contracted for both the sale of goods and the rendition of service. ii) A patient is under medical treatment at a hospital and the doctor had advised for a heart surgery and insertion of a stent. F Here again, it involves two elements. The transfer of the stent from the hospital into the body of the patient and the rendition of medical services by the doctor through the hospital. Even though it involves both goods (stends) and services (medical services/hospital services), the contracting parties, namely, the patient and the hospital, do not intend to buy and sell a stent G and also a rendition of medical services as 2 items of sale and service. The contract is essentially for the rendition of medical services and in the course of rendition, based on the advice of the doctor, a stent is inserted into the body of the patient. H 332 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 3.6 Making above submissions, it is prayed to allow the present appeals. 4. Shri V. Sridharan, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent has submitted that the precise question involved in the present appeal is, “whether service tax can be levied on pure sale (not B deemed sale) of customises drawings/designs contained in a medium prepared as per the specifications given by the customer.” 4.1 It is submitted that as per the settled position of law, supply of goods as per specifications given by the customer is also treated as sale of goods. C 4.2 It is submitted that the first question is, whether supply of goods as per specifications given by the customer is a contract of sale of goods or merely a contract for work on labour.