And when it was found that Govind had already expired, the name of B Govind was substituted with Shabbir. It was argued that from the evidence led, it is clear that the deceased was a person with criminal antecedents and therefore, could have had several enemies. Hence, according to the defence counsel, it is a case where in the night someone killed the son of PW-1; upon discovering his body, story was developed on the basis of guess work and so were the accused implicated. It was urged that the C Trial Court and the High Court did not properly test the prosecution evidence and, therefore, the s of the two courts below are liable to be set aside. Submissions on behalf of the appellant Shabbir:- D 14. The learned Amicus Curiae representing Shabbir adopted the submissions made by the learned counsel representing appellant Ravi Mandal and added that Shabbir was not named in the initial report. The statement of the witnesses would suggest that money was lent to Govind. Chhotu (the deceased) was demanding his money back from Govind and therefore, Govind had the motive. Consequently, on the basis of E suspicion, the name of Govind was mentioned but when it was found that Govind is not traceable, or was possibly killed, Shabbir’s name was substituted in place of Govind. In such circumstances, the implication of Shabbir is shrouded in suspicion and the prosecution story insofar as it relates to Shabbir, is not acceptable. The learned Amicus Curiae claimed F that the alleged recovery of country made pistol is bogus and false which has no public witness to support. The ballistic report has also been questioned on the ground that there is no explanation as to why the country made pistol was not sent for forensic examination before 15.01.2002, when it was allegedly recovered on 24.11.2001. It was also argued that the ballistic report has not been put to the accused while G recording his statement under section 313 Cr.P.C., hence it would have to be eschewed from consideration. Submissions on behalf of the State:- 15. Per contra, learned counsel for the State submitted that PW- 7 proved that the deceased had called for food to the cinema hall; PW- H 18 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 1 and PW-3 have corroborated PW-7 by stating that the food was supplied for three persons including the deceased; and PW-2 and PW-5 have proved that they saw the deceased and the two accused together at around midnight near the place from where dead body of the deceased was recovered next day morning. Therefore, the chain is complete to nail the accused. It was argued that the defence has not been able to B demonstrate that PW-5 and PW-2 were inimical to the accused. Hence, there is no reason for them to lie. Moreover, defence has not questioned the capacity of either PW-2 or PW-5 to recognise the accused and Chhotu. There is also no question put to PW-5 to doubt the presence of moonlight.