Another facet, not highlighted earlier, arises from the dictum in Sukanya Holdings (P) Ltd. v. Jayesh H. Pandya [(2003) 5 G SCC 531], a decision upholding rejection of an application under Section 8, on the ground that there is no provision in the Arbitration Act to bifurcate and divide the causes or parties, that is, the subject- matter of the suit/judicial proceedings, and parties to the arbitration agreement. The suit should be in respect of a “matter” which the parties have agreed to refer and which comes within the ambit of H GUJARAT COMPOSITE LIMITED v. A INFRASTRUCTURE 131 LIMITED & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] the arbitration agreement. The words “a matter”, it was interpreted, A would indicate that the entire subject-matter of the suit should be subject to arbitration agreement. Bifurcation of subject-matter or causes of action in the suit is not permissible and contemplated. Similarly, the parties to the suit should be bound by the arbitration agreement, as there is no provision in the Arbitration Act to compel B third persons who have not exercised the option to give up the right to have access to courts and be bound by the arbitration clause. This would violate party autonomy and consensual nature of arbitration. Bifurcation in such cases would result in a suit being divided into two parts, one being decided by the Arbitral Tribunal, and the other by the court or judicial authorities. This would defeat C the entire purpose and inevitably delay the proceedings and increase cost of litigation, cause harassment and on occasions give rise to conflicting s and s by two different fora. Cause of action in relation to the subject-matter relates to the scope of the arbitration agreement and whether the dispute can be resolved by D arbitration. Second mandate relating to common parties exposits the inherent limitation of the arbitration process which is consensual and mutual, an aspect we would subsequently examine. **** **** **** 31. We are clearly bound by the dictum of the Constitution Bench E in Patel Engg. Ltd. [SBP & Co. v. Patel Engg. Ltd., (2005) 8 SCC 618] that the scope and ambit of court’s jurisdiction under Section 8 or 11 of the Arbitration Act is similar. An application under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act need not set out in detail the disputes or the claims and may briefly refer to the subject- F matter or broad contours of the dispute. However, where judicial proceedings are initiated and pending, specific details of the claims and disputes are normally pleaded and, therefore, the court or the judicial authority has the advantage of these details. There is a difference between a non-arbitrable claim and non-arbitrable subject-matter. Former may arise on account of scope of the G arbitration agreement and also when the claim is not capable of being resolved through arbitration. Generally non-arbitrability of the subject-matter would relate to non-arbitrability in law. Further, the decision in Sukanya Holdings (P) Ltd. [Sukanya Holdings (P) Ltd. v. Jayesh H. Pandya, (2003) 5 SCC 531] has to be read H 132 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R.