Though C the LAO had determined the market value at Rs.12,50,000/- based on the same, the High Court taking into consideration that there was time gap, has adopted the same and added the escalation for the period between the date of the circular indicating the floor rates and the date of the notification. It is contended that the High Court having thus assigned appropriate reasons has determined the market value and awarded just D compensation. Therefore, the does not call for interference, is the submission. 9. In the light of the rival contentions, keeping in view that the only question herein is to determine the appropriate market value for the acquired lands, the well-settled yardsticks are to be kept in view and a E decision is to be taken as to whether the High Court was justified in interfering with the manner of consideration made by the Reference Court and as to whether the High Court was correct in adopting the amount as indicated in the circular providing for the floor rates for fixing the market value in the teeth of the other documents which were available F on record. In this regard, it is noted that the LAO at the first instance while passing the award dated 10.05.2006 has in fact, kept in view the circular dated 03.11.2005 issued by the Collector providing for the floor rates at Rs.12,50,000/- per acre and has, accordingly, determined the compensation. As narrated earlier, when the parties were before this Court in the first round of litigation in the case titled Surender Singh G Vs. State of Haryana & Ors. (supra), this Court having taken note of the governing factors as to the determination of market value had remanded the matter for fresh consideration though the circular relating to the floor rates was also available to the benefit of this Court to be noticed and applied if need be. In that view, in the light of the said circular, H without relying on the same, this Court had directed that the evidence be RAVINDER KUMAR GOEL v. THE STATE OF HARYANA 923 [A. S. BOPANNA, J.] tendered by the parties before the Reference Court so as to make such A evidence the basis for fresh determination to be made. Despite the same, the High Court in the present round has merely relied on the circular providing for the floor rates despite other evidence being available on record. Such determination is therefore not justified. From the records, it is pointed out that as contended on behalf of the parties, the sale B exemplars were brought on record to aid the Court to determine the market value, the consideration of which was required to be made to arrive at an appropriate market value. 10. While adverting to this aspect of the matter what is necessary to be noted is that the Reference Court before appreciating the evidence, C has kept in view the parameters laid down by this Court while considering a reference for the purpose of determining the market value of the acquired lands to arrive at the just compensation.