If benefit were to be given to PW-1’s statement, and he were to be believed that the police did not take any action, till he applied under Section 156 (3) his conduct, in not stating E anything during inquest proceedings, despite being informed about the facts, by PW-2, PW-3 and PW-4, that about seeing the boy in the company of A- 3 Husn Jahan, on 08-10-1999, and later, on the early morning of 09-10-1999, undermines the prosecution story. Likewise, if the prosecution version that there was a previous enmity or grudge on the part of the accused, which constituted a motive to kill the child, is correct, the conduct F of PW-4 and PW-5 in not taking any steps to ensure the safety of the child, when they saw him in the company of the accused, is unnatural. This is more so, because PW-5 is admittedly related to PW-1. As discussed previously, the testimony of PW-5 with respect to the circumstances under which he saw the deceased early morning of 09- G 10-1999, renders it untrustworthy and unbelieved. 23. This court is also of the opinion that apart from the above serious infirmities, there is no evidence, oral or any material object, which connects the appellant-accused with the crime. It has been repeatedly emphasized by this court, that the “last seen” doctrine has limited application, where the time lag between the time the deceased was seen H 982 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A last with the accused, and the time of murder, is narrow; furthermore, the court should not convict an accused only on the basis of the “last seen” circumstance. In Jaswant Gir vs. State of Punjab,6 this court explained the soundness of such a rule: “Without probing further into the correctness of the “last- seen” version emanating from P.W. 14’s evidence, even B assuming that the deceased did accompany the accused in their vehicle, this circumstance by itself does not lead to the irresistible conclusion that the Appellant and his companion had killed him and thrown the dead body in the culvert. It cannot be presumed that the Appellant and his companions C were responsible for the murder, though grave suspicion arises against the accused. There is considerable time-gap between the deceased boarding the vehicle of the Appellant and the time when P.W. 11 found the dead body. In the absence of any other links in the chain of circumstantial evidence it is not possible to convict the Appellant solely on the basis of D the “last-seen” evidence, even if the version of P.W. 14 in this regard is believed. In view of this, the evidence of P.W. 9 as regards the alleged confession made to him by the Appellant assumes importance. 24. Recently, in Rambraksh vs. State of Chhattisgarh,7 this court E after reviewing previous decisions, stated as follows: “10. It is trite law that a conviction cannot be recorded against the accused merely on the ground that the accused was last seen with the deceased.