However, in so far as penalty leviable under sub-section (6) of Section 45 of the Act, 1969 is concerned, the penalty leviable under the said provision is as such, a statutory penalty and there is no discretion F vested with the Commissioner as to whether to levy the penalty leviable under sub-section (6) of Section 45 of the Act, 1969 or not. Sub-section (5) of Section 45 provides that in the case of a dealer where the amount of tax assessed for any period under sections 41 or 50 or re-assessed for any period under Section 45 exceeds the amount of tax already paid G by the dealer in respect of such period by more than 25% of the amount of tax so paid, the dealer shall be deemed to have failed to pay the tax to the extent of difference between amount so assessed or re-assessed as aforesaid and the amount paid. Considering sub-section (5) of Section 45 of the Act, 1969, if a dealer is deemed to have failed to pay the tax to the extent mentioned in sub-section (5), there shall be levied on such H STATE OF GUJARAT AND ANR. v. M/s. SAW PIPES LTD. 495 [M. R. SHAH, J.] dealer a penalty not exceeding one and one-half times the difference A referred to in sub-section (5). Under the circumstances, to the aforesaid extent and on the difference of tax, as per sub-section (5) of Section 45, the respondent – assessee – dealer shall be liable to pay the penalty as mentioned under sub-section (6) of Section 45. 6.3 Section 45 confers power to levy/impose penalty in certain B cases. In certain cases, enumerated in Section 45 of the Act, the penalty imposable is distinct with the assessment such as Section 45(1)(a)(b). However, in so far as penalty imposable under Section 45(5) and 45(6) of the Act is concerned, it has a direct bearing or connection with the of assessment and the determination of the tax liability. Sub-section C (5) of Section 45 provides that where in the case of a dealer the amount of tax assessed for any period under Section 41 or 50; or re-assessed for any period under Section 44; exceeds the amount of tax already paid by the dealer under sub-section (1), (2) or (3) of Section 47 of the Act, in respect of such period by more than 25% of the amount of tax so paid, the dealer shall be deemed to have failed to pay the tax to the extent of D the difference between the amount so assessed or re-assessed as aforesaid and the amount paid. Sub-section (6) of Section 45 provides that where under sub-section (5), a dealer is deemed to have failed to pay the tax to the extent mentioned in the said sub-section, there shall be levied on such dealer a penalty not exceeding one and one-half times E the difference referred to in sub-section (5). Thus, on a bare reading of sub-sections (5) and (6) of Section 45, it is evident that it is integral part of the assessment that the penalty be levied on the difference of amount of tax paid and amount of tax payable as per the of assessment or re-assessment as the case may and the same shall be automatic.