…” (Emphasis supplied) 52. This Court in Dandu Lakshmi Reddy v. State of A.P., (1999) 7 SCC 69, it was held:- “20. It must now be remembered that the said procedure can be followed only when a witness is in the box. Barring the above two modes, a statement recorded under Section 161 of the Code can only remain fastened up at all stages of the trial in respect of that off ence. In other words, if the court has not put any question to the witness with reference to his statement recorded under Section 161 of the Code, it is impermissible for the court to use that statement later even for drawing any adverse impression regarding the evidence of that witness. MUNNA PANDEY v. STATE OF BIHAR 1049 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] What is interdicted by Parliament in direct terms cannot be obviated in any indirect manner.” (Emphasis supplied) 53. Sarkar (1999, 15th pp. 2319 etc.) says that a Judge is entitled to take a proactive role in putting questions to ascertain the truth and to fi ll up doubts, if any, arising out of inept examination of witnesses. But, as stated by Lord Denning in Jones v. National Coal Board, 1957 (2) All ER 155 (CA), the Judge cannot “drop the mantle of a Judge and assume the robe of an advocate”. 54. Of course, the Judge should not be a passive spectator but should take a proactive role as emphasized by Phipson (Evidence, 1999, 15th Ed, para 1.21 as under:- “When the form of the English trial assumed its modern institutional form, the role of the judge was that of a neutral umpire. This is still broadly the position in criminal cases. In civil cases, the abandonment of jury trial except in a few exceptional cases led to some dilution of this principle. The wholesale changes in 1999 of the rules governing civil procedure has emphasized the interventionist role of the modern judge. Whereas formally the tribunal was a ‘reactive judge (for centuries past at the heart of the English Common Law -- concept of the independent judiciary) instead we shall have a proactive judge whose task will be to take charge of the action at an early stage and manage its conduit.” (Emphasis supplied) 55. This Court in State of Rajasthan v. Ani @ Hanif and Ors. (1997) 6 SCC 162, made very relevant and important observations as under:- “11. … Section 165 of the Evidence Act confers vast and unrestricted powers on the trial court to put “any question he pleases, in any form, at any time, of any witness, or of the parties, about any fact relevant or irrelevant” in to discover relevant facts. The said section was framed by lavishly studding it with the word “any” which could only have been inspired by the legislative intent to confer unbridled power on the trial court to use the power whenever he deems it necessary to 1050 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. elicit truth.