41. Warranty of seaworthiness of ship.— (1) ××××× (2) ××××× (3) ××××× (4) ××××× (5) In a time policy there is no implied warranty that the ship shall be seaworthy at any stage of the adventure, but where, with the privity of the assured, the ship is sent to sea in an unseaworthy state, the insurer is not liable for any loss attributable to unseaworthiness. 55. Included and excluded losses.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, and unless the policy otherwise provides, the insurer is liable for any loss proximately caused by a peril insured against, but, subject as aforesaid, he is not liable for any loss which is not proximately caused by a peril insured against. (2) In particular— (a) the insurer is not liable for any loss attributable to the wilful misconduct of the assured, but, unless the policy otherwise provides, he is liable for any loss proximately caused by a peril insured against, even though the loss would not have happened 972 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. but for the misconduct or negligence of the master or crew; (b) unless the policy otherwise provides, the insurer on ship or goods is not liable for any loss proximately caused by delay, although the delay be caused by a peril insured against; (c) unless the policy otherwise provides, the insurer is not liable for ordinary wear and tear, ordinary leakage and breakage, inherent vice or nature of the subject-matter insured, or for any loss proximately caused by rats or vermin, or for any injury to machinery not proximately caused by maritime perils.” 15. The relevant Classing Rules to be noted are as follows: “The continuance of the classifi cation of any vessel is conditional upon the Rule requirements for periodical, damage and other surveys being duly carried out. The Committee reserves the right to reconsider, withhold, suspend, or cancel the class of any vessel or any part of the machinery for noncompliance with the Rules, for defects or damages which are not reported to ABS, for defects reported by the Surveyors which have not been rectifi ed in accordance with their recommendations, or for nonpayment of fees which are due on account of Classifi cation, Statutory or Cargo Gear Surveys. Suspension or cancellation of class may take eff ect immediately or after a specifi ed period of time. Class will be suspended and the Certifi cate of Classifi cation will become invalid in any of the following circumstances: i) If recommendations issued by the Surveyor are not carried out by their due dates and no extension has been granted. ii) If Continuous Survey items which are due or overdue at the time of Annual Survey are not completed and no extension has been granted. iii) If the other surveys required for maintenance of class, other than Annual, Intermediate or Special Surveys, are not carried out by the due date and no Rule allowed extension has been granted, or iv) If any damage, failure or deterioration repair has not been completed as recommended.