G If the guarantee of the Central Government ceases on demonetisation, then the same cannot be exchanged by the bearer of such bank notes. This has also been the argument of learned senior counsel Shri Shyam Divan. 15.5 Sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act states that on the recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank, the H 192 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Central Government may, by notification in the Gazette of India, declare that with effect from such date as specified in the notification, any series of bank notes of any denomination shall cease to be a legal tender,save at such office or agency of the Bank and to such extent as may be specified in the said notification.The Central Government B derives the power to issue a notification in the Gazette only on the recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank. The issuance of such a notification is an executive act which is backed by the recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank which has been accepted by the Central C Government. The notification has to indicate the date from which any series of bank notes of any denomination shall cease to be a legal tender, save at such office and to such extent as may be specified in the notification. 15.6 The essential ingredients of sub-section(2) of Section 26 of D the Act can be epitomised as under: i) on the recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank; ii) the Central Government by notification in the Gazette of India; E iii) may declare any series of bank notes of any denomination to cease to be legal tender; iv) with effect from such date as may be specified in the notification; F v) to such extent as may be specified in the notification; Therefore, under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act, the Central Government would act only on the recommendation made by the Central Board of the Bank, which is the initiator of demonetisation of bank notes. G 15.7 Learned Attorney General made a pertinent submission that it is not necessary that only on a recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank, the Central Government can demonetise any currency. That the Central Government has the power or jurisdiction to demonetise any bank note by H the issuance of a gazette notification. He further contended VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 193 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] that the powers of the Central Government cannot be A denuded to such an extent that unless and until a recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank is made to the Central Government, the latter cannot demonetise any currency. According to learned Attorney General, if such a strict interpretation is given to sub-section (2) of B Section 26, it would nullify the power of the Central Government to demonetise any bank note, having regard to the economic conditions of the country, the financial health of the economy and the monetary policy of the Government.It was submitted that the provision must be so interpreted so as to give a free play in the joints and C empower the Central Government to issue a notification in the Gazette of India, in to demonetise any bank note.