UNION TERRITORY OF LADAKH v. JAMMU AND KASHMIR 77 NATIONAL CONFERENCE [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] 10. He summed up his arguments by stating that, as of now1, the process of elections had already been set in motion. Learned ASG pointed out that fi ling of the nomination forms had begun from 16.08.2023 and reached the penultimate stage since the last date of withdrawal of nominations (26.08.2023) had already elapsed. It was stated that now only polling remained to be held on 10.09.2023 and in this view of the matter, this Court may set aside the Impugned . SUBMISSIONS BY RESPONDENT NO.1: 11. Learned counsel for R1 submitted that the s of the learned Single Judge dated 09.08.2023 and the learned Division Bench dated 14.08.2023 are self-speaking and have dealt in detail with the contentions of the Appellants and the same have been negated on cogent legal and factual grounds. It was submitted that there should not have been, in the fi rst place, any issue with the Appellants in granting the Plough symbol for the reason that R1 is the incumbent ruling party in the LAHDC, and was entitled to the Plough symbol, since the same was neither part of the list of free symbols nor allotted to any other National or State Party, so recognized, either by the ECI or by the Election Authority for the Union Territory of Ladakh. It was submitted that a completely partisan and arbitrary approach had been adopted by the Appellants in denying their preferred symbol (Plough) for oblique reasons to deny a level-playing fi eld between candidates. It was further submitted that the Plough symbol was well-known to the electorate since decades as being exclusively associated with R1, the denial of the same is clearly intended to cause unjustifi ed prejudice. It was stated that undue advantage would accrue to the remaining candidates/parties contesting the LAHDC elections. 12. He urged the Court to take note of the fact that despite the learned Single Judge having passed directions well before the commencement of even the fi ling of nominations, upheld by the learned Division Bench, which 1 This Court’s dated 01.09.2023 is quoted for ready reference: ‘Application for impleadment is rejected. Heard learned counsel for the parties. reserved. List the matter for pronouncement on 06.09.2023.’ 78 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. again, was before the starting of the nomination process, and despite there being a contempt case pending before the learned Single Judge, which was adjourned on prayer made by the Appellants, citing the pendency of the present appeal, the Appellants had not complied with the s of the High Court. In this backdrop, submitted learned counsel, to take a stand before this Court that now due to effl ux of time, no relief can be granted to R1, was clear dishonest conduct. It was submitted that this Court would not let a just cause be defeated only because of delay occasioned by the other side and the Appellants cannot take the advantage of such delay caused by them to the detriment of R1’s bonafi de, legitimate and genuine claim.