90. Apart from protecting a public good, such conditions also have a reasonable nexus with objects of the 2003 Act, such as a robust development of the electricity industry, protecting the interests of H K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 693 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] consumers as well as the financial interests of the distribution licensees. A The need to protect the financial interests of distribution licensees has been explicitly recognized in Section 61 of the 2003 Act which empowers the Appropriate Commission to specify the terms and conditions for the determination of tariff in accordance with commercial principles. The relevant part of the Section 61 reads as follows: B “61. Tariff regulations.- The Appropriate Commission shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, specify the terms and conditions for the determination of tariff, and in doing do, shall be guided by the following, namely:- *** C (b) the generation, transmission, distribution, and supply of electricity are conducted on commercial principles; *** (d) safeguarding of consumers’ interests and at the same D time, recovery of the cost of electricity in a reasonable manner;” (emphasis supplied) 91. The Conditions of Supply and Electricity Supply Code which require the payment of electricity dues of a previous owner as a condition E for the grant of an electricity connection have a clear nexus to the scheme of the parent legislations and the objectives sought to be achieved. It is just and reasonable for distribution licensees to specify conditions of supply requiring the subsequent owner or occupier of premises to pay the arrears of electricity dues of the previous owner or occupier as a F pre-condition for the grant of an electricity connection to protect their commercial interests, as well as the welfare of consumers of electricity. V. Whether arrears of electricity can become a charge or encumbrance over the premises 92. The next issue that arises for our consideration is whether G arrears of electricity can become a charge or encumbrance over the premises. An ancillary issue is whether such arrears can become a charge on the property only through an express provision of law. Before we embark upon our analysis, we clarify that it is unnecessary to deal with the submission of the auction purchasers regarding registration under H 694 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Section 17 of the Indian Registration Act 1908 for the conditions of supply contained in a contract to constitute a charge. The decision of this court in M.L. Abdul Jabbar Sahib v. M.V. Venkata Sastri & Sons,44 was limited to the extent that it holds that a charge created by an act of parties under Section 100 of the Transfer of Property Act 1882 does not attract the provisions of Section 59 of the Indian Registration B Act 1908. 93. The contention of the auction purchasers is that arrears of electricity are not a charge on property as they do not run with the land. They have relied on the decision in Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation v. Haji Abdulgafur Haji Hussenbha45 to submit that C enforcement of a charge against the property in the hands of a transferee for value without notice of the charge does not arise, and electricity dues are simply an unsecured debt.