In the ESZ around Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary in Karnataka, 107 villages are situated within it. In the ESZ around Kanha National Park and Phen Wildlife Sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh, 168 villages are situated within it. In the ESZ around Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve in Maharashtra, 150 villages are situated within it. In the ESZ around B Jaisamand Wildlife Sanctuary in Rajasthan, 83 villages are situated in it. Even in a small ESZ around Keoladeo National Park in Rajasthan, 22 villages situated in it. 48. If the direction as issued by this Court in paragraph 56.5 of the dated 3rd June 2022 (supra) is continued, then no permanent C structure would be permitted to come up for whatsoever purpose in the aforesaid ESZs. As already pointed out from the aforesaid examples, hundreds of villages are situated within the ESZs in the country. If no permanent construction is to be permitted for any purpose, a villager who is desirous to reconstruct his house would not be permitted.Similarly, if there is an extension in their family and some additional construction is D required for accommodating the enlarged family, the same would also not be permitted. Similarly, if the Government decides to construct schools, dispensaries, anganwadis, village stores, water tanks and other basic structures for improvement of the life of the villagers, the same would also not be permitted. The effect of the will be to prevent the State E or the Central Government from constructing roads and provide other facilities to the villagers. 49. If the dated 3rd June 2022 (supra) is not modified, it will also be impossible for the Forest Departments to conduct eco- development activities around National Parks and Sanctuaries. The said F activities are required with the dual objectives of protection of wildlife and provision of benefits for the local communities. MoEF & CC provides financial assistance to the States under the Centrally Sponsored Scheme- Integrated Development of Wildlife Habitats, which includes assistance for eco-development activities. These activities often involve construction of small structures which are permanent in nature in areas including G ESZs. For example, the said activities which are likely to be prohibited are thus: (i) The construction of community halls, bridges, threshing floors, fish-drying platforms, drinking water storage, etc., for the benefit of local communities/villages; H 630 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A (ii) The construction of forest chowkies, watch towers, and other structures for protection of wildlife and forests; (iii) The construction of interpretation centres, toilets and other basic structures for the environmental education of visitors to National Parks and sanctuaries. B 50. It is further to be noted that there are various regulated and permissible activities. There are also certain projects of national and strategic importance such as construction of National Highways, Railways, Defence related infrastructure etc. The effect of the direction in 56.5 of the dated 3rd June 2022 (supra) is that all such activities will be C permanently prohibited. In this respect, it is to be noted that MoEF & CC has issued an Office Memorandum dated 17th May 2022 which required that any activity listed in Schedule of the EIA Notification 2006, when conducted in a notified ESZs, or in the case of National Parks and Sanctuaries for which no ESZ has been finally notified, when conducted within 10 kilometres of such National Park or Sanctuary, requires the D consideration and recommendation of the NBWL or its Standing Committee in addition to the Environment Clearance under the 1986 Act.