It gets per force reiterated that an award could be said to be suffering from “patent D illegality” only if it is an illegality apparent on the face of the award and not to be searched out by way of re-appreciation of evidence. The submissions as regards drawing of adverse inference are themselves adverse to the ethos of Sections 34 and 37 of the Act of 1996 and are required to be rejected. E 25.1. In other words, as regards the question of downrating, the questions relating to the value of certificate dated 08.11.2005 and the effect of the claimant not taking up this issue earlier would again fall directly within the arena of appreciation of evidence and reach to the extent of rendering the finding on preponderance of probabilities. The Arbitral Tribunal has taken a particular view of the evidence before it. If F it were an appeal against the award, the approach of the Court could have been different but, not so while examining the award within the confines of Section 34 of the Act. We would hasten to observe in this regard too that even in a regular appeal against a decree of the Trial Court, the Appellate Court would not substitute its own views without G specifically recording a finding as to the error in the decision under challenge. In any case, if the approach of the High Court in the present case is countenanced, the result would only be of making every award susceptible to challenge before the Court on those very grounds which are, otherwise, of appeal or revision and which are not permitted by the legislature to be taken under Section 34 of the Act of 1996. H 444 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 26. Having found the two major issues dealt with by the High Court not standing within the confines of limited jurisdiction under Section 34 of the Act of 1996, we may again observe that the approach of the High Court in relation to the other two comparatively minor issues relating to variable charges on 4MW power and netting-out principles is also suffering from the same error, where the High Court has deeply analysed B the evidence on record to hold that the Arbitral Tribunal has not been correct in its propositions or inferences. The award relating to variable charges on 4 MW power 27. The Arbitral Tribunal examined the documentary evidence, C viz. letters exchanged between the parties dated 02.01.2009 and 19.01.2009 and came to a finding that State was not justified in its submission that the available capacity of the plant stood reduced. 28. In this item too, the High Court has reinterpreted the said communications dated 02.01.2009 and 19.01.2009 by which parties agreed to the manner of billing for supply of 15.8 MW power out of 19.8 MW D capacity of the power station reserved for Government of Goa by permitting the balance 4 MW to be sold to third parties; and the High Court arrived at a different finding of fact on the evidence on record.