2.5. Near Village Beltaroda, the Accused Digambar asked Pooja H and Govind to wait for some time. The Accused Digambar DIGAMBAR v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA 99 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] visited his Aunt’s house and picked up a sickle from there A and concealed it near his waist. After coming back to the spot where Pooja and Govind were waiting for him, the Accused took the duo along with himself to his village. En route, he stopped his motorcycle near a canal and tried to convince them, but they were not ready to listen. At that B time the Accused Digambar took out the sickle and assaulted on Govind’s throat. When Pooja tried to get hold of him, he removed the handle of the sickle and thrust the backside of the sickle in Pooja’s neck. These attacks by the Accused Digambar resulted in death of the duo. C 2.6. The Accused then rushed to the Bhokar Police Station and himself lodged the FIR No. 404/2007 that he has committed the aforesaid crime. 2.7. Pursuant to the investigation, chargesheet was filed and trial was conducted by the court of Additional Sessions D Judge at Bhokar, Nanded. The Trial Court, vide its dated 17th July 2019, convicted the Accused Digambar for the offences punishable under Sections 302/201/120-B of IPC and sentenced him to death penalty while the Accused Mohan was convicted for the offences punishable under Sections 302/201/34/120-B of IPC and sentenced to undergo E life imprisonment. 2.8. The Accused Digambar had filed Criminal Appeal No. 810/ 2019 and the Accused Mohan had filed Criminal Appeal No. 808/2019 before the High Court. Confirmation Case No. 1/2019 was also lodged for confirmation of the death F sentence imposed upon the Accused Digambar. 2.9. Vide the impugned , the High Court confirmed the death sentence imposed upon the Accused Digambar and dismissed the Criminal Appeals. 3. We have heard Shri Sudhanshu S. Choudhari and Shri Subodh G S. Patil, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants and Shri Chinmoy Khaladkar, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State. 4. Shri Choudhari submits that both the Trial Court and the High Court have grossly erred in convicting the appellant. He submits that the confessional statement made by the appellant Digambar to the Police H 100 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A could not have been relied on for resting the conviction. He submits that apart from the extra-judicial confession, there is absolutely no evidence to convict the appellants. He further submits that it is improbable that both the appellants and the two deceased travelled on one motor-cycle. Learned counsel submits that only on the basis of the evidence of last seen together, without there being any corroboration, the conviction could B not have been recorded by the Trial Court. 5. Shri Subodh Patil also submits that the gap between the appellants being last seen in the company of the deceased and the deceased found to be dead is long enough to give benefit of doubt to the appellants.