2 to 4-appellants, Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Mrs. Anjana Prakash, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the complainant/ respondent No.1 and Shri Siddharth Dharmadhikari, learned counsel on behalf of the respondent No.2-State. 5.Shri Divan submitted that the complaint, even taken at its face value, does not disclose that ingredients of any offence have been made F out. He submits that, along with the Inter-Corporate Deposit Agreement (hereinafter referred to as the “ICDA”), the complainant/respondent No.1 had pledged the shares in question. As per the LoP, the accused No.1 Company was entitled to invoke the pledge at any time in the event of default or otherwise. In the LoP, the authority was also given to sell G and dispose of the said securities. He further submits that, as per the LoP itself, the accused No.1 Company could have sold the shares to themselves. 6.Shri Divan further submits that, with regard to the very same dispute, the arbitration proceedings were conducted between the parties. H 850 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A The complainant/respondent No.1 has participated in the said arbitration proceedings and an arbitral award is also passed by the learned Arbitral Tribunal. He submits that the same is challenged by the complainant/ respondent No.1 by a proceeding under Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter referred to as the “Arbitration Act”). He further submits that it could clearly be seen that the dispute B between the parties, if any, is purely of civil nature and continuation of the criminal proceedings would amount to nothing else but an abuse of process of law. 7. Dr. Singhvi, on the contrary, submits that the complainant/ respondent No.1 had informed the accused persons/appellants herein as C early on 5th June 2000 to sell the shares. However, the accused persons/ appellants chose not to sell the shares at that point of time as the market price was much higher. He submits that the very fact that the shares were sold by the accused persons/appellants to a Company wherein accused Nos. 2 and 3 are also Directors, at a meagre price, clearly D exhibits a dishonest intention on their behalf. He submits that the complainant/respondent No.1, for the first time, came to know about the illegal act committed by the accused persons/appellants in the year 2009 and as such, there is no delay in lodging the complaint. He submits that, in any case, the trial court, the Revisional Court as well as the High Court have concurrently held that insofar as the offence punishable under E Section 406 of the IPC is concerned, a case is made out. He therefore submits that an interference with the concurrent findings of fact would not be permissible. He, therefore, prays for dismissal of the complaint. 8. With the assistance of the learned counsel for the parties, we have perused the documents placed on record. F 9.It is not in dispute that an ICDA came to be entered into between M/s Ganesh Benzoplast Limited, i.e.