(3) Whether a party can rely on notings in the Government files without having communication of any on the basis thereof ? B 1. EFFECT OF DELAY AND LACHES IN AVAILING THE REMEDIES AGAINST THE FINAL PUBLICATION OF RECORD OF RIGHTS 23. Before applying the principles laid down by this Court on delay and laches. We deem it appropriate to refer the legal position. C 24. In P. S. Sadasivaswamy v. State of Tamil Nadu, (1975) 1 SCC 152, it was laid down that a person aggrieved by an of promoting a junior over his head should approach the court at least within six months or at the most a year of such promotion. It is not that there is any period of limitation for the Courts to exercise their powers under Article 226 nor is it that there can never be a case where the Courts D cannot interfere in a matter after the passage of a certain length of time, but it should be a sound and wise exercise of discretion for the Courts to refuse to exercise their extraordinary powers under Article 226 in the case of persons who do not approach it expeditiously for the relief. 25. In New Delhi Municipal Council v. Pan Singh and others, E (2007) 9 SCC 278, this Court has opined that though there is no period of limitation provided for filing a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, yet ordinarily a writ petition should be filed within a reasonable time. In the said case the respondents had filed the writ petition after seventeen years and the court, as stated earlier, took note F of the delay and laches as relevant factors and set aside the passed by the High Court which had exercised the discretionary jurisdiction. 26. In State of Uttaranchal and another v. Sri Shiv Charan Singh Bhandari and others, (2013) 12 SCC 179, this Court, while considering the issue regarding delay and laches observed that even if G there is no period prescribed for filing the writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, yet it should be filed within a reasonable time. Relief to a person, who puts forward a stale claim can certainly be refused relief on account of delay and laches. Anyone who sleeps over his rights is bound to suffer. H 1066 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 27. In Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board and others v. T. T. Murali Babu, (2014) 4 SCC 108, this Court opined as under:- “13. First, we shall deal with the facet of delay. In Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation v. Balwant Regular Motor B Service, Amravati and others, AIR 1969 SC 329, the Court referred to the principle that has been stated by Sir Barnes Peacock in Lindsay Petroleum Co. v. Prosper Armstrong Hurd, Abram Farewall, and John Kemp, (1874) 5 PC 221, which is as follows:- “Now the doctrine of laches in Courts of Equity is not an C arbitrary or a technical doctrine.