It is of central importance, since without if the regime is not democratic. C The second aspect of democracy is reflected in the rule of values (other than the value of majority rule) that characterize democracy. The most important of these values are separation of powers, the rule of law, judicial independence, human rights, and basic principles that reflect yet other values (such as morality and justice), social objectives (such as the public peace and security), and appropriate D ways of behavior (reasonableness, good faith). This aspect of democracy is the rule of democratic values. This is a substantive aspect of democracy. It too is of central importance. Without it, a regime is not democratic. Both aspects, the formal and the substantive, are necessary for E democracy. They are “nuclear characteristics.” I discussed them in one case, holding that “these characteristics are based ... upon the recognition of the sovereignty of the people manifested in free and egalitarian elections; recognition of the nucleus of human rights, among them dignity and equality, the existence of separation of powers, the rule of law, and an independent judiciary.” F (Emphasis Supplied) 145. He dilates on the qualities that inform a substantive democracy as follows: - “Democracy is not satisfied merely by abiding by proper elections G and legislative supremacy. Democracy has its own internal morality based on the dignity and equality of all human beings. Thus, in addition to formal requirements (elections and the rule of the majority), there are also substantive requirements. These are reflected in the supremacy of such underlying democratic values H and principles as separation of powers, the rule of law, and ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 127 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] independence of the judiciary. They are based on such fundamental A values as tolerance, good faith, justice, reasonableness, and public . Above all, democracy cannot exist without the protection of individual human rights – rights so essential that they must be insulated from the power of the majority. Democracy is not just the law of rules and legislative supremacy; B it is a multidimensional concept. It requires recognition of both the power of the majority and the limitations on that power.” (Emphasis Supplied) 146. On the topic of Change and Stability and elaborating on ‘The Dilemma of Change’, the learned Judge writes: - C “The Dilemma of Change The need for change presents the judge with a difficult dilemma, because change sometimes harms security, certainty, and stability. The judge must balance the need for change with the need for stability. Professor Roscoe Pound expressed this well more than D eighty years ago: “Hence all thinking about law has struggled to reconcile the conflicting demands of the need of stability and of the need of change. Law must be stable and yet it cannot stand still.” Stability without change is degeneration. Change without stability E is anarchy. The role of a judge is to help bridge the gap between the needs of society and the law without allowing the legal system to degenerate or collapse into anarchy.