To this end, he also relied on Article 50 of the G Constitution which mandates that “The State shall take steps to separate the judiciary from the executive in the public services of the State.” 14. He then submitted, relying on the dated 05.04.20237 passed by this Court in the review proceedings, that there is an 7Hereinafter, “Review ”. H 46 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A equivalence of core judicial function between Judicial Officers in the District Judiciary and the Judges of the High Court. Therefore, he submitted that the increase in pay of the High Court judges must equally reflect in the increase of pay of judicial officers of the District Judiciary. 15. Lastly, he submitted that in a unified judicial system, the service B conditions, designations etc. must be uniform across the country. He relied on the of this Court in All India Judges Association v. Union of India (1993) 4 SCC 288 as well as the reports of the FNJPC and SNJPC to contend that the uniformity must be maintained across the country in terms of pay and designation of the District Judiciary. 16. The Petitioners, i.e., the All India Judges Association were C represented by Gourab Banerji, Senior Advocate. He supported the Report of the SNJPC and supported the arguments made by the amicus curiae. He also brought to the attention of this Court a recent decision in Director, KPTCL v. CP Mundinamani (2023) SCC Online SC 401 to defend the recommendation of the Commission on the accrual of last D increment for the purposes of pension. He also sought to support the recommendation of the Commission on additional quantum of pension to be given from the age of 75 years by contending that the same is not only reasonable but is also already given by a number of States from an even younger age. In this regard, he also submitted that the age of retirement of district judges is lower than that of High Court and Supreme E Court judges and therefore, they must be entitled to retiral benefits at a younger age. 17. The arguments on behalf of the All India Retired Judges Association were put forward by V Giri, Senior Advocate. While supporting the contentions made by the Amicus Curiae as well as Gourab F Banerji, Senior Advocate, he reiterated the need for an urgent implementation of the Report of the SNJPC, especially in respect of pension to be paid to retired officers. 18. The counter-arguments were led by KM Nataraj, the Ld. Additional Solicitor General of India who appeared for the State of Uttar G Pradesh. He was also supplemented by Amit Anand Tiwari, AAG for Tamil Nadu, Ms Pratishtha Vij, counsel for the State of Himachal Pradesh, Siddharth Dharmadhikari, Counsel for the State of Maharashtra, Nachiketa Joshi, Counsel for the State of Madhya Pradesh, Ajay Pal, Counsel for the State of Punjab, Madhumita Bhattacharjee, Counsel for H the State of West Bengal, Shuvodeep Roy, Counsel for the State of ALL INDIA JUDGES ASSOCIATION v. UNION OF INDIA 47 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.]