Not all persons come from the same social background, and having a uniform legislative enactment is thus, stated to be diffi cult. It is in these circumstances that this court has been exercising its jurisdiction, despite such reservations, under Article 142 of the Constitution of India. 7. A marriage is more than a seemingly simple union between two individuals. As a social institution, all marriages have legal, economic, cultural, and religious ramifi cations. The norms of a marriage and the varying degrees of legitimacy it may acquire are dictated by factors such as marriage and divorce laws, prevailing social norms, and religious dictates. Functionally, marriages are seen as a site for the propagation of social and cultural capital as they help in identifying kinship ties, regulating sexual behaviour, and consolidating property and social prestige. Families are arranged on the idea of a mutual expectation of support and amity which is meant to be experienced and acknowledged amongst its members. Once this amity breaks apart, the results can be highly devastating and stigmatizing. The primary eff ects of such breakdown are felt especially by women, who may fi nd it hard to guarantee the same degree of social adjustment and support that they enjoyed while they were married.” 15. Secondly, the court must also keep in mind that the home which is meant to be a happy and loveable place to live, becomes a source of misery and agony where the partners fi ght. When there are children they become direct victims of the said fi ghts, though they may practically have no role in the breakdown of marriage. They suff er irreparable harm especially when the couple at loggerheads, remain unmindful and unconcerned about the psychological and mental impact it has on her/him. Way back in 1982, this Court in Thrity Hoshie Dolikuka v. Hoshiam Shavaksha Dolikuka, (1982) 2 SCC 544, observed: SMT. ROOPA SONI v. KAMALNARAYAN SONI 885 [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] “29…. A broken home, however, has a diff erent tale to tell for the children. When parents fall out and start fi ghting, the peace and happiness of home life are gone and the children become the worst suff erers. It is indeed sad and unfortunate that parents do not realise the incalculable harm they may do to their children by fi ghting amongst themselves. The husband and the wife are the persons primarily responsible for bringing the children into this world and the innocent children become the worst victims of any dispute between their father and the mother. Human beings with frailties common to human nature, may not be in a position to rise above passion, prejudice and weakness. Mind is, indeed, a peculiar place and the working of human mind is often inscrutable. For very many reasons it may unfortunately be not possible for the husband and wife to live together and they may be forced to part company. Any husband and wife who have irreconcilable diff erences, forcing them to part company, should, however, have sense enough to understand and appreciate that they have their duties towards their children.