A that the city has identified “no special benefits” conferred on her, and has not identified any “special quantifiable burdens” created by her new store that would justify the particular dedications required from her which are not required from the public at large.” xxx xxx xxx B “[1c, 2d, 11a] We think the “reasonable relationship” test adopted by a majority of the state courts is closer to the federal constitutional norm than either of those previously discussed. But we do not adopt it as such, partly because the term “reasonable relationship” seems confusingly similar to the term “rational basis” which describes the minimal level of scrutiny under the Equal Protection C Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. We think a term such as “rough proportionality” best encapsulates what we hold to be the requirement of the Fifth Amendment. No precise mathematical calculation is required, but the city must make some sort of individualized determination that the required dedication is related D both in nature and extent to the impact of the proposed development.” 126. The remand was limited to the first condition. In regard to the second condition, viz., dedication for the pedestrian bicycle pathway, the Court held as follows: E “[1g, 13] With respect to the pedestrian/bicycle pathway, we have no doubt that the city was correct in finding that the larger retail sales facility proposed by petitioner will increase traffic on the streets of the Central Business District. The city estimates that the proposed development would generate roughly 435 additional trips per day.9 Dedications for streets, sidewalks, and other public F ways are generally reasonable exactions to avoid excessive congestion from a proposed property use. But on the record before us, the city has not met its burden of demonstrating that the additional number of vehicle and bicycle trips generated by petitioner’s development reasonably relate to the city’s requirement G for a dedication of the pedestrian/bicycle pathway easement. The city simply found that the creation of the pathway “could offset some of the traffic demand ... and lessen the increase in traffic congestion.” As Justice Peterson of the Supreme Court of Oregon explained H in his dissenting opinion, however, “[t]he findings of fact that the ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1135 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] bicycle pathway system ‘could offset some of the traffic demand’ A is a far cry from a finding that the bicycle pathway system will, or is likely to, offset some of the traffic demand.” 317 Ore., at 127, 854 P.2d, at 447 (emphasis in original). No precise mathematical calculation is required, but the city must make some effort to quantify its findings in support of the dedication for the pedestrian/ B bicycle pathway beyond the conclusory statement that it could offset some of the traffic demand generated.” 127. No doubt, there were vigorous dissents expressed by the four learned Judges. In the dissent by Justice Stevens, with whom Justice Blackmun and Justice Ginsburg agreed, the essential nexus requirement C propounded in Nollan (supra) was recognised.