So far as the argument that livelihood of farmers and people associated with Bullock Cart Race could be adversely affected if the prohibition which the writ petitioners want us to impose by striking E down the aforesaid Amendment Statute is concerned, we do not need to address this argument. We have, in this dealt with the question as to whether provisions of 1960 Act are being violated or not, as was held in the case of A. Nagaraja (supra), decided prior to the three Amendment Statutes. The effect of the said prohibition upon the livelihood of the people of that State is said to be espoused in I.A. No.170346 of F 2022. If we were to hold that these bovine sports offended the provisions of the 1960 Act, the deprivation apprehended would have come within the reasonable restriction clause enshrined in Article 19(6) of the Constitution of India. In such a situation, a law made in that regard would also be protected in relation to the challenge on the basis of Article G 21 of the Constitution of India being procedure established by law. 39. In the of A. Nagaraja (supra),the Division Bench of this Court, while examining the claim of the petitioners therein held that Jallikattu is dangerous not only to bulls but also to human and many participants and spectators sustained injury in course of such events. So H THE ANIMAL WELFARE BOARD OF INDIA AND ORS. v. 473 UNION OF INDIA & ANR. [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] far as human beings are concerned, their injuries would attract the A principle of Tort known in common law as “volenti non fit injuria”. 40. In the light of what we have already discussed, we answer the five questions referred to us in the following terms:- (i) The Tamil Nadu Amendment Act is not a piece of colourable B legislation. It relates, in pith and substance, to Entry 17 of List III of Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India. It minimises cruelty to animals in the concerned sports and once the Amendment Act, along with their Rules and Notification are implemented, the aforesaid sports would not come within the mischief sought to be remedied by C Sections 3, 11(1) (a) and (m) of the 1960 Act. (ii) Jallikattu is a type of bovine sports and we are satisfied on the basis of materials disclosed before us, that it is going on in the State of Tamil Nadu for at least last few centuries. This event essentially involves a bull which is set free in an D arena and human participants are meant to grab the hump to score in the “game”. But whether this has become integral part of Tamil culture or not requires religious, cultural and social analysis in greater detail, which in our opinion, is an exercise that cannot be undertaken by the Judiciary. The E question as to whether the Tamil Nadu Amendment Act is to preserve the cultural heritage of a particular State is a debateable issue which has to be concluded in the House of the People.