3.2 It is further submitted that the High Court, while drawing a statutory presumption, has failed to consider that when execution of the sale deed is doubtful and the cloud over the execution has not been G cleared, no statutory presumption could be drawn in respect of existence or regularity of the PoA by virtue of an endorsement, when the PoA which was allegedly executed in a foreign country could not be produced and execution of the PoA has been done contrary to Section 33(1)(c) of the Registration Act. H MANIK MAJUMDER AND OTHERS v. DIPAK KUMAR SAHA 153 (DEAD) THROUGH LRS. & OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] 3.3 It is submitted that the High Court has erroneously relied on A the of this Court in the case of Prem Singh and others v. Birbal and others, (2006) 5 SCC 353. Relying upon the aforesaid decision, the High Court has seriously erred in holding that there is a presumption that “a registered document is validly executed”. 3.4 It is further submitted that despite the original plaintiffs having B sale deeds in their favour, plaintiff No.1 sought a declaration of the title. It is submitted that assuming that the plaintiffs were dispossessed from ‘Schedule C’ property of which relief was claimed, then an application/ proceeding under Section 6 of the Specific Relief Act could have also been filed, which was not done because the plaintiffs in the suit knew C that there was a cloud in their title to the suit land. 3.5 It is urged that even the original owner of the land, Braja Mohan Dey, who was alleged to have executed the missing PoA, was never made a party to the suit. He was neither a party to the suit nor was examined as one of the witnesses by the trial Court in support of D the case of the plaintiffs. It is submitted that even the sale deeds executed by virtue of the said PoA were not proved by examining the registering authorities or by production of documents registering such sale. 3.6 Now so far as the effect of Section 33(1)(c) of the Registration Act, it is submitted that insofar as the PoA was concerned, no evidence E was led to the effect that the same was in compliance of the provisions of Section 33(1)(c) of the Registration Act. It is urged that as such the trial Court has observed that the plaintiffs had not produced the PoA before the Court and there was no explanation/averment made in the plaint for such non-production. It is submitted that even the subsequent conduct/attempt on the part of the plaintiffs seeking amendment of the F plaint before the first appellate Court deserves consideration. It is submitted that having found that non-production of the PoA by the plaintiffs would come in their way, and in fact had gone against them, the plaintiffs tried to make out altogether a new case by averring that the copy of the PoA was handed over to original defendant No.1 and G despite several requests, he never returned the same.