It B is submitted that payment of Rs.31.05 Crores paid to the shareholders did not lead to acquisition of any interest in the asset already acquired by the assessee. It is submitted that the rights already enjoyed by the assessee on the said property were absolute. It is submitted that therefore the assessment passed by the AO was erroneous, bad in law and prejudicial to the interest of the revenue and therefore, the same was C rightly set aside by the Commissioner under Section 263 of the IT Act, which ought not to have been set aside by the ITAT. 4.2 It is further submitted that Commissioner rightly observed that the assessee company was the clear owner of the property and that there was no encumbrance preventing the sale of the said property. The D family dispute among the three shareholders brother and two sisters, which resulted in a settlement by way of arbitration award, as per which the three shareholders became entitled to Rs.10.35 Crores each for transfer of shares as well as relinquishment of any right or claim to additional shares in the company had nothing to do with the improvement E in the property. It is submitted that shareholders only concern was that the sale proceeds should first be utilized for making payments to them as per the arbitration award. It is submitted that therefore both, the Tribunal as well as the High Court have erred in concluding that the payment of Rs.10.35 Crores were admissible as deduction. F 4.3 It is submitted that both, the ITAT as well as the High Court have committed error in setting aside the of the Commissioner on the basis of the ratio laid down in the cases of Chemosyn Ltd. (supra) and Smt. Shakuntala Kantilal (supra), without appreciating that the facts of the present case are not identical to the facts involved in the relied upon s. G 4.4 It is further submitted that even otherwise as part of the asset sold was used in the business of the assessee and hence, capital gains on that part of the asset sold is required to be taxed as per the provisions of Section 50A of the IT Act and hence, the entire of Commissioner of Income Tax could not have been set aside. H 316 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Making above submissions it is requested to allow the present Appeal. 5. Present appeal is vehemently opposed by Shri Firoze Andhyarujina, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the assessee. B 5.1 It is vehemently submitted by learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the assessee that in the facts and circumstances of the case, no error has been committed by the High Court in upholding the passed by the ITAT setting aside the passed by the Commissioner holding that the Commissioner wrongly exercised the revisional powers C under Section 263 of the IT Act. 5.2 It is submitted that the High Court relying upon the law laid down by this Court in the case of Malabar Industrial Co. Ltd. (supra) has specifically held that the Appellate Tribunal rightly considered the s of assessment and the of the Commissioner and thereafter concluded that Commissioner wrongly assumed the power under Section D 263 of the IT Act.