These identities must be read in their historical and social context instead of through the narrow lens of ascription. 252. When Article 15 is read in the broader manner indicated above, the word “sex” in Article 15 of the Constitution takes within its meaning “sexual orientation” not only because of the causal relationship between homophobia and sexism but also because ‘sex’ is used as a marker of identity. The word ‘sex’ cannot be read independent of the social and historical context. Thus, ‘sex’ in Article 15 includes within its fold other markers of identity which are related to sex and gender such as sexual orientation. Thus, a restriction on the right to enter into a union based on sexual orientation would violate Article 15 of the Constitution. b. Recognizing the right of queer persons to enter into a union will not lead to social chaos 253. The Union of India submitted that if non-heterosexual couples are permitted to enter into a union, then the State will also have to extend the right to incestuous, polygamous, or polyandrous relationships. To answer this question, this Court has to deal with the issue of whether the State has the power to place restrictions on the right to enter into a union and if so, what is the extent of such restrictions. 254. The right to enter into a union like every other fundamental right can be restricted by the State. It is now established that the Courts must use the four-prong proportionality test to assess if the infringement or restriction of a right is justifi ed.218 The courts must use the integrated proportionality standard formulated in Akshay N Patel v. Reserve Bank of India219 to test a violation of the right to enter into a union because the right is traceable to more than one provision of Part III. However, if the State restricts the right or has the eff ect of restricting the right (both directly and indirectly) 218 See Modern Dental College & Research Centre v. State of Madhya Pradesh, (2016) 4 SCC 346; Puttaswamy (9J) (supra) 219 Civil Appeal No. 6522 of 2021 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1373 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] based on any of identities mentioned in Article 15, such a restriction would be unconstitutional. 255. We do not accept the argument of the Union of India that permitting non-heterosexual unions would lead to allowing incestuous, polyandrous, and polygamous unions for all communities (the personal laws of some religious and trial communities currently permit polygamy or polyandry). The restriction on the ground of sexual orientation will violate Article 15 of the Constitution. On the other hand, the restriction on incestuous, polygamous or polyandrous unions would be based on the number of partners and the relationships within the prohibited degree. The Court in that case will determine if the State’s interest in restricting the right based on the number of partners and prohibited relationships is proportionate to the injury caused due to the restriction of choice.