In Sagar’s case (supra), it is stated as under: “9. The Constitution Bench has given a caution that power under Section 319 of the Code is a discretionary and C extraordinary power which should be exercised sparingly and only in those cases where the circumstances of the case so warrant and the crucial test as notice above has to be applied is one which is more that prima facie case as exercised at the time of framing of charge, but short of satisfaction to an extent that the evidence, if goes unrebutted, would lead to D conviction….” 12. If the evidence already on record produced by the prosecution is considered on the touchstone of law laid down by the Constitution Bench of this Court in Hardeep Singh & Ors. case (supra), it does not go beyond suspicion. There is no eye-witness to the occurrence. All E what has been stated by PW-2 (brother of the deceased) is that the deceased who was working with the appellant as Manager though claimed to be a partner by the complainant, that there was some dispute regarding money between the appellant and the deceased. Rajesh Sharma whose statement was got recorded by police under Section 164 of the Cr.P.C. F also retracted therefrom while appearing in court as PW-5. He stated that it was recorded by the police under threat of involvement in some false case. He also did not raise any finger towards the appellant. Rather he was the first person to visit the house of the deceased after the murder and informed the appellant to reach there. He was working as part time cook with the family of the deceased. Without any material G brought on record, the widow of the deceased merely stated that she is sure that the appellant had committed murder of her husband as there was no other enemy. One of the brothers of the deceased who appeared as PW-1, who was not present at the spot, did not utter a single word against the appellant. H VIKAS RATHI v. THE STATE OF U.P. & ANR. 11 [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] 13. The aforesaid material was not sufficient if examined in the A light of the law laid down by this Court for summoning of an additional accused in exercise of power under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C. to establish complicity of the appellant in the crime. 14. After conclusion of the entire evidence and examination of the material produced on record even against the charged accused, the B trial court had acquitted them vide dated 15.03.2017. It shows that material produced on record was not even sufficient for conviction of the accused against whom chargesheet was filed. 15. One of the arguments raised by learned counsel appearing for the parties was that in the case in hand, the High Court instead of C appreciating the material placed on record by the parties in the form of evidence to find out as to whether a case was made out for summoning of the appellant as an additional accused, remitted the matter back to the trial court for consideration afresh.