The State Government reduced the minimum qualifying marks to 35%. This Court did not approve the reduction of qualifying marks E from 50% to 35%. The following was laid down in para 33 : (SCC p. 523) “33. We, however, cannot hold that the subsequent decision of the Government thereby changing qualifying norms by reducing the minimum qualifying marks from 50% to 35% after the holding of the examination and at the time when the result of F the examination was to be announced and thereby changing the said criteria at the verge of and towards the end of the game as justified, for we find the same as arbitrary and unjustified. This Court in Hemani Malhotra v. High Court of Delhi [(2008) 7 SCC 11 : (2008) 2 SCC (L&S) 203] , has held G that in recruitment process changing rules of the game during selection process or when it is over are not permissible.” 53. The learned counsel for the appellant has submitted that s of this Court laying down the criteria for selection cannot be changed during the course of selection has been referred to a H 558 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A larger Bench by a of this Court in Tej Prakash Pathak v. High Court of Rajasthan [(2013) 4 SCC 540 : (2013) 2 SCC (L&S) 353], hence the of this Court laying down the criteria cannot be changed during the course of the selection is yet to be tested. For the purposes of the present case we proceed on the assumption that even if the criteria can be changed by B selecting body from time to time, the said change cannot be affected arbitrarily. The present is a case where change in criteria has been affected and altered arbitrarily with the object of downgrading and not upgrading the standards of selection. The High Court did not commit any error in not upholding the change C of criteria effected after start of selection process with which finding we fully concur.” 30. The decision to reduce the cut-off marks is not based upon an objective-criteria, namely, the suitability of the candidate to the post, but for extraneous reason, i.e., to accommodate otherwise ineligible D candidates. In other words, earlier cut-off marks were fixed on a conscious consideration of the marks required to be eligible for the post, which could not be reduced, unless there is a sound reason that the reduced marks also would be sufficient to be suitable for that post. 31. Having held that the of the Division Bench of the High E Court of Gujarat cannot be sustained in the eye of law, we are inclined to balance the equities and do justice by exercising our power under Article 142 of the Constitution of India. We agree with the submission of Mr. Vikas Singh, learned senior counsel, that the object behind the decision is laudable and the private respondents belong to the special category comprising of women, ex-servicemen and physically challenged.