The only way going forward was to generate a fresh E-way bill, which has not been done. 16. On the point of quantum of penalty limited to which notice was issued, it was submitted that from the sequence of facts, it is obvious that the conduct of the appellant does not entitle it to any leniency, especially in tax matters, where the parties have to be very serious as government revenue is involved; which in turn has an eff ect on the very functioning of the Governments, both at the Central and State levels. VARDAN ASSOCIATES PVT. LTD. v. ASSISTANT 1125 COMMISSIONER OF STATE TAX CENTRAL SECTION DIRECTIONS: 17. Having considered the matter, the Court wishes to confi ne its consideration only to the quantum of penalty, as was made clear vide dated 8th December, 2022. It is not in doubt that stricto sensu, the appellant cannot shirk from its responsibility of complying with the requirement in law to generate a fresh E-way bill, if for any reason the consignment had not been transported. However, viewing the factual scenario, which is not disputed, i.e., the appellant is the owner of the consignment and was using it in connection with its contractual obligations in Uttar Pradesh and then having a similar contract in West Bengal and no evidence has been placed on record that shows that the consignment was to be sold/used for any other purpose in respect of any other party, this Court is persuaded to interference. 18. The appellant has been saddled with the tax amount of ₹ 54,00,000/- (Rupees Fifty four lakhs). The law also provides for imposition of penalty. Ordinarily, we may have refrained from interfering, but because there was an E-way bill that was generated and in view of the discussions made hereinabove, we are inclined to vary the s passed by the High Court. 19. In our opinion, ends of justice would be served if the penalty amount is reduced to 50% of the penalty imposed, i.e., ₹27,00,000/- (Rupees Twenty seven lakhs). Therefore, ₹54,00,000/-(Rupees Fifty four lakhs) being the tax imposed, is upheld and penalty would now be ₹27,00,000/- (Rupees Twenty seven lakhs), totalling to ₹81,00,000/- (Rupees Eighty one lakhs), which shall be paid by the appellant. The said amount, subject to payment(s) already made, shall be deposited with the concerned Authority on or before 29th February, 2024. Upon the same being done, the transportation vehicle as also the consignment shall be released to their rightful owners expeditiously. At the same time, the appellant is cautioned to be vigilant in future. 20. The appeal stands disposed of in the afore-elucidated terms. It is made clear that this has been passed under Article 142 of the Constitution of India and shall not be treated as a precedent. Pending application stands disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal disposed of. Divya Pandey