The MRTP Act was repealed by Section 66 of the Competition Act, B 2002 which was brought into force w.e.f. 1st September 2009. Chapter VIII-A introduced subsequently provided for establishment of an Appellate Tribunal to hear appeals against s passed by the Competition Commission of India. The matters pending before MRTP Commission were transferred to the (then) Competition Appellate Tribunal C (hereinafter, “COMPAT”). By dated 29th July 2011, COMPAT framed issues in the application filed under Section 12B of the MRTP Act. The issues related to maintainability of the petition; whether unfair trade practice had been proved; and if so, were they prejudicial to the public; and also, if the complainant was entitled to any compensation. D 6. Having regard to the evidence produced, COMPAT by its 1 concluded that the developer had falsely represented to the general public (including the complainant) the time within which the project was to be completed, i.e., three years, but did not complete the construction for more than a decade. The COMPAT held the developer guilty of unfair trade practice under Section 36-A (1) (i), (ii) & (ix) of the MRTP Act E and also ruled that the complainant was justified in not paying further instalments and the developer committed illegality by cancelling the allotment. Noticing the law laid down by this court in Ghaziabad Development Authority vs. Ved Prakash Agarwal,2 COMPAT held that it and its predecessor (MRTP Commission) could not assume the F powers of a civil court to grant relief akin to specific performance. Hence, it declined the relief of delivery of possession of the flat. The COMPAT however directed the developer to pay compound interest @ 15% per annum to the legal representatives of the complainant with interest calculated on each instalment from the date of its deposit till 30th April 2005, i.e., the date on which the allotment was cancelled. Besides, the G respondents were directed to pay the amount already invested by the 1 Dr (Mrs) Manjeet Kaur Monga vs. Mr K.L. Suneja, Civil Appeal No. 39/2009, dated 3rd August 2015. 2 Ghaziabad Development Authority vs. Ved Prakash Agarwal, C.A. No. 794/2001, dated 14th May 2008. H 1084 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A complainant, i.e., ` 4,53,750/-, to the legal representatives of the complainant. 7. COMPAT’s was challenged by both the complainant and the developer through separate appeals before this court, which by its dated 18th July 2017,3 upheld the award of compensation to legal B representatives of the complainant in terms of the formula adopted by the COMPAT. This court observed as follows: “… Merely because a liquidated amount is not stipulated or determined by the Tribunal, it cannot be said that it is not the compensation. Once the interest, as ed by the Tribunal, C is calculated that will be the amount of compensation referred to under section 12-B of the Act.” 8. This court also noticed the contentions of the developer that when it had taken the Pay from Citibank on 30th April 2005, the amount of ` 4,53,750/- covered by that instrument had been deducted D from its current account.