7 herein) and the Deputy Director of Local Bodies, Burdwan Division, to determine whether the respondents were D entitled to the appointment on compassionate grounds. 2.2. That on the basis of the report submitted by the enquiry committee and after following the criteria set in the West Bengal Municipal, Employees’ (Recruitment) Rules, 2005, the Board of Councillors of Burdwan Municipality in its meeting held on 30th May E 2013, approved a list of 62 eligible candidates for the purpose of recruitment in Group ‘C’ and ‘D’ posts in the said Municipality. The names of the respondents figured in the said list. 2.3. That the Chairman of the Burdwan Municipality vide Memo dated 12th June, 2013, forwarded a list approved by a resolution passed F in the meeting of the Board of Councillors on 30th May, 2013, along with an inspection/enquiry report and other testimonials to the Director of Local Bodies, Government of West Bengal (Respondent No. 4), for approval of appointment on compassionate grounds. The names of the Writ Petitioners appeared in the list of eligible candidates under Group G ‘C’ under the exempted category, ‘dependents of persons who died in harness’. 2.4. That on 7th June 2014, the Chairman, Burdwan Municipality, Respondent No. 5, forwarded the proposed list of eligible candidates for appointment on compassionate grounds under a Memo bearing number 512/XII-6, to the Director of Local Bodies, Government of West Bengal, H 620 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A (appellant herein), and requested the Director of Local Bodies to look into the matter sympathetically. 2.5. That since the Director of Local Bodies or the Government of West Bengal did not take steps pursuant to the receipt of the list of candidates, Debabrata Tiwari (Respondent No. 1) filed a Writ Petition B bearing No. 3243 (W) of 2015 before the High Court of Calcutta seeking appointment on compassionate grounds under the relevant exempted category. The Secretary of the Burdwan Municipality submitted before the High Court that Respondent No. 1 was eligible for being considered for appointment on compassionate grounds, under the exempted category of dependents of persons who died in harness and that the Burdwan C Municipality had already sent the necessary papers in this regard to the Office of the Directorate of Local Bodies, Government of West Bengal. 2.6. The said Writ Petition was disposed of by an dated 17th March, 2015, with a direction to the Director of Local Bodies, Government of West Bengal to take a decision on the recommendation D of the Chairman of the Municipality within a period of ten weeks from the date of communication of the said and to communicate such decision to the Chairman of the Municipality within a week thereafter. 2.7. In continuation of the direction of the High Court in W.P. No. 3243 (W) of 2015, the Director of Local Bodies, Government of West E Bengal, on 16th October, 2015 passed an wherein it was stated that the Director of Local Bodies had no authority to consider the appointments under compassionate grounds in Urban Local Bodies, unless the policy in the matter was laid down by the State Government.