He pointed out that there is absolutely no corroboration to the testimony of the minor witness which is full of material B contradictions and improvements. He submitted that evidence of PW-1 Ajay is not reliable. He pointed out that according to the prosecution’s case, Ajay did not disclose the incident till early morning to anyone. He disclosed it for the first time to the milkman Golu alias Surender who came to his house around 5 am. In fact, PW-6 also claims that he heard C the said milkman saying that the deceased has been murdered. He submitted that the prosecution has not examined the milkman, which is fatal to the prosecution case. He has submitted that the presence of Ajay at the time of the incident is extremely doubtful. He submitted that there was complete darkness in the house at the relevant time and therefore, it was not possible for the witness Ajay to see the accused. D He urged that there is every possibility that the witness Ajay was tutored. In any event, he submitted that a very limited role has been ascribed to the appellant of holding the hands of the deceased while accused no.1 assaulted her with a knife. 6. The learned counsel appearing for the State while supporting E the impugned s submitted that there is no rule that for maintaining a conviction on the sole testimony of a minor witness, corroboration is necessary. He submitted that alleged contradictions and improvements in the testimony of minor witness Ajay are totally insignificant which do not make his evidence unreliable. He would, therefore, submit that no F interference is called for with the view taken by both Courts. OUR FINDINGS 7. We have carefully considered the submissions. The fate of the case depends on the testimony of the minor witness Ajay (PW-1). Under Section 118 of the Evidence Act, 1872 (for short, “the Evidence Act”), a G child witness is competent to depose unless the Court considers that he is prevented from understanding the questions put to him, or from giving rational answers by the reason of his tender age. As regards the administration of oath to a child witness, Section 4 of the Oaths Act, 1969 (for short “Oaths Act”) is relevant. Section 4 reads thus: H 1028 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A “4. Oaths or affirmations to be made by witnesses, interpreters and jurors.—(1) Oaths or affirmations shall be made by the following persons, namely:— (a) all witnesses, that is to say, all persons who may lawfully be examined, or give, or be required to give, evidence by or before B any court or person having by law or consent of parties authority to examine such persons or to receive evidence; (b) interpreters of questions put to, and evidence given by, witnesses; and (c) jurors: C Provided that where the witness is a child under twelve years of age, and the court or person having authority to examine such witness is of opinion that, though the witness understands the duty of speaking the truth, he does not understand the nature of an oath or affirmation, the foregoing provisions of this section and D the provisions of Section 5 shall not apply to such witness; but in any such case the absence of an oath or affirmation shall not render inadmissible any evidence given by such witness nor affect the obligation of the witness to state the truth.