14.1. In D.S. Nakara (supra), this Court reaffirmed the principles that pension is not a bounty or a matter of grace depending on the sweet will of the employer as also that pension is not an ex gratia payment and B is a social welfare measure rendering socio-economic justice. In the referred passages, this Court observed and exposited as under: - “20. The antequated notion of pension being a bounty, a gratuitous payment depending upon the sweet will or grace of the employer not claimable as a right and, therefore, no right to pension can be C enforced through Court has been swept under the carpet by the decision of the Constitution Bench in Deokinandan Prasad v. State of Bihar [(1971) 2 SCC 330] wherein this Court authoritatively ruled that pension is a right and the payment of it does not depend upon the discretion of the Government but is D governed by the rules and a government servant coming within those rules is entitled to claim pension. It was further held that the grant of pension does not depend upon anyone’s discretion. It is only for the purpose of quantifying the amount having regard to service and other allied matters that it may be necessary for the authority to pass an to that effect but the right to receive E pension flows to the officer not because of any such but by virtue of the rules. This view was reaffirmed in State of Punjab v. Iqbal Singh. [(1976) 2 SCC 1] ***** ***** ***** 30. The discernible purpose thus underlying pension scheme or a F statute introducing the pension scheme must inform interpretative process and accordingly it should receive a liberal construction and the courts may not so interpret such statute as to render them inane (see American Jurisprudence, 2d, 881). 31. From the discussion three things emerge: (i) that pension is G neither a bounty nor a matter of grace depending upon the sweet will of the employer and that it creates a vested right subject to 1972 Rules which are statutory in character because they are enacted in exercise of powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 and clause (5) of Article 148 of the Constitution; (ii) that the H 1072 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A pension is not an ex gratia payment but it is a payment for the past service rendered; and (iii) it is a social welfare measure rendering socio-economic justice to those who in the hey-day of their life ceaselessly toiled for the employer on an assurance that in their old age they would not be left in lurch. It must also be noticed that the quantum of pension is a certain percentage correlated to the B average emoluments drawn during last three years of service reduced to 10 months under liberalised pension scheme. Its payment is dependent upon an additional condition of impeccable behaviour even subsequent to retirement, that is, since the cessation of the contract of service and that it can be reduced or withdrawn C as a disciplinary measure.” 14.2.