Unless and until there is a sacrifice by all concerned, including the creditors, financial G institutions, unsecured creditors, labourers, there shall not be any revival of the sick industrial company / company. [Para 11.15, 11.16][1065-B-F] 1.4 Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the unsecured creditors that the unsecured creditors should have an option not to accept the scaled down value of its dues and to wait till the H 1030 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A scheme for rehabilitation of the sick company has worked itself out, with an option to recover the debt post such rehabilitation is concerned, the same has no substance and cannot be accepted. It is required to be noted that in a given case, because of the scaling down of the value of the dues of the creditors, the company survives. The company has survived in view of the rehabilitation B scheme because of the sacrifice/scaling down the value of the dues of the creditors including the financial institutions. How such a benefit can be permitted to be given to the unsecured creditors, who does not accept the scaled down value of its dues. Such an unsecured creditor cannot be permitted to take the benefit of C the revival scheme, which is at the cost of other creditors including the financial institutions and even the labourers. [Para 12][1066- C-E] 1.5 Now, so far as the view taken by the High Court that the unsecured creditor had an option not to accept the scaled D down value of its dues and can wait till the scheme for rehabilitation of the company has worked itself out with an option to recover the debt with interest post such rehabilitation is accepted, in a given case, the sick company, which has been able to revive because of the scaling down the value of the dues, may again become sick, if the entire dues of the unsecured creditors E are to be paid thereafter. It may again lead to becoming such a revived company again as a sick company. If such a thing is permitted, in that case, it will again frustrate the object and purpose of enactment of the SICA, 1985. [Para 13][1066-F-H] 1.6 Scaling down the value of the dues is under the F rehabilitation scheme prepared under Section 18 of the SICA, which has a binding effect on all the creditors. Therefore, the same cannot be said to be violative of Article 300A of the Constitution of India. The law permits framing of the scheme taking into consideration and to provide the measures G contemplated under Section 18, therefore, the rehabilitation scheme which provides for scaling down the value of dues of the creditors /unsecured creditors and even that of the labourers cannot be said to be violative of Article 300A of the Constitution of India as submitted on behalf of the unsecured creditors. [Para 14][1067-B-C] H MODI RUBBER LIMITED v. CONTINENTAL CARBON INDIA 1031 LTD. 1.7 The view taken by the High Court of Delhi in Continental A Carbon India Ltd. that on approval of a scheme by the BIFR under the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985, the unsecured creditors has an option not to accept the scaling down value of its dues and to wait till the rehabilitation scheme of the sick company has worked itself out with an option to recover B the debt with interest post such rehabilitation is erroneous and contrary to the scheme of SICA, 1985 and the same deserves to be quashed and set aside and is accordingly quashed and set aside.