They tell the prospective customers that the service of the ATM round the clock is being made available by the appellant Bank which would infl uence the prospective customers to make a decision about which service provider he or she has to choose. The signboard also helps the people to fi nd out which bank is off ering better services as compared to the other bank. The fact that a bank has more ATM centers than the other banks, in the competitive trade and business, provides the incentive to the people to choose that bank. The fact that one bank has an ATM center in the given location helps them to get more account-holders in that area. This also serves the commercial interest of the bank. Whether particular action is an advertisement or not would depend on whether the person wants to promote directly or indirectly his product or service. If by any communication, the communicator tries to infl uence the people to buy his product or service or attract towards his product or service then it would be a guiding factor to identify whether a particular communication of the communicator tantamount to be an advertisement.” 18. Keeping the aforesaid principles enunciated in mind when we turn our attention to the facts on hand in general and particularly the photographs appended (Annexure P-7 in Civil Appeal No.5363 of 2023 @ SLP(C) 5761 of 2018 and Annexure P-6 in Civil Appeal No.5362 of 2023 @ SLP(C) 5703 of 2018),prima facie, it would indicate that as dealers of Tata Motors and Hyundai Vehicles appellants have displayed their name board of respective business establishment which is also depicting the nature of the respective vehicles which are being sold and it would be inseparable part of the appellants’ business establishment. By mere mentioning the name of the product in which the business establishment is being run would not partake the character of the advertisement until and 42 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. unless by such display customers are solicited. In the absence of the display of the name board or sign board either by a business establishment or any other establishment including public offi ces and professionals or schools or colleges etc. it would drive the potential customer to such a situation where it would be neigh impossible to identify the business establishment from which the potential customer proposes to buy. However, if the sign boards so displayed would in any manner promote a particular product or goods or services or in other words it would attract customers to purchase a particular brand of product or goods or services and such display provides information about the product/ services and solicit the customers, it may amount to advertisement while the latter would only be an information to the public. The statutory provisions noted hereinabove does not empower the Municipal Corporation or its agency to demand tax for display of information through name boards or display boards. It would emerge from the statutory provisions noted hereinabove that the legislative intent was never to impose tax liability on sign boards but only on advertisement.