1,00,000/- per cent. 4.4 Learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants have taken us to the observations made by the Reference Court on the G location of the lands acquired. 4.5 Making above submissions, it is prayed to enhance the amount of compensation. 5. While opposing the present appeals, Shri V. Chitambaresh, learned Senior Advocate and Mr. C.K. Sasi, learned counsel appearing H RAJALAKSHMI v. THE SPECIAL TAHSILDAR (LA) 873 KOYILANDY & ANOTHER [M. R. SHAH, J.] on behalf of the beneficiary/acquiring body have vehemently submitted A that most of the landowners as such have accepted the negotiated compensation of Rs. 1,00,000/- per cent. It is submitted that therefore the High Court has not committed any error in determining the compensation taking into consideration the negotiated price accepted by most of the landowners. B 5.1 It is submitted that so far as the sale exemplar relied upon on behalf of the appellants is concerned, it is submitted that as the same property was sold for commercial purpose, by giving cogent reasons the High Court has rightly discarded the same. It is submitted that so far as the other sale exemplars are concerned, they were post-acquisition and C therefore the same are rightly discarded by the High Court. 5.2 Making above submissions, it is prayed to dismiss the present appeals. 6. We have heard learned counsel for the respective parties at length. D At the outset, it is required to be noted that by the impugned common and the High Court has determined the compensation at the rate of Rs. 1,35,000/- per cent considering the negotiated price at Rs. 1,00,000/- per cent and giving further 35% rise. It is required to be noted that out of the total acquisition, with respect to E 145 landowners for 28.89 acres, the requiring authority purchased the land on the basis of negotiations at the sale consideration of Rs. 1,00,000/ - per cent. Therefore, many landowners accepted the compensation at negotiated price of Rs. 1,00,000/- per cent. However, the present landowners were not satisfied and therefore at their instance the references were made under section 18 of the Act. Therefore, as such, F the High Court rightly took into consideration the negotiated price for which the other various landowners sold their land for the very project for a sale consideration of Rs. 1,00,000/- per cent. It is true that the landowners who are aggrieved by the amount of compensation determined by the Land Acquisition Officer are not bound by the negotiated price G agreed by the other landowners, however, the same can be said to be a relevant consideration for determining the compensation in the present case. 7. Now so far as the reliance placed upon the sale exemplar relied upon on behalf of the landowners is concerned, by giving cogent reasons, H 874 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A the High Court has discarded the same by observing that the price mentioned in the said sale exemplar is artificial and exorbitant.