v. KAMLESH 679 RANI BHATLA [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] expeditiously, though not later than 10 weeks from today. The A copy of the passed will be furnished to the petitioner. The respondents, while passing the , will also take note of the of this court dated 18.03.2005, passed in WP(C) No. 3303/2003, titled Nirmal Verma vs MCD and Anr. 8. The writ petition and the application are disposed of with B the aforesaid directions.” (quoted verbatim from the paper book) 4.On 14th May 2015, the Deputy Director of Education, District South East, Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi had C rejected her plea and, inter-alia, ed:- “… AND WHEREAS, the operative part of the dated 18.03.2005 in W.P. (C) No. 3303/2003 of Hon’ble High Court Delhi is re-produced as under;- “… It would, thus, be seen that in the cases cited above and D as also in Durgesh Mohanpunu’s case which is the latest case processed after the petitioner’s case, the respondents have taken a consistent position that legally it is permissible for them to allow withdrawal of resignation after its acceptance and have followed the practice of restoration of service. In the petitioner’s case also accordingly there is no ground made E out for adopting a different yardstick or contrary legal submission to defeat the petitioner’s case. Petitioner had also. within a month of the acceptance of her resignation and within a week of her losing the election requested for being permitted to withdraw the resignation in accordance with Rule 26(4) of F CCS Pension Rules. It is not the case of respondents that petitioner was not having a good record or had been guilty of any misconduct: or impropriety or it being a case of any doubt on the integrity etc. Denial of reinstatement in service to the petitioner and not treating the petitioner at par with others in the absence of any distinguishing feature, renders G the respondent’s action arbitrary and tantamount to denial of equality as guaranteed under Article 14 of the Constitution of India. Reference in this regard may be made to Sengara Singh and Ors. v. State of Punjab and Ors. Reported at.....”. H 680 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A AND WHEREAS, the case of Mrs. Kamlesh Rani Bhatia cannot be equated .at par with Nirmal Verma case. NOW, THEREFORE, after considering all the aspects of the matter, the request of Mrs. Kamlesh Rani Bhatia for withdrawal of her resignation is considered and found no B merit, hence, rejected. This, issues with the prior approval of competent authority & in compliance of of Hon’ble High Court dated 20.03.2014, passed in W.P. (C) No 1522/2014.” (quoted verbatim from the paper book) C 5.This was challenged by the respondent before the Central Administrative Terminal. The Tribunal in a judgement delivered on 20th March 2017, relying upon Rule 26(4) of the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972, sustained the respondent’s case, primarily relying on judgement of the Delhi High Court in the case of “Nirmal Verma - D vs- MCD and Anr.” delivered on 18th March 2005 in Writ Petition (Civil) No.3303/2003.