Secondly, the amended policy which is sought to be relied upon by the petitioner came into existence only after second completion certificate had been H 1092 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A issued to the petitioner and, as per the petitioner’s own assertions, the mall had been put into operation. We are unable to find any stipulation in the original policy or its amendment that it could be applied with retrospective effect and to override the existing legal rights as also the existing legal obligations. B 15.6. Viewed from any angle, even on direct construction of the relevant clauses vis-à-vis the subject-matter of the present petition, it remains beyond a shadow of doubt that the policy in question with its amendment is of no application whatsoever in relation to the project in question. Therefore, the claim of the petitioner has rightly been rejected. C 16. In relation to the relied upon letter dated 31.01.2015 sent by the Managing Director of UPSIDC, recommending the case of the petitioner to declare its multiplex, hotel and commercial construction as tourist destination, as observed hereinabove, the same had been wholly baseless and rather unwarranted. Its accompanying document carrying the demands of the petitioner for various grants and exemptions as also D for converting the subject land to freehold was also without any legal basis. As noticed, at the relevant point of time, the policy in question only related to theme parks/amusement parks and it is difficult to see even a logic that the said Managing Director chose to forward the proposition of the petitioner for consideration of the State Cabinet. In any case, the E said letter dated 31.01.2015 was only recommendatory in nature; and even the recommendation had only been to declare the places as tourist destination and to give exemption. The Managing Director of UPSIDC could neither have recommended for converting the land to freehold nor did he do so. The said letter is of no relevance whatsoever. 17. Strong reliance, however, has been placed on behalf of the F petitioner on the letter/communication dated 16.09.2016, which had been a communication received by the petitioner from the Director General Tourism. The petitioner has described this letter as one of “approval” and has framed the relief in the writ petition on that basis. During the course of submissions too, substantial reliance has been placed on this G letter/communication dated 16.09.2016 and the same has been termed as a letter of “approval/qualification.” As would appear from the record, the petitioner addressed various communications on 12.12.2016, 30.05.2017 and 19.02.2018 to UPSIDC while asserting that the mall in question had already been declared as theme-based mall and the petitioner-company is entitled to get the subject land converted from H BHASIN INFOTECH AND INFRASTRUCTURE PRIVATE LTD. 1093 v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] leasehold to freehold. Learned counsel for the petitioner has highlighted A the composition of Committee that had made the recommendation and submitted that when the high-ranking officers including Principal Secretaries of Tourism Department, Cultural Department, and Housing and Town Planning Department of the State Government had been the members of this Committee, its recommendations partake the character B of approval/qualification and cannot be ignored.