• In the event the Advisory Board confi rms the detention , the Government may, under Section 12 read with Section 13, direct the detention to continue for a period not exceeding twelve months. It is only under this provision that a period for detention has been prescribed. [Note: The under Section 12 was passed by the Government on18.10.2022.] ix. In the present case, the aforementioned procedure was strictly followed. The period of one year has been mentioned in the dated 18.10.2022 passed under Section12 read with Section 13 not in the detention dated 25.08.2022 passed under Section 3. The submissions of the Petitioner are therefore clearly misconceived. The detention has been passed strictly in accordance with the afore-mentioned procedure. B. The Detention is not stale. i. It has been contended by the Petitioner that there is no proximate link between his acts and the detention . The said submission is 544 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. misconceived. Before detailing the factual aspects, the following legal position may be noted: • If the grounds form a chain of proximate events and if the last incident is proximate to the date of detention, such a detention cannot be set aside on the ground of being stale even if earlier incidents are not proximate to date of detention. [The Collector & District Magistrate, W.G. Dist. Eluru, Andhra Pradesh v. Sangala Kondamma, 2005 3 SCC 666 (@ para 10) (“Sangala Kondamma”)] • Each case has to be analysed in light of its specifi c facts and circumstances by adopting a pragmatic approach and “no hard- and-fast formula is possible to be laid or has been laid in this regard”. [Licil Antony v. State of Kerala and Anr.,(2014) 11 SCC 326 @para 18]. • The word ‘proximity’ does not mean any immediate closeness but it rather means something which indicates a pattern [Bhupendra v. State of Maharashtra & Anr., (2008) 17 SCC 165, @para 10].” DISCUSSION 10. Before we advert to the rival submissions canvassed on either side, we must look into the Preamble and few relevant provisions of the Act 1986. The preamble to the Act 1986 reads thus:- “PREAMBLE An Act to provide for preventive detention of Bootleggers, Dacoits, Drug-Off enders, Goondas, Immoral Traffi c Off enders and Land- Grabbers for preventing their dangerous activities prejudicial to the maintenance of Public . Whereas public is adversely aff ected every now and then by the dangerous activities of certain persons, who are known as bootleggers, dacoits, drug-off enders, goondas, immoral traffi c off enders and land- grabbers. And whereas having regard to the resources and infl uence of the persons by whom, the large scale on which, and the manner in which the dangerous activities are being clandestinely organised and carried PESALA NOOKARAJU v. THE GOVERNMENT OF 545 ANDHRA PRADESH & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] on in violation of law by them, as bootleggers, dacoits, drug-off enders, goondas, immoral traffi c off enders or land-grabbers in the State of Andhra Pradesh and particularly in its urban areas, it is necessary to have a special law in the State of Andhra Pradesh to provide for preventive detention of these six classes of persons and for matters connected therewith :” 11.