(2) If an is passed under clauses (a) to (g) of sub-section (1), the Board may, in addition pass s to— (i) attend school; or H (ii) attend a vocational training centre; or KARAN @ FATIYA v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 601 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] (iii) attend a therapeutic centre; or A (iv) prohibit the child from visiting, frequenting or appearing at a specified place; or (v) undergo a de-addiction programme. (3) Where the Board after preliminary assessment under section B 15 pass an that there is a need for trial of the said child as an adult, then the Board may transfer of the trial of the case to the Children’s Court having jurisdiction to try such offences.” 16. On a perusal of the aforesaid Section 18 of the 2015 Act, it is to be noticed that the JJB having found a child to be in conflict with law C who may have committed a petty or serious offence and where heinous offence is committed, the child should be below 16 years, can pass various s under clauses (a) to (g) of sub-section (1) and also sub-section (2). However, the net result is that whatever punishment is to be provided, the same cannot exceed a period of three years and the JJB has to take D full care of ensuring the best facilities that could be provided to the child for providing reformative services including education, skill development, counselling and psychiatric support. 17. In the present case, the appellant is held to be less than 16 years, and therefore, the maximum punishment that could be awarded is E upto 3 years. The appellant has already undergone more than 5 years. His incarceration beyond 3 years would be illegal, and therefore, he would be liable to be released forthwith on this count also. 18. Having considered the facts of the case and the findings recorded above, it would also be appropriate to briefly deal with the F case law on the point as to whether once an accused after conviction at the stage of appeal is held to be a juvenile/child under the provisions of the 2015 Act,what would be the status of the trial, the conviction and sentence recorded by the Trial Court and the appellate Courts.Whether the trial itself would stand vitiated for lack of jurisdiction by the regular Sessions Court and it would be the JJB alone which G could make an inquiry into the offence committed based upon the evidence led by the prosecution. If the inquiry has not been conducted by the JJB, then whether the entire proceedings need to be quashed or only the sentencing aspect would require consideration in accordance with the 2015 Act. H 602 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 19. We may note here at the outset that the appellant for the present has chosen not to challenge the conviction but is only claiming juvenility and consequently the benefit of sentence provided under the 2015 Act, reserving his right to address on conviction and sentence if he fails on the preliminary issue of juvenility.