A accused No. 13 is nothing but a political vendetta and it is requested not to consider the same while considering the issue in the present case. 5.11 Making above submissions, it is prayed to dismiss the present appeal. 6. Heard the learned counsel appearing for the respective parties B at length. 7. By the impugned and , the High Court has refused the prayer made on behalf of the appellant to transfer the investigation to CBI and also refused the prayer for further investigation /re- investigation of FIR No. 120 of 2020 on merits as well as mainly on the C ground that once the chargesheet is filed after investigation and the charges are framed, the Magistrate has no jurisdiction to further investigation / re-investigation / de novo investigation. 7.1 Therefore, the short question, which is posed for the consideration of this Court is: D “Whether in the facts and circumstances of the case, the High Court is justified in denying the relief of transfer of the investigation to CBI and refusing to further investigation / re-investigation / de novo investigation?” 7.2 While considering the aforesaid issue and appreciating the E above submissions made on behalf of the respective parties, few decisions of this Court on the power of the Courts to transfer the investigation to another agency like CBI and the powers of the constitutional courts to further investigation / re-investigation / de novo investigation are required to be referred to. F 7.3 In the case of Himanshu Kumar and Ors. (supra), this Court had occasion to consider the power of the Court to transfer investigation to any other independent agency. After taking into consideration the catena of s on the point, it is reiterated that investigation may be transferred to the CBI only in “rare and exceptional G cases”. In paragraphs 44 to 53, it is observed and held as under:- “44. It is now settled law that if a citizen, who is a de facto complainant in a criminal case alleging commission of cognizable offence affecting violation of his legal or fundamental rights against high Government officials or influential persons, prays before a H Court for a direction of investigation of the said alleged offence ANANT THANUR KARMUSE v. THE STATE OF 67 MAHARASHTRA & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] by the CBI, such prayer should not be granted on mere asking. A A Constitution Bench of this Court, in the case of the State of West Bengal v. Committee for Protection of Democratic Rights, West Bengal, reported in (2010) 3 SCC 571, has made the following observations pointing out the situations where the prayer for investigation by the CBI should be allowed: B “70.… In so far as the question of issuing a direction to CBI to conduct investigation in a case is concerned, although no inflexible guidelines can be laid down to decide whether or not such powers should be exercised, but time and again it has been reiterated that such an C is not to be passed as a matter of routine or merely because a party has levelled some allegations against the local police.