In 2002, the government issued an reserving twenty-fi ve percent of all the vacancies to the post of daily wage workers in the petitioner corporation for the arrack workers who lost livelihood due to the arrack ban. In 2004, the government changed the criteria by providing that the reservation policy would only be earmarked for the dependent sons of the arrack workers. The state government submitted before this Court that it was practically diffi cult to provide employment to the arrack workers. The Court accepted that the workers had a legitimate expectation to be considered for the appointment as daily wage workers. However, it gave credence to the overriding public interest cited by the state government to resile from the promise made to the arrack workers. After weighing the expectation of the workers against the public interest, this Court held that the expectation of the workers was not legitimate. 34. In State of Jharkhand v. Brahmputra Metallics26, the issue before this Court was whether the respondent was entitled to claim a rebate or deduction on electricity duty under the Industrial Policy, 2012 for a period of fi ve years from the commencement of production. Although the 22 (2009) 1 SCC 180 23 Monnet Ispat & Energy Ltd v. Union of India, (2012) 11 SCC 1 24 (2015) 8 SCC 129 25 (2019) 9 SCC 710 26 2020 SCC OnLine SC 968 SIVANANDAN C T AND OTHERS v. HIGH COURT OF KERALA AND 695 OTHERS [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] policy was announced in 2012, the exemption notifi cation was issued in 2015 with prospective eff ect. While dealing with the issue of whether the state government frustrated the legitimate expectation of the respondent, one of us (D Y Chandrachud, J) observed that the representations made by the public authorities should be held to scrupulous standards because of the trust reposed by the citizens in the state: “41. […] Representations by public authorities need to be held to scrupulous standards, since citizens continue to live their lives based on the trust they repose in the State. In the commercial world also, certainty and consistency are essential to planning the aff airs of business. When public authorities fail to adhere to their representations without providing an adequate reason to the citizens for this failure, it violates the trust reposed by citizens in the State. The generation of a business friendly climate for investment and trade is conditioned by the faith which can be reposed in government to fulfi l the expectations which it generates.” 35. In Brahmputra Metallics (supra), this Court held that the state government made a solemn representation under its Industrial Policy, 2012 to provide exemption from payment of electricity duty to the claimants. However, the government failed to provide any justifi cation for issuing the exemption notice after a delay of three years in 2015. This Court observed that the state is bound to act fairly and transparently while performing its public duties, and any deprivation of entitlement of private citizens and private business must be proportional to a requirement grounded in public interest: “53.