It seems to be the justification in making the recommendations aforesaid and reads as under: - “IN CONNECTION WITH DECLARING THE GRAND G VENICE (GREATER NOIDA, GAUTAM BUDDHA NAGAR) AS A TOURIST DESTINATION, A commercial plot allotted by Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development Corporation to M/s Bhasin Infotech & Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. Multiplex, Commercial and Hotel has been constructed H 1070 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A by investing about Rs. 800.00 crores, which will provide employment to about 5000 people. The Grand Venice is a very timely and convenient place from the point of view of tourism. The Grand Venice has been developed by the developer to attract international and domestic tourists in such a way that its unique architecture, entertainment and geography and community will B be the only place to visit. It is conveniently located near Greater Noida Express Way and due to its special location, it will also become a suitable destination for tourists going from Delhi to Agra. In this project, special care has been taken for educational tourism while presenting something to the tourists of all age groups and C preferences. An attempt has been made by the developer to embellish the grandeur and elegance of the famous Italian city of Venice in The Grand Venice. This Venetian themed remoteness hub will prove to be a center of special attraction with stunning structures and sculptures. A ride on the D Gondola in the water canals built inside Mall will provide a real experience of doing the traditional Gondola fanciers walking along the beautiful waterways of the city of Venice. Similarly, through Magic Sky, an attempt has been made to provide the experience of walking under the virtual sky giving a glimpse of the environment and weather and the unique environment. In The Grand Venice, E the famous unique feature of Venice is the Fountain de Trevi, Julius Caesar’s Statue, Light House, Pisa’s Tower and other art forms of ltaly have been presented. Along with this, the Indian Sea world has also been displayed in an area of about 100000 square feet and for the convenience of the tourists, the five-star F deluxe Sheraton Hotel with 270 rooms has also been included in this complex. Places have been identified for setting up ·of outlets to display the heritage and handicrafts of Uttar Pradesh, along with the above features, the project like promotion of tourism and providing employment to 5000 people along with capital investment G of more than 500 crore rupees. Special benefits such as tax exemption, grant, establishment of electric friendly metro station, freehold without fee and suggestions for setting up of outlets for displaying the heritage and handicrafts of Uttar Pradesh and declaring tourist places by the developer to operate as demand is being made. Under which H BHASIN INFOTECH AND INFRASTRUCTURE PRIVATE LTD. 1071 v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] Freehold: The plot has been allotted on lease by the A corporation. The developer has demanded convert this land to freehold without any charges.