To our mind the facts which we must take into account are: (i) that the “couple” is D now living separately for the last almost 25 years, and all these years there has been no cohabitation between them. (ii) That there is no child out of the wedlock, and the couple lived together as husband and wife for barely 4 years. (iii) That repeated efforts by the Courts for reconciliation or settlement have resulted in failure. E 9. At the very initial stage the Trial Court had sent the parties for mediation, which did not succeed. This Court had also sent the two for mediation, which failed. The case was again sent for settlement in the Lok Adalat but with no results. On 11.04.2015, this Court again requested the parties to explore possibilities of living together, but nothing materialised. Then on 09.05.2015, this Court asked the parties to come F to some mutual settlement, but in vain. In other words, every single effort of the Court and the mediators, towards a compromise or settlement has led to a blind alley. Even now, before giving a formal hearing to the parties we tried to gather the current situation from the parties. The appellant has unequivocally stated that there is no room for any compromise or settlement and he requests that a decision be made in G this case on its merits, whereas the counsel for the respondent apprised this Court that the respondent would like to save her marriage and he prays for mediation once again. He would also submit that no ground for divorce has been made out and the well-considered decision of Delhi High Court should be upheld. H 558 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 10. The husband and wife, who are before us have been living separately since the last 25 years. There is no child out of the wedlock. There are bitter allegations of cruelty and desertion from both the sides and multiple litigations between the two in the last more than 25 years. This embittered relationship between the appellant and the respondent which has not witnessed any moment of peace for the last 25 years is a B marital relationship only on paper. The fact is that this relationship has broken down irretrievably long back. 11. The High Court has taken a view that mere filing of criminal cases against the appellant-husband would not constitute cruelty. All the same, the number of criminal cases filed by the respondent-wife against C the appellant-husband are far too many which have been discussed above. All these cases have either resulted in discharge or acquittal of the appellant-husband, if not before the pronouncement of the of the Delhi High Court but definitely after the pronouncement of the of the Delhi High Court. Moreover, a three Judge Bench of D this Court in Naveen Kohli v. Neelu Kohli1held that repeatedly filing of criminal cases by one party against the other in a matrimonial matter would amount to cruelty and the same was reiterated by a Division Bench of this Court in K. Srinivas Rao v. D.A.