The structure and phraseology of Article 253 leaves one in no doubt, that ASSESSING OFFICER CIRCLE (INTERNATIONAL TAXATION) 2(2)(2) 1165 NEW DELHI v. M/S NESTLE SA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] it is when a treaty is enacted by law, or enabled through legislation, which assimilates it, that such provisions are enforceable in India. 39. Duncan B. Hollis21, in a paper describes that “The treaty lives a double life. By day, it is a creature of international law, which sets forth extensive substantive and procedural rules by which the treaty must operate [….] By night, however, the treaty leads a more domestic life. In its domestic incarnation, the treaty is a creature of national law, deriving its force from the constitutional of the nation state that concluded it.” 40. In State of W.B. v. Jugal Kishore More22, this court held that the executive may make treaties with foreign States for the extradition of criminals, but those treaties can only be carried into eff ect by Act of Parliament, for the executive has no power, without statutory authority, to seize an alien here and deliver him to a foreign power. Likewise, in State of Gujarat v. Vora Fiddali Badruddin Mithibarwala23 this court observed that in India, unlike some other countries the stipulations of a treaty duly ratifi ed do not by virtue of such event (i.e. signing the treaty alone) have the force of law and Article 253 of the Constitution of India recognises this position. If a treaty either requires alteration of or addition to existing law, or aff ects the rights of the subjects, or are treaties on the basis of which obligations between the treaty-making state and its subjects have to be made enforceable in municipal courts, or which, involves raising or expending of money or conferring new powers on the government recognizable by the municipal courts, a legislation will be necessary. 41. In the reported as V.O. Tractoroexport v. Tarapore & Co24 this court underlined that “16. We may look at another well-recognised principle. In this country, as is the case in England, the treaty or International Protocol or 21 Duncan Hollis: Executive Federalism : Forging New Federalist Constraints on the Treaty Power” Legal Studies Research Paper Series available at http : //ssrn.com/ abstract=895623 22 1969 (1) SCR 320 23 1964 (6) SCR 461 24 (1969) 3 SCC 562 116 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. convention does not become eff ective or operative of its own force as in some of the continental countries unless domestic legislation has been introduced to attain a specifi ed result. Once, Parliament has legislated, the Court must fi rst look at the legislation and construe the language employed in it. If the terms of the legislative enactment do not suff er from any ambiguity or lack of clarity they must be given eff ect to even if they do not carry out the treaty obligations. But the treaty or the Protocol or the convention becomes important if the meaning of the expressions used by the Parliament is not clear and can be construed in more than one way.