A the meaning of Section 7(3) of the Act. We may notice that the proviso (c) to Section 35 of the Stamp Act reads as follows: “(c) Where a contract or agreement of any kind is effected by correspondence consisting of two or more letters and any one of the letters bears the proper stamp, the contract or agreement shall B be deemed to be duly stamped;” 80. Thus, the Stamp Act does contemplate a contract or agreement being formed through correspondence through two or more letters. It then suffices that any one of the letters bears the proper stamp. Even proceeding on the basis that an Arbitration Agreement is contained in C letters and it is signed and, therefore, executed within the meaning of the Stamp Act, then, it would fall within the four corners of Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act. 81. We do notice that a Bench of two learned Judges have, in the reported in Govind Rubber Limited v. Louids Dreyfus Commodities Asia Private Limited32, had this to say about the need for D an Arbitration Agreement being signed: “15. A perusal of the aforesaid provisions would show that in to constitute an arbitration agreement, it need not be signed by all the parties. Section 7(3) of the Act provides that the arbitration agreement shall be in writing, which is a mandatory requirement. E Section 7(4) states that the arbitration agreement shall be in writing, if it is a document signed by all the parties. But a perusal of clauses (b) and (c) of Section 7(4) would show that a written document which may not be signed by the parties even then it can be arbitration agreement. Section 7(4)(b) provides that an arbitration agreement F can be culled out from an exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or other means of telecommunication which provide a record of the agreement. 16. On reading the provisions it can safely be concluded that an arbitration agreement even though in writing need not be signed G by the parties if the record of agreement is provided by exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or other means of telecommunication. Section 7(4)(c) provides that there can be an arbitration agreement in the exchange of statements of claims and defence in which the H 32 (2015) 13 SCC 477 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 357 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] existence of the agreement is alleged by one party and not denied A by the other. If it can be prima facie shown that the parties are at ad idem, then the mere fact of one party not signing the agreement cannot absolve him from the liability under the agreement. In the present day of e-commerce, in cases of internet purchases, tele purchases, ticket booking on internet and in standard forms of B contract, terms and conditions are agreed upon. In such agreements, if the identity of the parties is established, and there is a record of agreement it becomes an arbitration agreement if there is an arbitration clause showing ad idem between the parties.