In the case of a testamentary disposition, this Act does not apply and the interest of the deceased is governed by the Indian Succession Act, 1925. H 48 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 2. Section 6 of the Act deals with devolution of interest of a male Hindu in coparcenary property and recognizes the rule of devolution by survivorship among the members of the coparcenary. The retention of the Mitakshara coparcenary property without including the females in it means that the females cannot inherit in ancestral property as their male B counterparts to. The law by excluding the daughter from participating in the coparcenary ownership not only contributes to her discrimination on the ground of gender but also has led to oppression and negation of her fundamental right of equality guaranteed by the Constitution. Having C regard to the need of render social justice to women, the States of Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Maharashtra have made necessary changes in the law giving equal right to daughters in Hindu Mitakshara coparcenary property. The Kerala Legislature has enacted the Kerala Joint Hindu Family System (Abolition) Act, 1975. D 3. It is proposed to remove the discrimination as contained in section 6 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 by giving equal rights to daughters in the Hindu Mitakshara coparcenary property as the sons have. Section 23 of the Act disentitles a female heir to ask for partition in respect of a dwelling house E wholly occupied by a joint family until the male heirs choose to divide their respective shares therein. It is also proposed to omit the said section so as to remove the disability on female heirs contained in that section.” 4. The above proposals are based on the recommendations of F the Law Commission of India as contained in its 174th Report on ‘Property Rights of Women: Proposed Reform under the Hindu Law. 5. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.” (Emphasis supplied) G 54. The Bill inter alia provided in proviso to proposed Section 6(1) that the Amendment Act would not apply to a daughter married before the commencement of the Amendment Act and also that the Amendment Act will have no application to a partition in case the partition had been affected before the commencement of the Amendment H PRASANTA KUMAR SAHOO & ORS. v. CHARULATA SAHU 49 & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] Act. The aforesaid Bill was thereafter referred to the Standing committee A of Parliament. The Standing Committee after recording the historical growth of Hindu Law and Gender inequality with regard to the property right practiced against a female Hindu suggested that proviso 1 to proposed Section 6(1) of the Bill which sought to exclude the daughter married before the commencement of the Amendment Act from the B benefit of the Act should be done away with. 55. The Standing Committee also suggested that the partition of the Hindu family property should be properly defined in the Amendment Act. It was suggested that partition for all purposes should be either by registered documents or by decree of Court.