In view thereof, it was submitted that the High Court judgements, InRe: Benod Ranjan Sinha, 1981 SCC Online Cal 102 (InRe: Benod Ranjan Sinha), L.R. Naidu (Dr.) vs. State of Karnataka, 1983 SCC OnLine Kar 206 (L.R. Naidu) and N.K. Nayar vs. State of Maharashtra, 1985 Cri LJ 1887 (N.K. Nayar), permitting the grant of anticipatory bail for an off ence committed outside their jurisdiction, should be set aside. To buttress his contention, learned senior counsel submitted that the Justice V.S. Malimath Committee Report on Reforms in Criminal Justice System, in section 7.33, page 121, had proposed that the provision regarding anticipatory bail may 540 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. be retained subject to two conditions: that the Court would hear the Public Prosecutor; and that the petition for anticipatory bail should be heard only by the Court of competent jurisdiction. v. As an alternative form of relief to persons resident in a particular State but apprehending arrest by the police in another State, learned senior counsel relied upon judgements of this Court in Balchand Jain vs. State of M.P., (1976) 4 SCC 572 (Balchand Jain) and Sushila Aggarwal vs. NCT of Delhi, (2020) 5 SCC 1 (Sushila Aggarwal), which enunciated the approach of ‘transit anticipatory bail’ and ‘interim protection’ that balanced the right to life and personal liberty enshrined in Article 21 and the right to freedom of movement under Article 19(1)(d) with the fundamental scheme of administration of criminal justice, as prescribed in the CrPC. It was submitted that in an age where the movement of a citizen is frequent and fast, an off ender may apprehend arrest even with respect to a statement made in a place of residence in one State, but the off ended person may be residing in another State. vi. Learned senior counsel further contended that in to prevent the abuse of the process of law, this Court may hold that interim protection for a limited period could be granted by the Court nearest to the residence of the accused apprehending arrest. However, in to prevent forum shopping, certain safeguards were also suggested for availing grant of interim protection as follows: a. The person must show some residence proof to establish that he/she had been residing in the area in which the interim protection is sought; b. If the person is seeking interim protection apart from his/ her normal place of residence, he/she must state the reasons for doing so and also disclose the nature of apprehension of arrest in the area wherein he/she does not reside; c. The interim protection should not exceed a period of fourteen days under normal circumstances; PRIYA INDORIA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA AND ORS. 541 ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] d. The concerned public prosecutor of the Court wherein interim application is moved may be informed in advance about the fi ling of the interim protection application. The public prosecutor after looking at the nature of the interim protection application, may contact the concerned police station and seek information about the stage and nature of the investigation of the crime committed; e. The limited duration of the interim protection to secure the liberty of the individual from arrest in an alleged frivolous case would also ensure that the regular anticipatory bail is only granted by a Court of competent jurisdiction; and f. Interim protection should not be granted unless the requirements enumerated under Section 438 of CrPC are satisfi ed.