This Court has precedents to support its reasoning. In Unnikrishnan J.P. and Others v. State of Andhra Pradesh and Others,42 this Court read Article 45 and 46 along with Article 21 to hold that the right C to education is a fundamental right for children between the age group of 6-14. 69. Now that we have held that the right to vote is not merely a constitutional right, but a component of Part III of the Constitution as well, it raises the level of scrutiny on the working of the Election D Commission of India, which is responsible for conducting free and fair elections. As it is a question of constitutional as well as fundamental rights, this Court needs to ensure that the working of the Election Commission under Article 324 facilitates the protection of people’s voting rights. E C. Free and Fair Elections 70. Democracy works when the citizens are given a chance to decide the fate of the ruling government by casting their vote in periodical elections. The faith of the citizens in the democratic processes is ensured by conducting free and fair elections through an independent and neutral agency. F 71. Free and fair elections have been enshrined as a precedent for the working of democracy in global conventions and rights-based frameworks. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights 1948 recognizes that: G “1. Everyone has the right to take part in the government of his country, directly or through freely chosen representatives. 2. Everyone has the right of equal access to public service in his country. 41 https://journals.library.brandeis.edu/index.php/caste/article/view/282/63 H 42 (1993)1 SCR594 ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 207 [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] 3. The will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of A government; this will shall be expressed in periodic and genuine elections which shall be by universal and equal suffrage and shall be held by secret vote or by equivalent free voting procedures.”43 72. Article 25 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights provides: B “Every citizen shall have the right and the opportunity, without any of the distinctions mentioned in article 2 and without unreasonable restrictions: (a) To take part in the conduct of public affairs, directly or through C freely chosen representatives; (b) To vote and to be elected at genuine periodic elections which shall be by universal and equal suffrage and shall be held by secret ballot, guaranteeing the free expression of the will of the electors; (c) To have access, on general terms of equality, to public service D in his country.” 73. India is committed to these international frameworks. This Court has previously read India’s obligation to international frameworks to recognise new areas of constitutional discourse, which are explicitly not covered by the provisions of the Constitution or where there is a E constitutional vacuum.44 But free and fair elections have been recognised as an essential feature of the democratic apparatus by the s of this Court as well. 74. In Indira Nehru Gandhi Smt v. Shri Raj Narain and Another,45 Justice HR Khanna held in his opinion: F “All the seven Judges [in Kesavananda Bharti case] who constituted the majority were also agreed that democratic set-up was part of the basic structure of the Constitution.