(b) the provisions under challenge were declared unconstitutional to the extent that they exclude the jurisdiction G of the High Courts and the Supreme Court under Article 226/227 and 32 of the Constitution of India respectively. (c) However, it was held that all service matters must at the first instance go to the Administrative Tribunal and upon the tribunal delivering the the same could be H 70 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A subjected to a challenge under the writ jurisdiction of the High Court within whose jurisdiction the tribunal falls. 5.11 It is submitted that in the case of L. Chandra Kumar (supra) ought not to be read to have held that only the High Court under whose territorial jurisdiction the tribunal falls will have B jurisdiction to entertain a Writ Petition against the of the said tribunal. 5.12 The effect of the in Alapan Bandyopadhyay (supra) is that only the High Court under whose territorial jurisdiction the tribunal falls would have jurisdiction to entertain a Writ Petition against C the of the said Tribunal. 5.13 It is submitted that as is clear from the section dealing with the development of law relating to the territorial jurisdiction of the High Courts, the intent and purpose behind adding clause (2) under Article 226 would be defeated if paragraph 99 of L. Chandra Kumar (supra) is interpreted in such a manner. D 5.14 It is further submitted that the power of judicial review is an integral and essential feature of the Constitution and even a constitutional amendment cannot exclude the power of the high courts and the Supreme Court to exercise their power of judicial review and this power can never be ousted. E 5.15 It is respectfully submitted that this Court, by way of a judicial , ought not to take away jurisdiction from other high courts which are otherwise empowered under Article 226(2) to entertain a Writ Petition against the of a Tribunal located in the territory beyond the territorial jurisdiction of the said high courts. F 5.16 It is submitted that under the Constitutional scheme, all twenty-five High Courts have equivalent jurisdiction, and no discrimination or special treatment is envisaged to any particular High Court. This is one of the facets of independence of judiciary. G 5.17 It is further submitted that if such an interpretation is taken to its logical conclusion, then it would result in undue hardship and inconvenience to the employees of the central government itself who are posted across the country. For example, if an application were to be filed by an aggrieved employee before the Ernakulam Bench of the Central Administrative Tribunal, and an for its Transfer to another H UNION OF INDIA v. SANJIV CHATURVEDI 71 [M. R. SHAH, J.] Bench were to be passed by the Principal Bench at Delhi, the aggrieved A would be forced to travel all the way from Ernakulam to Delhi to challenge the Transfer and contest the case. As already submitted above, this would defeat the very purpose of inserting Article 226(2) into the Constitution with the specific intent of providing a cheap, effective and efficacious remedy in law at the doorstep of the aggrieved person.