The desirability of this was recognized by this tribunal in its dated 14.09.2019 in Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited vs. F RERC & Ors, 2019 SCC Online APTEL 98. It is against such backdrop that Electricity (Timely Recovery of Costs due to Change in Law) Rules, 2021, notified by MoP on 22.10.2021, providing for timely recovery of compensation on account of occurrence of Change in G Law events have been framed. The MoP, vide notification dated 09.11.2021, put in public domain the policy directive on “Automatic pass through of the fuel and power procurement cost in tariff for ensuring the viability of the power” recognizing that in to ensure that the power sector does not face any constraints in maintaining H GMR WARORA ENERGY LTD. v. CENTRAL ELECTRICITY 239 REGULATORY COMMISSION (CERC) [B. R. GAVAI, J.] assured power supply to meet the demand, all the A stakeholders in the value chain of power sector must ensure that there is timely recovery of cost. This involves the cost pass through by the generating companies to the distribution companies. 117. In sharp contrast, it is seen from the factual narrative of B the events leading to the appeal at hand that the appellants (Haryana Utilities) have been adopting dilatory tactics which not only defeats the public policy but also has the undesirable fall-out of adding to the burden of the end-consumers they profess to serve on account of increasing Carrying Cost. C 118. Concededly, in compliance with the Taxes and Duties dated 06.02.2017, the appellants paid to the generator the taxes and duties for certain period but, thereafter, unilaterally withheld such claims, raising issues (found merit-less) regarding IPT of coal for first time in January 2018. It is D after the impugned was passed that the appellants are stated to have started complying, to an extent, by making payments. It is the case of the first respondent that the appellants have withheld past payments including towards taxes and duties its entitlement to recover corresponding Late Payment Surchage (“LPS”) being over and above the E same to be computed after discharge of the former liability. We agree that such withholding is in violation of Articles 11.3.2 and 11.6.9 of the PPAs (quoted earlier) which cast a specific mandate on the procurer (Haryana Utilities) to honor the invoices raised, irrespective of F dispute, and impose a specific bar against unilateral deductions/setting off. 119. We find the dilatory conduct of the Haryana Utilities, to delay the implementation of the binding s concerning compensation on account of coal shortfall and corresponding taxes and duties, detrimental to the interest of end G consumers since it burdens the consumers with incremental LPS for delay in making payments to the generator. This cannot be countenanced, given the earlier dispensation on the subject by the statutory regulator and appellate forum(s), since it smacks of approach that is designed to frustrate H 240 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A the legislative command, and extant State policy, as indeed constitutes abject indiscipline infringing the rule of law.