In other words, the omission of the word “seeds” from the second part of the definition casts its shadow on the first part as well. Indeed it D rather looks as if the second part of the definition is intended to restrict rather than expand the scope of the first part. Thirdly, it is to be noticed that the first part of definition is somewhat restrictively worded…” 58. In P. Kasilingam v. PSG College of Technology31 this court E followed the same principle, i.e., that “includes” used in conjunction with some words, expands the natural import of the term, to the extent it incorporates those words: “The word “includes”, when used, enlarges the meaning of the expression defined so as to comprehend not only such F things as they signify according to their natural import but also those things which the clause declares that they shall include. The words “means and includes”, on the other hand, indicate “an exhaustive explanation of the meaning which, for the purposes of the Act, most invariably be attached to these words or expressions” [See: Dilworth v. Commissioner G of Stamps, [1899] AC 99 at pp. 105-106 (Lord Watson); Mahalakshmi Oil Mills v. State of Andhra Pradesh, [1989] 1 SCC 164, at p. 169).” 31 [1995] 2 SCR 1061 H 1078 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 59. These decisions have been followed in later s as well; one of them is Pioneer Land & Urban Infrastructure v. Union of India32. For these reasons, throughout (till 2001), “Pan masala” and chewing tobacco have received different treatment. They are not interchangeable or synonymous expressions. Entry 2404 refers to chewing tobacco “including preparations commonly known as “Khara B Masala”, “Kimam”, “Dokta”, “Zarda”, “Sukha” and “Surti””. Gudaku and snuff are dealt with under a separate heading. The effect of inclusion of pan masala with tobacco in Chapter 24 and simultaneously that product’s exclusion from Chapter 21, as well as imposition of ADE with effect from 2001, on ‘pan masala containing tobacco’ meant C that the product (i.e. pan masala without tobacco) went out, for the first time, of the reach of state sales tax. All along, goods and products described as pan masala and gutkha, were included in Chapter 21. The conclusion therefore, is that till 2001, and the introduction of ADE, these two products were covered by local or sales tax levies. D 60. The General Rules of Interpretation (of the CET Act) which guide the appropriate classification of products, inter alia, provide that: “THE FIRST SCHEDULE—IMPORT TARIFF (See Section 2) GENERAL RULES FOR THE INTERPRETATION OF THIS SCHEDULE E Classification of goods in this Schedule shall be governed by the following principles: 1. The titles of Sections, Chapters and Sub-Chapters are provided for ease of reference only; for legal purposes, classification shall be determined according to the terms of F the headings and any relative Section or Chapter Notes and, provided such headings or Notes do not otherwise require, according to the following provisions. 2.