A reading of the affidavit reveals that during the pendency of the writ petition (filed by PNB) before the High Court, the borrower had offered a compromise proposal B which PNB had accepted. In terms thereof, the borrower paid to PNB an amount of Rs.36 lakh towards full and final settlement of the loan liability.Upon receipt of the compromise amount, the title deed of the mortgaged property was duly returned to the borrower. Pursuant thereto, PNB filed an application for withdrawing the execution case before the Recovery Officer, DRT, Chandigarh on 13th August, 2002 and the case, C upon being disposed of as withdrawn, was consigned to the record room. It was further categorically averred in paragraph 3(g) of the said affidavit that “the grievance of respondent no.1 raised in the writ petition filed before the Hon’ble High Court does not subsist any further and that the object of having filed the writ petition is already fulfilled D and that the writ petition has been rendered infructuous”. Ultimately, in paragraph 5, PNB submitted that”it extends its unconditional apology for not bringing the aforesaid facts to the notice of Hon’ble High Court at the time of reserving the s in writ petition on 27th November, 2007" and that “the aforesaid facts could not be brought to the notice of Hon’ble High Court due to inadvertence E and the same was not deliberate or intentional”. 31. Therefore, for all intents and purposes, the High Court by its and dated 2nd January, 2008 decided an infructuous writ petition and, in the process, outlawed section 16-Bof the HPGST Act when the same was not at all warranted. F 32. In our considered opinion, it was also a clear but inadvertent error on the part of this Court to dismiss only the special leave petition against PNB as infructuous; the appropriate course for this Court ought to have been to dismiss the writ petition of PNB itself as infructuous having regard to the clear stand taken by PNB in its aforesaid affidavit G dated 30th September, 2010 that nothing survived for a decision on the writ petition on the date it was decided in view of release of the property from mortgage. 33. We, accordingly, answer the first issue in the affirmative. H 790 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 34. Moving on to the second issue, we are clear in our mind that the same ought to be answered in the negative. 35. The easy answer to the issue flows from what we have discussed above. Since the writ petition had been rendered infructuous on the date it was decided, it was not necessary for the High Court to B pronounce on the validity of section 16-B. A decision on the constitutional validity of a provision should be invited not in vacuum but when the justice of the case demands such a decision. Hence, we hold that the decision on an infructuous writ petition is inconsequential and can never be of any effect.