16. Learned counsel lastly submits that the purchase of insurance policy has a direct nexus with the commercial activity in a large-scale E enterprise. In other words, the insurance policy indemnifies the company against loss arising out of fire, earthquake or any other insured peril. What is reimbursed by the insurance company is a loss and loss is directly interlinked with the commerce of the company and, therefore, a complaint seeking reimbursement of a loss would not be maintainable before the Consumer Court if it is filed by a large-scale commercial entity like the F respondent herein andthe interpretation addressed by the National Commission of the provisions of the Act, 1986 not only runs contrary to the s of this Court, it is otherwise not legally sustainable and deserves to be interfered by this Court. 17. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent, submits that G the purchase of insurance policy cover is a contract of indemnification of particular risk and not a contract of doing or not doing something to earn profit/loss out of such act. If the contemplated risk out of particular eventuality i.e., fire, flood, etc., does not occur, then there is no question of encashment of policy cover, and if this happens what is payable is the risk amount against premium paid in advance. Under the circumstances, H NATIONAL INSURANCE CO. LTD. v. HARSOLIA MOTORS 457 AND OTHERS [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] the insurance policy cover is being offered/purchased not basically to A earn profit, but to cover the uninvited risk, hence, buying of policy cover is not for commercial purpose even if it is purchased by commercial enterprises and what is commercial purpose is well defined not only in several dictionaries but also in the s of this Court and submitted that it may be noticed that the Act, 1986 bars only a transaction for B “commercial purpose” but it does not bar any commercial enterprise to be a consumer and hence the commercial enterprise can be a buyer/ consumer and can enforce its rights as a consumer, provided immediate intent is to generate profit out of such transaction by the commercial enterprise, as held by this Court in Madan Kumar Singh (Dead) Through LR. v. District Magistrate, Sultanpur and Others2. C 18. Learned counsel further submits that any transaction by commercial enterprises even without immediate intention to make profit cannot be regarded for “commercial purpose”, otherwise all transactions by commercial enterprises may or may not have even remote co-relation of generating profit will be treated for commercial purposes. Say, for D example, a company buying a water plant for its workers or for any stranger/outsider to serve free water - or paint tins in bulk for upgrading walls etc. have no direct effect of earning profit out of it. Thus, buying a water plant cannot be treated for commercial purpose, otherwise virtually all transactions by commercial enterprise will get colour of commercial E purpose and had it been such an intention of the legislature, then it would have worded the definition of term “consumer” differently – instead of “any person” would have used “any person other than commercial enterprises”, but the statute in its wisdom has allowed to cover commercial transaction with commercial purpose.