4. On 12 February 2016, MIB issued a notice to show cause to MBL proposing to revoke the permission for uplinking and downlinking granted to Media One and Media One Life in view of the denial of D security clearance by MHA. The show cause notice is extracted below: SHOW CAUSE NOTICE Whereas Ministry of Information and Broadcasting has granted permission to M/s Madhyamam Broadcasting Limited on 30.09.2011 to uplink and downlink one News and current affairs E channel, namely, “Media One” and on 26.08.2015 one Non-News & Current Affairs Channel, namely, “Media One Life” into India. Whereas, the permissions so granted by this Ministry are governed by the Uplinking and Downlinking Guidelines as amended from time to time. F Whereas, Clause 9.2 of Uplinking Guidelines stipulates that security clearance to the company and its directors is pre-requisite condition for grant of permission for TV channels. Whereas the security related conditions annexed with the permission letter stipulates that the license/ permission can be G revoked on the grounds of national security and public . Whereas the Ministry of Home Affairs has recently conveyed denial of the security clearance. 5 “Downlinking Guidelines” H 616 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Whereas due to withdrawal of security clearance, the company would cease to fulfil the very basic pre-requisite for grant of permission of uplinking & downlinking TV Channels. The company is also in violation of the security related conditions conveyed through the permission letters issued by the Ministry. B Whereas due to the above-non-compliances, the permissions are liable to be withdrawn/cancelled. Now, therefore, M/s Madhyamam Broadcasting Limited is hereby called upon to show cause, within 15 days of receipt of this notice, why their permission should not be revoked or cancelled, in view C of the denial of security clearance.” Meanwhile, seven days after the show cause notice was issued, MBL applied to renew the licence to downlink the channel Media One since the license which was initially granted for five years had expired. By an dated 11 July 2019, MIB renewed the downlinking permission of ‘Media One’ for a further period of five years. By an dated 11 D September 2019, MIB cancelled the uplinking and downlinking permission to Media-One Life. It is crucial to note that though the show cause notice was issued to both Media -One Life and Media One, only the permission granted to the former was revoked. 5. On 3 May 2021, MBL applied to renew the downlinking and E uplinking permissions granted to operate Media One since they were to expire on 30 September 2021 and 29 September 2021. 6. On 5 January 2022, MIB issued another show cause notice to MBL invoking clause 9.2 of the Uplinking Guidelines and proposed to ‘revoke’ the permission granted to operate Media One. The show cause F notice specified that (i) according to Clause 9.2 of the Uplinking Guidelines, security clearance is a pre-condition for the grant of permission and that security-related conditions are annexed to the letter granting permission ; (ii) MHA has denied security clearance in the past to the proposals of MBL and that it ‘may be considered as denied in the present G case also’; (iii) since security clearance has been denied, MBL has ceased to fulfill the eligibility condition for renewal of permission of uplinking and downlinking.