In respect of the distance between Seoni Trisection and A Seoni village, PW11 denied the suggestion that the distance between the two is of 6 km. Rather, claimed it to be 600 meters. He also admitted that the witnesses of the memorandum were not residents of Seoni Trisection. (xii) PW-12 – Sushila (Sister-in-Law of the Deceased) B PW-12 disclosed no knowledge about the prosecution case and was therefore declared hostile. Forensic Reports 9. In addition to the oral testimony of the witnesses, forensic reports C confirmed presence of human blood on saree, shawl, petticoat, blouse, shirt and stone. Likewise, blood was found on the gravel recovered from the place of occurrence though its origin could not be determined as it had disintegrated. Similarly, the classification of the blood could not be made as it had disintegrated. D Statement under section 313 Cr.P.C. 10. The incriminating circumstances appearing in the prosecution evidence were put to the accused while recording his statement under section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short “Cr.P.C.”) The accused denied the incriminating circumstances and claimed that E he has been falsely implicated. Findings of the Trial Court 11. The Trial Court found the following incriminating circumstances proved — (a) the deceased was assaulted, abused and forcibly taken by the accused on a bicycle and she did not return thereafter rather, two F hours later, was found in badly injured condition; (b) the accused made extra judicial confession of his guilt to his daughter (PW4); (c) human blood was found on the clothes recovered; and (d) except bald denial no explanation was offered by the accused. According to the trial court, the said circumstances constituted a chain so far complete that it established G beyond doubt that it was the accused and no one else who committed the crime. To conclude as above, the Trial Court placed reliance on the testimony of PW-4. Upon finding the accused guilty, the trial court convicted the accused and awarded death penalty to him under section 302 IPC and 7 years RI under section 201 IPC. For confirmation of death penalty, a reference was made to the High Court under section H 612 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 366 Cr.P.C., which was registered as Reference No.2 of 2015. In the meantime, the accused filed criminal appeal against the of conviction and sentence, which gave rise to Criminal Appeal No.1292 of 2015 before the High Court. The appeal and the reference were connected and decided together by the High Court vide impugned and dated 11.12.2015. B High Court Findings 12. The High Court set aside the and of the trial court and acquitted the appellant. While doing so, it discussed the testimony of prosecution’s star witness i.e. PW 4 in paragraphs 29 and 30 and did C not find the prosecution evidence reliable and trustworthy for the reasons recorded by it in paragraphs 31, 32, 33, 34 and 35 of its , which are extracted below:- “31. This statement of Madhuri (PW-4) the main witness to the case becomes doubtful in view of the several omissions and contradictions contained therein.