4. While opposing the present appeal Shri Aftab Ali Khan, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent – accused, appointed by the Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee, has submitted that when considering the mitigating circumstances the High Court has reduced H the sentence to eight months on a prior deposit of Rs. 25,000/- towards STATE OF PUNJAB v. DIL BAHADUR 769 [M. R. SHAH, J.] compensation to be paid to the family/legal heir of the deceased, the A same may not be interfered with by this Court. 4.1 It is submitted that the respondent – accused is a poor person and was only a driver and therefore, if he is sent to undergo two years RI, he and his family members will suffer. It is submitted that when the aforesaid facts have been considered by the High Court and the High B Court has reduced the sentence, the same may not be interfered with by this Court. 5. Heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective parties at length. At the outset, it is required to be noted that the respondent – accused has been convicted for the offences under Sections 279 and C 304A of IPC. His conviction for the aforesaid offences have been confirmed by the High Court by the impugned and . However, by the impugned and , the High Court has interfered with the sentence imposed by the learned Trial Court affirmed by the learned Sessions Court and has reduced the sentence from two D years to eight months. However, while reducing the sentence, the High Court has not at all considered the gravity of the offence and the manner in which the accused committed the offence and driving the Scorpio in rash and negligent manner due to which one innocent person lost his life and two persons who were travelling in the ambulance sustained the injuries. The High Court has also not properly appreciated and considered E the fact that due to collision the ambulance turned turtle. This shows the impact on the ambulance and the rash and negligent driving on the part of the accused. Cogent reasons were given by the learned Trial Court while sentencing the accused to undergo two years RI for the offence under Section 304A of IPC. From the impugned and F passed by the High Court, it appears that the case on behalf of the accused that he is coming from a poor family, is considered as mitigating circumstance. However, the High Court has not properly considered that because of the rash and negligent driving on the part of the accused one innocent person died and two persons who were travelling in the ambulance sustained injuries. G 5.1 The High Court has not at all considered the fact that the IPC is punitive and deterrent in nature. The principal aim and object are to punish offenders for offences committed under IPC. Sections 279 and 304A can be invoked only if act of the accused is negligent and rash.