C 10. The respondent Forest Department then filed a Review against the dated 04.04.1991, however, while observing that the nature of the review was more in the nature of an appeal, dismissed the same vide dated 08.12.2005. 11. Despite the said dismissal, the Forest Department filed an application for recall against the abovementioned of review, D however, the said application for recall was also dismissed vide dated 08.12.2005. 12. Aggrieved by the said s, the respondent Forest Department filed a writ petition in High Court of Allahabad, and vide impugned and dated 04.02.2013, the same was allowed, and the E eviction of the Appellants was directed. 13. Against the said , the appellants filed Review Petition which was dismissed by dated 08.02.2013. However, the eviction of the appellants was stayed until 20.03.2013 to enable them to approach this Court. F 14. As against the abovementioned impugned of the High Court, the appellants herein have preferred the present appeals. ANALYSIS 15. We have heard Shri Anil Kaushik for the appellants and Shri G S.R.Singh, Learned Senior Counsel assisted by Shri Kamlendra Mishra for the respondents. 16. At the outset, for the adjudication of the present appeals, it is our considered opinion that following two issues arise for our consideration. H 1006 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A I. Whether the relief granted in the of Banwasi Seva Ashram vs State Of Uttar Pradesh1 is only applicable to SC/ST/ other backward communities? II. Whether the High Court, while exercising its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, could have B re-appreciated the evidence adduced to come to its findings? ISSUE I- Whether the relief granted in the Judgement of Banwasi Seva Ashram vs State Of Uttar Pradesh2 is only applicable to SC/ST/ other backward communities? C 17. In the case of Banwasi Sewa Ashram (Supra), wherein certain Adivasi communities inhabiting the situate land were being evicted from their homes on grounds of the said land being subject to a Section 4 notification under the Forest Act, this Court held that the said inhabitants had a right for their claims to be heard by the Forest Officer, and it was the forest officer, who had the power to go into the merits of the case D and decide the claims of the inhabitants. 18. The abovementioned Banwasi Sewa (Supra), when read into detail, would show that it confers upon the inhabitants of the subject land, only a procedural right to be heard by the appropriate authority, and not a substantive right of possession/inhabitation of the E land. In simpler terms, this would mean that this Court, while delivering the said , did not go into the merits of each claim but only provided an appropriate forum for the claims to be heard. 19. The object of such , in our opinion, is to further the cause of substantive justice, and to ensure that every party with a valid F claim over the notified land is heard in detail, and no arbitrary power to evict local inhabitants is given to the state.