26. It is clear from the above propositions of law, as reproduced and referred to, that the testimonies of offi cial witnesses can nay be discarded simply because independent witnesses were not examined. The correctness or authenticity is only to be doubted on “any good reason” which, quite apparently is missing from the present case. No reason is forthcoming on behalf of the Appellant to challenge the veracity of the testimonies of PW – 1 and PW – 2, which the courts below have found absolutely to be inspiring in confi dence. Therefore, basing the conviction on the basis of testimony of the police witnesses as undertaken by the trial court and is confi rmed by the High Court vide the impugned judgement, cannot be faulted with. 27. Further submission made on behalf of the Appellant was, “delay”, in two aspects; one, the contraband being produced before the Magistrate and two, in the completion of investigation, i.e., from the arrest of the Appellant on 1stOctober, 2003, to the completion of the investigation on 17th April 2006. The fi rst, is a superfi cial ground, plainly negated by record. The trial court has recorded in its that the day after the arrest of the Appellant, 2ndOctober, 2003 was a holiday and therefore the contraband seized was, upon directions produced before the concerned Magistrate on the next working day, that being, 3 October 2003. This being the uncontroverted position, the production of the seized Arrack cannot be said to be delayed. 28. The second aspect of delay, however, assumes importance. It has been time and again observed that a “fair trial”, is a right fl owing from Article 21 of the Constitution of India and it encompasses all stages of trial including that of “investigation, inquiry, trial, appeal, revision and the trial”14 In Dilawar v. State of Haryana15 referring to various landmark judgements of this court, a bench of 2 learned Judges, observed: – “7. It is not necessary to refer to all the decisions of this Court articulating the mandate of the Constitution that there is implicit right under Article 21 for speedy trial which in turn encompasses speedy investigation, inquiry, appeal, revision and retrial. To determine whether undue delay has occurred, one must have regard to nature 14 A.R Antulay v. R.S Nayak, (1992)1 SCC 225 (5-Judge bench) 15 (2018) 16 SCC 521 106 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. of off ence, number of accused and witnesses, workload of the court and the investigating agency, systemic delays. Inordinate delay may be taken as presumptive proof of prejudice particularly when accused is in custody so that prosecution does not become persecution. Court has to balance and weigh several relevant factors. Though it is neither advisable nor feasible to prescribe any mandatory outer time-limit and the court may only examine eff ect of delay in every individual case on the anvil of Article 21 of the Constitution,… This obligation fl ows from the law laid down by this Court inter alia in Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India [Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India, (1978) 1 SCC 248] , Hussainara Khatoon (I) v. State of Bihar [Hussainara Khatoon (I) v. State of Bihar, (1980) 1 SCC 81 : 1980 SCC (Cri) 23] , Abdul Rehman Antulay v. R.S.