But the question is whether any party, which falls under the expression ‘Operational Creditor’ under the IBC claims to have operational debt 1 (2006) 13 SCC 322 H 196 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A due from an industrial company and the cause of action for recovery of the same had accrued much earlier than 01.12.2016, but prevented from enforcing the right against such company in view of statutory prohibition under Section 22 (1), SICA, could initiate CIRP despite the passage of three years since the cause of action claiming the protection of exclusion of the period of suspension by virtue of Section 22 (5), SICA? B 8.1 In that context it is only apt to refer to the afore-mentioned relevant provisions under SICA. Section 22(1), SICA was as follows: “22. Suspension of legal proceedings, contracts, etc. – (1) Where in respect of an industrial company, an inquiry under C section 16 is pending or any scheme referred to under section 17 is under preparation or consideration or a sanctioned scheme is under implementation or where an appeal under section 25 relating to an industrial company is pending, then, notwithstanding anything contained in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or any other law or the memorandum and D articles of association of the industrial company or any other instrument having effect under the said Act or other law, no proceedings for the winding up of the industrial company or for execution, distress or the like against any of the properties of the industrial company or for the appointment of a receiver E in respect thereof [and no suit for the recovery of money or for the enforcement of any security against the industrial company or of any guarantee in respect of any loans or advance granted to the industrial company] shall lie or be proceeded with further, except with the consent of the Board or, as the case may be, the Appellate Authority.” F 8.2 Section 22(5), SICA, relied on by the appellant for seeking exclusion of the period from 31.08.2010 to 01.12.2016 while computing the period of limitation, was as hereunder: - “22. Suspension of legal proceedings, contracts, etc. – G (1)… (2)… (3)… (4)… H SABARMATI GAS LIMITED v. SHAH ALLOYS LIMITED 197 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] (5) In computing the period of limitation for the enforcement A of any right, privilege, obligation or liability, the period during which it or the remedy for the enforcement thereof remains suspended under this section shall be excluded.” 9. Thus, Section 22 (1), SICA as extracted above, would make it clear that there was a statutory bar to take to any proceeding for B realisation of a right referred to in the said Section against an industrial company when once an enquiry under Section 16, SICA is pending against it or any scheme referred to under Section 17 thereof is under preparation or consideration or a sanctioned scheme is under implementation or where an appeal under Section 25 relating to an C industrial company is pending, except with the consent of the Board or the Appellate Authority, as the case may be.