A pattern G in the aforesaid dealings by the promoter is quite striking. When the resolutions plans had been received at the earlier stage, only at the eleventh hour, the settlement proposal came up. This time too, the settlement proposal came up from the promoter only after resolution plans had been received. Prior to it, his proposal had already been H 914 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A rejected. It gets perforce commented that the representative of the corporate debtor being a part of CoC, such proposer is obviously in a position to know about the propositions in the resolution plans when received in response to invitation. 65. We have pondered over various facets of this rather ticklish B part of the matter because on one hand stands the approval of the re- submitted settlement proposal by 100% voting powers in the CoC and on the other hand, fact of the matter remains that before such settlement proposal, second time EOIs had been invited and in fact, seven resolution plans had been received. As noticed, the earlier settlement proposal from the promoter came up only a day before the resolution plans were to be C put to vote, i.e., on 21.01.2021. This time again, the settlement proposals came up from the promoter only on 19.09.2022 after receiving of seven resolution plans from the prospective resolution applicants. 66. We are not expanding further on the matter because when we find that the settlement proposal of the promoter, after approval of D CoC, for invoking the provisions of Section 12-A of the Code, is pending before the Adjudicating Authority, in our view, it shall be in the fitness of things that all the relevant aspects of the matter are left open for consideration of the Adjudicating Authority, including those relating to the justification for invoking Section 12-A after issuance of fresh invitation E for EOI and after receiving resolution plans. In other words, we would leave all the relevant aspects open for consideration of the Adjudicating Authority in accordance with law while keeping in view the observations of this Court. Summation F 67. For what has been discussed hereinabove, disapproval of the resolution plan in question by the Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) in the impugned dated 17.02.2022 is not to be interfered with but, not for all the reasons which weighed with the Appellate Tribunal. As observed hereinabove, the reasons and findings of the Appellate Tribunal in relation to the valuation process and alleged non-compliance of some of the G procedural provisions as also the observations against increase of fees of resolution professional (points A, B and D2) are not to be approved. Similarly, the Appellate Tribunal has not been right in holding the resolution applicant ineligible to submit a resolution plan with reference to Section 164(2)(b) of the Companies Act, 2013 (as held in point C1). The H M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 915 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] disapproval by the Appellate Tribunal, with reference to the settlement A offer of promoter in terms of Section 12-A of the Code, and its purported non-consideration is also not approved by us and such findings of the Appellate Tribunal are required to be set aside (as held in point F).