However, there are two well-known exceptions to the said rule. 560 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. First, the case must not be one where there is “no evidence” to support the fi ndings. Secondly, the ultimate decision based on such fi ndings must not be perverse or unreasonable. These two concepts have affi nity with each other; indeed, the “no evidence” principle clearly has something in common with the principle that perverse or unreasonable action is unauthorised and ultra vires. As pointed out by Lord Radcliff e in Edward (Inspector of Taxes, Bairstow. (1956) Appeal Cases, 14 at page 36 “I do not think that it much matters whether this state of aff airs is described as one in which there is no evidence to support the determination or as one in which the evidence is inconsistent with and contradictory of the determination, or as one in which the true and only reasonable conclusion contradicts the determination.” Rightly understood, each phrase propounds the same test, in each of these cases, according to Lord Radcliff e, there would be an error in point of law requiring the court’s intervention. 80. We must explain the true meaning of the ‘no evidence’ principle. The rule has been adopted in India from England and we may, therefore, ascertain, in the fi rst instance, how the rule over there is understood. Prof. H.W.R. Wade in his treatise on Administrative Law, Fourth Edition, has observed as follows: “It is one thing to weigh confl icting evidence which might justify a conclusion either way. It is another thing altogether to make insupportable fi ndings. This is an abuse of power and may cause grave injustice. At this point, therefore, the court is disposed to intervene. ‘No evidence’ does not mean only a total dearth of evidence. It extends to any case where the evidence, taken as a whole, is not reasonably capable of supporting the fi nding; or where, in other words, no tribunal could reasonably reach that conclusion on that evidence. There is, indeed, the well-established rule that to fi nd facts on no evidence is to err in law.” (Emphasis supplied) 81. The learned Author has pointed out that the “no evidence” rule has some affi nity with the substantial evidence rule of American law which, as explained by Bernard Schwartz in his treatise on Administrative Law, 1976 Edition, at page 595, means “such evidence as might lead a reasonable UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 561 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] person to make fi nding.” In other words, according to the learned Author, “The evidence in support of a fact-fi nding is substantial when from it an inference of existence of the fact may be drawn reasonably.” 82. The earliest English decision which has touched upon the concept of “no evidence” is that of the Court of Appeal in The King v. Carson Roberts reported in 1908 (1) K.B., 407. The question in that case was whether the superior court having the power to issue a writ of certiorari, if it appeared to it that the decision of the auditor in regard to disallowances and surcharges, under the Public Health Act, 1875, was erroneous, could review the same only when such decision was erroneous in point of law and not when the auditor had come to an erroneous conclusion in fact.