186. Interestingly, paragraph No.1 of the Civil Appeals filed by F these persons expressly states that the appeals are confined only to a challenge to paragraph No. 414(f) of the impugned . But in the course of arguments, Shri V.V.S. Rao, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants also assailed paragraph Nos. 414(c) and 414(d) of the impugned . In paragraph 414(c), the High Court declared that the appellants before the High Court had failed to establish that the land G in Hydernagar village was the Mathruka property of Khurshid Jah. In paragraph No.414(d), the High Court declared that the land in Hydernagar village was Jagir land, but prior to 1948 pattas were granted to cultivating Ryots and that therefore title to the land passed on to the cultivating Ryots before 1948 itself. H M/s TRINITY INFRAVENTURES LTD. & ORS. ETC. v. M. S. 363 MURTHY & ORS. ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] 187. But as we have observed elsewhere, the High Court was A compelled to hold that the preliminary decree was vitiated by fraud, due to certain circumstances. The way in which a very innocuous suit for partition was converted into a suit on title, the way in which tens of hundreds of final decrees came to be passed solely on the basis of compromises entered into between few of the parties, the way in which B portions of the decree were assigned and/or sold to third parties, the way in which directions were obtained from the High Court to the Revenue Authorities for effecting mutation, the way in which possession was claimed to have been taken, through or otherwise than through execution proceedings even before the passing of the final decree, demonstrated that the process of law was abused and misused. Today C the position is that any property in the city of Hyderabad and some parts of Telangana can be traced to some property included in Plaint Schedule IV. Plaint Schedule IV included villages and villages without survey numbers and boundaries. Even today, lot of final decree applications are pending in respect of portions of properties described in the suit schedule. D Any number of compromises, any number of final decrees and any number of executions have taken place in CS No. 14 of 1958. As rightly contended by Shri C.S. Vaidyanathan, learned senior counsel appearing for the State what started off as a civil suit (CS) actually turned out to be a civil scandal. Instead of building castles in the air, the parties thereto E were actually building castles out of CS No.14 of 1958. 188. The contention of Shri V.V.S. Rao, learned senior counsel is that the preliminary decree has already attained finality, with the State of A.P. filing an application for deletion of Item Nos.35 to 38 and 40 of Plaint Schedule IV, from the preliminary decree. The said application F was dismissed on 18.12.1982. The appeal arising out of the same in OSA No.1 of 1985 was dismissed on 24.12.1999. Though the State filed a Special Leave Petition, the same was withdrawn on 05.05.2000, but with liberty to go back to the High Court.