To eff ect an arrest, an offi cer authorised has to assess and evaluate the materials in his possession. Through such materials, he is expected to form a reason to believe that a person has been guilty of an off ence punishable under the PMLA, 2002. Thereafter, he is at liberty to arrest, while performing his mandatory duty of recording the reasons. The said exercise has to be followed by way of an information being served on the arrestee of the grounds of arrest. Any non-compliance of the mandate of Section 19(1) of the PMLA, 2002 would vitiate the very arrest itself. Under sub-section (2), the Authorised Offi cer shall immediately, after the arrest, forward a copy of the as mandated under sub-section (1) together with the materials in his custody, forming the basis of his belief, to the Adjudicating Authority, in a sealed envelope. Needless to state, compliance of sub-section (2) is also a solemn function of the arresting authority which brooks no exception. 876 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 40. Thereafter, the arrestee has to be taken to the Special Court, or the Judicial Magistrate or the Metropolitan Magistrate, as the case may be, having the jurisdiction within 24 hours of such arrest. While complying with this mandate the time spent on the journey to the Court shall stand excluded. Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra): “89... The safeguards provided in the 2002 Act and the preconditions to be fulfi lled by the authorised offi cer before eff ecting arrest, as contained in Section 19 of the 2002 Act, are equally stringent and of higher standard. Those safeguards ensure that the authorised offi cers do not act arbitrarily, but make them accountable for their about the necessity to arrest any person as being involved in the commission of off ence of money-laundering even before fi ling of the complaint before the Special Court under Section 44(1)(b) of the 2002 Act in that regard. If the action of the authorised offi cer is found to be vexatious, he can be proceeded with and infl icted with punishment specifi ed under Section 62 of the 2002 Act. The safeguards to be adhered to by the jurisdictional police offi cer before eff ecting arrest as stipulated in the 1973 Code, are certainly not comparable. Suffi ce it to observe that this power has been given to the high-ranking offi cials with further conditions to ensure that there is objectivity and their own accountability in resorting to arrest of a person even before a formal complaint is fi led under Section 44(1)(b) of the 2002 Act. Investing of power in the high-ranking offi cials in this regard has stood the test of reasonableness in Premium Granites & Anr. v. State of T.N. & Ors., (1994) 2 SCC 691, wherein the Court restated the position that requirement of giving reasons for exercise of power by itself excludes chances of arbitrariness. Further, in Sukhwinder Pal Bipan Kumar& Ors. v. State of Punjab & Ors., (1982) 1 SCC 31, the Court restated the position that where the discretion to apply the provisions of a particular statute is left with the Government or one of the highest offi cers, it will be presumed that the discretion vested in such highest authority will not be abused.