Immediately, he reached the hospital F and got recorded his complaint with the police. It is the case of this witness that Nirav (PW-3) met him in the hospital at around 9:30AM and at that time informed him of the incident. This witness does not corroborate the testimony of Nirav (PW-3) of the disclosure of the incident either to his wife or daughter (PW-2). Further, if the identity of the accused G was known both to the father (PW–1) and Nirav (PW-3) then why is that the statement implicating the accused was recorded only at 4:30PM in the evening? The timing is significant, more so when Nirav (PW- 3)himself was interrogated by the Police at two different places, which exercise continued till 6:30PM of the evening of 14.01.2002. H 754 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 13. Coming to the testimony of Harshadbhai Veljibhai Patel (PW- 9), we notice him to have not supported the prosecution at all and in the cross examination part of his testimony, we do not find anything eliciting of the accused in the crime. 14. We may observe that save and except for the confessional B statement of the accused, the Prosecution is not able to link the weapon with the accused. There was no scientific evidence, or the marks of his fingerprints, other identification marks or any tell-tale signs of the blood found on body of the deceased, linking it to the metal pellets of the bullet fired from the weapon recovered during investigation. C 15. This Court has consistently held in a catena of judgements that it is the duty of the prosecution to establish use of the weapon discovered in the commission of the crime. Failure to do so may cause aberration in the course of justice. [Kartarey v. State of U.P., (1976) 1 SCC 172; Ishwar Singh v. State of U.P., (1976) 4 SCC 355; Chaudhari Ramjibhai Narasangbhai v. State of Gujarat, (2004) 1 D SCC 184; Amar Singh’s case (Supra)] 16. In the absence of any other evidence linking the accused to the murder of the deceased, the testimony of PW-3 discarded, there is no other direct or circumstantial evidence, ocular or otherwise, linking the accused be it on the point of motive or the incident. It is in this E backdrop we find the Courts below to have seriously erred. The settled principles of convicting the accused on circumstantial evidence, enunciated by this Court in Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra (1984) 4 SCC 116, have not been followed by the Courts below. 17. It is true that concurrent findings of facts of the Courts below, F are usually, not to be interfered with. However, it is only in the presence of exceptional circumstances, this Court exercises its wide powers where there is travesty of justice and when absurd and erroneous conclusions are drawn by the Courts below. We are of the opinion that this is one such case fit for exercising the powers entrusted to us as a duty under Article 136 of the Constitution in lite of principles enunciated G in:Ramaphupala Reddy v. State of Andhra Pradesh, (1970) 3 SCC 474; Balak Ram v. State of U.P., (1975) 3 SCC 219; Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai V. State of Gujarat, (1983) 3 SCC 217.