The category of relationship relevant for our purposes as B provided in the Seventh Schedule to the Act is as under: “The Seventh Schedule: Arbitrator’s relationship with the parties or counsel; 1. The arbitrator is an employee, consultant, advisor or has any other past or present business relationship with a party.” C Re: Submission regarding contracts expressed in the name of the President of India. 10. We will first deal with the submission of learned ASG, Ms Bhati that the contract in the present case stands on a different footing D as it is entered into in the name of the President of India. Article 299 of the Constitution of India9 provides that all contracts made in exercise of the executive power of the Union shall be expressed to be made in the name of the President. The phrase ‘expressed to be made’ and the word ‘executed’ are intended to mean that there must be a deed or contract, in writing, and executed by a person duly authorized by the E President of the Governor in that behalf. 11. The rationale of Article 299(1), as explained in Chatturbhuj Vithaldas Jasaniv.Moreshwar Parashram & Ors10 is that there must be a definite procedure according to which contracts must be made by the agents of the government in to bind the government, otherwise F 9 “299. Contracts (1) All contracts made in the exercise of the executive power of the Union or of a State shall be expressed to be made by the President, or by the Governor of the State, as the case may be, and all such contracts and all assurances of property made in the exercise of that power shall be executed on behalf of the President or the Governor by such G persons and in such manner as he may direct or authorize. (2) Neither the President nor the Governor shall be personally liable in respect of any contract or assurance made or executed for the purposes of this Constitution, or for the purposes of any enactment relating to the Government of India heretofore in force, nor shall any person making or executing any such contract or assurance on behalf of any of them be personally liable in respect thereof” 10(1954) SCR 817. H 724 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A public funds may deplete by unauthorized or illegitimate contracts. It implies that contracts not couched in the particular form stipulated by Article 299(1) of the Constitution cannot be enforced at the instance of any contracting party. 12. It must be emphasized that Article 299 only lays down the B formality that is necessary to bind the government with contractual liability. It is important to note that Article 299 does not lay down the substantial law relating to the contractual liability of the Government, which is to be found in the general laws of the land. It is for this reason that, even though a contract may be formally valid under Article 299, it may nevertheless fail to bind the Government if it is void or unenforceable C under the general provisions of law.11 13.