Basu vs. State of W.B. reported in AIR 1997 SC 610 and Honourable Gujarat High Court, while the accused is in custody and refrain from any custodial ill-treatment or torture” 18. CBI, thereafter, preferred an application for suspension of the G aforesaid before Special CBI Court on the ground that they wish to challenge it before the High Court of Gujarat. Hence, Special Judge, CBI Court No. 3 stayed operation of its till 7th January, 2023. This was later extended by the Court till the final disposal of the Special Leave Petition (Crl.) No. 295 of 2023. H 486 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A SUBMISSIONS 19. Assailing the impugned granting anticipatory bail to Respondent No. 1, Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General of India on behalf of the CBI made the following submissions: i. Considering the gravity and seriousness of the offence and B the position held by Respondent No. 1, the High Court erred in exercising its discretionary jurisdiction under Section 438 of the CrPC; ii. The High Court did not appreciate the material collected against Respondent No. 1 which establishes a clear demand C & acceptance of bribe by him in view of his voice recordings seeking an amount of Rs. 30 lakhs from the complainant and acknowledging payment thereof. The relevant voice recordings have been analysed and the voices have been identified to be those of Respondent No. 1 and the complainant; D iii. The High Court grossly erred in observing that the FIR was registered after a long delay on 12th October, 2022. On that day, the CBI had only re-registered FIR No. 12/ 2022 which was initially registered by ACB Police Station on 4th October, 2022. E iv. Respondent No. 1’s name was included in the ‘Agreed List’ in respect of Group A officers of the Income Tax Department for the year 2015 and thus, his service record is not clean; F v. Respondent No. 1 evaded arrest when the ACB team raided his office after he had acknowledged the payment of the bribe money over a WhatsApp call. Respondent No. 1 & his colleagues used criminal force to deter the ACB team from effecting arrest and collecting material evidence. While doing so, Respondent No. 1 handed over his mobile phone, G which is a crucial piece of evidence, to his colleague to ensure that the same was not seized by the investigating agency. This has been recorded in the CCTV cameras of the office; vi. The audio recordings and video footage have been examined H by the Directorate of Forensic Science, Gujarat certifying CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. SANTOSH 487 KARNANI & ANR. [SURYA KANT, J.] their genuineness. The report concludes that there are no A signs of alteration in the same; vii. Respondent No. 1 falsely pleaded that he had taken casual leave from the competent authority and misled the investigating agency by sending a reply to the notice issued under Section 41A, CrPC through the email ID of Blue B Heaven Hotel, Jaipur.