Therefore, it is prayed that no interference of this Court against the findings recorded on material and evidence is called for. Reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in the case of Mantri Techzone Private Limited Vs. F Forward Foundation and Ors. ; (2019) 18 SCC 494. 5.7 It is further submitted by Shri Bagaria, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the assessee that the assessment simply referred to AIR data. As recorded in the assessment itself the assessee had submitted that the transaction in question was duly offered G to tax in assessment year 2008-09 reflecting its consideration at Rs. 5,24,27,354/-. The MOU relating to the said transaction was already before the assessing officer and the consideration of Rs. 5,24,27,354/- was duly mentioned in the MOU. In the Development Agreement, there was a mistake in mentioning the consideration and on realizing the error, H 1018 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A within a short period of 24 days, the aforesaid Deed of Rectification was entered into and was duly registered. The said consideration of Rs. 5,24,27,354/- was correctly mentioned in the MOU which was before the Assessing Officer as well as before the CIT (Appeals). The amount mentioned in the Deed of Rectification, rectifying the mistake in the Development Agreement also mentioned the same consideration and B the said Deed of Rectification was duly registered with the Sub-Registrar, Vasai with whom the Development Agreement was also registered. It is important to mention that if the Department intended to dispute the valuation, it could have easily referred the matter to the valuation officer but it did not do so. Not only this, as recorded by the tribunal, the C development agreement as well as the deed of rectification were both registered with the same Sub-Registrar, Vasai but the income tax officer did not make any enquiry from the said Sub-Registrar. 5.8 It is further submitted that with regard to the nature of business of the assessee, the income tax officer proceeded as if there must be D regular transactions of purchase and sale every year. Firstly, the income tax Department itself had accepted that the assessee’s business was of builder and developer, erectors, construction of buildings, houses etc and the assessments on that basis were completed year after year including the assessments under Section 143 (3) for different years as mentioned above. Secondly, the regularity and frequency itself depends on the nature E of business and nothing prevents the assessee from buying plots of land, holding them as stock in trade, developing or continuing to hold as it is and then entering into the transactions of sale or disposal or transfer at an appropriate time. Reliance in this regard is placed on the judgement reported in (1961) 42 ITR 179 (Raja J. Rameshwar Rao Vs. F Commissioner of Income Tax, Hyderabad) wherein it was held inter alia that, “no doubt, this was only a single venture; but even a single venture may be regarded as in the nature of trade or business.” As regards the applicability of Section 50C of Income Tax Act, it is submitted that when the land in question was held by and transferred by the assessee as stock in trade and not as capital asset, Section 50C could have no G application at all.