26. It is the case of the petitioners that the 2006 Delimitation Notifi cation was, to the extent that it did not accommodate the newly inducted Limboo Tamang Tribes, not corrected by the Election Commission, in the exercise of its powers under Section 11 of the Delimitation Act. Thus, according to the petitioners, the 2008 published by the Election Commission under the Representation of People Act 1950, which was a consolidation of the s issued by the Delimitation Commission, was defective to the extent that it did not account for the Amending Act of 2002. Its defects, the petitioners claim, were not duly cured by the Election Commission under Section 9(1)(aa) of the 1950 Act. 27. The petitioners rely on the directions of this Court in the decision in Virendra Pratap and Another vs Union of India and Others. A writ petition was instituted seeking directions against the Election Commission to take steps for proper representation by identifying constituencies for reservations of the Scheduled Tribes in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly Elections, in accordance with proportional representation in terms of Article 330 of the Constitution.8 While agreeing that the Scheduled Tribes had the right to proportional representation under Articles 330 and 332 of the Constitution, this Court directed the Election Commission to consider the case of the Scheduled Tribes and take appropriate steps to ensure their representation in the House of the People and the Legislative Assembly “in the State”. The Court clarifi ed that while the Election Commission was not being directed to complete the exercise before the upcoming assembly elections, it was at liberty to complete the exercise, without disturbing the election schedule: “8. Accordingly, we dispose of the writ petition by directing the Election Commission of India, to consider the case of the Scheduled 8 (2012) 11 SCC 764. PUBLIC INTEREST COMMITTEE FOR SCHEDULING SPECIFIC 1091 AREAS v. UOI [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Tribes, as indicated in the writ petition and to take appropriate steps for their representation in the Lower Houses, both in the Parliament, as well as in the State Assemblies in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. The petitioners will be at liberty to supply necessary details of the fi gures indicated to the Election Commission of India and the Election Commission may itself also obtain fi gures from the Registrar General, as suggested by the learned Attorney General and, thereafter, proceed to take steps in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution for due representation of the Scheduled Tribes population.” (emphasis added). 28. The 2008 Delimitation came up for the consideration of this Court in 2012 in its decision in the case of Virendra Pratap (supra) where the Election Commission as well as the then Attorney General had taken the position that they would carry out the relevant exercise by considering the fi gures de hors the 2001 census. The Commission was then directed to undertake the relevant steps to ensure proportional representation of the tribes, in accordance with the Constitution. 29.