If, indeed, 17 (1998) 3 SCC 723 H 568 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A there have been transfers post dismissal of the Suit during the time when there was no pending lis, it would be most appropriate for the Executing Court to determine the question as to whether any of the transfers made by Mr. Mathew to the Respondents would attract Rule 102. This would indeed involve an exercise of leading of evidence by the parties and merely because the Suit was ultimately decreed on 21st October 2000 B and ultimately was upheld by this Court with a minor modification of the amount of compensation, that would not be sufficient justification to throw out the objections raised by the Respondents as being devoid of merit. 26. That apart, the effect of the Purchase Certificate obtained by Mr. Mathew in proceedings before the Land Tribunal where Mrs. Cherian C was noticed on the transfers made in favour of the Respondents, would also have to be examined by the Executing Court. Notably, it is the contention of the Respondents that the said Purchase Certificate was issued in terms of the KLR Act and not only the same went unchallenged at the instance of Mrs. Cherian, she did not make any disclosure thereof D at any stage of the civil proceedings. 27. The impugned of the Executing Court bearing in mind the unchallenged dated 5th April 2018 passed by the High Court has found the objections to be maintainable, at least warranting an enquiry. On facts, this Court finds no legal infirmity in such deserving E interference. 28. Now, it is time to consider the effect of the of this Court dated 13th October 2014, whereby the special leave petition of Mr. Thomas and Mr. Abraham was disposed of enhancing the compensation by a marginal amount. Simply because this Court did not interfere with the first appellate decree dated 11th February 2014 is no ground to hold F that such would bar an enquiry of the nature contemplated by Rule 101. This Court would not allow its vision to be colored by treating the dated 13th October 2014 as bringing an end to the controversies between the decree-holders and the strangers/third parties, who were not before it. While it cannot be gainsaid that the dignity, prestige and G majesty of this Court has to be maintained, yet, merely because the issue between the Appellants on the one hand and Mr. Thomas and Mr. Abraham on the other has attained finality, the same would not afford any justification for this Court, much less sufficient justification, to uphold the contention of the Appellants which has the effect of subverting, rather than effectuating, the substantive right that Rules 97 to 103 of H JINI DHANRAJGIR & ANR. v. SHIBU MATHEW & ANR. ETC. 569 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] XXI confer on strangers/third parties not bound by the decree for recovery A of possession. The claim regarding right, title and interest in respect of their respective shares in the decretal property, as raised by the Respondents, cannot be thrown out at the threshold since it is well within their rights to contest the application under XXI Rule 97, CPC filed by the Appellants.