The Trial Court and the High Court have C examined the evidence on record and have rejected this plea of alibi with reference to the significant features of the case that there is no corroborative evidence on record, to the assertion made by PW-6, that on 20.06.2007, he took his daughter back to his village Kolakkudi. The accused-appellant did not adduce any D evidence to prove that she was not present at her mother-in- law’s place, at the time and place of incident. Apart from the fact that PW-1, PW-2 and PW-3 consistently maintained their versions that the appellant was available at the time and place of incident, two independent witnesses, PW-4, landlord of PW-1 and PW-5, neighbour of PW-1 testified that they saw the appellant sitting E with or near the body of the deceased child immediately after, and at the place of, the incident. Although there appears to be no reason to discard the testimonies of PW2 and PW-3 but even if for the sake of argument their testimonies are left aside for being directly related witnesses who might not be favourably disposed F towards the appellant, there appears no reason to disbelieve and discard the testimonies of PW-4 and PW-5. Nothing even remotely has been shown as to why PW-4 and PW-5 would be interested in testifying about the presence of appellant around the time, and at the place of incident. [Para 15.1][981-B-D] 2. Apart from the foregoing, fact of the matter also remains G that the appellant was arrested on 21.06.2007 i.e., the very day of the incident, albeit nine hours after the incident, at the bus stand. However, when the theory propounded by PW-6 that the appellant had travelled to his village with him on 20.06.2007 and H 944 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A then travelled back to her mother-in-law’s place on 21.06.2007 is discarded, all other facts taken together lead to the logical conclusion that the plea of alibi is required to be rejected. [Para 15.2][981-E-F] 3. Another major factor highlighted and elaborated by the B appellant relates to certain discrepancies appearing in the versions of PW-1, as stated in the complaint made to the police compared with her assertions before the Court. No doubt, there had been some such discrepancies in the matter which, at the first blush, give rise to certain doubts as to whether the testimony of PW-1 could be believed or not. However, a close look at the C record makes it clear that the discrepancies, said to be of contradictions in the versions given by PW-1, could only be considered to be normal and natural or being the result of her want of proper comprehension. [Para 16][981-G-H; 982-A] 4. PW-1 is none other than mother-in-law of the appellant D and the grand-mother of the victim child. The first discrepancy in the matter is that, as per the version in the complaint, she left her house in the morning to buy idli without taking money, but in her deposition, she stated that appellant gave her Rs.