The question of bias will have to be decided on the facts of each case [see Vipin Kumar Jain [Union of India v. Vipan Kumar Jain, (2005) 9 SCC 579] ]. xxx 12.2. Similarly, even with respect to off ences under the IPC, as observed hereinabove, there is no specifi c bar against the informant/ complainant investigating the case. Only in a case where the accused has been able to establish and prove the bias and/or unfair investigation by the informant-cum-investigator and the case of the prosecution is merely based upon the deposition of the informant-cum-investigator, meaning thereby prosecution does not rely upon other witnesses, more particularly the independent witnesses, in that case, where the complainant himself had conducted the investigation, such aspect of the matter can certainly be given due weightage while assessing the evidence on record. xxx 13.2. (II) In a case where the informant himself is the investigator, by that itself cannot be said that the investigation is vitiated on the ground of bias or the like factor. The question of bias or prejudice would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case. Therefore, merely because the informant is the investigator, by that itself the investigation would not suff er the vice of unfairness or bias and therefore on the sole ground that informant is the investigator, the accused is not entitled to acquittal. The matter has to be decided on a case-to-case basis. A contrary decision of this Court in Mohan Lal v. State of Punjab [Mohan Lal v. State of Punjab, (2018) 17 SCC 627 : (2019) 4 SCC (Cri) 215] and any other decision taking a contrary view that the informant cannot be the investigator and in such a case the 102 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. accused is entitled to acquittal are not good law and they are specifi cally overruled.” (emphasis supplied) 16. Therefore, it canno longer be said to be res integra that the person receiving the information of the crime or detecting the occurrence thereof, can investigate the same. Questioning such investigation on the basis of bias or such like factor, would depend on the facts and circumstances of each case. It is not amenable to a general unqualifi ed rule that lends itself to uniform application. 17. The submission made by the learned counsel for the Appellant is that the fairness of the investigation was compromised since the person who detected the crime and the person who investigated, were one and the same. It was further submitted that the offi cial witnesses being unreliable, independent witnesses are an indispensable requirement in the present case. 18. K.S Hegde J., writing for the court in the landmark A.K. Kraipak v. Union of India8 observed as under:- “It is diffi cult to prove the state of mind of a person. Therefore what we have to see is whether there is reasonable ground for believing that he was likely to have been biased. We agree with the learned Attorney General that a mere suspicion of bias is not suffi cient.