That thereafter, all of them were appointed in the concerned Dairy Federations/Unions under the Rajasthan State Dairy Development Corporation Ltd. on the basis of the recommendations made by the selection committee of the Rajasthan State Dairy Development Corporation Ltd. initially on a probation for a F period of one year. At the time when number of officers of the Rajasthan Animal Husbandry Services came to be selected on certain posts in the Rajasthan Dairy Development Corporation and the various Milk Producers Cooperative Unions, some of these officers workings in the Rajasthan Animal Husbandry services represented to the Government G that before making up their mind about accepting of their offers, they would like to know what benefits in respect of their service in the Government will be available to them. To that, the respective employees were informed vide communication / G.O. dated 30.01.1976 that their lien will be kept for a period of two years or until their confirmation, whichever is earlier. That therefore, right from very beginning, the H 124 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A respective respondents were told that their lien will be kept for a period of two years or until their confirmation in the Corporation / Union, whichever is earlier. With an open eye, the respective respondents accepted their appointments in the Dairy Development Corporation / Milk Federation Unions. All of them thereafter continued to work in their respective milk unions under the Dairy Development Corporation. B All of them got the promotions while working in different milk unions under the Dairy Development Corporation. All of them retired as employees of the Dairy Development Corporation / Milk Federation Unions. All of them were paid the retirement benefits when they retired on attaining the age of superannuation. C That thereafter after a period of six to nine years of their retirement from the Dairy Development Corporation / Milk Federation Unions, they filed the writ petitions before the High Court claiming pensionary benefits from the State Government contending inter alia that their lien as a Government servant in the Rajasthan Government service have been D continued. Once the respondents were absorbed on selection and after selection process in the Dairy Development Corporation / Milk Federation Unions, they worked as such and even got the promotion, thereafter, the respective respondents ceased to have the lien in the Government service. The letter dated 30.01.1976 is very clear. Even as per Rule 18 of the Rajasthan Service Rules, 1951, which provides for termination of lien, E “a Government servant’s lien on a post stands terminated on his acquiring a lien on a permanent post outside the cadre on which he is borne”. Therefore, once the respective respondents were appointed after selection and interview in the Rajasthan Dairy Development Corporation / Milk Federation Unions, they ceased to have the lien in the Government. F 7.2 As rightly submitted on behalf of the State, there cannot be two liens on two substantive posts. The submission on behalf of the respondents that it was not a case of permanent appointment in the Dairy Development Corporation / Milk Federation Unions, cannot be accepted.