40. K. Kumara Gupta Versus Sri Markendaya and Sri Omkareswara Swamy Temple and Ors.7, is a case relating to auctioning of land belonging to the Devasthanam. This Court opined that unless and until it was found that there was any material irregularity and/or illegality in holding the public auction and/or the auction sale was vitiated by any fraud or collusion it is not open to set aside the auction or sale in favour of the highest bidder on the basis of some representations made by a third party who did not even participate in the auction proceedings and did not make any off er. If there is repeated interference in the auction process, the object and purpose of holding public auction and the sanctity of public auction would be frustrated. This Court in paragraph 23 of the held that unless there are allegations of fraud, collusion etc., the highest off er received in the public auction should be accepted as a fair value. Otherwise, there shall not be any sanctity of a public auction. 41. It is interesting to note that insofar the present case is concerned, even after cancelling the highest bid of the appellant, in the subsequent sale notice dated 24.12.2021, Respondent No.2 i.e. the Liquidator had again fi xed the reserve price of the subject property at Rs.10 crores which was the reserve price in the previous round of auction sale and which was also the bid value of the appellant. If this is the position, we fail to fi nd any rationale or justifi cation in rejecting the bid of the appellant and going for another round of auction at the same reserve price. 42. Thus, mere expectation of the Liquidator that a still higher price may be obtained can be no good ground to cancel an otherwise valid auction and go for another round of auction. Such a cause of action would not only lead to incurring of avoidable expenses but also erode credibility of the auction process itself. That apart, post auction it is not open to the Liquidator to act on third party communication and cancel an auction, unless it is found that fraud or collusion had vitiated the auction. The necessary corollary that 7 (2022) 5 SCC 710 894 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. follows therefrom is that there can be no absolute or unfettered discretion on the part of the Liquidator to cancel an auction which is otherwise valid. As it is in an administrative framework governed by the rule of law there can be no absolute or unfettered discretion of the Liquidator. Further, upon a thorough analysis of all the provisions concerning the Liquidator it is evident that the Liquidator is vested with a host of duties, functions and powers to oversee the liquidation process in which he is not to act in any adversarial manner while ensuring that the auction process is carried out in accordance with law and to the benefi t of all the stakeholders. Merely because the Liquidator has the discretion of carrying out multiple auction it does not necessarily imply that he would abandon or cancel a valid auction fetching a reasonable price and opt for another round of auction process with the expectation of a better price.