The arbitrator will make an award which becomes executory by homologation. This indicates the similarity between the arbitrator’s real function and that of a judge who has to decide a case. [Emphasis added.] In other words, any means of dispute resolution that serves as a fi nal resort for contracting parties must be just. This is important because, unlike the submission of existing disputes to arbitration, and contrary to my colleague Côté J.’s assertion, an agreement to submit all future unknown disputes to arbitration is not simply a substitute for the parties’ negotiations (para. 250). Rather, it serves as a transfer of dispute resolution authority away from public adjudicators (W.G. Horton, “A Brief History of Arbitration” (2017) 47 Adv. Q. 12, at p. 14; Sport Maska, at p. 581; Wellman, at para. 48; Desputeaux, [2003] 1 SCR 178, at para. 40). The legitimacy of such a transfer rests upon whether it can provide a comparable measure of justice. xxx xxx xxx 121. In sum, applying public policy to determine whether an arbitration agreement prohibits access to justice is neither stating a “new common law rule” as my colleague Côté J. characterizes it, nor an expansion LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 1021 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] of the grounds for judicial intervention in arbitration proceedings (paras. 307, 312 and 316). Common law courts have long recognized the right to resolve disputes according to law. The law has simply evolved to embrace arbitration as means of achieving that resolution. Contractual stipulations that prohibit such resolution altogether, whether by express prohibition or simply by eff ect, continue to be unenforceable as a matter of public policy.” (Emphasis supplied) 99. The Majority ultimately concluded observing the following in paragraphs 97 and 98 respectively of the judgement as under: “97. Respect for arbitration is based on it being a cost-eff ective and effi cient method of resolving disputes. When arbitration is realistically unattainable, it amounts to no dispute resolution mechanism at all. As our colleague Justice Brown notes, under the arbitration clause, “Mr. Heller, and only Mr. Heller, would experience undue hardship in attempting to advance a claim against Uber, regardless of the claim’s legal merit” (para. 136). The arbitration clause is the only way Mr. Heller can vindicate his rights under the contract, but arbitration is out of reach for him and other drivers in his position. His contractual rights are, as a result, illusory. 98. Based on both the disadvantages faced by Mr. Heller in his ability to protect his bargaining interests and on the unfair terms that resulted, the arbitration clause is unconscionable and therefore invalid.” (Emphasis supplied) 100. The courts in the United States of America have also deliberated upon the doctrine of unconscionability on numerous occasions. The Court of Appeal of California in the case of Patterson v. ITT Consumer Financial Corporation reported in 18 Cal. Rptr. 2d 563 (Cal. Ct. App. 1993), had the occasion to consider whether the requirement for the claimants to pay a fi ling fee along with hearing fees for the purpose of resolving the matter could be said to be unconscionable.