Emphasis was laid on the well-settled principle of criminal jurisprudence that more serious the off ence, the stricter would be the degree of proof and a higher degree of assurance would be necessary to convict an accused. [Also refer: State of Punjab v. Baldev Singh44, Ritesh Chakarvarti v. State of M.P.45 and Bhola Singh39 (supra)]. 16. Thus, it can be seen that the initial burden is cast on the prosecution to establish the essential factors on which its case is premised. After the prosecution discharges the said burden, the onus shifts to the accused to prove his innocence. However, the standard of proof required for the accused to prove his innocence, is not pegged as high as expected of the prosecution. In the words of Justice Sinha, who speaking for the Bench in Noor Aga38 (supra), had observed that: “58. ……. Whereas the standard of proof required to prove the guilt of the accused on the prosecution is “beyond all reasonable doubt” but it is Explanation—In this section “culpable mental state” includes intention motive, knowledge of a fact and belief in, or reason to believe, a fact. (2) For the purpose of this section , a fact is said to be proved only when the court believes it to exist beyond a reasonable doubt and not merely when its existence is established by a preponderance of probability. 54. Presumption from possession of illicit articles—In trials under this Act, it may be presumed, unless and until the contrary is proved, that the accused has committed an off ence under this Act in respect of— (a) any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance or controlled substance; (b) any opium poppy, cannabis plant or coca plant growing on any land which he has cultivated; (c) any apparatus specially designed or any group of utensils specially adopted for the manufacture of any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance or controlled substance; or (d) any materials which have undergone any process towards the manufacture of a narcotic drug or psychotropic substance or controlled substance, or any residue left of the materials from which any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance or controlled substance has been manufactured, for the possession of which he fails to account satisfactorily. 44 (1999) 6 SCC 172 45 (2006) 12 SCC 321 118 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. “preponderance of probability” on the accused. If the prosecution fails to prove the foundational facts so as to attract the rigours of Section 35 of the Act, the actus reus which is possession of contraband by the accused cannot be said to have been established.” The essence of the discussion in the captioned case was that for attracting the provisions of Section 54 of the NDPS Act, it is essential for the prosecution to establish the element of possession of contraband by the accused for the burden to shift to the accused to prove his innocence. This aspect of possession of the contraband has to be proved by the prosecution beyond reasonable doubt. (e) PLEA OF FAILURE TO ESTABLISH FOUNDATIONAL FACTS 17.