What is noteworthy is that sub-section (3) has no application to proceedings before the Special Judge, who is free to pass an discharging the accused, if he is of the opinion that a valid sanctioning prosecution of the accused had not been produced as required under Section 19(1). 23.3. Sub-section (3), in our opinion, postulates a prohibition against a higher court reversing an passed by the Special Judge on the ground of any defect, omission or irregularity in the of sanction. It does not forbid a Special Judge from passing an at whatever stage of the proceedings holding that the prosecution is not maintainable for want of a valid sanctioning the same. 23.4. The language employed in sub-section (3) is, in our opinion, clear and unambiguous. This is, in our opinion, suffi ciently evident even from the language employed in sub-section (4) according to which the appellate or the revisional court shall, while examining whether the error, omission or irregularity in the sanction had occasioned in any failure of justice, have regard to the fact whether the objection could and should STATE OF KARNATAKA LOKAYUKTA POLICE v. 31 S. SUBBEGOWDA [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] have been raised at an early stage. Suffi ce it to say, that a conjoint reading of sub-sections 19(3) and (4) leaves no manner of doubt that the said provisions envisage a challenge to the validity of the of sanction or the validity of the proceedings including fi nding, sentence or passed by the Special Judge in appeal or revision before a higher court and not before the Special Judge trying the accused. 23.5. The rationale underlying the provision obviously is that if the trial has proceeded to conclusion and resulted in a fi nding or sentence, the same should not be lightly interfered with by the appellate or the revisional court simply because there was some omission, error or irregularity in the sanctioning the prosecution under Section 19(1). Failure of justice is, what the appellate or revisional court would in such cases look for. And while examining whether any such failure had indeed taken place, the Court concerned would also keep in mind whether the objection touching the error, omission or irregularity in the sanction could or should have been raised at an earlier stage of the proceedings meaning thereby whether the same could and should have been raised at the trial stage instead of being urged in appeal or revision.” 13. In State of M.P. vs. Bhooraji and Others2, this Court had an occasion to deal with the various aspects contained in Section 465 of CrPC more particularly to deal with the expression “A failure of justice has in fact been occasioned” as contained therein. Since, the provisions contained in Section 19(3) of the Prevention of Corruption Act and in Section 465(1) of CrPC are pari materia, the observations made in the said decision would be relevant. “14. We have to examine Section 465(1) of the Code in the above context. It is extracted below: “465.