Certain public spirited individuals including a lawyer is a signatory to this “Mercy Petition”. C Next comes a letter addressed to the Home Department of the Maharashtra Government by the Superintendent, Yerawada, Central Jail dated 19th January 2007. We have reproduced the text of this letter in earlier part of this . The said communication to which we have referred earlier also describes the applicant as Narayan Chetanram Chaudhary and his date of birth in this communication is shown to be 1st D February 1982. This communication was dated 24th January 2006. 16.In the writ petition filed before this Court, a copy of which has been annexed at page 40 of the application, it has been stated in grounds C, D and E: - E “C. For that the present Petitioner was ostracized and disowned by him family immediately after his arrest in connection with the said incident. Hence the present Petitioner had no support or effective means of defending his case. Also the present Petitioner did not possess any material indicating his true age. F D. For that recently the father of the present Petitioner after a gap of around 18-19 years re-established contact with the present Petitioner. Form his father the present Petitioner for the first time received documents to indicate his real age at the time of the incident. The present Petitioner seeks to rely G on the following documents in to substantiate his case- i. ‘Family Card’ – issued by the State of Rajasthan to the father of the present Petitioner, dated 17.2.1992 which records the name of the present Petitioner as ‘Nirana’ and his age as 12 years. H NARAYAN CHETANRAM CHAUDHARY v. THE STATE OF 1087 MAHARASHTRA [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] ii. Transfer Certificate – issued by the Education A Department, Rajasthan which records the name of the present Petitioner as ‘Niranaram’ and his date of birth is recorded as 1.2.1982. iii. ‘Ration Card’ – issued by the State of Rajasthan to the father of the present Petitioner which records the name of B the present Petitioner as ‘Niranaram’. E. For that from the abovementioned documents it becomes clear that the present petitioner’s name is ‘Niranaram’ and his date of birth is 1.2.1982. Thus, on the date of the incident the present Petitioner was 12 years old. Hence the present C Petitioner ought to be treated as a juvenile delinquent and hence could not have been tried in a regular trial.” (quoted verbatim from paperbook) 17.This writ petition was filed on 2nd July 2013, supported by an affidavit of one Mukhram, on 8th April 2013. In that affidavit, the deponent D Mukhram described himself to be the younger brother of the petitioner. Though this writ petition was not entertained by this Court, we are referring to this part of the writ petition to demonstrate how the applicant started representing or re-representing himself as Niranaram. The present applicant in this writ petition has described himself as Narayan @ E Niranaram, son of Chetanram Chaudhary and the same name has been used to describe the applicant in the present application.