Also, the security deposit made would, on the termination of the arbitration proceedings, fi rst be adjusted against costs if any awarded by the arbitrator against the claimant party, and the balance remaining after such adjustment then be refunded to the party making the deposit. This clause is materially diff erent from Clause 25(viii), which, as we have seen, makes it clear that in all cases the deposit is to be 10 per cent of the amount claimed and that refund can only be in proportion to the amount awarded with respect to the amount claimed, the balance being forfeited and paid to the other party, even though that other party may have lost the case. This being so, this is wholly distinguishable and does not apply at all to the facts of the present case. xxx xxx xxx 20. The fi rst important thing to notice is that the 10 per cent “deposit- at-call” of the amount claimed is in to avoid frivolous claims by the party invoking arbitration. It is well settled that a frivolous claim can be dismissed with exemplary costs. … 21. It is therefore always open to the party who has succeeded before the arbitrator to invoke this principle and it is open to the arbitrator to dismiss a claim as frivolous on imposition of exemplary costs. xxx xxx xxx 23. The important principle established by this case is that unless it is fi rst found that the litigation that has been embarked upon is frivolous, exemplary costs or punitive damages do not follow. Clearly, therefore, a “deposit-at-call” of 10 per cent of the amount claimed, which can amount to large sums of money, is obviously without any direct nexus to the fi ling of frivolous claims, as it applies to all claims (frivolous LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 967 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] or otherwise) made at the very threshold. A 10 per cent deposit has to be made before any determination that a claim made by the party invoking arbitration is frivolous. This is also one important aspect of the matter to be kept in mind in deciding that such a clause would be arbitrary in the sense of being something which would be unfair and unjust and which no reasonable man would agree to. Indeed, a claim may be dismissed but need not be frivolous, as is obvious from the fact that where three arbitrators are appointed, there have been known to be majority and minority awards, making it clear that there may be two possible or even plausible views which would indicate that the claim is dismissed or allowed on merits and not because it is frivolous. Further, even where a claim is found to be justifi ed and correct, the amount that is deposited need not be refunded to the successful claimant. Take for example a claim based on a termination of a contract being illegal and consequent damages thereto. If the claim succeeds and the termination is set aside as being illegal and a damages claim of Rupees One crore is fi nally granted by the learned arbitrator at only ten lakhs, only one-tenth of the deposit made will be liable to be returned to the successful party.