We make no comments in this regard. Interpretation and validity of such clauses is not subject matter of this appeal. When such clauses, which are apparently one-sided and absolve breach with immunity, are subjected to judicial scrutiny, the courts/tribunals invariably tend to interpret the clauses in a restrictive manner to grant just and fair relief. Courts should be slow to interfere, unless the award falls within the ambit of the parameters set out in Section 34 of the A&C Act. BATLIBOI ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERS LTD v. 461 HINDUSTAN PETROLEUM CORP. LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] increase in the monetary benefi t earned and without being free to move elsewhere to earn profi t which it might otherwise be able to do. It is not the case of BEEL that they are entitled to enhance or increase in cost on account of delay in execution of the work. Pertinently, Claim No. 3 for compensation of losses incurred due to increase in cost of material and labour has been specifi cally rejected, as escalation in prices/costs are barred by the terms of the contract. (iii) The computation of loss under S.No.7 of Rs.90,47,871/- is, therefore, unsustainable and cannot be justifi ed by any calculation and in terms of the Contract Act. (iv) As per the chart, in addition to Rs.90,47,871/-, the arbitrator has awarded at S.No.12, a further amount of Rs.66,89,794.68p. on account of loss of overheads and profi ts for the extra period of 24 months, that is, till 27.08.1997. The fi gure as per S.No.12 is arrived at after reducing pro rata overheads and profi ts during the extended period as mentioned in S.No.9. The computation belies and defi es logic. It clearly amounts to double payment towards compensation and damages, as it fails to notice that the sum mentioned in S.No.7 of Rs. 90,47,871/- is on account of compensation towards overheads and profi ts/profi tability. Therefore, 20% of the value of the unfi nished work had already been included in the computation and awarded under S.No.7. The date 27.08.1997 is at best, an assumption of BEEL and not mentioned anywhere or decipherable from the award. 20. We have briefly referred to the principle applicable for computing the claim for compensation/damages in case of partial prevention, i.e., where the breach by the employer is not fundamental and does not entitle the builder/contractor to cease the work, or, being fundamental, is not treated as repudiation by the builder/contractor. Measure of compensation/damages in such cases is the loss of profi t arising from reduced profi tability or added expense of the work carried out.14 In a given case, where there is a fundamental breach by the 14 See Hudson’s Building Contracts (10th edn) pp 450, 596. 462 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. employer, albeit, the builder/contractor does not immediately elect to treat the contract as repudiated, he may still be entitled to raise a claim for loss of profi t on the uncompleted work. Off site expenses or overheads are all administrative or executive costs incidental to the management supervision or capital outlay as distinguished from operating charges.