[2023] 4 S.C.R. 79 79 RAJIV KUMAR JINDAL AND OTHERS A v. BCI STAFF COLONY RESIDENTIAL WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND OTHERS (Civil Appeal No(s). 10127–28 of 2011) B APRIL 27, 2023 [AJAY RASTOGI AND BELA M. TRIVEDI, JJ.] Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 : ss. 20(4), 21(c) – Winding up of sick industrial company – Operating C agency to prepare complete inventory – On facts, Operating Agency- IDBI initiated process to sell the subject assets of the sick industrial company-BCI in terms of the passed by the BIFR – Submission of solitary bid by the appellant – Operating authority accepted the same – However, the appellant did not adhere to the terms and conditions of Asset Sale Committee (ASC) – In view thereof, BIFR D did not agree to the proposal to accept the bid – However, the Appellate Authority-AAIFR set aside the of BIFR and issued directions to confirm the sale in favour of the appellant – However, Division Bench holding that the appellants have not made payment in terms of the guidelines of the ASC, they failed to furnish the E bank guarantee and to deposit the purchase consideration, restored the of the BIFR – On appeal, held : Operating Agency was under an obligation to obtain the valuation report of the subject property and after due assessment has to arrive at the reserve price – Procedure adopted by the Operating Agency was defective – Appellants-auction bidder neither paid the sale consideration nor F furnished the bank guarantee within 15 days of the acceptance of the bid in terms of the guidelines – Moreover, the Division Bench of the High Court holding that there was no competitive bidding which is a sine qua non for public auction and the guidelines of the ASC have not been complied with, set aside the of the AAIFR with G the direction to initiate the process afresh – No error in the view of the High Court – Appellant was under an obligation to comply with the requirement and despite opportunity the appellant failed to comply with the twin conditions – Thus, the High Court rightly set aside the of AAIFR. H 79 80 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Auction: Object and purpose of – Process of auction/bidding – Explained. Dismissing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 The Operating Agency was under an obligation to obtain the valuation report of the subject property and after B due assessment has to arrive at the reserve price for the sale of the property in terms of Section 21(c) of the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 and thereafter has to proceed with a procedure known to law while adopting a method for sale of the assets by public auction or by inviting tenders or in C any other manner specified and for the manner of publicity therefor in terms of Section 18(2)(k) of the Act, 1985. [Para 22][89-D-E] 1.2 In the instant case, it has not been placed on record if there was any valuation report assessed by the Operating Agency from the approved valuer of the subject property and, at the same time, the reserve price of the subject property was never D disclosed/indicated in the first place when the public notice came to be notified inviting offers from the interested parties.