The damage likely to be caused by reason thereof is such that it cannot be undone at a later stage. e. Balance of convenience in the present case falls squarely in favour of the appellant. The appellant would suff er irreversible harm if the conviction is not stayed as he would remain disqualifi ed and would not be able to participate even in the General Elections scheduled for 2024. If the appellant was to be ultimately found not guilty by the High Court, then no Court would be able to turn the clock back and remedy the harm suff ered by the appellant. However, if the conviction were to be stayed and down the line if the High Court affi rmed the conviction by the Trial Court, the appellant would in any case be bound to serve his sentence without any prejudice caused to the respondent. f. Irreversibility of the position is one important factor that the High Court failed to bear in mind, while refusing to stay the conviction. 5 MPLAD Scheme 988 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 7. Resting on the aforesaid submissions, Dr. Singhvi prayed that while setting aside the and of the High Court, to the extent impugned in this appeal, the conviction recorded against the appellant be stayed. 8. Per contra, Mr. K.M. Nataraj, learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the respondent, supported the impugned and and advanced the following contentions: a. The standards for suspension of sentence and stay of conviction are diff erent. Stay of conviction can only be ed by the court when exceptional circumstances are shown to exist. Dissimilar to suspension of execution of sentence, it is not a matter of practice to stay the conviction at the stage of fi rst appeal. No exceptional circumstance having been shown to exist, the High Court has passed a reasoned that ought not to be interfered on sparse grounds. b. The conviction in the present case is under the Gangsters Act which is of a serious nature and stay of conviction in this case would not be in consonance with the settled principles laid down by this Court in several of its decisions. c. The appellant is a notorious criminal, with numerous criminal antecedents. Reference was made to a list in this regard forming part of the reply of the respondent. d. The acquittal in Case Crime No. 589/2005 could be attributed to witness intimidation by the appellant as most witnesses in that trial turned hostile and did not support the prosecution case. The appellant was not acquitted unequivocally on merits. In any event, an appeal against the acquittal is pending. 9. Learned ASG also invited our attention to the contents of the affi davit fi led by the appellant before the High Court in support of his prayer for suspension of the under appeal as well as the fi nding returned by the High Court in that behalf. He contended that apart from referring to the fact of disqualifi cation incurred by him by reason of the conviction, the appellant had made no disclosure of facts and fi gures to demonstrate the consequences that he is likely to suff er should his prayer for suspension of AFJAL ANSARI v. STATE OF UP 989 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.]