6.1. As regards addiction of the appellant and the matters related with his admission to, and discharge from, the rehabilitation centre, the relevant part of the testimonies of PW-2 Puran Singh, cousin of the H PREM SINGH v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 813 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] appellant and PW-3 Jagbir, the manager of rehabilitation centrewould A read as under5: - “PW 2 Sh. Puran Singh Yadav S/o Sh. Bharat Singh Yadav, aged about 63 years, R/o DU 72 Vishakha Enclave, Pitampura Delhi. On S.A. B …..About 15/20 days prior to the present incident I came to know that Prem Sing is admitted at Chetna Deaddiction Centre in Auchandi Village due to his habit of consume liquor. I visited the said deaddiction centre and found him admitted over there. I tried to contact the doctor over there but the officials of said centre C informed me that the doctor will come on Wednesday but on wednesday the said doctor did not arrive and they informed me on telephonethat doctor will come on Friday. When I made a telephonic call at the said deaddiction centre on friday then I came to know that my uncle had got accused Prem Singh discharged from the said centre. I raised an objection to the officials of said D deaddiction centre as to why they had discharged Prem Singh as his condition was not normal. After 2 or 3 days of his discharge the present incident took place as far as I remember it was Sunday night. Had Prem Singh not been discharged from the said deaddiction centre the present E incident could have been avoided. At this stage Ld. APP seeks permission to put some leading question to the witness. Heard. Allowed. Q I put it to you that Prem Singh used to quarrel with his wife Sunita and used to regularly beat and abuse his wife Sunita and F his both the deceased sons. Prem Singh is a man of violent nature? A. I am unaware about the said facts as I was not a regular visiter in the house of Prem Singh. I never stated so in my statement recorded by the police and the IO had mentioned the said facts in my statement on his own. G xxxxx by Ms. Sadhna Bhatia, Amicus Curie Ld. Counsel for the accused. 5 Most of the extractions herein are verbatim from the copies placed on the record of this appeal. H 814 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A IO never recorded my statement. IO never made any inquiry from me regarding this case. What ever I have deposed before the court today is true. I had never seen accused beating his wife or abusing his children as I reside separatly from their family and do not interfere in their house. It is wrong to suggest that I am deposing falsely.” B *** *** *** “PW3 Statement of Sh. Jagbir S/o Sh. Sukhbir Singh, aged 40 years, R/o H. No. 205, village – Auchandi, Delhi – 39.