iii) The decision in SMS Tea Estates Private Limited (supra) D stands overruled. Paras 22 and 29 of Garware Wall Ropes Limited (supra) which are approved in paras 146 and 147 in Vidya Drolia and Others (supra) are overruled to that extent. 98. The reference is answered accordingly. E 99. We appreciate the contribution made by Mr. Gourab Banerjee, Amicus Curiae in answering the reference made to this Court. HRISHIKESH ROY, J. F A. Introduction B. Reference to the Constitution Bench C. Facts in NN Global D. Modification of the reference question G E. Submissions of Counsel F. Statutory scheme of the Stamp Act, 1899 G. Statutory scheme of the Arbitration Act, 1996 i) Evolution of law under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act, 1996 H 424 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A ii) Post-2015 Regime: Insertion of Section 11(6A) iii) Post-2019 Amendment and the Report of the High- level Committee to review the Institutionalisation of Arbitration in India H. Discussion on SMS Tea B I. Discussion on Garware J. Interplay between the Stamp Act, Arbitration Act and Contract Act. i) Arbitration Act is a special legislation C ii) Harmonious Construction K. Advent of Technology and the changing nature of transactions L. Doctrine of Separability D M. Kompetenz Kompetenz, & the issue of judicial logjam in India N. Discussion on Vidya Drolia O. Conclusion E A. Introduction 1. I had the benefit of reading the erudite opinion of my Learned Brother, Justice K.M. Joseph (for himself and Justice Aniruddha Bose) and the separate of Learned Brother Justice C.T. Ravikumar. However, I regret my inability to agree with the majority opinion and the F concurring . Echoing the words of Charles Evans Hughes1 in one of his lectures delivered at the University of Columbia, let our minority opinion (self and Learned Brother Justice Ajay Rastogi, who has written a separate opinion), appeal to the brooding spirit of the future as also the powers of the legislature to examine the interplay between the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (for short “Arbitration Act, 1996”) and the G Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (for short “Stamp Act, 1899”); and to emphatically resolve the imbroglio to avoid any confusion in the minds of the stakeholders in the field of arbitration. 1 Charles Evans Hughes, The Supreme Court of The United States Its Foundations, H Methods and Achievements,(Columbia University Press) 68 (1928) M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 425 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] 2. The role of Courts in arbitral proceedings has been much debated A for years. Autonomy of the disputing party is the core of the arbitral process but if the parties fail to arrive at a consensus, the supervisory role of Courts becomes imperative. Redfern and Hunter on International Commercial Arbitration2 describe the relationship between national courts and arbitral tribunals as follows: B “To the extent that the relationship between national courts and arbitral tribunals is said to be one of ‘partnership’, it is not a partnership of equals.