128 sale deed dated 21.04.1979 by the second defendant as also by the first defendant, the trial Court held that the burden of proving the factum of execution of sale deed and passing of the consideration amount was on the plaintiff. The trial Court had also C failed to consider the relevance and application of Section 92 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 while appreciating the oral evidence against Ext. 128. Evidently, the trial Court accepted the case of the second defendant that the said sale deed was one executed as a collateral security to a money lending transaction and that it was never intended to be D acted upon. The trial Court has also held the sale deed virtually invalid by accepting the contention that the transaction violated the provision under Section 8 of the Fragmentation Act and in that regard the sale deed dated 04.07.1978 executed between defendant Nos. 1 and 2 was held as one creating a ‘fragment’ and therefore, violating the prohibition. This was done without looking into the question as to its jurisdiction to E entertain and adjudicate upon such a plea in view of the statutory bar of jurisdiction under Section 36A of the Fragmentation Act. In that regard it is noteworthy that nothing was specifically mentioned in paragraph 14 or anywhere else in the written statement filed by the second defendant regarding the violation of the provisions under the Fragmentation Act F and, in fact, only vague reference was made on that aspect in paragraph 16 reproduced as under: - “16. …In event, according to provision of Consolidation of Act and Prevention of Fragmentation Act, the plaintiff not entitled to any relief.” G 14.In view of the aforementioned facts as also taking note of the contentions raised on behalf of the contesting respondents, in support of the impugned , that the First Appellate Court failed to consider at all the voidness of the sale transaction of 2 acres and 20 guntas between original defendants 1 and 2, its impact on the sale of consequentially H 190 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A created ‘fragmentation’ of one acre by the second defendant and the whole sale transaction effected under Exhibit 128 sale deed by operation of the Fragmentation Act and further that the said aspect was rightly considered by the High Court, we think it only proper to deal with that matter appropriately. B 15. At the outset, we may say that there is dichotomy between the contention of the first respondent/ the second defendant founded on the Fragmentation Act as mentioned above and also his contention of absolute absence of a transaction partaking the real nature of sale. This is because Section 9 (1) of the Fragmentation Act makes void only the transfer or partition of any land contrary to the provisions of the said C Act. The word ‘transfer’ is not defined under the Fragmentation Act though the expression ‘land’ has been defined thereunder. As per Section 2 (5) of the Fragmentation Act, the term ‘land’ means, ‘agricultural land whether alienated or unalienated’.