Ltd.47 laid down four essential elements of an arbitration agreement: (i) There must be a present or a future diff erence in connection with some contemplated aff air (ii) The parties must intend to settle such diff erence by a private tribunal (iii) The parties must agree in writing to be bound by the decision of such tribunal. (iv) The parties must be ad idem. 61. An arbitration agreement is a contractual undertaking by two or more parties to resolve their disputes by the process of arbitration, even if the disputes themselves are not based on contractual obligations. An arbitration agreement is a conclusive proof that the parties have consented to submit their dispute to an arbitral tribunal to the exclusion of domestic courts. The basis for an arbitration agreement is generally traced to the contractual freedom of parties to codify their intention to consensually submit their disputes to an alternative dispute resolution process. 62. According to Section 10 of the Code of Civil Procedure of 1908, the courts have jurisdiction to try all suits of a civil nature except suits whose cognizance is expressly or impliedly barred. The said provision gives a right to any person to fi le a civil suit before a court of competent jurisdiction. Moreover, Section 28 of the Indian Contract Act of 187248 provides that any agreement restraining a party from enforcing their rights under a contract 46 Satish Kumar v. Surinder Kumar, (1969) 2 SCR 244 47 (2003) 7 SCC 418 48 “Contract Act” 668 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. before courts or tribunals is void to that extent. However, the provision specifi cally saves a contract by which two or more persons agree that any dispute, which may arise between them, in respect of any subject or class of subjects shall be referred to arbitration. Thus, arbitration agreements are granted a statutory exception under Section 28 of the Contract Act. In Dhulabhai v. State of Madhya Pradesh a Constitution Bench of this Court held that the jurisdiction of civil courts may be excluded by an express provision of law or by clear intendment arising from such law.49 In Chloro Controls (supra), this Court observed that Section 45 of the Arbitration Act shall prevail over the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 in case of a valid arbitration agreement. Considering the fact that an arbitration agreement excludes the jurisdiction of civil courts, such an agreement ought to be valid and enforceable. 63. An arbitration agreement must satisfy the principles of contract law laid down under the Contract Act, in addition to satisfying other requirements stipulated under Section 7 of the Arbitration Act, to qualify as a valid agreement.50 Section 2(e) of the Contract Act defi nes an agreement as every promise and every set of promises forming the consideration for each other. An agreement enforceable by law is a contract. An agreement should satisfy the mandate of Section 10 of the Contract Act to be enforceable by law. Section 10 provides that all agreements are contracts if they are made by the free consent of parties competent to contract, for a lawful consideration and with a lawful object.