Ministers are in B turn accountable to Parliament or, as the case may be. the state legislatures. Under the Westminster parliamentary democracy, civil services constitute an important component of a triple chain of command that ensures democratic accountability. The triple chain of command is as follows: C a. Civil service officers are accountable to Ministers; b. Ministers are accountable to Parliament/Legislature; and c. Parliament/Legislature is accountable to the electorate. 107. An unaccountable and a non-responsive civil service may pose a serious problem of governance in a democracy. It creates a D possibility that the permanent executive, consisting of unelected civil service officers, who play a decisive role in the implementation of government policy, may act in ways that disregard the will of the electorate. (c) Accountability of Civil Service Officers in a Federal Polity E 108. Our Constitution is federal in character. In a federal polity, a fundamental question which arises is which would be the more appropriate authority to whom the civil service officers would be accountable. 109. As discussed before, a paramount feature of a federal F Constitution is the distribution of legislative and executive powers between the Union and the regional units. The essential character of Indian federalism is to place the nation as a whole under the control of a Union Government, while the regional or federal units are allowed to exercise their exclusive power within their legislative and co-extensive executive and administrative spheres.36 G 110. In a democratic form of Government, the real power of administration must reside in the elected arm of the State, subject to the confines of the Constitution.37 A constitutionally entrenched and 36 SR Bommai v. Union of India, (1994) 3 SCC 1 H 37 2018 Constitution Bench GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 559 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] democratically elected government needs to have control over its A administration. The administration comprises of several public officers, who are posted in the services of a particular government, irrespective of whether or not that government was involved in their recruitment. For instance, an officer recruited by a particular government may serve on deputation with another government. If a democratically elected B government is not provided with the power to control the officers posted within its domain, then the principle underlying the triple-chain of collective responsibility would become redundant. That is to say, if the government is not able to control and hold to account the officers posted in its service, then its responsibility towards the legislature as well as the public is diluted. The principle of collective responsibility extends to the C responsibility of officers, who in turn report to the ministers. If the officers stop reporting to the ministers or do not abide by their directions, the entire principle of collective responsibility is affected. A democratically elected government can perform, only when there is an awareness on the part of officers of the consequences which may ensue if they do not D perform. If the officers feel that they are insulated from the control of the elected government which they are serving, then they become unaccountable or may not show commitment towards their performance.