him, that stamp duty and registration charges E would be required to be paid subject, of course, to the petitioner’s right to question the of the Sub-Registrar before the appellant authority under the Act. As the petitioner has given up their claim for 50% exemption and Sri S.Ravi, learned Senior Counsel, would fairly state that, if a part of the land sought to be registered is found to be Government land it. may be excluded from registration F subject to the petitioner’s right to avail their legal remedies, against any such action, being left open, we consider it appropriate to dispose of both the Writ Appeals directing the Sub-Registrar to consider the petitioner’s request for registration of the lands and buildings of the company under liquidation, purchased by them in G the auction conducted by the Official Liquidator; determine its value on the date of presentation of the document for registration; collect the stamp duty and registration fees thereupon; and, thereafter, consider registration of the sale deed effecting transfer of the lands and buildings, of the company under liquidation, to the petitioner herein, in accordance with law. The entire exercise shall H 1118 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A be completed at the earliest preferably within three 1 months from the date of receipt of a copy of this . Both the appeals are disposed of accordingly. There shall be no as to costs. Miscellaneous petitions, if any, pending shall stand closed. SD/- K.GANGADHAR RAO B DEPUTY REGISTRAR //TRUE COPY// SECTION OFFICER” 15. Notice was served on respondent no.1 but there is no C appearance. Shri Mahfooz A. Nazki, learned Counsel appeared on behalf of the appellants. We may notice that despite time granted to the appellants to effect service on respondent no.2, in view of their failure to effect service, in terms of dated 04.03.2020, the SLP was found to stand dismissed as against Respondent No.2. This is discernible from D dated 19.06.2020. Shri Gopal Jha, learned Counsel appeared on behalf of the third respondent’s company (in liquidation) represented by the Official Liquidator. In view of the fact that there was no appearance for the first respondent, by dated 20.10.2021, we appointed Shri S. Niranjan Reddy, learned Senior Counsel as Amicus Curiae. E SUBMISSION OF THE PARTIES 16. We heard the learned counsel as noted, as also the learned Amicus. 17. Shri Nazki would submit that the impugned ignores the nature of the transaction, which culminated in the conveyance and F the purpose for which the conveyance was made. It is pointed out that the first respondent had purchased the property with the intent to carry on the business, which consisted of manufacturing of the products in question. He sought fortification for the same from the support drawn initially from a Government premised on carrying on the G manufacturing activity and to encourage it, with exemption of 50 per cent offered by the State. He would further point out that the District Registrar had analysed the facts correctly and applied the law laid down by this Court in Duncans Industries Limited (supra).