1000 of 2003 was restricted to prohibition of mining activities in and around Jamua B Ramgarh Wildlife Sanctuary and prescribing ESZs for the said Wildlife Sanctuary only. As such, various State Governments did not have an opportunity to address this Court. 13. Having considered the rival submissions, we find it appropriate to refer to various s passed by this Court on the issue of ESZs/ C Buffer Zones. 14. The first of such s was passed by this Court on 16th September 20052. It will be relevant to refer to paragraph 13 of the said , which reads thus: “13. We have perused the affidavit dated 14-9-2005 filed by Mr D Anurag Bajpai on behalf of MoEF and the statement showing the grant of temporary working permit in the last two years i.e. from 1-1-2003 to 31-12-2004 in the national parks, sanctuaries and forest area. This is despite the passed by this Court restraining the mining activities in these areas. Learned amicus curiae submits E that the inspection of the government record shows a dismal picture and he would shortly file an application for taking appropriate action against the persons concerned. Pending filing of the said application and further s, we again reiterate that without compliance with the environmental laws, in particular the permission under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980, no F temporary working permission or temporary permit or any other permission by whatever name called shall be granted for mining activities in the aforesaid areas. We further direct that no mining activity would continue under any temporary working permit or permission which may have been granted. It appears from G the chart filed with the affidavit of Mr Anurag Bajpai that no temporary working permission is in operation as of today. If it is otherwise, an affidavit to that effect shall be filed within two weeks giving the particulars of such permission.” [emphasis supplied] H 2 (2006) 5 SCC 25 IN RE: T.N. GODAVARMAN THIRUMULPAD v. UNION OF 613 INDIA AND OTHERS [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 15. It can thus clearly be seen that this Court directed that no A mining activity would be permitted to continue under any temporary working permit or permission which may have been granted. 16. It will further be relevant to refer paragraph 15 of the said , which reads thus: B “15. MoEF is directed to place on record within three weeks its viewpoint on the question of area of buffer zone and other related matters such as should it be universal or place specific. This should be done after also obtaining the viewpoint of the National Board of Wildlife.” C 17. It can thus be seen from the said paragraph that this Court directed MoEF to place on record within three weeks its viewpoint on the question of area of buffer zone and other related matters such as should it be universal or place specific. The Court further directed that this should be done after obtaining the viewpoint of the NBWL. 18.