He would no doubt point out that the earlier view of judicial review in these matters favoured a very limited power to the registering authority in traversing B beyond the document (See Himalaya Space House Company Limited v. Chief Controlling Revenue Authority3). He would point out subsequent legislative changes by different legislatures which included Section 47A as also the insertion of the proviso to Section 27 by the Andhra Pradesh Amending Act (Act 8 of 1988), has expanded the power C of the authority. He would contend that such an exercise would have the blessing of the law laid down in Duncans Industries Limited (supra)and also the view taken by this Court in Chief Controlling Revenue Authority v. Coastal Gujarat Power Ltd. and others4. The Authorities could verify the true extent and market value of the specified immovable property. The power flows from Section 27 and Section 47A of the Act. D He would draw our attention to the definition of the word ‘immovable property’ in the Registration Act, 1908, the General Clauses Act, 1897 and the Transfer of Property Act, 1882. He would also point to Section 8 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, as a relevant provision, which sheds light and which should guide the Officer. The Authorities can and E must break down the transaction or the instrument and demarcate the distinct matters and assess the matters separately and charge the aggregate of the stamp duty under Section 5 of the Act. He would submit that the registering authority is entitled to verify statements in D, F and H in conjunction with entire recitals to ascertain, if the instrument purported to provide for a larger transaction than seen projected in the F schedule. Further, the appellant could ascertain by any measures indicated in Section 27 read with Section 47A as to whether the immovable property is wholly and properly described. This may include an exercise of verifying whether there is any embedded plant and machinery that ought to have been shown as immovable property and was wrongly excluded. He pointed G out that the original transaction comprised the sale of all the following categories of assets of the company in liquidation. They are as follows: A. Land and Building – which is immovable property. 3 (1972) 1 SCC 726 4 (2015) 10 SCC 700 H THE SUB REGISTRAR, AMUDALAVALASA & ANR. v. M/S 1121 DANKUNI STEELS LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] B. Plant and Machinery that may be permanently embedded to A the earth and answering thedescription of immovable property as defined. C. Plant and Machinery and other effects which may not come under the description of immovable property and hence constitute movable property. B D. Current Assets and Motor Vehicle which are movable property. 21. He would point out that there were four distinct matters which were comprised in the composite sale. 22. The third respondent is the Company in liquidation represented C by Official Liquidator. A Counter Affidavit has been filed in this Court.