With regard to Point No. 7(a), the CCC had recorded that it had noted that no witness examined by it had specifi c knowledge of the events listed in, wrongly recorded as 5(a) - (f). It should have been events listed in 7(a) - (f). Events at 7(a) pertain to allegation of making unsolicited phone calls at unearthly hours and, that too, for long duration. No call records were produced. However, CCC accepted the allegations by merely holding that the committee saw no reason what gain the complainant would have in fabricating the allegations and that it is understandable that no woman would be expected to confi de matters of sexual nature even to her female colleagues. The CCC is to record its fi nding based on evidence on record and not on surmises and conjectures. It will be worthwhile to recall that the prayer of the complainant for a transfer was rejected on 24.08.2011 and based on a threatening message issued by the husband of the complainant on 26.08.2011, the petitioner had lodged the ejahar on 26.08.2011. These aspects were, however, not weighed by the CCC.” (Emphasis supplied) 26. The High Court accordingly, allowed the writ petition vide its Impugned and and set-aside the penalty of permanently withholding 50% of the pension imposed upon the respondent. 27. In such circumstances referred to above, the appellant is here before this Court with the present appeal. C. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT 28. Mr. K. Parmeshwar, the learned counsel appearing for the appellant in his written submissions has stated thus: - “I. There has been no violation of the principles of natural justice as the Respondent was given an opportunity to defend himself at every stage of the case. UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 505 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] a. It is submitted that the Central Complaints Committee was constituted to look into the allegations made against the Respondent as prescribed under Rule 14 of the Central Civil Services (Classifi cation, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965. b. The said Committee conducted its fi rst hearing on 26.09.2012 at 10:00 am. The Respondent was served with all the relevant documents including the complaint dated 20.08.2011. Further, the list of ‘witnesses to be examined’ submitted by the Complainant on 18.09.2012 was also supplied to the Respondent. The Respondent appeared and submitted that he will provide the name of his counsel within an hour. Therefore, on his request, the proceedings were adjourned to 2 PM. At 2 PM, he submitted an application seeking 30 days’ time for engagement of counsel. The Committee after taking into account his request granted one week’s time to provide name of his counsel in to complete the proceedings within the stipulated time period. c. It is important to mention that the next date of the hearing was fi xed for 26.11.2012 i.e., after 2 months. When the Respondent was enquired about the name of his counsel, he submitted before the Committee that he will represent himself and cross-examine the witnesses and he himself examined as many as 11 witnesses.