21. When the resolution process does not yield any success, or no application is received, and in certain other situations, the corporate debtor F enters into the liquidation phase. This is provided by Section 33 of the IBC, which is extracted below: “Section 33 - Initiation of liquidation (1) Where the Adjudicating Authority, — G (a) before the expiry of the insolvency resolution process period or the maximum period permitted for completion of the corporate insolvency resolution process under section 12 or the fast track corporate insolvency resolution process under section 56, as the case may be, does not receive a resolution plan under sub-section (6) of section 30; or H PASCHIMANCHAL VIDYUT VITRAN NIGAM LTD. v. RAMAN 1239 ISPAT PRIVATE LIMITED & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (b) rejects the resolution plan under section 31 for the non- A compliance of the requirements specified therein, it shall— (i) pass an requiring the corporate debtor to be liquidated in the manner as laid down in this Chapter; (ii) issue a public announcement stating that the corporate B debtor is in liquidation; and (iii) require such to be sent to the authority with which the corporate debtor is registered. (2) Where the resolution professional, at any time during the corporate insolvency resolution process but before C confirmation of resolution plan, intimates the Adjudicating Authority of the decision of the committee of creditors 2[approved by not less than sixty-six per cent. of the voting share] to liquidate the corporate debtor, the Adjudicating Authority shall pass a liquidation as referred to in sub- clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of clause (b) of sub-section (1). D Explanation- For the purposes of this sub-section, it is hereby declared that the committee of creditors may take the decision to liquidate the corporate debtor, any time after its constitution under sub-section (1) of section 21 and before the confirmation of the resolution plan, including at any time E before the preparation of the information memorandum. (3) Where the resolution plan approved by the Adjudicating Authority 4[under section 31 or under sub-section (1) of section 54L,] is contravened by the concerned corporate debtor, any person other than the corporate debtor, whose F interests are prejudicially affected by such contravention, may make an application to the Adjudicating Authority for a liquidation as referred to in sub-clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of clause (b) of sub-section (1). (4) On receipt of an application under sub-section (3), if the G Adjudicating Authority determines that the corporate debtor has contravened the provisions of the resolution plan, it shall pass a liquidation as referred to in sub-clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of clause (b) of sub-section (1). H 1240 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A (5) Subject to section 52, when a liquidation has been passed, no suit or other legal proceeding shall be instituted by or against the corporate debtor: Provided that a suit or other legal proceeding may be instituted by the liquidator, on behalf of the corporate debtor, with the B prior approval of the Adjudicating Authority.