C Further, interference with the bodily integrity of a child in such a case, would not be justified, as there is no nexus between the Respondent’s request for the DNA test and the best interests of the child. 21. The concept of privacy for a child may not be equivalent to that of an adult. However, the evolving capacity of children has been D recognised and the Convention acknowledges the control that individuals, including children, have over their own personal boundaries and the means by which they define who they are in relation to other people. Children are not to be deprived of this entitlement to influence and understand their sense of self simply by virtue of being children. Further, Article 8 of the Convention provides children with an express right to preserve their E identity. Details of parentage are an attribute of a child’s identity. Therefore, long-accepted notions about a child’s parentage must not be frivolously challenged before Courts of Law. Best interests of a child: 22. The phrase “mankind owes to the child the best it has to F give” clearly underlines our duties towards children, and it entitles them to the best that mankind can give. This implies that the interest of the child should be given primary consideration in actions involving children. This idea has been effectively expressed in Article 3 of the Convention on the Rights of Child which reads as under: G “In all actions concerning children, whether undertaken by public or private social welfare institutions, courts of law, administrative authorities or legislative bodies, the best interests of the child shall be a primary consideration”. H APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 721 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 22.1 In two English decisions reported in Re L., (1968) 1 All ER A 20 and B. (B.R.) vs. B.(J. ), (1968) 2 All ER 1023, blood test of the child was permitted for determining paternity. However, the decision in Re L. was passed based on the reasoning that a blood test can be directed if it serves the best interest of the child. Lord Denning, MR, was however of the view that blood tests could be ed even in B cases involving paternity issues or in proceedings where it is in the best interest of the child to have its paternity settled one way or the other. However, in the same decision, Wilmer, LJ and Davoes, LJ, expressed their reservations against the opinion of Lord Denning, MR, regarding blood tests in proceedings other than in custodial jurisdiction. C However, in the latter decision of B. (B.R. ), it was held that a judge of the High Court can a blood test on a paternity issue or indeed on any other issue, when doing so would be in the best interest of the child to do so. 22.2 This Court has consistently invoked the principle of best D interest of child, particularly, in disputes concerning custody of children. 22.3. It is undeniable that a finding as to illegitimacy, if revealed in a DNA test, would, at the very least adversely affect the child psychologically.