Section 37 comes under Chapter IV which deals with performance of contracts and of contracts which must be performed. C Section 37 reads: “37. Obligation of parties to contract. -The parties to a contract must either perform, or offer to perform, their respective promises, unless such performance is dispensed with or excused under the provisions of this Act, or of any other law. D Promises bind the representatives of the promisors in case of the death of such promisors before performance, unless a contrary intention appears from the contract.” 58. We have noticed that in the case of fraud, misrepresentation E or coercion, the person whose consent is procured on the said basis, may insist that the contract be performed and that he be put in the position, in which he could have been, if the representation had not been made. In this context, we may notice, Section 64 of the Contract Act: “64. Consequences of rescission of a voidable contract. -When F a person at whose option a contract is voidable rescinds it, the other party thereto need not perform any promise therein contained in which he is the promisor. The party rescinding a voidable contract shall, if he had received any benefit thereunder from another party to such contract, restore such benefit, so far as may be, to the person from whom it was received.” G 59. As to what would happen, if an agreement is discovered to be void or becomes void, is provided in Section 65. It declares that when such an eventuality takes place, any person, who has, under such agreement or contract, received any advantage, is bound to restore it to the person from whom he has received it or make compensation for the H 342 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A same. In the context of Section 65, we may notice the nexus with Section 2(j) of the Contract Act. Section 2(j), as we have noticed, provides that, when the contract ceases to be enforceable, it becomes void. Thus, what may be an agreement and which fulfils the requirement that it is enforceable and, therefore, becomes a contract, can upon it ceasing to be enforceable, become void. However, here we must notice the view B expressed by the Privy Council in the Judgement reported in Mahanth Singh v. U Ba Yi23. Therein the Court, inter alia, held as follows: “A still more startling result, however, is brought about on this construction if s.2(j) is read with s.65 of the Indian Contract Act, since in such a case not only would every unenforceable contract C become void but each party would be under the obligation of restoring or making compensation for any benefit received, no matter how much had been done towards the performance by either party. But it is not necessary to adopt a construction leading to such D surprising results. The solution is, in their Lordships’ view, to be found in the wording of s.2(j) itself. Not every unenforceable contract is declared void, but only those unenforceable by law, and those words mean not unenforceable by reason of some procedural E regulation, but unenforceable by the substantive law.