PW1 being a natural, educated and God-fearing person, his testimony has to be accepted. The evidence of PW2 is also in tune with that of PW1. PW5 has also deposed that he was informed by PW1 that the accused was seen fl eeing away towards the hillside. The fact that the accused were declared as the proclaimed off enders would add substance to the case of the prosecution. Non-examination of the material witnesses and the non-availability of the fi ngerprint report would not render the prosecution version doubtful. However, it was held that the off ences pertaining to rape and theft are not proved beyond reasonable doubt. Accordingly, the appellant was convicted for committing murder with a further conviction for an attempt HARVINDER SINGH @ BACHHU v. 1163 THE STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] to rape. Incidentally, conviction was also rendered for house breaking under Section 454 of the IPC. SUBMISSIONS OF THE APPELLANT 14. Learned counsel appearing for the appellant made a primary contention that the High Court without specifically pointing out the conclusion arrived at by the trial court on a factual analysis has chosen to reverse it. Reliance made on the evidence of PW1, despite existence of contradictions, ought not to have been undertaken. The question is not as to whether there occurred a homicidal death or not but who did it. The lapses on the part of the prosecution would go to the root of the case especially when there was no explanation forthcoming. Having not agreed with the version of the prosecution qua the recovery, the High Court ought not to have placed reliance on the doubtful testimony of PW1. SUBMISSIONS OF THE RESPONDENT 15. Repelling the contentions made, the learned counsel appearing for the State submitted that it is well open to the High Court to reappreciate the evidence available on record, which was actually done. In the absence of any motive on the part of PW1 to implicate the appellant on purpose, the High Court rightly ignored minor contradictions. Having found the existence of prior enmity between accused and PW5, a conviction was accordingly rendered. The mere fact that the appellant was acquitted for rape while holding him guilty for an attempt to rape, is itself a testimony to hold that there was application of mind by the High Court. Inasmuch as relevant materials having been taken note of, the of conviction requires to be confi rmed. REPUTATION IS A FACT Section 3 of the Indian Evidence Act 1872 “3. Interpretation clause.—In this Act the following words and expressions are used in the following senses, unless a contrary intention appears from the context:— xxx xxx xxx “Fact”.—“Fact” means and includes— 116 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. (1) any thing, state of things, or relation of things, capable of being perceived by the senses; (2) any mental condition of which any person is conscious. Illustrations (a) That there are certain objects arranged in a certain in a certain place, is a fact.