No. Defects identified in Details of the corresponding the Act of 1955 by provision(s) enacted/amendment the Division Bench introduced by the Amendment and of the High Court in Validation Act to remove the defects. the dated 27 March, 1997. 1. The term ‘business’ The defi nition of ‘business’ has been was defi ned in a narrow enlarged by way of the Amendment manner in the Act of and Validation Act and it now 1955 and meant the includes, besides the business of business of carriage of carrying passengers and goods by passengers and goods. motor vehicles, any trade, commerce or manufacture, or any adventure or concern whether or not the same is carried on with a profi t motive; and any transaction in connection with, incidental or ancillary to such trade, commerce or manufacture. 2. The expression ‘fare’ In Section 2(c) of the Amendment included sums payable and Validation Act, fare or freight for a season ticket in has been defined to include sums respect of the hire of fixed by the competent authority contract carriage. It under the Motor Vehicles Act for the did not include a case hirer of motor vehicles for carriage of where no fare or freight passengers and the transport of goods was charged from a therein and includes sum payable for a passenger. season ticket and where no such fare or freight has been fi xed, also includes such sum as specifi ed in Schedule I. 46 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 3. The meaning of the The scope of the expression “Motor word “Motor Vehicle” Vehicle” has been extended to mean meant a public service any transport vehicle, which is vehicle or public carrier, mechanically propelled and adapted or private carrier or a for use upon roads whether the power trailer when attached to of propulsion is transmitted thereto any such vehicle; from an external or internal source, or a trailer when attached to any such vehicle and includes a motor vehicle used for carriage of passengers or goods or both for hire or reward in contravention of the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act. 4. The meaning of ‘owner’ The scope of term ‘owner’ has been was restricted to those enlarged to mean the owner of the persons holding a motor vehicle used for carrying permit under the Motor passengers or transporting goods in Vehicles Act. or through the territory of the State of Himachal Pradesh. 5. As per the Explanation i. Explanation to Section 3(1) to Section 3(1) of the has been deleted and Section 3 Act of 1955, where no (1A) has been inserted, prescribing fare or freight had been two alternate methods to notionally charged, tax was to be determine fares or freights, when levied on the ‘normal the same has not been charged, i.e. rate’ chargeable on a by taking into account: (a) fares given ‘route.’ However, or freights fi xed by the competent there was lack of clarity authority, under the MV Act, or as to the meaning of the (b) fares and freights specified in terms ‘normal rate’ and Schedule I to the Act for diff erent ‘route’, as appearing in classes of roads and motor vehicles.