The Pledgee may invoke the pledge at any time in the event of default or otherwise for as many number of shares as the Pledgee/ lender deems fit in its sole discretion. However, such invocation of pledge will not amount to sale of share to the lender and the borrower will not be entitled to any credit/ adjustment on such C invocation transfer of shares to the lenders account on that date. The amount which may be realised against as and when actual sale in effected by the lender in the market and in that circumstances only the borrower will be entitled to adjustment of the sale proceeds so realised against the ICD dues. Pledger agrees that it has understood the concept and shall not create any dispute D on the same. 8. …… i)……… ii) ……… E iii) ……….. iv) ……….. v) In to enable you to sell and dispose off the said securities under the circumstances mentioned in clause 7 above, We hereby F give you the authority to undertake all deeds and acts to dispose off the said shares in adjust the outstanding amount. We hereby confirm that we will not dispute or claim any loss on account of price at which securities are sold by the lender to himself, its group companies or to any outsider.” G 13.A perusal of Clause 5 of the LoP would reveal that the Pledgee was entitled to invoke the pledge at any time in the event of default or otherwise for as many number of shares as the Pledgee/lender deems fit in its sole discretion. It further provided that such invocation of pledge would not amount to sale of shares to the lender and the borrower would not be entitled to any credit/adjustment on such invocation/transfer of H PRAKASH AGGARWAL v. GANESH BENZOPLAST LIMITED 853 AND ANOTHER [B. R. GAVAI, J.] shares to the lender’s account on that date. It further provided that the A amount which may be realized against as and when actual sale is effected by the lender in the market and in that circumstances only the borrower would be entitled to adjustment of the sale proceeds so realized against the ICD dues. It would further reveal that the Pledger had agreed that it has understood the concept and shall not create any dispute on the same. B 14. A perusal of sub-clause (v) of Clause 8 of the LoP would reveal that a specific authority has been given by the Pledgee to sell and dispose of the said securities under the circumstances mentioned in the LoP. The complainant/respondent No.1 has also agreed to undertake all deeds and acts to dispose of the said shares to adjust the outstanding C amount. The complainant/respondent No.1 has further agreed that it would not question whether accused No.1 Company had got the best price for the securities. 15.A perusal of the terms of the ICDA as well as the LoP would clearly reveal that, in the event of any of the events occurring as provided D in Clause 9 of the ICDA, accused No.