It he accepts the offer and the Government takes possession over the land, the title of the offeree is extinguished and vests absolutely in the Government free from all encumbrances. The power to make E an award under Section 11 and to make a reference under Sections 18 or 30 of the Act is a statutory power. The sweep of jurisdiction of Court to determine the disputes is also statutory and is controlled by the bounds created by Section 17 or 30 whereunder the reference has been made to the Court. F The power has to be exercised to the extent to which it has been conferred by the Statute and on availability of pre- existing conditions on the availability of which and which alone the power can be exercised. 38. Award made by the Collector is final and conclusive as G between the Collector and the ‘persons interested’, whether they have appeared before the Collector or not, on two issues : (i) as to true area, i.e. measurement of land acquired, (ii) as to value of the land, i.e. the amount of compensation, and (iii) as to the apportionment of the compensation among the ‘persons interested’ again, between the Collector and the H VINOD KUMAR & ORS. v. DISTRICT MAGISTRATE MAU & 409 ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] ‘persons interested’ and not as amongst the ‘persons interested’ A inter se. In the event of a reference having been sought for u/ s 18, the Collector’s award on these issues; if varied by Civil Court, shall stand superseded to that extent. The scheme of the Act does not attach a similar finality to the award of the Collector on the issue as to the person to whom compensation B is payable; in spite of the award by Collector and even on failure to seek reference, such issue has been left available to be adjudicated upon by any competent forum.” 33. We are of the view that when it comes to resolving the dispute relating to apportionment of the amount determined towards C compensation, it is only the Principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction which can do so. Principal Civil Court means the Court of the District Judge. 34. Our final conclusion is as under:- If any dispute arises as to the apportionment of the amount or any part thereof or to any person to D whom the same or any part thereof is payable, then, the competent authority shall refer the dispute to the decision of the Principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction within the limits of whose jurisdiction the land is situated. The competent authority possesses certain powers of the Civil Court, but in the event of a dispute of the above nature, the summary power, vesting in the competent authority of rendering an E opinion in terms of sub-section (3) of Section 3H, will not serve the purpose. The dispute being of the nature triable by the Civil Court that the law steps in to provide for that to be referred to the decision of the Principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction.