We would be dealing (cid:2) DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI (cid:3) 586 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. with some of the supplementary submissions which have been urged at a subsequent stage of the . B. Submissions on behalf of the Respondents 30. Mr Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the Union of India and the State Bank of India, has urged the following submissions: (i) The time bound resolution of insolvency constitutes the heart and soul of the provisions of the IBC; (ii) Part II of the IBC which deals with the resolution of corporate insolvency and Part III which deals with the resolution and bankruptcy of individuals and partnership fi rms contains distinct provisions; (iii) Under Sections 7 and 9 which deals with an application for initiation of corporate insolvency resolution process13 by a fi nancial creditor and the operational creditor respectively, the admission of the application itself triggers the CIRP. Thereupon, by an operation of the statute, a moratorium comes into operation under the provisions of Section 14. Such a moratorium, inter alia, has a direct impact on the corporate debtor who is prevented from transferring, encumbering, alienating or disposing of any of its assets. Consequently, the admission of an application under Section 7 or Section 9 triggers serious consequences as a result of which the legislature has mandated the involvement of the adjudicating authority at that very stage itself; (iv) The moratorium under Section 96, unlike Section 14, is for the benefi t of the guarantor or, as the case may be, the debtor. At the stage of an application under Section 94 or Section 95, no adjudication takes place. The interim moratorium under Section 96 does not impose an embargo on alienation of assets, legal rights or benefi cial interest of the debtor. Hence, the moratorium under Part II under Section 14 is markedly diff erent in its nature 13 “CIRP” DILIP B JIWRAJKA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS 587 and character from the interim-moratorium under Section 96 in Part III; (v) The function of a resolution professional under Section 99 is not of an adjudicatory nature. The purpose of a resolution professional under Part III is only to collate facts. Section 99, in any event, does contemplate a suffi cient opportunity to the debtor in the process of formulating the recommendation of the resolution professional to the adjudicatory body. This is evident from the provisions of Section 99(2) in terms of which the resolution professional may require the debtor to prove the payment of debt. Moreover, in terms of sub-section (6), the resolution professional has to examine the application and ascertain whether the application satisfi es the requirements of Section 94 or 95. The resolution professional has to ascertain that the applicant has provided information and furnished an explanation which is sought under sub-section (4); (vi) The process which is followed by the resolution professional in Section 99 only results in a report containing a recommendation either that the application should be accepted or rejected.