According to Section 13, two or more persons are said to consent when they agree upon the same thing in the same sense. Thus, consensus ad idem between the parties forms the essential basis to constitute a valid arbitration agreement. 64. Being a creature of a contract, an arbitration agreement is also bound by the general principles of contract law, including the doctrine of privity. The doctrine of privity means that a contract cannot confer rights or impose liabilities on any person except the parties to the contract. This doctrine has two aspects: fi rst, only the parties to the contract are entitled under it or bound by it; and second, the parties to the contract cannot impose a 49 (1968) 3 SCR 662 50 Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading Corporation, (2021) 2 SCC 1 COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 669 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] liability on a third party. As a corollary, a third party cannot acquire rights and entitlements under a contract. In M C Chacko v. State Bank of Travancore, this Court held it as a settled principle of law that a person who is not party to a contract cannot enforce the terms of the contract, subject to certain well- recognised exceptions such as trust, family arrangement, and assignment.51 The principle that only the parties to an arbitration agreement are either bound or benefi ted by such an agreement is fundamental to arbitration.52 This principle is uniformly refl ected in international arbitration conventions as well as the Arbitration Act. For instance, Section 7 of the UNCITRAL Model Law defi nes an arbitration agreement as “an agreement by the parties to submit to arbitration all or certain disputes which have arisen or which may arise between them in respect of a defi ned legal relationship, whether contractual or not.” (emphasis supplied) 65. It is a generally accepted legal proposition that arbitration is a matter of contract and a party cannot be required to submit to arbitration any dispute which they have not agreed so to submit.53 Since consent forms the cornerstone of arbitration, a non-signatory cannot be forcibly made a “party” to an arbitration agreement as doing so would violate the sacrosanct principles of privity of contract and party autonomy. However, In case of multi-party contracts, the courts and tribunals are often called upon to determine the parties to an arbitration agreement. ii. Parties to Arbitration Agreement 66. The general method to fi gure out the parties to an arbitration agreement is to look for the entities who are named in the recitals and have signed the agreement. The signature of a party on the agreement is the most profound expression of the consent of a person or entity to submit to the jurisdiction of an arbitral tribunal. However, the corollary that persons or entities who have not signed the agreement are not bound by it may not always be correct. A written contract does not necessarily require that parties put their signatures to the document embodying the terms of the 51 (1969) 2 SCC 343 52 Gary Born (n 44) 1518.