(2018) 16 SCC 368, Shakti Vahini (supra), Laxmibai Chandaragi B. v. State of Karnataka (2021) 3 SCC 360, Deepika Singh (supra) 125 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. p. The SMA ought to be read in a gender-neutral manner. Gendered terms such as “husband” and “wife” ought to be read as “spouse.” The language used in the SMA facilitates a gender neutral interpretation. Section 4 of the SMA is with reference to “any two persons,” Section 4(1)(a) refers to a “spouse” and Section 4(1)(b) refers to a “party”; q. The age that must be attained before a person is eligible to marry under the SMA ought to be twenty-one years for all persons; and r. Transgender persons may fall into the categories of either “man” or “woman” in the SMA, depending on the gender they identify with. 21. Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, learned senior counsel, made the following submissions: a. The SMA is unconstitutional because it discriminates on the grounds of sexual orientation by preventing same-sex couples from solemnizing their marriages. Article 15(1) of the Constitution prohibits discrimination on the grounds of sex, which subsumes sexual orientation. The requirement in the SMA that a couple should consist of a man and a woman is one which is based on ascriptive characteristics (attributes that are pre-determined or designated by society or other external norms) and is an exclusion based on a marker of identity; b. Marriage is not simply a benefi t or privilege. Rather, it forms the very basis of a couple’s ability to fully participate in society. Marriage is a source of social validation, dignity, self-respect, fulfi lment, security (fi nancial and otherwise), and other legal and civil benefi ts including in the domain of tax, inheritance, adoption, etc. ; c. The exclusion of same-sex couples from the SMA is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. While there is an intelligible diff erentia for the classifi cation in that the sexual orientation of heterosexual and homosexual persons is diff erent, there is no rational nexus with any legitimate state purpose. A legislative purpose cannot itself be discriminatory or unconstitutional; SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1251 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] d. The exclusion of same-sex couples from the SMA is violative of Article 19 of the Constitution. The act of entering into a marital relationship is protected under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution, and is a socially valuable form of expression. The restriction on the right of queer persons to marry is not a reasonable restriction under Article 19(2)34; e. The exclusion of same-sex couples from the SMA is violative of their right to dignity and is therefore violative of Article 21 of the Constitution. The exclusion of same-sex couples from the institution of marriage is being used to send a public message about their worth as unequal moral members of society and is inter alia akin to caste-based restrictions on temple entry and the refusal to accommodate disability in public examinations; f. The SMA authorizes the solemnisation of same-sex marriages, when interpreted consistent with the Constitution.