LTD. v. COMMISSIONER 469 OF INCOME TAX, DELHI [M. R. SHAH, J.] Act, the Assessing Officer is required to serve a notice only on persons A who are connected with the management or administration of the assessee companyto treat them as Principal Officer. That Rattan Gupta was never connected with the management or administration of the assessee companies so as to treat him as a Principal Officer. That Rattan Gupta was not the Secretary, Treasurer, Manager or Agent of the assessee B companies under section 2(35)(a) of the Act. Therefore, the AO ought to have served a notice on Rattan Gupta informing him of his intention to treat him as the Principal Officer of the assessee companies on the ground that he was a person connected with the management or administration of the assessee companies under section 2(35)(b) of the Act. However, in the present case, the AO never served a notice on Rattan Gupta under C section 2(35)(b) of the Act expressing his intention to treat him as the Principal Officer of the assessee companies. Therefore, this failure vitiates the entire proceedings. 3.20 It is submitted that there is adequate evidence on record to establish that: D (a) the business was managed from Gangtok in Sikkim where the business was carried on by one Mr. Ajay Kumar Agarwal, Local Director and Mr. H.L. Verma, (b) the income was earned and assessed to income tax in Sikkim E as per the Sikkim Manual, 1948, and (c) income tax was paid in Sikkim under Sikkim Manual, 1948. 3.21 That further, seized vouchers and records clearly establish that commission payments were received into the bank accounts of these companies from identified traders of large cardamom and that department F had no material in its possession to disbelieve that these traders had made the commission payments only on sale of cardamom. 3.22 It is submitted that books of accounts, ledgers etc. which were found at the office premises of Mr. Rattan Gupta’s office at Daryaganj, Delhi were handed over to Mr. Rattan Gupta for providing G professional accounting services as he was a practising Chartered Accountant. He had clearly stated that the books of accounts, ledgers etc. were handed over to him for providing professional services and that the business operations were carried out from Gangtok in Sikkim by Mr. Ajay Kumar Agarwal, Local Director and Mr. H.L. Verma and that he had nothing to do with the business operations of the assessee H 470 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A companies. A mere allegation that he is in charge of the conduct of the company is not sufficient to hold that he is the Principal Officer. There should be credible material to how his active involvement in the conduct and management of the business. 3.23 It is next submitted that assumption of jurisdiction based on B the seizure of books of accounts from the office premises of the practising Chartered Accountant Mr. Rattan Gupta at New Delhi and treating him as the Principal Officer or “head and brain” of the companies incorporated under the Sikkim Companies Registration Act, 1961 when the said Chartered Accountant had categorically stated on oath that he was rendering professional accounting and reconciliation services to the C companies in question, is without jurisdiction, perverse and deserves to be set aside.