When given such an understanding of the in Mohd. Ekram Khan to the aforesaid conspectus of facts, we do not F think that the said has been erroneously rendered. 52. However, in Mohd. Ekram Khan, the s of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh in Prem Motors and the High Court of Kerala in Geo Motors were overruled. The said s were rightly overruled. This is because, in those s, there was no consideration of the question whether the credit note issued by the manufacturer in favour of G the dealer was valuable consideration within the meaning of the expression “sale” under the respective State laws and it was simply held therein that there was no sale transaction within the meaning of the sales tax legislation considered therein. H 1338 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 53. But the matter does not end, it is necessary to take into consideration that all the credit notes received by the dealer are not indicative of the value of the spare part supplied by the dealer from his own stock or when he buys it from the open market, to the customer under a warranty. It could be for rendering a service under a dealership agreement which can cover a situation when the manufacturer sends B the spare part to the dealer to replace a defective part and receives a consideration for the said service. In such a case, there is no recompense for spare part. It is only when a credit note is issued for a spare part used by a dealer from his own stock or when he has purchased it from the open market or from another manufacturer of a spare part that it C becomes a sale within the meaning of the sales tax enactments under consideration. 54. On the other hand, when a dealer acts as an agent of the manufacturer (Principal) on the basis of an express or implied contract of agency he may be entitled to certain remuneration under the terms D and conditions of agency which is recognised in law. Learned senior counsel for the respective parties have adverted to such agreements with regard to consideration received by a dealer under the terms of an Agency Agreement for the service rendered by the dealer pursuant to a warranty. We are not concerned with such kind of remuneration as the same cannot be construed as a transaction of sale. It is a service contract E and possibly a service tax is leviable depending on the terms and conditions of the Agency. 55. In C.T.O. (AE), Jodhpur vs. M/s Marudhara Motors, Jodhpur, (2010) 29 VST 114, the learned Single Judge of the Rajasthan High Court considered the controversy under the provisions of the F Rajasthan Sales Tax Act, 1994 in the context of a dealer of automobiles receiving credit notes issued by the manufacturer for replacement of defective parts of the automobiles, supplied by the dealer under a warranty agreement between the manufacturer and the ultimate customers to whom vehicles were sold by the dealer (assessee).