A iii. The Respondents’ contentions were self-serving and contradictory. Particularly, the contention that the Union of India did not apply its mind given the period of 30 hours taken to issue the 212(14) Direction is directly contrary to the contention that the direction (contained in the 212(14) Direction) to call for a further report demonstrates that investigation is incomplete. B Notwithstanding the fact that investigation into IFIN is complete, a direction for a further report on certain aspects could only have been issued after application of mind. iv. Legal and factual mala fides has a very high threshold – one that cannot be met with a surface level contention of speed C of processing. v. The scope of intervention before a Hon’ble Court with Writ Jurisdiction would be to determine if there was sufficiency of material before the authority granting the direction. In the present case, the SFIO IFIN Report was before the authority D granting the direction to prosecute – this fact is not disputed. Therefore, it cannot be said that the relevant materials were not present before the relevant authority. 3.25 Now so far as the submission on behalf of the respondents that before the NCLT the SFIO IFIN Report was referred to as second E interim report and therefore the SFIO IFIN Report being an interim report, 212(14) direction could not have been issued as the Act does not contemplate issuance of a direction under Section 212(14) of the Act on the basis of an interim report, it is submitted by Shri Balbir Singh, learned ASG that as per section 212(11) of the Act, 2013, during the course of investigation, the Central Government has been empowered to call for F an interim report. It is submitted that the SFIO has not been empowered to submit an interim report without a request for an interim report from the Central Government. It is submitted that the Central Government vide letter dated 03.11.2018 specifically directed the SFIO to submit an interim report. Pursuant to this, the SFIO submitted an interim report G dated 30.11.2018. The Interim Report, on a bare perusal, records that it is an interim report, records the Central Government’s request for an interim report and classifies its findings as interim findings. It is submitted that this is completely different from the SFIO IFIN Report which classifies itself as an Investigation Report under Section 212(12) of the Act, sets out the detailed and extensive investigation conducted and H UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER V. DELOITTE HASKINS 985 AND SELLS LLP [M. R. SHAH, J.] records conclusive findings against each of the Respondents in the present A case. It is submitted that therefore, the stray references to the SFIO IFIN Report as an interim report cannot be accepted to classify the report as an Interim Report. It is submitted that in fact, the only reason for such reference was since the investigation into the affairs of other subsidiaries in the IL&FS Group (apart from IFIN) is on-going. It is B submitted that in fact the said position has been appreciated by the Bombay High Court in the impugned in paragraph numbers 202(VIII) and 202(XII).