By inserting 4.27 (d), the intent was clarified that the importer had to follow the provision of paragraph 4.03 of the FTP. F 21. It was urged that the High Court erred in holding that ‘pre- import condition’ had to be in respect of inputs, mentioned in paragraph 4.13 of the FTP, which was not so in the present case. The court’s insistence that pre-import goods were to be specifically mentioned under paragraph 4.13 of the FTP, it was submitted, was misplaced. The Revenue G pointed out that paragraph 4.13 (1) itself left the issue of which inputs was to be subjected to ‘pre import condition’ open to the DGFT to notify:15 “DGFT may, by Notification, impose pre-import condition for inputs under this Chapter.” 15 Paragraph 4.13(1) of FTP. H UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. v. COSMO FILMS LIMITED 203 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] The provision clearly left open, the scope of imposing ‘pre-import A condition’ on any goods which could have been covered by the said Chapter 4 of the Policy. Therefore, imposing, such condition across the board for all goods imported under AA was well within the competence and authority of the policy makers. It was argued that the High Court failed to notice that DGFT was duly empowered to issue Notification B No.33/2015-20 dated 13.10.2017. This notification was general in nature and did not exclude any goods from its purview. The only condition was that wherever the importer wanted to avail the benefit of IGST and compensation cess exemption, the ‘pre-import condition’ had to be satisfied. In absence of any negative list containing specific mention of a set of goods, which were not to be covered by the said provision, all C goods were covered by the said notification and subject to a uniform condition. It was also urged that it was neither practicable nor possible to specify each conceivable item for that purpose. In absence of any negative list in the notification, such ‘pre-import condition’ was applicable for all goods to be imported. D 22. The ASG urged that the High Court erred in construing the purpose of Appendix 4J- issued in tandem with paragraph 4.22 of the FTP during the material period (under paragraph 4.42 of the HBP), which stated the export obligation period with respect to various goods that were allowed to be imported. Paragraph 4.22 was a general provision, E specifying 18 months as the export obligation period in general. It also provided that such a period was different for a set of goods mentioned in Appendix-4J. Therefore, Appendix-4J was a part of paragraph 4.22 and not a part of paragraph 4.13. Further, Appendix-4J was a negative list for the purpose of paragraph 4.22, which specified a set of goods for which export obligation period was different from the general provision. F In addition, in respect of those items additionally the ‘pre-import condition’ was applicable. The heading of Appendix-4J (“Export Obligation Period for Specified Inputs”) clearly referred to paragraph 4.22 of the FTP and paragraph 4.42 of the HBP.