It is stated that in fact the impugned passed by the High Court that the respondent no.1 be able to seek redemption of the subject property which was C attached by the Bank. It is submitted that the bank attached the property as against the borrower and the respondent No.1 was only the sale- agreement holder. It is submitted that as such by virtue of the impugned and , the High Court has granted the decree for specific performance of the agreement to sale which is not permissible while exercising the powers under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. D 4.2 It is further submitted by learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant that the High Court has materially erred in observing that the equity would be in favour of respondent no. 1 as he has deposited the entire amount as directed. It is submitted that the High Court has materially erred in observing that if the sale is confirmed the respondent E no.1 will suffer greater hardship and if the sale is not confirmed at the most, the appellant may lose interest on Rs.6,45,250/-. 4.3 It is further submitted that as such there is no clarity in the impugned and passed by the High Court on what exact relief the High Court has granted except observing that the writ petition F is allowed. 5. While opposing the present appeal learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent no.1 has vehemently submitted that in the present case Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act shall be applicable and therefore when the respondent no.1 being the agreement to sale G holder of the flat in question agreed to pay/deposit the entire sale consideration the High Court has not committed any error in entertaining the writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India challenging the e-auction notice. H 634 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 5.1 It is submitted that as soon as respondent no.1 came to know that the flat in question which was agreed to be sold in favour of respondent no.1 for which part consideration was paid is put to auction,immediately he filed the writ petition showing his inclination to deposit the entire amount of sale consideration which is permissible under Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act. It is submitted that the object and purpose of B Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act is to save the property from auction in case the borrower and/or the person interested in the property agrees to clear the dues. 5.2 It is submitted that in the present case at the relevant time there was no concluded sale in favour of the appellant, as at the relevant C time the appellant deposited only 25% of the auction sale consideration. It is submitted that as per the catena of decisions unless the full sale consideration is paid; the sale deed is executed and/or the sale certificate is issued in favour of the auction purchaser there is no concluded sale. It is submitted that if the sale is not concluded, Section 13(8) of the D SARFAESI Act shall be applicable and/or can be invoked.