Where the Court decides that the accused is of unsound mind and consequently incapable of making his defence, the trial is to be postponed. As provided in Section D 330 of the Cr.P.C. such a person may be released on sufficient security being given that he shall be properly taken care of and shall be prevented from doing injury to himself or to anyother person or for his appearance when required before the Magistrate or the Court.The Court or the Magistrate is E also entitled to direct the accused to be detained in safe custody in such a place and manner as it may think fit if it is of the view that the bail should not be taken or sufficient security is not given. Section 331 of the Cr.P.C. thereafter talks of resumption of enquiry or trial, when the concerned persons ceases to be of unsound mind. Section 332 of the Cr.P.C. F prescribes a procedure to proceed with the trial or enquiry as the case may be. *** *** ***” 25.1.1. The aforesaid expositions on the scope of the provisions relating to accused person of unsound mind are not of much debate. G However, nothing of the aforesaid principles could apply to the present case, for there had been no material on record and no other reason appeared during trial for which, the Trial Court would have been obliged to take recourse of the procedure contemplated by Section 329 CrPC. 25.2. Similarly, the suggestions about defect in trial or failure on H the part of the investigating agency to get the appellant examined through PREM SINGH v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 859 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] psychiatrist with reference to the decision of the Bombay HC in case of A Ajay Ram Pandit (supra) remain too far-stretched. In the said case, it was noticed that the investigating officer became aware of the fact after apprehending the accused that he was mentally unstable and in fact, the people in his locality used to consider him as a mad man. The fact situation of the present case is entirely different. B 25.3. In the given set of facts and circumstances, we are not dilating on the other decisions cited by the learned counsel for the appellant for being not relevant for the present purpose. Fact of the matter in the present case remains that there is nothing on record to show that the appellant was a person of unsound mind, whether at the time of commission of crimes or during the course of trial. C 26. Apart that there was no fault on the part of the Trial Court or the investigating agency, it is also noteworthy that contrary to even a trace of want of mental capacity of the appellant at the time of commission of the crimes in question, the manner of commission, with strangulation of the children one by one; throwing of their dead bodies into the canal; D appellant himself swimming in the canal and coming out; and immediately thereafter, stating before several persons that the children had accidentally slipped into the canal so as to project it as a case of accidental drowning, if at all, show an alert and calculative mind, which had worked with specific intent to cause the death of the children and to cause E disappearance of evidence by throwing dead bodies into the canal and thereafter, to mislead by giving a false narrative.