4.7 It is submitted that as such this Court passed the and in the case of Grah Rakshak (supra) in the year 2015. Thereafter, the Government of India, Ministry of Home Affairs as early E as on 16.09.2016 requested the Chief Secretaries of all the States and Union Territories to issue necessary directions for compliance of the and of this Court in the case of Grah Rakshak (supra). It is submitted that thereafter the Government of India, Ministry of Home Affairs wrote letter dated 05.10.2016 to the Secretary, Home Department, Government of Orissa for taking appropriate action F regarding the complaint of the Home Guards about disobedience of the passed by this Court regarding payment of salary to Home Guards. It is submitted that not only then even thereafter the Director General vide his recommendation dated 10.11.2016 recommended to pay DCA at Rs.533/- per day with effect from 10.11.2016. It is submitted that G therefore the learned Single Judge was justified in directing to pay DCA at Rs.533/- per day with effect from 10.11.2016. 4.8 It is submitted that therefore the Division Bench of the High Court has materially erred in restricting the benefit of DCA at Rs.533/- per day from January, 2020 only. H PRAKASH KUMAR JENA & ORS. v. THE STATE OF ODISHA 499 & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] 4.9 By making above submissions, it is prayed to dismiss the A appeals preferred by the State and to allow the appeals preferred by the Home Guards. 5. We have heard the learned counsel appearing on behalf of respective parties at length. B 6. At the outset, the issue whether the Home Guards working in the State are entitled to DCA/Duty Allowance as per minimum of the pay to which the Police personnel of the State are entitled is not res integra in view of the decision of this Court in the case of Grah Rakshak (supra). While declining to grant the relief either for regularization of C service or for grant of regular appointments, this Court in paragraph-39 directed as under : “39. In view of the discussion made above, no relief can be granted to the appellants either regularization of services or grant of regular appointments hence no interference is called D for against the s passed by the Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Delhi High Courts. However, taking into consideration the fact that Home Guards are used during the emergency and for other purposes and at the time of their duty they are empowered with the power of police personnel, we are of the view that the State Government should pay them E the duty allowance at such rates, total of which 30 days (a month) comes to minimum of the pay to which the police personnel of State are entitled. It is expected that the State Governments shall pass appropriate s in terms of aforesaid observation on an early date preferably within three F months.” 6.1 Thereafter, a further clarificatory came to be passed by this Court in Contempt Petition (C) Nos.699-700 of 2015.