The Court scrutinised the reasons in the affidavit and concluded that the assessment of public injury was made in good faith. This conclusion was arrived at based on the public statements that were made by members at the highest level of the United States Government. Applying the facts to the ‘alternate means test’, the court observed that the paragraphs that were sought to be C redacted did not disclose all the information but the redacted portions of the information; and that it would not be possible to further redact the information without engendering national security and violating the constitutional principles of open justice. While answering this test, the court looked at whether the interest of both the litigant and the State D could be secured by means other than the full disclosure of information. While applying the balancing test, the court held that the democratic principles which the disclosure of information serves can be protected by information that has already been placed in the public forum. H. 3 United States E 127. Judicial decisions in the United States have recognised that in exceptional circumstances, the court must act in the interest of national security to prevent the disclosure of state secrets. One example of the application of this principle is the Reynolds privilege. Reynolds privilege is an evidentiary principle where the successful assertion of the privilege F will remove the privileged evidence from litigation. The test propounded in Reynolds is “if there is reasonable danger that compulsion of evidence will expose….matters which, in the interest of national security, should not be divulged.” The privileged evidence is excluded from the case which may incidentally also result in the dismissal of the claims98. G 128. Unlike the standard in the United Kingdom, even the ‘most compelling necessity’ in disclosure cannot overcome the claim of privilege if the court is satisfied that state secrets are at stake. Ordinarily, the evidence is excluded unlike a Totten bar where the issue is declared 98 United States v. Reynolds, 345 US 1 (1953) H 688 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A non-justiciable, if the information relates to a class of protected evidence. However, in some cases, the application of ‘privilege may require dismissal of the action and at this point, the Reynolds privilege converges with the Totten bar. 129. The US Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in Binyam B Mohamed v. Jeppesen Dataplan99 observed that in three circumstances, the termination of the case is justified on the application of Reynolds privilege: (i) if the plaintiff cannot prove their case prima facie; (ii) if the plaintiff prima facie proves their case but if the privilege deprives the defendant of information that would provide the defendant a valid defence, then the court may grant a summary to the C defendant; and (iii) even if the claims might be theoretically established without relying on privileged evidence, it may be impossible to proceed since the privileged evidence is inseparable from the non-privileged. 130. The standard of scrutiny followed by the courts in the United States is different from the United Kingdom on three basic principles: D firstly, the standard established in Reynolds privilege is to identify if the information relates to ‘protected classes’; secondly, the court does not conduct the exercise of balancing the claims of disclosure and non- disclosure.