recommendation of the RBI - The RBI as well as the Central Government are bodies having contingent of experts in the field of economic, monetary and fiscal policies, thus, there is sufficient guidance to the delegatee when it exercises its powers under sub-section (2) of s.26 of the RBI G Act, from the subject matter of the statute, and the other provisions of the Act. Words and Phrases – Word “any” in sub-section (2) of s.26 of the RBI Act – Factors which cannot be considered to give restricted meaning – Held [per B.R. Gavai, J. (for himself and for S. H 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Abdul Nazeer, A.S. Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ. )]: Merely because on earlier two occasions the Government decided to take recourse to plenary power of legislation, this, by itself, cannot be a ground to give a restricted meaning to the word “any” in sub-section (2) of s.26 of the RBI Act – The legislative intent could not have been to give a restricted meaning to the word “any” in sub-section B (2) of s.26 of the RBI Act – Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 – s.26. Delegated Legislation – Excessive Delegation – “policy and guideline” test – Held [per B.R. Gavai, J. (for himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ. )]: A mere possibility or eventuality of abuse of delegated powers in the absence C of any evidence supporting such claim, cannot be a ground for striking down such a provision – If a challenge is made to the delegated legislation framed by the executive, the same can be examined by the constitutional court – Applying the “policy and guideline” test, if it is found that the delegated legislation does not D satisfy the said test, the legislation can be struck down without affecting the constitutionality of the rule-making power. Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 – Guiding Factors – Whether the RBI Act provides guidance to the delegatee or not – Held [per B.R. Gavai, J. (for himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. Bopanna, and E V. Ramasubramanian, JJ. )]: The entire scheme, object and the purpose of the Act has to be taken into consideration – Guidance could be sought from the express provision empowering delegation or other provisions of the statute, the preamble, the scheme or even the very subject-matter of the Statute – If guidance could be found in whatever part of the Act, the delegation has to be held to be valid – F A great amount of latitude has to be given in such matters – There cannot be a straitjacket formula, and the question whether excessive delegation has been conferred or not has to be decided on the basis of the scheme, the object and the purpose of the statute under consideration. G Demonetisation – Democratic check upon excessive delegation – Held [per B.R. Gavai, J. (for himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ.