Relying on the of a Constitution Bench of this Court in RC Cooper v. Union G of India33 which had held that fundamental rights are not water-tight compartments, it was observed that the principle of reasonableness that is guaranteed under Article 14 of the Constitution projects on the 32 AIR 1950 SC 27 H 33 (1970) 1 SCC 248 MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 637 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] procedure that is contemplated by Article 21. Thus, every individual has A a right to a reasonable hearing: “[..] we find that even on principle the concept of reasonableness must be projected in the procedure contemplated by Article 21, having regard to the impact of Article 14 on Article 21. […] The principle of reasonableness, which legally as well as B philosophically, is an essential element of equality or non- arbitrariness pervades Article 14 like a brooding omnipresence and the procedure contemplated by Article 21 must answer the test of reasonableness in to be in conformity with Article 14. It must be “right and just and fair” and not arbitrary, fanciful C or oppressive; otherwise, it .would be no procedure at all and the requirement of Article 21 would not be satisfied.” This Court held that principles of natural justice infuse reasonableness into the procedure. However, the court noted that the principles of natural justice are not set-in stone and are by their very D nature modifiable. So, the violation of every conception of natural justice will not necessarily render the procedure unreasonable and violative of Articles 21 and 14. The court held that the test that must be followed to determine if non-compliance of natural justice has led to an unreasonable procedure is whether the procedure that was followed (or the procedure that was not followed) violates the core of the primary tenets of natural E justice- the right to a fair hearing34 and the right against bias. 46. On the facts of the case, Justice Bhagwati held that the procedure for impounding a passport under the provisions of the Passport Act 1967 was fair and just. The learned Judge held that the denial of pre-decisional hearing was justified because otherwise, the purpose of F impounding the passport which is to take prompt action would be defeated, and that the exceptional circumstances reasonably justified the departure from the settled principle of pre-decisional hearing. 47. The of this Court in Maneka Gandhi (supra) spearheaded two doctrinal shifts on procedural fairness because of the G constitutionalising of natural justice. Firstly, procedural fairness was no longer viewed merely as a means to secure a just outcome but a requirement that holds an inherent value in itself. In view of this shift, 34 See Zahira Habibulla H Sheikh v. State of Gujarat, (2004) 4 SCC 158, where this Court recognized the right to fair trial. H 638 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A the Courts are now precluded from solely assessing procedural infringements based on whether the procedure would have prejudiced the outcome of the case.35 Instead, the courts would have to decide if the procedure that was followed infringed upon the right to a fair and reasonable procedure, independent of the outcome.