Secondly, following the appointment of the resolution professional under Section 97(5), wide-ranging powers are granted by Section 99(4) to demand information not only from the debtor but also from third parties. As a result, the submission emphasizes the need for a judicial determination by the adjudicating authority before the stage outlined in Section 100. Senior counsel argues that without incorporating a requirement for a hearing before the adjudicating authority prior to the appointment of a resolution professional, the provisions of Sections 95 to 100 would be arbitrary and violative of Article 14. Therefore, it is urged that a judicial application of mind by the adjudicating authority is essential even before the appointment of a resolution professional to avoid such consequences. 27. The submission which has been urged by Dr Singhvi has been buttressed further in the course of the submissions urged before this Court by Mr Ritin Rai, senior counsel. 28. Mr Ritin Rai argued that: DILIP B JIWRAJKA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS 585 (i) A person as an applicant under Section 95 claims to be a creditor to whom a debt is owed. The existence of a debt which is owed is a jurisdictional fact which has to be determined by the adjudicating authority at the very threshold; (ii) Section 97 (5) postulates that a resolution professional has to be appointed by the adjudicating authority. This being the fi rst interface of the adjudicating authority, it must satisfy itself at that stage of the existence of a creditor-debtor relationship which must be demonstrated to exist. The entire jurisdiction in terms of the entertainment of an application under Part III would depend on the proof of the jurisdictional fact; (iii) The plain consequence of the appointment of a resolution professional under Section 97(5) is that broad powers are given to them in terms of Section 99(4). The appointment of a resolution professional has serious consequences for the debtor besides which the credit worthiness of the debtor is seriously impinged. In many cases, lending documents trigger a default when an insolvency notice is issued as a consequence of which collateral or independent debts may become invocable by a lending agency. Bearing in mind the broad ranging enquiries which are made by the resolution professional, the debtor is excluded from accessing the remedies of an adjudicatory nature; and (iv) In view of both the requirement of establishing a jurisdictional fact at the threshold and the impact of the enquiries which are made by the resolution professional, civil consequences would follow upon the conduct of an enquiry under Section 99 by the resolution professional. As a consequence, natural justice involving the adjudicatory body must be read into the provisions, at that stage. 29. We have also heard in support of the petitions other counsel, including, Mr Rajiv Dutta, Mr Prateek Seksaria, senior counsel, Mr Arvind Kumar Gupta, Mr Vijay Kumar Singh, Mr Masoom Shah, Ms Pooja M Saigal, Mr Abhimanyu Bhandari, Ms Nina R Nariman, Mr Mohit Chaudhary, Ms Eeshna Kumar, Ms Purti Gupta, Mr Subhankar Nag, Ms Tahira Karanjawala and Mr Mathews J Nedumpara.