[S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] of this Act. Chapter II provides for preliminary survey of A wakfs, publication of list of wakfs, disputes regarding wakfs and also the powers of the Tribunal to determine such disputes. Chapter III deals with Central Wakf Council while Chapter IV deals with establishment of Boards and their functions. Chapter V, VI and VII regulate the registration of Wakfs and B maintenance of accounts thereof and the finances of the Wakf Board. Chapter VIII, with which the controversy at hand is more intimately connected deals with judicial proceedings and, inter alia, provides for constitution of tribunals and adjudication of disputes by them as well as exclusion of jurisdiction of Civil Courts. Chapter IX is a miscellaneous C chapter that confers power on the Central Government to regulate the secular activities of wakfs and empowers the State Government to issue directions apart from other provisions like establishment and reorganization and establishment of boards.” D 15. The appellants contend that their continued occupation and repeated yet unsuccessful attempts by the respondents to oust them from possessiondo not render their continuance in the premises any less lawful and that the amendment of 2013 cannot be construed as operating retrospectively; else, it would transgress their right under Article 20 (1) E of the Constitution. The respondents contend that this is not an instance of retrospective law but that the conduct (of continuing to occupy the premises after being asked to vacate) amounts to a continuing offence. They also rely on the statement of objects and reasons to the 2013 amendment and the ratio in Ajay Agarwal (supra)to urge that the amendment is not violative of Article 20 (1). The Statement of Objects F and Reasons to the amendment (of 2013) is extracted below: “The Wakf Act, 1995, [which repealed and replaced the Wakf (Amendment) Act, 1984] came into force on the 1st day of January, 1996. The Act provides for the better administration of auqaf and for matters connected therewith or incidental G thereto. However, over the years of the working of the Act, there has been a widespread feeling that the Act has not proved effective enough in improving the administration of auqaf. 2. The Prime Minister’s High Level Committee for Preparation of Report on Social, Economic and Educational Status of the H 558 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Muslim Community of India (also known as Sachar Committee) in its Report submitted to the Prime Minister on the 17th November, 2006 considered the aforementioned issue and suggested certain amendments to the Act relating to women’s representation, review of the composition of the Central Wakf Council and the State Wakf Boards, a stringent B and more effective approach to countering encroachments of Waqf properties and other matters. The Committee stressed the need for setting up of a National Waqf Development Corporation and State Waqf Development Corporations so as to facilitate proper utilization of valuable waqf properties C for the objectives intended. The Committee recommended that the Act should be amended so that the State Waqf Boards become effective and are empowered to properly deal with the removal of encroachments of waqf properties.