A Power of Attorney document too was executed by IL& FS on 25.06.2018. By the Power of Attorney, the borrower irrevocably nominated, constituted and appointed HDFC as its true and lawful attorney on behalf of the borrower. By recital clause 2 of the said Power of Attorney document, HDFC could “appropriate the proceeds received towards the discharge of the Facility”; recital clause 5 enabled the lender to put to use, the secured property and give the business centre, etc, on leave, license or lease basis in the event the borrower’s existing arrangements were terminated or ended. Recital clause 7 enabled HDFC to receive all rents and all other sums in respect of such premises. 26. The eff ect of these documents is what the court is concerned with. It is a known principle of contract interpretation, that the substance of a document, is discernible from its terms, rather than the label or INFRASTRUCTURE LEASING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES LTD 1049 v. HDFC BANK LTD. & ANR. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] its nomenclature. In Yellapu Uma Maheswari and Ors. vs. Buddha Jagadheeswararao & Ors.8, the court held: “It is well settled that the nomenclature given to the document is not decisive factor but the nature and substance of the transaction has to be determined with reference to the terms of the documents and that the admissibility of a document is entirely dependent upon the recitals contained in that document but not on the basis of the pleadings set up by the party who seeks to introduce the document in question.” In Assam Small Scale Ind. Dev. Corp. Ltd. & Ors. v. J.D. Pharmaceuticals & Anr9 the court stated as follows: “The nature of transaction is required to be determined on the basis of the substance there and not by the nomenclature used. Documents are to be construed having regard to the contexts thereof wherefor ‘labels’ may not be of much relevance.” This was also stated in V. Lakshmanan v. B.R. Mangalagiri & Ors10 (that the “nomenclature or label given in the agreement as advance is not either decisive or immutable.”). This principle of substance, over the form, was followed in Super Poly Fabriks Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Central Excise, Punjab11. 27. That one document is styled or described in a certain manner, or that it uses a certain expression, or term is not conclusive; it is the eff ect of all the terms, of the documents, which bring out the true purport and intention of the parties. Likewise, another allied principle of contract interpretation, is that where the transaction is not the subject of one document, but several, which refer to each other, or a reading of all, describe the entire contract, then, it is open to the court to consider all of them together. This principle was stated in S. Chattanatha Karayalar v The Central Bank of India & Ors12 wherein this court held that: 8 2015 (11) SCR 849 9 2005 (4) Suppl. SCR 232 10 1994 Supp (6) SCR 561 11 2008 (6) SCR 1076 12 1965 (3) SCR 318 105 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R.