Specifi cally, this was through Article 370(2), which contemplated the Constituent Assembly of the State. Second, the temporary nature of Article 370 as such, in light of historical context, the text of the provision, and the constitutional practice surrounding it. 68. Once these aspects are read with Article 370(3), the corollary is that there was a mechanism to bring the whole arrangement to an end. The eff ect of the power under Article 370(3), once exercised, would be that the Article ‘shall cease to be operative’. In other words, the mechanism was meant to de-recognize the State’s internal sovereignty. Thus, the exercise of the power under Article 370(3) meant that for the purposes of the Constitution of India, only the Constitution of India would apply to Jammu & Kashmir and not any other Constitution i.e. the Constitution of Jammu & Kashmir. Since the Constitution of India is a complete code, providing for all aspects of lawmaking and governance, there would be no need for the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir to apply to the State, and it would be replaced by the Constitution of India. 2 Article 370(3) after the dissolution of the Constituent Assembly of the State. A. Article 370(3) continues to operate. 69. An important question left to be determined is whether the power under Article 370(3) could be exercised after the Constituent Assembly of the State had dissolved itself. 70. We have already noted the temporary nature of Article 370, as apparent from the provision’s placement in the Constitution, its historical context, and its phraseology. Turning specifi cally to Article 370(3), which contains the procedure to bring the arrangement to an end, we may note that it vests power into two institutions: The President and the Jammu and Kashmir Constituent Assembly. The former is permanent, whereas the later is ephemeral by its very nature – meant for a specifi c purpose and intended to be extinguished after the purpose is achieved. The purpose of the Constituent Assembly was to draft a Constitution for the governance IIINNN RRREEE::: AAARRRTTTIIICCCLLLEEE 333777000 OOOFFF TTTHHHEEE CCCOOONNNSSSTTTIIITTTUUUTTTIIIOOONNN 355 [[[SSSAAANNNJJJAAAYYY KKKIIISSSHHHAAANNN KKKAAAUUULLL,,, JJJ...]]] of the State. On the other hand, the purpose of Article 370, as noted above, was to slowly bring Jammu and Kashmir on par with other States in India. It can hardly be contended that the second (and in some ways, larger) purpose would be aff ected by the fulfi lment of the fi rst. The second purpose remained an ongoing exercise, long after the State Constituent Assembly was dissolved. Thus, the conditionality in Article 370(3), of the requirement of a recommendation from the Constituent Assembly, cannot be read in a manner as to make the reference to the larger intention of the provision redundant. 71. In a nutshell, if the provision was meant to be temporary (as established above), Article 370(3) must be construed to continue to be in subsistence even after the expiry of the conditionality, i.e. the State’s Constituent Assembly. B. The President can exercise their power under sub-clause (3) without a recommendation from the Jammu and Kashmir Constituent Assembly.