(3) The decision of the President on a petition submitted by any person under sub-section (2) of section 8A in respect of any C disqualification for being chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State shall, so far as may be, apply in respect of the disqualification for voting at any election incurred by him under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 11A of this Act as it stood immediately before the commencement of the D Election Laws (Amendment) Act, 1975 (40 of 1975), as if such decision were a decision in respect of the said disqualification for voting also.” 120. It is to be noted that Section 11A falls in Chapter IV, which deals with disqualifications for voting. Chapter IXA of the Indian Penal E Code, 45 of 1860 deals with offences relating to elections. Undue influence at elections, personation at elections and bribery, are made punishable offences and are offences relating to elections. 121. In the 1951 Act, Chapter IV deals with ‘The poll’. Section 62 deals with the Right to Vote. It reads as follows: F “62. Right to vote.— (1) No person who is not, and except as expressly provided by this Act, every person who is, for the time being entered in the electoral roll of any constituency shall be entitled to vote in that constituency. G (2) No person shall vote at an election in any constituency if he is subject to any of the disqualifications referred to in section 16 of the Representation of the People Act, 1950 (43 of 1950). (3) No person shall vote at a general election in more than one H constituency of the same class, and if a person votes in more than ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 115 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] one such constituency, his votes in all such constituencies shall be A void. (4) No person shall at any election vote in the same constituency more than once, notwithstanding that his name may have been registered in the electoral roll for the constituency more than once, and if he does so vote, all his votes in that constituency shall be B void. (5) No person shall vote at any election if he is confined in a prison, whether under a sentence of imprisonment or transportation or otherwise, or is in the lawful custody of the police: C Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall apply to a person subjected to preventive detention under any law for the time being in force. (6) Nothing contained in sub-sections (3) and (4) shall apply to a person who has been authorised to vote as proxy for an elector under this Act in so far as he votes as a proxy for such elector.” D 122. Section 62(1) of the 1951 Act means the following: A person, who is not entered in the electoral roll of a constituency, shall not be entitled to vote in that constituency.