Moreover, in the case of Vedanta Ltd., the rate of interest B was reduced in respect of the foreign currency component to bring the interest rate in line with the international rate on the ground that the rate of interest prevailing on the rupee debt in India and on international currency abroad were different and the international rates were lower. Such a situation is not obtaining in the present case. C 34.1. The High Court seems to have not considered the relevant factual aspects. On the contrary, as has been submitted before us as well as the High Court, the prevailing interest rate being the prime lending rate of State Bank of India was in the range of 13% to 14% per annum. Thus, the Arbitral Tribunal was justified in granting interest at the rate of D 15% per annum post-award. In our view, the Arbitral Tribunal was well within its jurisdiction under Section 31 of the Act to award interest at the rate of 15% p.a. and there was no justification to reduce the same to 10% p.a. We may observe with respect that the High Court was not exercising any equity jurisdiction so as to resettle the rate of interest as deemed fit by it. It had been a matter relating to an award made by the E Arbitral Tribunal in a commercial dispute. Final comments, observations, and conclusion 35. In the foregoing discussion, we have not elaborated on the discussions and findings of the Commercial Court in its dated F 12.09.2019. Instead, we have directly dealt with the consideration of the High Court vis-à-vis the award in question. As noticed, the High Court could only be said to have misdirected itself on the major issues concerning merits of the award. However, before concluding, we may observe that it had not been as if the Commercial Court did not examine the material issues arising for determination while dealing with the case in terms of G Section 34 of the Act of 1996. 35.1. It is noticed that after taking note of the submissions of parties, the Commercial Court precisely framed the points for determination and then, dealt with every point on the anvil of Section 34 of the Act of 1996. With respect, we do not find the High Court justified H RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 449 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] in making a comment about framing of points for determination by A Commercial Court and then observing that the Commercial Court merely reproduced the findings of the award. The Commercial Court dealing with Section 34 application was not acting as a Court of Appeal. Yet, looking to the long-drawn arguments, the Commercial Court enumerated the issues raised and then returned the findings after examining the record B and while rejecting the submissions made on behalf of the State. There had been no such flaw in the and passed by the Commercial Court which called for interference by the High Court on the parameters and within the periphery of Sections 34/37 of the Act of 1996.