D (c) In terms of Section 63 of the Act the successful bid must be selected consistent with the guiding principles under Section 61 of the Act meaning thereby that while adoption of tariff under Section 63 of the Act, the principles as laid down under Section 61 need to be complied. E (d) Power procurement pursuant to the statutory framework constitutes a statutory contract in terms of the pre-approved and finalized PPA governed by provisions of the Act as well as the Guidelines. (e) The PPA envisages the adjustment of tariff by this Hon’ble F Commission to restore/restitute the party adversely affected (the Petitioner in the present case).” “90. It is also pertinent to note that under Section 79(1)(b) of the Act, this Hon’ble Commission has been given the power to regulate the tariff of generating companies like the Petitioner which have G a composite scheme for generation and sale of electricity in more than one state.” “91.The present Petition has been filed for compensation on account of Changes in Law which have impacted the Capital Cost of the Project as well as for compensation for costs incurred H HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 17 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] in excess of the indicative costs provided by the Procurers, which A were the basis for formulation of the financial bid of Rpower.” “92.The Petitioner had approached the Procurers for an amicable resolution. However, all efforts made by the Petitioner to seek an amicable resolution to the unforeseen and undeserved commercial implication with the Procurers have proved fruitless. In this B backdrop, it has become imperative and necessary for the Petitioner to invoke jurisdiction of this Hon’ble Commission to issue appropriate s as prayed for in the Petition.” “93.It is submitted that the present Petition has been filed invoking:- C (a) Section 79(1)b) of the Act under which this Hon’ble Commission has the power to regulate the tariff of the Petitioner. (b) Section 79(1)(f) of the Act which gives this Hon’ble Commission the power to adjudicate upon disputes involving the Petitioner. D (c) Regulations 82, 92 and 113 of the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Conduct of Business) Regulations, 1999. (d) Article 13 of the PPA read with Article 17 and Paragraph 5.17 of the Competitive Bidding Guidelines in terms of which this Hon’ble Commission has the power to adjudicate upon any dispute E that arises claiming any change in or regarding determination of the tariff or any tariff related matters, or which partly or wholly could result in change in tariff.” “104. As detailed in Paragraphs 75-83 above, Notification 21 of 2002-Customs issued by the Ministry of Finance, Government of F India granted 100% exemption from Customs duty to goods required for setting up mega power projects. The Petitioner was required to import equipment for operation of the coal mine which is an integral part of the Project.” “105. It is submitted that as per the said Notification, any entity G which intended to claim the customs duty exemption was required to apply to the Sponsoring Authority for an exemption certificate.