That power includes the formulation of the “terms and conditions for determination of tariff Under Section 61”.7Additionally, the tariff can be modified or imposed with conditions under Section 64(3). The State Commission is guided by the C principles specified in Section 61 of the Act while formulation of the tariff regulations. This court has held that state commissions as expert bodies have to strike a balance between various competing concerns and interests while framing such regulations.8 The Gujarat State Commission, for a Multi-Year period (also called the “control period”), frames Regulations for determination of tariff. The state commission D then determines the Multi-Year Tariff based on the data available. Furthermore, Section 64 (6) prescribes that tariff s “shall continue to be in force for such period as may be specified in the Tariff unless amended or revoked”. If any party is aggrieved by any (c) facilitate intra-State transmission and wheeling of electricity; E ….. (e) promote co-generation and generation of electricity from renewable sources of energy by providing suitable measures for connectivity with the grid and sale of electricity to any person, and also specify, for purchase of electricity from such sources, a percentage of the total consumption of electricity in the area of a distribution licensee; …. [..]” 7 Clause 181(2)(zd) of the Act. F 8 Kerala State Electricity Board & Anr v. Principal Sir Syed Institute for Technical Studies, 2020 7 SCR 885: 7. [..] “While fixing tariff, the Commission cannot show undue preference to any consumer of electricity. The Commission, however, is vested with the power to prescribe differential rates according to the consumers’ load factor, power factor, voltage, total consumption of electricity during any specified period of time at which supply is required. So far as fixing different rates for these two categories of the educational institutions, G these factors did not come into play. The other permissible differentiating factors are geographical position of any area, the nature of supply and the purpose for which the supply is required. As regards this set of differentiating factors, the tariff advantage for government run and aided educational institutions do not appear to be based on geographical position or nature of supply. The Commission however has justified the classification of the aforesaid two sets of tariffs on the basis of purpose for which supply H is required by the consumers.” GUJARAT URJA VIKAS NIGAM LIMITED v. RENEW WIND 681 ENERGY (RAJKOT) PVT. LTD. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] conditions of a given Tariff , it can seek its amendment or revocation. A s are also appealable under Section 111 to APTEL, and thereafter to this court under Section 125 of the Act. Tariff s under Section 64 of the Act are quasi-judicial in nature and ipso facto binding on the parties unless amended or modified through law. 5. On 29.01.2010, the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission B (Terms and Conditions for Recognition and issuance of Renewable Energy Certificate for Renewable Energy Generation) Regulations, 2010 (hereafter “REC Regulations 2010”) were framed by the Central Commission for the development of a power market for non-conventional sources of energy by the issuance of tradable and saleable credit C certificates (hereafter “RECs”).