The plain reading of the aforesaid would indicate that the legislative intent was never to limit or circumscribe the scope of “goods” as outlined in Section 13(1)(f) to only “taxable goods”. The amendment was eff ected with some defi nite purpose. The mischief that was sought to be addressed by virtue of introducing Section 13(1)(f) to the scheme of the UP VAT Act was one where the goods (including taxable, exempt goods, by-products 760 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. or waste products) manufactured were being sold at a price lower than the cost price. 28. It is in such cases that the extent of permissible or allowable ITC would be limited to the tax payable on the sale value of the goods or manufactured goods. We are at one with Mr. Datar that this was the sole purpose of the 2010 Amendment. 29. We are also at one with Mr. Datar that the defi nition of “goods” under Section 2(m) of the UP VAT Act referred to above does not diff erentiate between exempt and taxable goods and equally, the word “goods” under Section 13(1)(f) of the UP VAT Act has also not been qualifi ed by the word “taxable”. 30. Mr. Datar is right in his submission that the necessary corollary to the reading of the provision ought to be that the goods which are manufactured/produced by using or utilizing the purchased goods and whose sale price is being considered for applying Section 13(1)(f) of the UP VAT Act, ought to be taxable goods. 31. The aforesaid is further manifested from the fact that wherever the legislative intent was to qualify “goods” with the word “taxable”, it has been so done by the Legislature in Section 13 of the UP VAT Act itself. 32. Had the legislative intent of the 2010 Amendment been to limit the scope and ambit of “goods” under Section 13(1)(f) solely to “taxable goods”, there was nothing that could have prevented the Legislature from expressly using the phrase “taxable goods” in Section 13(1)(f) of the UP VAT Act. 33. Mr. Datar is right in his submission that the said omission in Section 13(1)(f) is all the more glaring considering that the said amendment was inserted in the year 2010. 34. In the aforesaid context, our attention was also drawn by Mr. Datar to the provisions of Rule 23(6) of the Uttar Pradesh Value Added Tax Rules, 2006 (for short, “the UP VAT Rules”) (which provides for the computation of reverse ITC in cases of a dealer other than a trader), wherein the word “goods” has not been qualifi ed by “taxable” and rather has used the word “any” to expressly convey the unequivocal legislative mandate. Rule 23(6) of the UP VAT Rules is reproduced hereunder: M/S MODI NATURALS LTD. v. THE COMMISSIONER OF 761 COMMERCIAL TAX UP [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] “23. Computation of reverse input tax credit in cases of a dealer other than trader: (1) In case of a dealer, other than a dealer referred to in sub-rule (1) of rule 22, amount of reverse input tax credit, in respect of any quantity or measure of any goods- xxx xxx xxx (6) In respect of any quantity or measure of any goods manufactured or processed by using or utilizing purchased goods, sold at the price which is lower than cost price, the amount of reverse input tax credit shall be equal to the diff erential amount of tax paid or payable on the purchase price of such goods and tax paid or payable on sale price of manufactured or processed goods sold.” 35.