It is only then that the courts can set apart time to resolve genuine D causes and answer the concerns of those who are in need of justice. Imposition of real time costs is also necessary to ensure that access to courts is available to citizens with genuine grievances. Otherwise, the doors would be shut to legitimate causes simply by the weight of undeserving cases which flood the system. Such a situation cannot be allowed to come to E pass. Hence it is not merely a matter of discretion but a duty and obligation cast upon all courts to ensure that the legal system is not exploited by those who use the forms of the law to defeat or delay justice. We commend all courts to deal with frivolous filings in the same manner.” F (emphasis supplied) 15. The aforesaid was cited with approval in a later of this Court in ICOMM Tele Ltd. Vs. Punjab State Water Supply and Sewerage Board and Ors.2 G 16. Now coming to the facts of the present case which clearly establish the case in hand to be a frivolous litigation, filed by the Appellants, where the officers shirk to take responsibility. 2 (2019) 4 SCC 401 H 1162 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 17. On merits also a similar issue came up for consideration before this Court in Sanjay Gera vs. Haryana Urban Development Authority & Anr.3 In the aforesaid case, the plot was allotted in same Sector-14 (Part), Hissar. Additional price was demanded for the same as is projected in the case in hand. B 18. Though the High Court had not granted relief to the allotee, therein however this Court accepted the plea and quashed the demand of additional price from the allottee, interpreting the same condition in the letter of allotment as is in the case in hand. Paragraphs 2, 5 and 6 thereof are reproduced hereunder: C “2. Brief facts which are necessary for disposal of this appeal are that the plaintiff-appellant herein was allotted Plot No.940 vide allotment letter bearing No.21548 dated August 20, 1986 and he deposited an amount of Rs.18,600 in compliance of the conditions of the allotment and sent the required documents. The defendant-respondents demanded the annual D instalment on account of the said plot and the plaintiff- appellant deposited the same vide receipt dated August 21, 1987. After deposit of the total amount demanded by the defendant-respondents by sending letter No.1300 dated January 15, 1993 to the plaintiff-appellant demanding a sum E of Rs.38,400/- to be paid within a period of thirty days from the date of issue of the letter in respect of the above said plot. The plaintiff-appellant challenged this letter dated January 15, 1993 as illegal, void and against the principles of natural justice and on various other counts. The grievance of the plaintiff-appellant was that the demand raised by the F defendant-respondents is not valid as the said demand is not on account of any award given by the competent Authority under the Land Acquisition Act and the defendant-respondents cannot revoke the allotment made in his favour.