108 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. R-2 has not yet accepted the decree granted in favour of husband by the foreign court and has instead challenged the decree, therefore, cannot seek permanent alimony. 14. Furthermore, the memorandum18 was signed by his wife who is now deceased and so, it cannot be enforced against him. In its replies fi led, the petitioner denied having coparcenary interest of his son on properties as well as receiving ₹2 Crores as sale consideration for the matrimonial house. 15. Petitioner further submitted19 to settle the matter stating that he is ready to off er ₹75 Lacs in addition to 22 Lacs as one time full and fi nal lump sum amount towards her entire claim of past, present and future, subject to the condition that all cases either criminal or civil or execution against the petitioner are withdrawn or brushed aside. Findings and Conclusions 16. The past history of this case, and the s of this court have demonstrated the utter obduracy of Varun Gopal, who abandoned the wife, and virtually fl ed to Australia. The documents placed on record of this court, including the affi davits fi led by the petitioner, and the bank account statements, reveal that considerable amounts of money were remitted to Varun Gopal, over a period of time. 17. The previous s of this court, reported as Subrata Roy Sahara20, Skipper Construction21, etc. have held that the court is not powerless, but can issue appropriate directions, and even decrees, for (2) If the court is satisfi ed that there is a change in the circumstances of either party at any time after it has made an under sub-section (1), it may at the instance of either party, vary, modify or rescind any such in such manner as the court may deem just. (3) If the court is satisfi ed that the party in whose favour an has been made under this section has re-married or, if such party is the wife, that she has not remained chaste, or, if such party is the husband, that he has had sexual intercourse with any woman outside wedlock, [it may at the instance of the other party vary, modify or rescind any such in such manner as the court may deem just]. 18 Dated 22.10.2018. 19 in Note dated 6.9.23. 20 [2014] 12 S.C.R. 573 21 1996 (2) Suppl. SCR 295 MANMOHAN GOPAL v. THE STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 1081 & ANR. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] doing complete justice between the parties. In Skipper Construction, it was observed “16. In other words, the power under Article 142 is meant to supplement the existing legal framework — to do complete justice between the parties — and not to supplant it.It is conceived to meet situations which cannot be eff ectively and appropriately tackled by the existing provisions of law. As a matter of fact, we think it advisable to leave this power undefi ned and uncatalogued so that it remains elastic enough to be moulded to suit the given situation.