D Evidence – Circumstantial Evidence – Conviction on strength of evidence which are circumstantial in nature – Settled legal position – The circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established – Also, circumstances should be of a definite tendency unerringly pointing towards the guilt of E the accused – Further, the circumstances taken cumulatively should form a chain so far complete that there is no escape from the conclusion that within all human probability the crime was committed by the accused and the circumstances should be consistent only with the hypothesis regarding the guilt of the accused and they must F exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved – The circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established meaning thereby that they ‘must’ or ‘should’ and not ‘may be’ established as the Court must not be oblivious of the most fundamental principle of criminal jurisprudence, which is, that the accused ‘must be’ and not merely G ‘may be’ guilty before the Court proceeds to convict him. Indian Evidence Act, 1872 – s. 106 – Burden of proof under it upon the accused – Legal position – It is settled that s. 106 of the Evidence Act does not absolve the prosecution of discharging its primary burden of proving the prosecution case beyond reasonable H SANTOSH @ BHURE v. STATE (G.N.C.T.) OF DELHI 721 doubt – It is only when the prosecution has led evidence which, if A believed, will sustain a conviction, or which makes out a prima facie case, that the question arises of considering facts of which the burden of proof would lie upon the accused. Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s. 311-A – Law therein and its prospective application – By Act No.25 of 2005, with effect B from 23.06.2006, Section 311-A has been inserted in the Code thereby empowering a Magistrate of the First Class to direct any person including an accused to give specimen signature or handwriting for the purposes of investigation but this provision would have no bearing on the case instant case as it is of the year C 2000. Indian Evidence Act, 1872 – s. 73 – Scope – The provisions of S. 73 apply when a proceeding such as an inquiry or trial is pending in a Court – In the instant case, since no proceedings were pending before any Court when the specimens in question were D obtained, provisions of s.73 could not have been invoked. Indian Evidence Act, 1872 – s. 45 – Handwriting Expert – Admissibility – Scope – It is not impermissible to base a finding with regard to authorship of a document solely on the opinion of a handwriting expert but, as a rule of prudence, because of imperfect E nature of the science of identification of handwriting and its accepted fallibility, such opinion has to be relied with caution and may be accepted if, on its own assessment, the Court is satisfied that the internal and external evidence relating to the document in question supports the opinion of the expert and it is safe to accept his opinion.