6. While answering the aforesaid issues and appreciating the submissions made by learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective parties, Section 17 of the Registration Act, 1908, as applicable G prior to the Registration (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 2012 and Section 17 post Amendment Act, 2012, are required to be referred to which are as under. 7. Section 17 of the Registration Act, 1908, post Tamil Nadu Amendment Act, 2012 reads as under : H R. HEMALATHA v. KASHTHURI 841 [M. R. SHAH, J.] “17. Documents of which registration is compulsory.—(1) The A following documents shall be registered, if the property to which they relate is situate in a district in which, and if they have been executed on or after the date on which, Act No. XVI of 1864, or the Indian Registration Act, 1866, or the Indian Registration Act, 1871, or the Indian Registration Act, B 1877, or this Act came or comes into force, namely:— (a) instruments of gift of immovable property; (b) other non-testamentary instruments which purport or operate to create, declare, assign, limit or extinguish, whether in present or in future, any right, title or interest, whether C vested or contingent, of the value of one hundred rupees and upwards, to or in immovable property; (c) non-testamentary instruments which acknowledge the receipt or payment of any consideration on account of the creation, declaration, assignment, limitation or extinction of D any such right, title or interest; and (d) leases of immovable property from year to year, or for any term exceeding one year, or reserving a yearly rent; [(e) non-testamentary instruments transferring or assigning any decree or of a Court or any award when such decree E or or award purports or operates to create, declare, assign, limit or extinguish, whether in present or in future, any right, title or interest, whether vested or contingent, of the value of one hundred rupees and upwards, to or in immovable property:] F Provided that the [State Government] may, by published in the [Official Gazette], exempt from the operation of this sub-section any lease executed in any district, or part of a district, the terms granted by which do not exceed five years and the annual rents reserved by which do not exceed fifty G rupees. [(1A) The documents containing contracts to transfer for consideration, any immovable property for the purpose of section 53A of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (4 of 1882) shall be registered if they have been executed on or after the H 842 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A commencement of the Registration and Other Related laws (Amendment) Act, 2001 (48 of 2001) and if such documents are not registered on or after such commencement, then, they shall have no effect for the purposes of the said section 53A.] (2) Nothing in clauses (b) and (c) of sub-section (1) applies B to— (i) any composition deed; or (ii) any instrument relating to shares in a joint stock Company, notwithstanding that the assets of such Company consist in whole or in part of immovable property; or C (iii) any debenture issued by any such Company and not creating, declaring, assigning, limiting or extinguishing any right, title or interest, to or in immovable property except in so far as it entitles the holder to the security afforded by a registered instrument whereby the Company has mortgaged, D conveyed or otherwise transferred the whole or part of its immovable property or any interest therein to trustees upon trust for the benefit of the holders of such debentures; or (iv) any endorsement upon or transfer of any debenture issued by any such Company; or E (v) [any document other than the documents specified in sub- section (1A)] not itself creating, declaring, assigning, limiting or extinguishing any right, title or interest of the value of one hundred rupees and upwards to or in immovable property, but merely creating a right to obtain another document which F will, when executed, create, declare, assign, limit or extinguish any such right, title or interest; or (vi) any decree or of a Court [except a decree or expressed to be made on a compromise and comprising immovable property other than that which is the subject-matter G of the suit or proceeding]; or (vii) any grant of immovable property by [Government]; or (viii) any instrument of partition made by a Revenue-Officer; or H R. HEMALATHA v. KASHTHURI 843 [M. R. SHAH, J.]