Even in a case of assignment of rights simpliciter, such assignment would necessarily require the consent of the other party to the contract if it is of a “personal nature”. This is elucidated D by the learned authors Pollock and Mulla in their commentary on The Indian Contract and Specific Relief Acts (R. Yashod Vardhan, and Chitra Narayan, Eds., 15th Edn., Vol. I) at p. 730: “A contract which is such that the promisor must perform it in person viz. involving personal considerations or personal skill E or qualifications (such as his credit), are by their nature not assignable. The benefit of contract is assignable in ‘cases where it can make no difference to the person on whom the obligation lies to which of two persons he is to discharge it’. The contractual rights for the payment of money or to building work, for e.g. do not involve personal considerations.” F (emphasis supplied) 21.It can be summed up from the aforesaid s that the condition of right to repurchase in sale deed will not be personal to the vendor unless the terms in the documents specifically state so. Such a G right can always be assigned and the contract containing such condition shall be enforceable. The only exception being that such a right should not be personal in nature. The assignment of obligations in a document is not possible without the consent of the other party. No implied prohibition of transfer or assignment can be inferred in a document. The benefit of H 386 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A contract is assignable in cases where it does not make any difference to the person on whom the obligations lies, to which of two persons he is to discharge. 22.If the facts of the case in hand are considered, we do not find that there is any term in the conditional Sale Deed which debars its B assignment to any other person. The clause only mentions regarding right of repurchase. The option is given to the vendors with the obligations on the vendee. The right to repurchase in the present case has been assigned by Kishori Lal Sahu (now deceased) in favour of respondent no.1 who is none else than his daughter-in-law to whom other properties have also been gifted. C 23.Even the argument raised by learned counsel for the appellant that such an assignment of a right cannot be treated as a gift as consideration money is involved, is also noticed and rejected for the reason that the executor of the Gift Deed i.e Kishori Lal Sahu (now deceased) had transferred his right to repurchase the property in favour D of respondent no.1. That right could always be assigned by him with whatever conditions attached to it. Further in the suit filed, he was also a plaintiff, who died later. 24.For the reasons mentioned above, we do not find any error in the of the High Court. The present appeal is accordingly E dismissed. There is no as to costs.