Any number of amendments to the Code or any eff orts to reform the law would have no eff ect, unless the Courts give eff ect to the statutory provisions contained in the Code. If the Courts do not implement the law, one cannot fi nd fault with the Advocates or the litigants. If these rules are implemented in letter and spirit, it may lead to some inconvenience and hardship as, for more than a century, the Judges, the lawyers and litigants are used to a particular atmosphere in Court. It is this atmosphere in Courts, which has no legal support and is the cause for delay in disposal of cases. Therefore, it is high time in the interest of speedy disposal of cases, these rules are implemented; once implemented, in course of time, lawyers and litigants would fall in line. In to implement these statutory provisions as amended, what is required is a change of mind set among the Judges and they must have the courage to depart from the practice which is in vogue. They must remind themselves that till now these provisions are not followed and the procedure which is adopted in Courts was totally diff erent from what is provided under the statute and thus has no legal basis. That is the real cause for delay in disposal of cases. Therefore, the need of the hour is a change of mental attitude, fi rstly, on the part of the judges and secondly, on the part of lawyers and litigants. A beginning has to be made. It has to be done by Judges and Judges alone. In spite of the criticism and the amendment to the law made by the Parliament, if the Judges are not sensitive and do not give eff ect to these provisions which are made with an avowed object of speedy disposal of cases, the Judges would be failing in their duty. Therefore, one may not blame 972 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. the Code for delay in disposal of cases. The delay is on account of not following the provisions of the Code and in not knowing the philosophy behind these statutory provisions. Even now it is not too late for the Judges and Lawyers to give eff ect to the statutory provisions and render speedy justice to the litigants. Time has come that this malady should be treated with even handed at all levels. 21. In fact this view fi nds support from the observations made by the Law Commission in the Reports on the Code of Civil Procedure: “In the 14th Report of the Law Commission of India on “Reform of Judicial Administration”, the Commission notes with concern the failure of the Courts to appreciate that 17 Rule 1 contemplates the continued hearing of a case, once it has started, from day to day until it is fi nished. It noted with concern that the judiciary seemed to think that the interrupted hearings should be a rule and day to day hearings the exception.