At this stage, it must be noted that while cross objections, unlike a regular appeal, are filed within an already existing appeal, however, as per 41 Rule 22 of the CPC, cross objections have all the trappings of a regular appeal, C and therefore, must be considered in full by the court adjudicating upon the same. 18. A bare perusal of the impugned would show that the issues raised by the appellants in their cross objections have not been D considered by the High Court. No mention of the cross objections filed by the appellants herein have been found in the said . While the High Court has given a detailed analysis of all other issues raised in the appeal and the both the lower court s, however, the cross objections in specific, finds no discussion, much less even a mention. E 19. In the case of Santosh Hazari Vs. Purushottam Tiwari (Dead) by LRs.1, this Court held that the court of appeal has a duty to apply its mind to all issues raised before it, and to discharge such duty, it must also record its findings against all such issues raised. For the sake of convenience, the relevant paragraph of the said is being extracted herein: F “The Appellate Court has jurisdiction to reverse or affirm the findings of the trial court. First appeal is a valuable right of the parties and unless restricted by law. the whole case is therein open for rehearing both on questions of fact and law. The of the Appellate Court must, therefore, reflect G its conscious application of mind, and record findings supported by reasons, on all the issues arising along with the contentions put forth, and pressed by the parties for decision of the Appellate Court. H 1 (2001) 2 SC 407 DHEERAJ SINGH v. GREATER NOIDA INDUSTRIAL 131 DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY & ORS. [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] While reversing a finding of fact the Appellate Court must A come into close quarters with the reasoning assigned by the trial court and then assign its own reasons for arriving at a different finding. This would satisfy the Court hearing a further appeal that the First Appellate Court had discharged the duty expected of it.” B 20. In the case of Madhukar and Ors. Vs. Sangram and Ors.2, this Court, while reiterating the principles laid down in the Santosh Hazari (Supra), observed that the court of first appeal has a duty to record its findings qua all the issues raised before it, and in cases where the High Court fails to do the same, the matter must be C remanded to the same court again for fresh adjudication. 21. Further, in the case of Jitendra Prasad Nayak Vs. Anant kumar Sah and Anr.3, this Court, in an identical circumstance wherein the cross objections filed by the appellant therein was not considered by the court of first appeal, held that remanded the case back to the High D Court and observed as under: “....Admittedly, a cross-objection was filed by the appellant- landlord against the rejection by the first appellate court of the existence of one of the two grounds of eviction.