This appeal, therefore, fundamentally depends on the interpretation of Section 4(A) of the Act. 5. The primary question posed in front of us today is only one, whether the goods sold by the respondent are eligible to claim tax benefits E within the purview of the abovementioned notification under Section 4(A) of the Central Excise Act? 6. In the case of Jayanti Food Processing Pvt. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Central Excise, Rajasthan1, this Court, while deciding on a similar issue, held that for goods to be included under the assessment F of Section 4(A) of the Central excise Act, it must comply with five factors. The relevant paragraph of the is being reproduced herein: “….Even at the cost of repetition the following would be the fActors G to include the goods in Sections 4-A(1) and (2) of the Act: (i) The goods should be excisable goods; (ii) They should be such as are sold in the package; 1 (2007) 8 SCC 34 H 1152 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A (iii) There should be requirement in the SWM Act or the Rules made thereunder or any other law to declare the price of such goods relating to their retail price on the package; (iv) The Central Government must have specified such goods by notification in the Official Gazette; B (v) The valuation of such goods would be as per the declared retail sale price on the packages less the amount of abatement. If all these factors are applicable to any goods, then alone the valuation of the goods and the assessment of duty would be under Section 4-A of the Act. C 7. A bare perusal of Section 4(A) of the Act and the abovementioned would show that to attract a MRP based valuation of goods under the Central Excise Act, the goods should be notified under Section 4(A) of the Act and that such goods must come within the purview of the Standards of Weights and Measures (Packaged D Commodities) Rules, 1977, which has now been repealed and replaced by the legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules,2011. 8. In the present case at hand, the respondent entered into a sale with the paramilitary and military as per the terms of agreement signed. While the goods in the impugned sale were notified under Section 4(A) E of the Act by way of an official notification in the gazette, what is most relevant to us is Rule 3(b) of the Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules, 2011 which exempts the sale to institutional consumers from its purview. 9. The purchasers in this case are military and paramilitary F institutions, both of whom purchase the goods in bulk from the respondent, and then further distribute it to their employees. In this entire process from the sale of the goods to the goods Actually being used by the end consumer, the purchaser military and paramilitary institutions become industrial consumers, as they serve as an intermediary between the end consumer and the original purchaser. G 10.